[{"Title":"No longer rehashing old material, they're even funnier this time.","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"55 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  One of my favorite films. Paul Rudnick clearly had a field day writing this screenplay.As odd as it may seem, this sequel is in many ways superior to its predecessor. The first had to spend much of its time introducing the Family--and, just as importantly, paying (totally justified) homage to Charles Addams' brilliant cartoons and to the old television series. As a result, the plot felt forced, as if it had been the best way the writers could think of to showcase all the source material. In the end, one left the theater feeling that the movie had been 'about' the old sight gags. And then there was the totally shameless product placement...but I digress.Addams Family Values, on the other hand, gets to be more playful. Because we all know who we're dealing with by now, we don't have to spend nearly so much time introducing the family and their skewed universe. Instead, the characters get more of a chance to develop as they glide blithely through a fuller, more cohesive story.Paul Rudnick's screenplay is masterful--you'll be quoting from it for weeks. Raul Julia and Anjelica Huston are particularly marvelous as one of the most genuinely loving, passionate couples you've seen in ages. In a weird sort of way.That dance number! Morticia's ever-present shaft of light! Christina Ricci as the sublime Wednesday! Joan Cusack, unhinged! A split-second cameo by Charles Busch! Oh, rapture. I could go on and on, but I'm running out of superlatives. Suffice it to say that this movie is well worth your time. "},{"Title":"Ricci rules","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"49 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a film with several excellent performances, but that of Christina Wednesday Ricci is near perfect. The reluctant smile outside the harmony hut is Oscar material. And Christina as Pocahantas is the very definition of cute.Of the others, Joan Cusack also stands out. I doubt anyone else could play the part of the black widow quite as well, with just the right mix of sleaze and slapstick. Her deranged laughter alone is worth half the rental fee.It may not be a classic but it is solid entertainment, with few if any weak passages. Go and see it! "},{"Title":"Funny as hell!","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"48 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Usually I don't like horror comedies and I hate mainstream movies,but Addams Family Values completely cracked me up.It was so immensely enjoyable and funny as hell!Especially the first Thanksgiving Day performance,where Wednesday Addams(Christina Ricci)as a Pocahontas,and other Indians took a revenge on American colonists-I almost cried with laughter during that scene!I wonder what Americans think about it?As for Christina Ricci,she simply steals the show in this one!I'm looking forward to see this talented,young actress in more movies.The other actors are also excellent,and the film is filled with wonderful touches of black humour.Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Barry Sonnenfeld (Get Shorty) takes a zany script written by Paul Rudnick (Jeffrey, In and Out) and directs with an exhilarating rhythm to tell the tale of Uncle Fester's marriage to a suspicious young nanny (Joan Cusack) and its effect on the Addams family.All the actors are absolutely wonderful but Cusack steals the movie with a gleefully nasty turn as the murderous Debbie.  Her without-peer comedic talent is more strongly showcased here -watch the scene when Debbie sits in a car waiting for a house to explode- than in her award winning role as Kevin Kline's jilted bride in In and Out.  Angelica Huston and Raoul Julia are magnetic in dramatic roles but they also have sensational comic timing and their Morticia and Gomez make a memorable dark-humored pair,  most notably in the scenes where the sexual innuendo takes a front-row seat.  Peter MacNichol (Ally McBeal) and Christine Baranski (The Ref) have a ball as the irritating summer camp counslers and Christina Ricci will probably never top her performance as Wednesday.It's a guilty pleasure and a fun ride, zipping by in an hour and a half and also features a hilarious cameo by Peter Graves (Airplane).  Check it out! "},{"Title":"Better than the original ? I think so.","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"27 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is one of those rare gems, a sequel that is as good as, or even better than the original.Christina Ricci fulfills all the promise that she showed in the first film, as she really steals the film from her more established co-stars.The scenes at camp produce some of the best one-liners, and it is great to see an American film that is self-mocking about its image concious rich societies. Lines from Ricci like  Is that your overbite? and When they woke up all their old noses had grown back! are superb and will be much loved in the UK, as it is how much of the States is perceived over here.Also, Amanda in this movie, is also played by the same girl who played the Girl Scout in the first movie.Add a little bit of romance between Wednesday and another kid at the camp and you have something for everyone in this wonderfully funny and worryingly endearing movie. "},{"Title":"Not a bad sequel","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Considering what could have gone wrong with this movie, it's actually surprisingly good.  When you think about sequels running in this vein, they often have problems.  Addams Family Values does not.The Addams Family was a funny, if not just plain strange, movie, and good for its genre.  Addams Family Values does the original just as good and perhaps even one better.  One very unconventional thing about Addams Family Values was that it had a higher rating (PG-13) than the Addams Family (PG), something rarely seen with a sequel.  This rating was mostly due to the increased amount of violence in the movie, including the scene where the campers roast the annoying counselors over a fire and, of course, Debbie (Joan Cusack) and her homicidal ways.A black comedy like its predecessor, Addams Family Values is an interesting movie and very funny.  Look for smaller roles by perhaps bigger names than most of the regular cast Nathan Lane as a police officer, David Hyde Pierce as a doctor, Tony Shalhoub as a drunken sailor, and Peter MacNicol and Christine Baranski as the Grangers.  "},{"Title":"Snap, snap continued","Date":"9 January 2000","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It's a pleasant surprise to see sequel live up to the original. All the actors are great, particularly Raul Julia and Christopher Lloyd. Oh, can not forget Anjelica Huston. Sequels rarely live up to their predecessor and that's what makes this movie so special. Filled with humor, Values is highly recommended for all. "},{"Title":"A sequel that lives up to the original!","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Addams Family Values is *finally* a sequel that lives up to the original. I thought this film was just as good as the first film if not better. I am so glad that the original cast decided to come back for the sequel (the only original cast member that didn't was Grandmama, but she had the smallest role out of the whole family so it didn't matter too much). Yet again Raul Julia and Christina Ricci turn in great performances as Gomez and Wednesday Addams, respectively, and Joan Cusack gives a great performance also as the homicidal Debbie Jillinsky who marries men for their money and then kills them on their wedding night, but after marrying Fester she just can't seem to get rid of him. The whole part of the script that dealt with Wednesday and Pugsley at summer camp was hilarious. And I thought Mercedes McNab as Amanda, who had a cameo as the girl scout in the first film, was hilarious and good in her role. The only thing I found sort of annoying about this movie was that it centered on Uncle Fester again. But, overall this is a great sarcastic comedy that lives up to it's predecessor.My Verdict 7/10 "},{"Title":"An improvement on the original film","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Almost everybody who was in the original The Addams Family returns to reprise their roles in this sequel which is actually better than the first film. The laughs come at a faster and better pace and Joan Cusack makes a delightfully sinister villain who masquerades as a nanny, marries Uncle Fester (Christopher Lloyd), and wants to get her hands on the Addams Family riches. It's up too all of the Addams along with new arrival Baby Pubert to stop her. Thing and Cousin Itt are also along for the ride once again. "},{"Title":"Darkly funny and enjoyable sequel albeit lacking anything that new (if that's a bad thing)","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams family just got a little stranger with the addition of a new baby boy. However with the new arrival, Wednesday and Pugsley become isolated and try to kill little Pubert. With all this squabbling, Morticia sounds gets tired and seeks help from a nanny. After many failures, they settle on the sparky Debbie &#150; although Wednesday has her suspicions. These suspicions seem to be justified whenever Debbie convinces Morticia and Gomez to send their children away to a summer camp and then marry Uncle Fester &#150; a man so repulsive that love cannot be the reason.Many films wheel out sequels by simply adding something to the original film; often it is a child and often it doesn't work. However with this film the child is not the focus but a plot device for bringing in a nanny who in turn splits the plot. The result is a solid plot that basically retreads the mood and humour of the original film which, for fans, is not a bad thing at all. For me I enjoy the dark world of the modern Addams family and felt that the plot did enough to be more than just the frame for it. The silly dark humour works well and it produced many laughs while also achieving a consistent humorous tone. I can understand why some people don't like it because it is the sort of thing you really need to get and I got it; also slightly more uptight parents may not like the examples set their kids in the film (but f**k 'em if they can't take a joke).The cast are a major factor in the humour working. Although Fester is the focus of the film, Julia is still a real joy and his chemistry with Huston is really enjoyable and they make their lines work well. Lloyd is a perfect Fester and he is consistently funny. Cusack makes the most of her role and she fits in well with the tone of the film. Ricci yet again steals the film and her deadpan delivery is funny across the whole film. The support cast have lots of cameos and smaller roles and it is fun without being distracting to watch the faces including Kane, MacNicol, Pierce, Shalhoub, Lane and Sonnenfeld himself.Overall, if you enjoyed the first film then you'll like this, and vice versa. Personally I enjoy the darkly comic tone and consistent laughs that it produced, while the good performances across the board raise the material and provide some real joys in Julia and Ricci. "}{"Title":"They're Back... and Darker Yet","Date":"30 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" She's a pleasant young woman who always dresses in light colors and has a demeanor that would win you over. That is, until you find out that she's been responsible for the deaths of several other people and is after your fortune like her life depends on it.This is Debbie Jelinsky, and her life story reads like something out of East of Eden in which the main heroine did some unspeakable things to everyone who came in touch with her, including and beginning with her parents. She's been assigned to take care of the Addams children because as of late they've taken a homicidal interest in their youngest brother Pubert and no other nanny seems able to handle their recklessness. Of course, no one realizes that she's after Uncle Fester and his money, and in the Addams' world, watching television is not a priority, because had they tuned in to watch American's Most Disgusting Criminals, they would have found quite a lot about her.ADDAMS FAMILY VALUES is one of those rare sequels that while being practically the same movie (with a plot revolving around Uncle Fester and his fortune which could, under the wrong hands, affect the entire Addams family), redone with a different villainess, is actually better than the original. The tone is much darker still Wednesday's sadistic side, subdued in the first film, comes full bloom like her own entrance into young womanhood, and Joan Cusack, while looking quite a lot like Marilyn Munster from the rival series The Munsters, is by far the ugliest character in the story. Had this been a mainstream drama or suspense thriller her black widow tendencies would have been a little much to bear, but Cusack plays her villainy to the hilt and overshadows Anjelica Huston and Raul Julia who are even better and make one of the screen's best romantic couples of all time (despite their dark makeup).The last adaptation made for the big screen, Charles Addams' characters would move to the small screen in a new version of the 1960s show and a TV movie, neither very successful. "},{"Title":"Classic Fun","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams Family movie is great fun with dark humor and a great environment that is pretty original. I have watched this movie tons of times and I never get bored, I mean everything in this movie is enjoyable from the performances from Julia and the rest of the great cast (Ricci is great as Wednesday especially) to the dark, gloomy environment and soundtrack. This movie has a lot of laugh out loud moments in my opinion, while other scenes have a lot of stylish qualities that add up to the value of this movie. For my it is a very well done movie that gives justice to the Addams Family TV show that many people are followers of. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Wish I were related to the Addams Family","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" They are just the greatest bunch ever! And I love how they added a baby to the family. They should have had Pubert in the old TV series before. It kinda of reminds me of Rugrats, the show was more better with a new baby around, like baby Dil. I love how Wednesday and Pugsley torture other people and made sure nobody messes with them. Or to even dare! 0_0 And Joan Cusack playing the innocent-acting villain was gold. I think she's a better actress than her actor brother, John, would ever hope to achieve. Addams Family Values is on the list of my top favored movies of all time. I just miss Christina Ricci as a teenager. Anyways, love the movie, peace out! "},{"Title":"I too liked this one even better than the first","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I'd probably rehash all the fun things that was said about this sequel - but I too have to say, this was funnier.Sending the two Addams children to an 'overprivleged' camp was priceless and to be honest, I went to a camp like that at around that age. And I was the total misfit. Everyone there too were happy and blonde and knew each other. And oh yes...and the Graingers, Becky-Martin and Gary (played by Christine Baranski and Peter McNicol) were just like a few of the camp directors I had known. The most entertaining part to me is when Gary Grainger was staging his vision (play) and one of the campers was in another world, very off choreography. Garry goes over to the camper and hits him with a paper in frustration not losing a beat. I actually witnessed something similar to that at my camp too with a fellow unconcerned camper on talent training night. Too funny.I never thought anyone could capture a place like that until I saw this film. The only difference is, Wednesday Addams (with a top performance by Christina Ricci) did what I wanted to do.Raul Julia (Gomez) and Angelia Houston (Mortica) were enjoyable to watch as their two older children try to dispose of the new baby - a mustasched chip off the old block of his father. Joan Cusack comes in as the murderous gold digging babysitter and had a nervously funny performance with Gomez's brother played by Christoper Lloyd (Fester Addams)as her unsuspecting victim.But the better parts of this sequel to me that makes the film work really well - are the one liners. Quick, sharp and very funny! Makes this an entertaining film for repeated viewing. "},{"Title":"It should be the value of any family to see this movie if possible.","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Addams Family Values accomplishes what The Godfather, Part II did it equals, if not outdoes, the original. In this case, Morticia (Anjelica Huston) has a baby - whom they name Pubert (you read that right), Fester (Christopher Lloyd) marries nanny Debbie Jellinsky (Joan Cusack) and Gomez (Raul Julia) decides that Wednesday and Pugsley should spend the summer at a camp.The best parts of the movie are the scenes at the camp. Run by airheads Gary (Peter MacNicol) and Becky Granger (Christine Baranski), the whole camp is an excuse for airhead rich white kids to act nice to each other and perform a play about the original Thanksgiving. If there are any ethnic people...well, they can be dealt with. But that's all going to change now that Wednesday and Pugsley have arrived.Anyway, Addams Family Values is a movie that everyone should see. I certainly recommend it to everyone. You just never stop laughing, especially when you hear what Fester says after Debbie gives him a present. "},{"Title":"Addams Family Value has a lot of value to me. I love it!","Date":"31 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" They're creepy and they're kooky, Mysterious and spooky, they're all together ooky, the Addams Family. Directed by Barry Sonnenfled, the Addams Family Values is the sequel to the 1991 American dark comedy film, The Addams Family. The success of the first movie was what inspired a trend of film adaptations of TV series throughout The Nineties. So, it was no surprise that a sequel was greenlighted. Based on the characters from the cartoon of the same name created by cartoonist Charles Addams. 'The Addams Family' film series paint their characters as much more macabre than the 1960 TV show sitcom, playing off as light dark humor. Often a nostalgia cult follow brand, the movie saw the return of many of the cast members from the original 1991 film. The movie has the same plot of the first movie. Instead, of a gold digger mother trying to manipulate Uncle Fester (Christopher Lloyd) to get to the family money, we get a gold digger murderous wife, Debbie Jellinsky (Joan Cusack) trying to do the same. The movie tends to focus more on Uncle Fester than ever in this film, as characters like Gomez (Raúl Juliá) and Morticia Addams (Anjelica Huston) are given, nothing much to do. Raul Julia really gives some good hammy one-liners to make up for that time. I love how they shot Morticia on the camera. Her lighting always consists of one beam of light across her eyes that gradually fades outward to add to her grim look. She is so beautiful in the film. She is equaling as funny as Raul Julia. I love the oddly place dance number. It made the little amount of scenes between them, so memorable for me. Still, I'm not really complaining, about how much Gomez and Morticia lack screen time. Seeing the serial killer, Debbie try to attempt to kill Uncle Fester are pretty funny and most of their scenes, together are well acted. Joan Cusack is great as Debbie. Not only that, she make an unlikeable character, into a likable character. She also gave the film, some really needed sex appeal. I have a crush on her character when I was a kid. I love the fact, how clueless and lovable, Christopher Lloyd makes Fester to be. It's one of his best roles, besides Doc Brown of the Back to the Future series. As humor goes, the best parts of this film are the Wednesday Addams (Christina Ricci) & Pugsley (Jimmy Workman) going to a pretentious summer camp subplot by Debbie. Christina Ricci is great as Wednesday Addams, and I wouldn't see anybody else in that role. She delivers nothing, but deadpan snark, which only serves to make her all the more hilarious. The whole Thanksgiving play/raid was such a memorable scene that every time, I re watch this film, I looked forward to seeing this sequence. I have no idea; why a Thanksgiving play is being perform in the middle of the summer, but I love it. I love the conflict between the over the top snobby living in a fantasy world, rich kids, played well to the realist grim Addams kids. The sub-plot is so much better than the main plot in some ways. If anything, the fault of the film could be, the main plot offered nothing new; while the sub-plot should had more focus. Even the sub-plot of Gomez & Morticia looking after newborn Pubert wasn't really needed. The movie is pretty smart for a kid's movie, bringing social satire commentary to a lot of adult themes such as criticize of consumerism, the mistreatment of Native Americans, realism vs idealism and others. This movie doesn't treat kids as babies. There are tons of things in the film that might be view as today as not suitable for children. It really depends on the parent, if this movie is worth your children watching it. There are lot of dark humor, such as trying to kill a baby joke, sexual innuendos, and lots of foul language. There are a lot of things that kids might not get. The movie is also really shot, well. Lots of fantastic scenery and special effects. The theme song is really catchy. Still, the Addams-themed remake of Whoomp! (There It Is) by Tag Team was a bit cheeky. Kinda made me wish for the days of McHammer rap from the first film. Michael Jackson was signed on to write and perform a song for the film's soundtrack and to promote it with a music video. Although he was able to finish the song, contractual difficulties coupled with the child molestation allegations made against Jackson resulted in the song being dropped from the soundtrack, and the video was never filmed. The song, Is It Scary, was later included on Jackson's 1997 'Blood on the Dance Floor HIStory in the Mix' album and was also used in his short film, Ghosts (1997). Overall The movie is not to be taken too serious in a logic sense, it is a tongue-in-cheek comedy that work so well in its own world. It's worth the watch on Halloween or any good day, when a good laugh is needed. "},{"Title":"Better than the first film.","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The first Addams Family film sets us up with a plot deviating from the original series, not really knowing where Uncle Fester is. This one works better. It has a more casual feel, like a television episode, and has plots that could've been TV episodes, except extended with more jokes. This was a treat compared to the mediocre first installment.Only a minute after the film starts, Morticia casually says, Oh, I'm having a baby. The family frantically takes her to the hospital as she seems to not care, and a new member of the family, Pubert Addams, is born. The opening scenes were hilarious, and many good jokes were thrown in this movie. The main plots, along with the new baby, are Uncle Fester's new love and Wednesday and Pugsley at camp. Fester falls in love with a black widower, and can't get the clue that she doesn't like him. The kids have a terrible time with the peppy, perky kids at camp, and the campers have a terrible time with these two bizarre kids. Unlike the last movie, this one really gave the kids a chance to shine, especially Christina Ricci as Wednesday. The jokes were funny, the movie was amusing throughout, and I'd highly recommend this, because it's downright fun.My rating *** out of ****. 90 mins. PG-13 for morbidity. "},{"Title":"Better Than You'd Expect","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" As it turns out, there are a lot of people who don't like this movie, for one reason or another. In any case, it's not just a movie that can be totally dismissed. It was possibly even a little better than its predecessor... which is still just a step down in quality from the brilliant original sitcom.This film almost has a quality of Tim Burton creepiness to it, but you won't find his name anywhere on it. The new plot line is not as good as that of the original movie, because it deals with Uncle Fester's integrity when that should never be a problem. However, I think this film's saving graces can be found in the Camp Chippewa scenes (I am a turkey! Kill me!) and in Carol Kane's turn as Grandmama (Just a curse. Have a nice day.) It's really impossible to dwell on the other aspects of the movie, so I hope you'll decide to give AFV the chance it deserves. "},{"Title":"Ghoulish funny characters steal the show in this average fantasy  comedy","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The joyous spooky Addams Family return with a twist in this stupefied but funny fantasy comedy. With a new baby the Addams children are becoming jealous so the delightful parents Morticia and Gomez hire a nanny to take care of them, only for the nanny to cause problems for the family, especially Uncle Fester (decently portrayed by Lloyd). An occasional bone tickling fantasy comedy with a fantastic set of humorous characters, most specifically the stern faced morbidly gruesome Wednesday Addams, portrayed brilliantly by Christina Ricci (Monster). A fast moving tale which centres on the family and their lives involving marriage, parenthood, family and upbringing. Sending the kids to summer camp was a delightful treat for audiences as we can recognise the parallels between normality and fantasy, such as what the Addams are accustomed to and what normal everyday humans are accustomed to live with. Its brilliant in the fact that we expect certain things from others and in return we don't expect certain things. Seeing a normal everyday situation e.g. the kids at summer camp is a sense of everyday life but juxtaposing the monstrous Addams children was a delight as we see how they will react under different circumstances and it is definitely worth watching.It conforms brilliantly to the comedy genre and the ghoulish settings and characters are fantastic. However the plot is often stupefied and unrealistic. Many incidents appear too good to be true and of having such a fantastic impact in the first film, the sequel often drops in standard. The film appears to be trying to hard to be special and super; a prime example is the ending. Everything is too quick at major points in the film and never has a realistic portrayal of a fantasy family that the first carried so well. The sensational pairing of Morticia and Gomez is not existent in this sequel which was a terrible shame as they were sensational in the first. Their gentle humour and spicy relationship always made me smile and apart from a fantastic dance scene in this sequel there is nothing here to suggest spice and grit about the leaders of the family. i recommend the first film and not the second. however this film is worth watching just for Christina Ricci as she was sensational as Wednesday. "},{"Title":"You'll meet someone, someone very special, someone who won't press charges. Good sequel.","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Addams Family Values starts with the news that Morticia (Angelica Huston) is about to give birth, she does & everyone including the Father Gomez (Raul Julia) are very excited. However their two children Wednesday (Christina Ricci) & Pugsley (Jimmy Workman) feel threatened by the new arrival & to add to the families problems Debbie (Joan Cusak) the nanny that they hire tricks Uncle Fester (Christopher Lloyd) into marrying her & she plan's to kill him for his money...Directed by Barry Sonnenfeld Addams Family Values is a worthy sequel to the original Addams Family (1991) & a good watch in it's own right. The script by Paul Rudnick takes the usual standard social situations & twisting them into a ghoulish gag, joke or set-piece & there's plenty here to smile at. While I didn't find any of it laugh out loud hilarious I found it consistently amusing, it runs for 90 odd minutes & it moves along at a nice pace, there's enough happening to keep one entertained for it's duration. All the usual character's are there & well represented, the dialogue is good & the story is also pretty good.Director Sonnenfeld does a good job, there's that fantastic morbid atmosphere running through the film & the Addams Gothic mansion looks the business.Technically the film is very well made & has great production design & it has that big budget Hollywood look about it. The acting was good & the cast bring the character's to life.Addams Family Values is a good film, it's pretty morbid when it wants to but it also has that dark comedic edge as well. What more can I say, it's well worth a watch. "}{"Title":"The Perfect Sequel.","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Imagine taking everything right from one movie and improving upon it in its sequel. Not too many movies can do that, and yet Addams Family Values does everything right. Wednesday and Pugsley are challenged and must evolve. So does Morticia and Gomez with their new child. But the true gem of this sequel is that we have a plot. The first movie is a gift to the audience, recreating our spooky family into a big-budget movie. The sequel contains an actual story, something we can be entertained with for another 94 minutes.The Addamses are blessed with another bundle of joy, but the parents must enlist the aid of a nanny to keep the elder siblings from causing harm. This 'nanny' though is a maniac who plans nothing short of inheriting the family fortune.This is Raul Julia's last great performance (ignore the others). It's also Christopher Lloyd's last great performance too, please mind the sarcasm. It's a real shame they couldn't do anything better with the Addams Family after this movie. I felt like we were all robbed in hindsight. By leaps and bounds the best scenes were that at the summer camp. There's no better moment than when Joel sees the Heal the World poster. Please see the movie for what I mean. It's worth the price just for that scene alone. "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  OK, there are just two ways about this movie.  If the humor is not your cup of tea, then you should best give it a miss.  If, however, it is, and in my case, it very definitely is, then you are in for a treat.  Addams Family Values and the prequel are both movies that I love and greatly enjoy no matter how often I see them.  The acting is brilliant, the decorations are perfect, the script is very funny;  and it seems that Barry Sonnenfeld was born to direct Addams Family films.  The movie is also very realistic  I can attest to that on account of having worked as a counselor in a summer camp once, my nearly nearly identical family life, and -- admit it, guys -- haven't we all had, at some point in our life, a Fester Addams - Debbie Jellinsky - type of relationship? "},{"Title":"Its so funny! It's scary!","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  ADDAMS FAMILY VALUES is a rare gem of a sequel that surpasses its original in every way possible. The original ADDAMS FAMILY movie had a horribly thin plot and stupid one-liners...but who cared...it had stunning cinematography and and set design!  Well, the sequel is less showy with its art direction and focuses more on making us laugh.  The screenplay was written by Paul Rudnick, who is the Messiah of One-liners.  His script has a wickedly dark sense of humor thats just irresistible.  Angelica Huston and Raul Julia are more sensual than ever. Christina Ricci is superb as Wednesday; she brings the perfect sense of melancholy and dryness to her character.  My favorite performace though was Joan Cusack, as the diabolical nanny Debbie.  She is just a blast to watch as a gold-digging psycho killer who wants Uncle Fester's money.  I loved how this movie satirizes the white upper class, which is a perfect contrast to the Addamses themselves. This is one hilarious movie.   "},{"Title":"Addams Family Values","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Good follow up to 1991 hit with the Addams welcoming a new member to the family. They then hire a greedy nanny who targets Uncle Fester. Effects are still fantastic and the laughs are constant once again. Sonnenfeld directed again.  "},{"Title":"Funny Sequel With An Evil Message","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Just the title of this movie tells you that family values are going to be trashed. It plays up evil, as opposed to goodness, but most of it is strictly to get laughs. In all, it's a funny sequel to the first Adams Family film, very inventive and slightly more entertaining than the first film.The special effects aren't the only highlight of this comedy. You expect that from this kind of story, but I was pleasantly surprised how much the sound added to the entertainment, especially n the first half of the film.The first half is better all-around because the second half has touches of mean- spiritedness entering the picture, not just humor. The message that evil is cool and wholesomeness is stupid gets carried away and is overdone. Yes, the camp counselors are very funny but too stupid as the filmmakers use them to bad-mouth good values.That's basically the message from today's filmmakers evil is good and good is evil. Wrap that up in a good comedy and your message gets accepted more readily. Too bad they got carried away because this movie has many funny scenes. "},{"Title":"For the Addams family everyday's Halloween and now they welcome a new baby boy and Uncle Fester gets married... to a psycho!","Date":"2 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" One of the best comedies of all-time and one of my favorite comedies ever. This film is a sequel to the 1991 hit movie. This film and the original are comedy classics. Barry Sonnenfeild did a fantastic job at directing both films. Sonnenfeild's two movies are the best interpreting of Charles Addam's dark but lovable characters. But this one is better then the original. The first film was more wacky in the style of the classic 60's TV series and spent a lot of time introducing us to the world of the Adams. But this film is more darker and less wacky(but this film still has a good amount of wacky). I can't imagine any other take of the Addams being better then this one or the first film. The cast is perfect and the story and gags here are great. I love the look of the Addam's mansion, it's a character on to it self. The principal cast, except for the actress playing grand-ma-ma have returned. Great actors Raul Julia and Anjelica Houston are once again perfect as Gomez and Morticia. Julia perfectly captures Gomez's suave and romanticism, as well as Gomez's tendencies to be over dramatic. Houston is absolutely great as the dark and mysterious Morticia. Her calmness works well with Gomez's over dramatics's. I love how in this one she is always shown in shadow with just a little bit of light revealing her eyes, as if a mysterious shade follows her around everywhere she goes. The two films perfectly captures their darkly romance and I like their freaky S&M fetish. When I think of Gomez and Morticia I always think of Julia and Houston. Christopher Lloyd is fantastic as the love-ably gross and off putting Uncle Fester. I love how dim witted Lloyd makes Fester. You forget that's Lloyd is Fester, he so becomes the character. I like the decision of making Fester Gomez's brother, instead of Morticia's uncle like in the original TV series. Christina Ricci is terrific as the brooding, stone face Wensday. Sonnenfeild gave Wensday a much larger role in this one and she almost steals the show. Without even saying anything Christina has a look on her face that's just great. Ricci is really great in playing a slightly sinister, never smiling Wensday Addams . She will always be Wensday Adams and this is one of her best performances. And I always like the name Wensday. Jimmy Workman is the son Pugsly, he dosen't do much here but is a good sidekick to Wensday. Carel Struycken has a good look as Lurch, the Frankenstein like butler. Carol Kane takes over the role of grandmother & witch grand ma ma and she does a good job. And I love Thing, the living severed hand with a mind of his own, who always has great moments. The plot evolves around a new baby boy, born with a mustache and looking like Gomez named Pubert coming to the family. Which brings in a nanny named Debbie Jellinsky played by Joan Cusack. The major plot is that the new nanny, Debbie is really a serial killer called The black widow who's pattern is that she marries wealthy men for money and then kills them and she's planning to do the same with Uncle Fester. But things don't go exactly as she plans. This plot works great in the story, because it's really funny seeing Debbie seducing Fester but he's so dim- witted it takes a while for him to get it, and once they get married she can't seem to kill this guy and no matter how obvious her murder attempts are he dosen't seem to get the picture. I also like how she uses sex to control Fester. Cusack gives one of her best and most underrated performances here. This is my favorite role of hers. I love the way she plays Debbie, it's the right balance of crazy and humor. I also love her psychotic laugh. The best scene in the film is towards the end when Debbie has the entire family in electric chairs, showing slide shows about her life and explaining her point of view and showing how crazy she really is, it's a fantastic performance by Joan Cusack. She reveals that she killed her parents as a young girl because they got her the wrong Barbie doll and the real reasons she killed her past husbands wasn't for money it was for trivial things like not being home for dinner. I like how calm the family are during this. I like when Pubert gets sick and becomes a happy Rosie check Shirley Tempel looking baby, much to the family's horror. The other major story are the kids. I like how Wensday and Pugsly get jealous of the new baby Pubert so they try to kill him repeatably in deadly games, but of course for the Addams that's just normal sibling rivalry. They are eventually sent to summer camp and this is a great side story as the kids go to a happy, optimistic and sunny camp ran by two perky scouts Gary(the always hilarious Peter MacNicol) & Becky. Mercedes Mcnab is great as Wensday's rival, a snobby rich girl. Wensday gets romantic with a nerdy outcast named Joel, who works good in the story. One of the funniest scenes is when Wensday, Pugsly & Joel are forced to watch a marathon of light hearted family friendly TV from the Brady bunch to The sound of music and the scene where Wensday forces a strain filled smile that scares the other kids. And I love the ending with Wendsay saying to Joel that unlike Debbie she would kill her husband by scaring him to death and when Joel puts flowers on Debbie's grave, Debbie's hand comes up to grab him and as he screams in horror Wensday gives a sinister grin. A comedy classic about the #1 family of horror. "},{"Title":"Love McNab","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Addams Family Values is *finally* a sequel that lives up to the original. I thought this film was just as good as the first film if not better. I am so glad that the original cast decided to come back for the sequel (the only original cast member that didn't was Grandmama, but she had the smallest role out of the whole family so it didn't matter too much). Yet again Raul Julia and Christina Ricci turn in great performances as Gomez and Wednesday Addams, respectively, and Joan Cusack gives a great performance also as the homicidal Debbie Jillinsky who marries men for their money and then kills them on their wedding night, but after marrying Fester she just can't seem to get rid of him. The whole part of the script that dealt with Wednesday and Pugsley at summer camp was hilarious. And I thought Mercedes McNab as Amanda, who had a cameo as the girl scout in the first film, was hilarious and good in her role. The only thing I found sort of annoying about this movie was that it centered on Uncle Fester again. But, overall this is a great sarcastic comedy that lives up to it's predecessor.My Verdict 7/10 "},{"Title":"funnier than hell!","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Addams Family Values is brilliantly funny. The premise is very unique these Addams folk are a peculiar inversion of normal values, a sort of mirror-image of of standard morality. Everything that normal people like, they hate, and everything they like, we would find frightening or nasty. They are a perfect parody of evil. But they also have unlimited amounts of wealth, and that attracts a different kind of evil real evil, the kind of real-world evil that real people have always had to contend with. And that's why this movie is not just brilliantly funny, but hilariously brilliant. Joan Cusack is marvelous as the evil nannie Debbie Jellinsky. She looks great doing it, and consequently she can almost be forgiven for her treatment of Uncle Fester. But no - the parody of evil created by the Addams family is an ethical mirror that shows the true nature of evil the willingness to lie and harm others for selfish gain. Cusack's portrayal of the fair-seeming foulness of Debbie is wonderful.Side-splitting and heart-warming. 10/10 "},{"Title":"and baby makes even creepier and kookier..","Date":"30 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" At the end of the first film, the Addams' welcomed an addition to the family. as the film starts, there is just a bit of sibling rivalry going on between pugsley, Wednesday and the new little one Pubert. While their dastardly deeds are deterred, loving parents Morticia and Gomez send the little ones off to summer camp. Wednesday, again brilliantly played by Christina Ricci, has more of a summer camp nightmare when she stays true to herself and refuses to fit in is forced to watch Disney movies over and over. In a classic scene her and pugsley along with the other outcasts do a reinterpretation of the first Thanksgiving dinner. Meanwhile, the Addams hire a nanny, played by Joan Cusack, who seems a little too good to be true. Fester falls for the nanny but Wednesday seems to think there are alterior motives at play.Sequels aren't usually better than the first one and while this one isn't exactly better, it is still up to par with the first one with its own classic moments and great casting. Every now and then there is talk of another Addams movie, and for a while there was some on television with Tim Curry as Gomez. The untimely death of Raul Julia though takes away part of a great cast that is almost impossible to match. "},{"Title":"Even better than the first film","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" As a general rule sequels are rarely better than the original but I think this one is; little time is wasted introducing the characters and soon the family is one larger thanks to the birth of baby Pubert. Wednesday and Pugsley are not impressed with the new arrival and soon set about trying to kill him! Gomez and Morticia decide that the children need a nanny but all the applicants are frightened of the children; that is until Debbie arrives. Debbie seems too good to be true; she is not scared of the children and Fester takes an immediate liking to her&#x85; it is just a shame that she is wanted for murdering her previous husbands on their wedding nights and wants to do the same with Fester. When Wednesday seems through her deviousness she and her brother are packed off to summer camp where they are expected to be happy children and join in the various activities; this leads to a delightful reinterpretation of the Thanks Giving story.This film was better than the first largely because Christina Ricci had a significantly larger role; Wednesday is creepy in just about every scene she is in&#x85; especially when she tried to smile! The stories was more interesting too, having two main stories, Fester's problems with Debbie and the children's time at the camp, meant neither outstayed its welcome. Once again Raul Julia, Angelica Huston and Christopher Lloyd did a fine job as Gomez, Morticia and Fester and Joan Cusack who played Debbie managed to switch from delightful to demented in an enjoyable way. "}{"Title":"Great Dark, Cheezy Fun","Date":"25 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It's probably been 10 years since I last saw this movie, and I can still remember half the lines. I was a Ballerina, GRACEFUL DELICATE! They had to go. Kind of like Quentin Tarantino for kids. As a kid, I thought this was at least 1.5x better than the first movie, which I also liked, but the sequel's plot seemed less obliged, and the scripting more memorable. Everyone dominates their roles, especially impressive getting everyone to enjoyably and consistently manage the silly vs dark factor to keep a light flow from person to person, scene to scene. Not Oscar material, but comparing apples to apples--well written, well directed, and well acted. "},{"Title":"Good Fun And It's Better Than The First One","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The first Addams Family movie didn't really do much for me, so I approached this one cautiously but ended up getting a very pleasant surprise. For the most part, this was a lot of fun, revolving around a gold digger (Joan Cusack) who tries to latch on to Fester (Christopher Lloyd) so that she can get his money and then kill him. Really, though, with that agenda - she fits right into the Addams Family! Raul Julia and Anjelica Huston were as good or better in the roles of Gomez and Morticia. The characters have a sweet innocence to them as a genuinely in love couple - even though, being Addams, there's little sweet or innocent about them! There's a second story that takes place in this, which is the journey of Wednesday and Pugsley to summer camp. Christina Ricci is creepily good as Wednesday, but this sub-plot didn't appeal to me that much. That's perhaps my major criticism of the movie as a whole. There's two stories - neither sufficient to carry an entire feature film, so they're combined into one story a bit awkwardly.Still, the wonderfully morbid, dead-pan humour from the entire cast helps make up for that. "},{"Title":"Value the weird.","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Uncle Fester falls in love with the nanny while Wednesday and Pugsley go to a cheerful camp. Morticia and Gomez also have a baby. All of this splitting up causes a lot of drama in the family. I liked the whole Gothic wedding scene and the part where Wednesday and Pugsley were at camp and they didn't hug because they were contagious. The snotty little girl at camp was funny too. Another scene that was good is when the nanny asked if Uncle Fester had ever done it and she said something like how do you know we aren't doing it right now? Then she kept trying to kill him and he didn't die.I prefer the first movie over the second but they are both pretty good. A good movie to see if you're going to camp this summer or getting married. "},{"Title":"One of the best dark comedies of all time.","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is severely underrated. This has got to be the funniest and smartest comedy I've ever scene and far better than the first one. It's one of the only movies that I can actually watch scene by scene and not get bored. The cast is brilliant. Raul Julia, Angelica Houston, Christina Ricci and Christopher Lloyd were born to play their roles. They're so believable in it that it's scary. Joan Cusak NAILED her role as Debbie. Her delivery of lines and her changes from a sweet hot nanny to a gold digging homicidal maniac is fantastic.The best part has to be the one-liners though. They're timeless and I still laugh at them after all these years. And can I just add the brilliant concept of sending Pugsly and Wednesday to a summer camp? Oh My God how awesome some of the best scenes in the film. I still crack up when Wednesday starts her How the pilgrims destroyed the Native Americans dialogue priceless. All and all an astounding and brilliant movie and I'm shocked that it doesn't have a hire rating here. "},{"Title":"Smashing comedy with outstanding performances","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" ADDAMS FAMILY VALUES, in my opinion, is a smashing comedy with outstanding performances. Also, even though everyone gave a superior performance, like the first one, I liked Wednesday's (Christina Ricci) the best. If you ask me, Gomez (Raul Julia) and Morticia (Anjelica Huston) were absolutely kooky parents. I thought that Amanda (Mercedes McNab) was an absolute b****. However, when she and her parents (Sam McMurray and Harriet Samson Harris) were tied up and tortured, I felt really warm and tingly inside. In conclusion, I highly recommend this smashing comedy with outstanding performances to anyone who hasn't seen it. You're in for a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Delightfully, ghoulish family fun.","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" As far as sequels go, this one was excellent. Lacking the enthusiasm of its predecessor perhaps, but with the same stellar cast and added greats such as Joan Cusack as the evil, money-obsessed nanny. In this follow-up, audiences are graciously privileged to see the blossoming Christina Ricci take her place as one of the better American actresses of latter years playing Wednesday, the gloomy daughter of Morticia and Gomez. Anjelica Huston provides the eerie beauty and creepy allure of Morticia, wife and mother of the Addams clan. In one of his last movies before his untimely death, Raul Julia gives one of his personal best performances as the cigar-smoking patriarch of the clan. Together, Julia and Huston are magical, timeless and perfect in their portrayal of the passionate, gruesome twosome. Huston is comparably as entertaining in 'The Witches', yet in more recent films, I feel she has become slightly stereotyped in her roles. One of her better performances occurred in 'The Royal Tenenbaums' along with Gene Hackman, where she showed some of the same lustrous enthusiasm for the role, as she did in 'Addams Family Values'. Christopher Lloyd of 'Back to the Future' fame stars as Gomez's brother Fester. 'It means to rot.'! Fester is the unfortunate romantic fool and prey to the children's new nanny, due to his infamous amounts of cash. Lloyd as always is loyal to the fans and never fails to make one laugh, as the rascalish younger brother. Entreating the children to adventures with cyanide and arsenic in the first movie, he remains a loving uncle, always willing to light a light-bulb in his mouth for Pugsley's entertainment! Jimmy Workman, I have noted is hardly ever credited for his very believable performance as the son of the Addams', Pugsley. As a young boy, constantly the play-thing in his sister's world of Let's play 'God', letting Wednesday electrocute him, assisting his sister in dropping their new sibling off the roof and generally carrying knives and other sorts of dangerous implements, all for the fun! 'Addams Family Values' is good, clean(ish) fun for all the family, but unlike its predecessor, it might be more enjoyable to the kids. "},{"Title":"Just saw again","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Just saw 'AFV' again after a number of years... Truly hysterical with unlimited nuanced laughs. Some highlights..Debbie's makeover of Fester when she is unsuccessful killing him on their honeymoon..The unending one-line zingers distributed for delivery by everyone in the cast..Lurch playing 'Sunrise, Sunset' on the organ before Debbie and Fester wed, as well as the TV series dah, dah, dah, dum flourishes during Mendolson's March...Every scene at Camp Chippewa.. the Harmony Hut.. the Pagent.. Wednesday's 'smile', 'ghost story', etc.. In fact, EVERY moment Christina Ricci is on screen. That she will be able to see herself forever as Wednesday Addams is immensely amusing. She owns the film, it was her 5th feature film, and is my favorite performance of hers until Buffalo 66 and The Opposite of Sex..Baby Pubert turning cute and the ensuing horror..The cameos by Shaloub, Lane, Sonnenfeld, Hyde-Pierce, etc., as well as another excellent 'type-cast' performance by the steady David Krumholtz, (as Joel Glicker), who has been able to age well in the entertainment industry..Quality reprisals by Huston, Kane, Lloyd and the late, wonderful Raul Julia..Just a terrific execution by Sonnenfeld, Rudnik, Peterman (cinematographer), Adam and Durrell (art/set design).. "},{"Title":"wicked","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" i think that all of the Addams family films are really good. Addams family values has to be one of the greatest one's every though because unlike the other ones Wednesday and Pugsley Addams get more involved. Wednesday Addams is my favourite character because she's odd and thats what i like about the whole film really is because i know its a family but it's not an every day family like we see in other films. i gave this film an 8 out of ten which marks them on atmosphere, acting skills, use of props, style of language. I'd love to be an actress like Christina Ricci (wednesday Addams) She plays all of her characters well and like the Olsen twins she started her career at a young age. "},{"Title":"Summer camp.  Birth.  Love.  Attempted murder.  Thank God the Addams family is back.","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is the best sequel ever made, because 1) Face it, most boys growing up in the early '90s had a secret crush on Wednesday Addams. 2) Much of the movie is set in the creepiest movie house outside of the Amityville zip code. 3) A baby named Pubert? 4) The script is awesome and some of the throwaway lines are funnier than entire movies. 5) Christine Baranski and Joan Cusack and Anjelica Huston and Raul Julia and pretty much the rest of the cast. 6) Everyone loves Thing. 7) Tony Shalhoub plays a drunk sailor for about two seconds. 8) They spoofed the Carrie ending before it became a cliché. 9) This movie is just plain hilarious. Look up some quotes, you'll see what I mean. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Okay I loved this movie! Each time I watch it, I find myself with stitches in my side. Not only is it funny it just has a great plot. With an all star cast that makes this movie just so classic. Always a great watch, even with the family! Christina Ricci is awesome in this movie. One of her first but for wasn't her last. She stole the show with her witty remarks and sarcasm at almost every scene. Great movie. What else can I say about this movie? Well I do find it to be better than the Addams family I'm not the usual horror freak who loves movies like this but then again Addams family values is not just a horror flick, it's also a great fun-loving comedy.. with a little wickedness for old good fun. Wow great movie 5 stars =) "}{"Title":"Excellent Movie!","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I loved 'The Addams Family Values'! It was an excellent movie that I enjoyed very much and could watch over and over again! First off, the casting was excellent. Raul Julia (R.I.P.) was fantastic as Gomez. He was very witty and his good acting shined through.Anjelica Houstin was wonderful as Morticia. She had that 'creppy, yet somewhat sensual' attitude while playing her character.Carol Kane was great as Grandma.Christina Ricci was excellent as Wednesday, pulling through with a Gothic attitude. Jim Workman as Pugsley made me laugh. David Krumholtz played an outcast who has a crush on Wednesday.Christopher Llyod made me smile as Fester.I just loved Joan Cusack as Debbie, the nanny. She was hysterical, and I loved her character.The scenes were awesome, and the music was too! This movie is pure gold - I could watch it again and again! See it now! "},{"Title":"The best Addams Family movie ever","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This was the best Addams Family that was ever made. Part one was good... but this one really caught my eye. I remember Pugsly and Wednesday getting sent off to the camp and how strange it was to them. Then the name they gave that baby. They are just a strange family, but they made one heck of a movie with this one.My score 10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A very funny sequal","Date":"25 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I love watching this one right after the first Adam Family movie. I can't tell which one was better since they were both good movies. In this one, the kids get shipped off to a camp for snotty rich kids the nanny sent them. That way she could try to kill Fester without any interruptions.  I didn't care for the one they made after this one. probably because none of the same actors were in it. I say rent this and watch it after you watch the first one. you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Wednesday the 13th.","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is a quit nice comedy but the reason I realy like it is the portrayal of Wednesday Addams by Christina Ricci.The Addams are usualy seen as a foolish monster-like family.Here Wednesday is seen as melancholyc teenager,inteligent,dark,cynic,sadistic and possibly murderous.She makes fools out of everybody else.She would make an excelent horror movie star.She also makes some points.She turns a dull theatrical Thanks-giving play portraying the indians as barbarians,inferior to the British settlers into a protest on behalf of the indians as well as a way to avenge herself from what she went through in the hands of stupid campers.She turned the camps loosers into a fighting squad.Forget about the rest of the Addams,Michael Myers,Jason Voorhees and Freddy Krueger.Wednesday brings the darkness.Bloody good for a comedy. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and improved sequel.","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"     The first in the series was by no means a BAD film, but I would say this one is better.  It concentrates less on getting the production values right and more on a 'looser' script that gives the performers room to breathe.  The production design is still excellent, which is a plus, but by this time the makers knew they could do it, since they'd done it before.  I felt the first film was hampered slightly by an overly complex plot, which sometimes stifled the 'natural' humour that was trying to be created.   One of the main strengths of the original, I felt, was its cast.  The principal players all return here and do excellent jobs, with the additional bonus of the superb Joan Cusack playing Fester's would-be amour.  Christina Ricci was absolutely superb as Wednesday Addams in the first one, but did not get enough screentime.  Happily, that mistake is rectified here, and it is her character and performance that provide some of the movie's most comedic moments.   The same deadpan tone and dark humour of the original is employed here, but in a package that children will probably also enjoy.  I always like it when film-makers don't narrow their target down to a specific audience.  Not a comedy classic, by any means, but a film that takes the best elements from its predecessor and sacrifices those that did not work.  An entertaining watch.  "},{"Title":"Good Sequel","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a good sequel, but it isn't as good as the first movie.Why? In the first movie, they focused more on the family as a whole. But in the sequel, they mainly focused on Wednesday (Pugsley had how many words in it? 4?). I think this detracted from the movie.Besides that, be prepared for another hilarious adventure! Some of the best movie quotes ever made come from Addams Family Values! The Malibu Barbie line is reason enough to rent it! "},{"Title":"Addams Family Values (Warning- may include spoilers)","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought that the family wasn't the funniest part- they were good, but i thought that Joan Cusack (Debbie) stole the show!!! She was sooo funny! Christina Ricci was very good as Wednesday, as she had some good lines and said them with just the right amount of edge. I thought that the only downsides of this movie were the dance number between Morticia and Gomez and the guy that Wednesday makes friends with at the camp, but those are only small things. Overall, I'd give this film *** (out of ****) "},{"Title":"Descent into the funniest madness ever !","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  A very well crafted sequel. Wednesday is given more depth, mostly because Ricci's performance helped in he success of the first movie. The soundtrack is much worked in this one too with the Vic Mizzy's theme being much more used. Sonnenfeld scored great with this one. There is two simultaneous storyline to follow that emphasizes on Wednesday and Fester characters. Humor in these movies is intelligent, mature and never stupid. The actors are so likeable it isnt possible to imagine these characters without them. (Even though there were good actors in the third installment, but dont think of that brrr). A sequel as good as the first one is a rare thing and since it dont happen often dont miss the chance to see this one, and see it again and again and... yes again !  "},{"Title":"Just as good as the first","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The cast of The Addams Family returns for another excellent film, one that pairs brilliantly with its predecessor. Though the story itself isn't all that brilliant, neither this film nor the first ever relied on the story so much as the performances, and once again the Addams family and those around them are brilliant. Raul Julia and Christina Ricci again steal the show, as does Joan Cusack as Uncle Fester's scheming wife. In fact, everyone turns in an excellent performance - and watch especially for Mercedes McNab as Amanda, reprising her role (then a Girl Scout, now fleshed out as the rich brat) from the first film - this is the young girl who grew up to be Harmony on Buffy the Vampire Slayer. So she's not a victim *all* her life. "},{"Title":"Fun and funny","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie. It was better than the original, and I think it's one of the funniest movies of all time!The best part of this movie is when Wednesday and Pugsley go to camp, and stay dark while the other campers are cheery. This movie deserves to be on AFI's 100 Years...100 Laughs list. "}{"Title":"The funniest movie ever made","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It tops the original and then some! If you want a movie chock full o' comedy, then this is your pick! It is honestly one of the funniest movies i have ever seen...and i have seen a LOT! Truly a classic that needs to be on everyone's need to view list. Fester's relationship and the hilarity of sending the children off to camp make this truly and original movie. i give it 30 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Superior sequel","Date":"12 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I didn't think much of the original ADDAMS FAMILY film with Angelica Huston and Raul Julia; it's one of those 1990s films which feels really dated when you look back on it, more so than films from previous decades. In fact, I thought it was an unfunny, over-directed mess, so how would this sequel - which brings back the entire cast as well as director Barry Sonnenfeld - hold up? The good news is that this is a definite improvement over the first film. It's actually funny in places. Sonnenfeld was a first time director on THE ADDAMS FAMILY and ADDAMS FAMILY VALUES was his third film, and he already makes the whole thing feel a lot more effortless, without a lot of the gimmicky camera tricks. There are still annoyances, like that darned light shining in Huston's eyes all the while, but this is a step up.The plotting is also more apparent here, and newcomer Joan Cusack makes a real impression as the gold digger come in to seduce Uncle Fester (an increasingly funny Christopher Lloyd). Some of the gags are deliciously dark, especially those involving danger towards baby newcomer Pubert, and the sub-plot involving Wednesday and Pugsley going to summer camp (where they encounter a typically irritating Peter MacNicol) is a hoot. "},{"Title":"Excellent entertainment","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The writers of Addams Family Values totally 'get' Charles Addams' subversive, black sense of humour, but they also understand how the family satirises mainstream Americans' hypocrisy and superficiality. The scenes and characters in this movie are just like the startlingly witty Addams cartoons. Morticia refusing anaesthesia in childbirth. Grandma helping the kids bury the pet cat alive. Wednesday and Pugsley playing with a guillotine rather than toys. Two performances elevate this movie -- Christina Ricci as Wednesday and Joan Cusack as psychotic nanny Debbie Jellinsky. Ricci is quite other-worldly, has a great grasp of her role and is very focused. She has the best lines and is beautifully directed. Her performance as the girl who creates havoc at the school camp is hilarious. You get the feeling a lot of real life real school camps are as horribly wholesome as the one Wednesday has to endure. As Fester, Christopher Lloyd has a straightforward and very familiar character -- maybe too faithful to the original Fester. But Cusack, as his serial killer love interest Debbie, camps it up, and has enormous fun, with almost as many great lines as Wednesday. Her goal is to kill Fester and take all his money, but in the Addams' nutty universe, that's a perfectly acceptable ambition. "},{"Title":"It's amusing horror for the whole family","Date":"6 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The movie does get a little slow at times, but I call Addams Family Values very funny. First, with the kids trying to torture and kill the new born baby, then when they hire the Nanny to secure the kids (which in tortures them in positive ways).My favorite part is when she sends Wednesday and Pugsley Adams to the summer camp. Right there is when the movie gets truly funny and very amusing. First with there negative affections, smart mouthing, and annoying everyone in camp. Taking down the last bald eagle. Then, when Wednesday helps take down the whole place with other camp members that were also terrified by the camp's so-called positive concepts.The only thing I didn't like was that they didn't get the Native-American concept (in the camp's play) quite right, but I'm not sure if that was meant to even be correct in this movie. Other than this, I think the Addams Family Values is quite amusing, and even better than the first Adams Family movie that was made. "},{"Title":"Yes, yes, a sequel even crazier and better than the original!","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Now that the Addams family have gotten the whole is Fester really Fester issue out of the way, they can go on with their lives, and now that there's a baby, they've got another issue the other children want the baby dead! Gomez and Morticia decide to get a nanny (a child sitter, not a goat, to paraphrase Ricky Ricardo), and like the Von Trapp children (but in a more demonic way), Pugsly and (especially) Wednesday come up with clever ways of getting rid of each one, more foolish than the one before. When one European lady comes in with a puppet, it's not surprising that Wednesday has a puppet of her own, and it ain't close to Lambchops. Then in walks Joan Cusack, the cheery, blonde beauty with a perfect response to every question, yet all too perfect to be trusted. The film switches cleverly into two subplots as Cusack has Pugsly and Wednesday sent off to summer camp while she plots a way to win Uncle Fester's heart so she can cook his hide to get her grubby little paws on his fortune and Pugsly and Wednesday deal with the freaky normal people they encounter at camp as only an Addams can.I'm not perky, Ricci says as Wednesday, after sitting through Disney movies and every family musical ever made, smiling evilly which sends one obnoxious little blonde girl into hysterics. Of course, she earlier got the better of them too when she adds her own twist to a ghost story that is every little rich girl's fear, already having failed to jump into the water to save the little miss perfect from drowning during a life-saving course. Peter MacNichol and Christine Baranski are delightfully obnoxious as the cheerful but snooty moderators of the summer camp, treating each blue eyed/blonde haired boy and girl as if they were the second coming of Christ and any one else as freaks of nature. It's up to Pugsly, Wednesday and their nerdy friend (David Krumholtz) to turn the tables on this group of freaky up-scales so they can rush back and save Fester from a fate worse than life.The Addams kids rule in this sequel with Gomez and Morticia slightly more in the background in spite of a hot dance sequence in a restaurant that looks like a cave. Joan Cusack is a delightful villain, with Lloyd hysterical as Uncle Fester trying to impress her with his walrus impression. (I hope she hadn't planned on eating those bread-sticks...) Carol Kane takes over the role of Grandma Addams, getting in a few witty lines here and there, highly reminding me of Jackie Hoffman's portrayal of Grandma in the Broadway musical version. Speaking of that, there's a delightful surprise cameo by none other than the future Gomez of Broadway himself, Nathan Lane, playing ironically a police officer who encounters Gomez and Morticia while they're trying to save Fester. I wasn't sure if it was the fact he was in this or playing a police officer that was more of a surprise. Broadway veteran Harriet Harris is also present as the snobbish mother of the perky but obnoxious child whom Ricci makes sure has a delightful come-uppance in the Thanksgiving Day musical play MacNichol and Baranski put on at camp. When Ricci adds in her own two cents for the treatment of the Indians, it added a lot of intelligent humanity to her somewhat devilish character. Of course, she won me over in the first film when she was selling lemonade and asked the girl scout if her cookies were made out of real girl scouts and told another little girl in the hospital that it wasn't the stork that brought her a new sibling, it was the fact that her parents had sex. Watching Ricci get even with the type of kids that made a lot of other kids miserable throughout their school years is poetic justice indeed, especially if it warns those like these twit-wits that this, too, could happen to you! Then, there's the camp counselors who may smile, laugh, jump and sing, but are as racist and perhaps even more evil than the Addams could ever think of being. In many ways, this isn't only better than the original, it's even twice as fun. There's a sense of dark comedy here that might raise eyebrows of audiences looking for good, clean fun, but as I stated in my review of the first movie, it's all innocent and a creative take on the original T.V. series and comic books. It's also sad, being one of Raul Julia's last films, and reminded me of the memory of the original Morticia (Carolyn Jones) who continued to work up almost until her death while fighting cancer on the daytime soap opera Capitol. Dana Ivey returns, now Mrs. Cousin It Addams, with a little hairy bundle of joy. There's a delightfully sick but funny gag involving Lurch and the huge cake for Fester's bachelor party, and the finale scene with Ricci and Krumholtz might result in the viewer having the spit-take to end all spit-takes. "},{"Title":"Awesome Dark Comedy!","Date":"13 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Spoiler Alert!!! OK I will say this film needed to be a little bit more of the family rather than on Wednesday and Pugsly at camp. I thought the idea of Fester dating a murderer was actually a pretty cool idea and I thought it should of been more about that, rather than have about 65 percent of the movie about the kids going to summer camp. I thought some of the humor in this film was pretty hilarious and I like it for being a sequel. This is seriously better than that Addams Family Reunion! This one is just as dark as the original, only the original had that gem. This is sort of missing that gem where you could laugh at how crazy the whole family is rather than just the kids. I'm glad the whole cast reunited but this sequel is just mediocre and really isn't as entertaining as the original. I'll give it a fair score of 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Simply Hilarious","Date":"27 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I love this movie. I've been watching it since I was a kid but, it really has something for every age group. I find this movie to be much better then the first Addams Family movie so, if you weren't a fan of that one, don't worry about it.This movie is just so funny and has so much to love. From Debbis, fester's new wife, (and one of the funniest movie characters I've seen) to the summer camp that Pugsly and Wednesday have to attend, and the thanksgiving show that they are forced to participate in, this movie is just full of laughs from start to finish. I also want to mention Raul Julia's performance as Gomez. In order for comedy to be effective, the actors have to take their performance as seriously as possible, and Raul really gave his all to this role. It really elevates the movie to a really high level. Just watch the scene where he's in the police station yelling at Nathan Lane, and try not to crack up, it's just amazing. "},{"Title":"Christina Ricci Is Perfect","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" After The Addams Family made so much money a sequel was inevitable. And I actually enjoy this one a lot more than the first. I found the first movie perfectly cast, but a missed opportunity, as I didn't find it a good or even enjoyable movie. Plot In A Paragraph Pugsley and Wednesday Addams aren't very happy with the new addition to the family their new baby brother, Pubert. The new nanny Debbie charms the family, especially Uncle Fester, who is head-over-heels for her. However, Wednesday and Pugsley see through her. Debbie is only after Fester for his money. Before they can inform their parents on her, she has the kids sent off to summer camp. Despite great turns by Peter MacNichol and Christine Baranski in supporting roles, not to mention a memorable performance by Joan Cusack and her cleavage. It's Christina Ricci that steals this movie. Her delivery is superb and she had me laughing out loud more than once. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"23 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Now a perennial broadcast on television every fall, it's difficult to remember that Values did quite poorly at the box office - opening moderately well before having its legs cut off the following week by Mrs Doubtfire. Paul Rudnick who did an uncredited rewrite on the first film, fills his script with hilarious one liners and macabre wit throughout and while the film is basically episodic, the comedic set pieces always work. The casting is perfection and the leads elevate the simplest joke with their committed and fantastic performances. New addition Joan Cusack is hysterical as the black widow with her lethal sights on Fester. The visuals and art direction are great and the film has energy to burn. With the exception of an embarrassingly bad end credits song, Addams Family Values is the rare sequel that works better than its predecessor. "},{"Title":"love the summer camp","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams Family is back. Morticia (Anjelica Huston) and Gomez Addams (Raul Julia) have a new baby. Wednesday (Christina Ricci) and Pugsley (Jimmy Workman) are playing a little too dangerously with the baby. They hire Debby Jellinsky (Joan Cusack) as the new nanny. Uncle Fester (Christopher Lloyd) is immediately enchanted. Only she's actually a serial killer called 'The Black Widow'. Wednesday gets suspicious of her. Debby tricks the family into sending the kids to summer camp. Meanwhile she searches for hidden family treasure and tries to hook her next victim Fester.The kids playing is hilarious. Christina Ricci is especially funny with her dead pan humor. Sending them to summer camp is a stroke of genius. They are fish out of water and that's why it's even funnier. The adults are slightly less funny. They don't have the same fish out of water storyline. It's not a big problem. They're still funny. "}{"Title":"The kids go to Summer Camp and curvy Joan Cusack","Date":"31 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Addams Family Values (1993) was the second of two films in the early 90s based on the 60's TV show. The story this time is that a charismatic-but-fake woman gets hired by the Addams as a baby sitter, but she's really a gold-digging black widow who's after Uncle Fester's fortune. She convinces Morticia and Gomez (Angelica Huston and Raul Julia) that the older kids -- Wednesday and Pugsley &#x96; should go to summer camp so she can be free to put her spell on Lester.This is a good movie if you're in the mood for campy entertainment mixed with black humor and amusing one-liners. The appeal of the Addams family is that they're the express opposite of any remotely normal family. Most of the time the filmmakers keep the Addams on the amusingly-odd-and-eccentric side of things &#x96; stopping just short of satanism &#x96; but sometimes they go too far and the joke's not funny, like when the kids and Granny try to bury their cat who's obviously still alive. I own cats and love 'em so this type of joke strikes me as sick, not funny; after all, what's funny about hurting innocent creatures? The kids' attempts to kill the new infant, by contrast, work better because they give away the kids' jealousy and their desire for their parents' love & attention, which they would never openly admit, of course, particularly Wednesday (Christina Ricci) and her ultra-emotionless disposition.Christopher Lloyd is great as Lester and Joan Cusack shines as the black widow. Seriously, Joan &#x96; despite her character's unlikable OTT deviousness -- is the definition of voluptuous beauty throughout; a stunning whoa-man and pleasure to behold. The summer camp scenes with Wednesday and Pugsley are also a highlight.The film runs 94 minutes and was shot in Palos Verdes Peninsula (the Addams mansion), Pasadena and Camp Tulequoia, Sequoia Lake, Sequoia National Forest, California.GRADE B "},{"Title":"Creepy and kooky continue.","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If you like the classic TV show, you're going to enjoy this movie adaptation of the Addams Family, featuring Gomez, Morticia, Uncle Fester, Granny, Wednesday, Pugsley, Lurch and Cousin Itt. It has the same craziness and kookiness as the TV show, but, like its prequel, has more serious tones as well - in this movie, the family tries to rescue Uncle Fester from his gold-digging love interest. However, I thought this sequel is more comical and lighter in tone than its prequel, especially since a new kid character is added.The make-up department did another nice job in bringing the Addams Family to life and the atmosphere was dark, eerie and mysterious, a perfect Halloween-like setting. The acting is good and the overall story is amusing - a good sequel for some laughs and a light scare.Grade B "},{"Title":"Da-da-da-da *snap* *snap*","Date":"20 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The first movie was great, but it was held back a bit because it had to establish what the film versions of the characters were like. Now that the characters have been established, they reach their full comedic potential in this film that surpasses the original.The cast does an all around excellent job. Christina Ricci's Wednesday is one of my favorite child performances ever, her delivery in particular is perfect. Raul Julia is hilarious as ever as Gomez, nearly every word and action of his cracks me up. After being out of character for the majority of the first movie, Fester is now himself again, and this is one of the main improvements over the original. Joan Cusack is great as Debbie, her motivations for her crimes stated late in the film are especially funny.I have mixed feelings about the film splitting up the Addams Family for a significant amount of time. On one hand, we miss out on their interactions with each other, but on the other hand, all the separate events that happen to the characters are quite entertaining. Paul Rudnick's screenplay is full of great quotes, and there's also some enjoyable slapstick. Barry Sonnenfeld is a great director when it comes to strange comedy, and Addams Family Values is my second favorite film of his behind only Men in Black. "},{"Title":"A real trip back to the 90s...","Date":"6 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If you grew up in the 90s, you may have a similar experience with Addams Family Values as I have. I was born in '92, so this movie was brand new when I was practically brand new, but my first viewing of the film was roughly in '96 or '97 when it aired on TV. My Dad was flipping through the channels and came to one of the opening scenes of this movie. We ended up sitting and watching the whole thing that afternoon. What I find interesting about this movie is that it is so memorable that I still remember that day watching it when I was only 4 or 5 years old. This is true comedy at its finest and there are several reasons why this movie is so strong.One The story. If you're a fan of the first film, don't be offended, but I felt that Values had a much better, more believable plot than the first movie. Don't get me wrong. The first movie was good, but the plot was, in my opinion, one of its weaker points. The plot of Values is memorable, though. The screenplay was very cleverly written. The idea of trying to kill Uncle Fester for his money is genius because while it's a plot that's been used before, the twist of having the indestructible Addams Family in on it gives it a twist. The character of Debbie Jellinsky, played by Joan Cusack, is in my opinion one of the most memorable movie villains of all time and that counts for not only comedies, but for all movies in general. This brings us to the second strong point of Addams Family ValuesTwo The Casting. While most of the casting is the same from the first film, despite Grandmamma, the casting of Joan Cusack in the role of Debbie Jellinsky is near fine. If I had to choose one thing I remember most about this movie from the first time I saw it at such a young age, it's without a doubt the character of Debbie. Joan's performance was impeccable. She goes from sweet to crazy to funny in seconds. The role literally shows her diversity as a comedic actress. To this day, I quote the character and from when I was 4 years old I can still remember her iconic scene of laughing in the car as purely as I saw it then. Why Joan wasn't nominated for an Oscar for this performance, I'll never know. If she was nominated for Working Girl and In & Out, why not this one?Three Nostalgia. Okay, so this doesn't necessarily make it a good movie, but because the movie is pure 90s, it's a nice trip back to 90s lane for all of us who grew up in the era. If you want a fun comedy from the 90s that reminds you of the 90s, I don't think I could think of a better comedy unless you want to go crazy and rent Good Burger. The overall look, pastels, clothing, SUMMER CAMP!!!! It's all 90s. You'll feel like you've stepped back in time 21 years. 21 years? Can't believe this movie's been out that long now.Overall, I give Addams Family Values a 10 because it works in all ways. It's funny, memorable, great cast, great characters, and a fun plot. Buy it. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"We're not shy, we're contagious","Date":"2 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" So The Addams Family was one of many sitcoms to have a movie attempt made out of them by Hollywood in the 1990's. Shows like The Flinstones, Leave It To Beaver and The Brady Bunch all had their share of remakes. From what I've seen they were...awful. Granted, not as bad as the current remakes but they were still awful. Somehow The Addams Family Values is the only exception.First off, the Addams Family show was based on single frame comics from the 1930's. The show was what the Addams Family name is most known for because the 1930's comics don't have any story, plot or characters. The show, to its credit, is actually still entertaining by today's standards. It takes some of the social commentary of the time and makes fun of it. Where The Brady Bunch was the perfect family, The Addams Family was the imperfect family and the joke is the Addams' are happy about it.The plot of this movie is actually my only complaint. Its about Uncle Fester who gets a girlfriend who wants to kill him to inherit the family fortune. The problem with this is that the style of jokes aren't the same, don't get me wrong, this movie offers up some genuinely funny moments (unlike the Addams film with Tim Curry) but it just doesn't feel like a real episode of the show nor the same style of the show. Not only that but the climax is that Debby (Fester's bride) threatens to kill the Addams' but the Addams family embrace death. When Debby first meets Gomez, he jokes about killing ladies (I bet you're a lady-killer Acquitted).The subplot, however, is just pure comedy gold. Through a misunderstanding Gomez and Morticia send Wednesday and Pugsley to a summer camp where they want you to have fun...whether you like it or not. This was just a perfect rendition of the style of humor that the show is known for. This is only in the movie for...45% of the time. The joke is that the leader of the camp decides to stage a play, paying tribute to the first Thanksgiving. Its all butterflies and sweetness as opposed to...what really happened. I wont spoil the punchline for you but it's worth it.The acting is an area that I have to draw comparisons with the original show. I like Raul Julia as Gomez, Christopher Lloyd as Fester, Christina Ricci as Wednesday and Jimmy Workman as Pugsley but the rest of the cast either aren't on screen for enough time to develop (Grandma Addams) or just can't hold a candle (Morticia and Lurch...although, to be fair, the guy that plays Lurch doesn't have a single line). The new characters are all decently portrayed but the best ones are Mercedes McNab as Ellen Buckman, Peter MacNicol as Gary Granger and Christine Baranski as Becky Martin-Granger.So as a fan of the show, do I recommend this? Despite its problems, yes. It has many moments that are actually quite well done and despite the show having a bit more nostalgic value and...no dumb-ass gold digger plots, its still enjoyable. Some of the dumb stuff is enjoyable, its still funny, go check it out. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the show, but still a fun watch","Date":"25 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Here is the movie The Addams Family Values. The Addams Family is a very clear contender for my favourite sitcom family. They're just so macabre and loving every minute of it. I tried to get the original movie to watch first but I found this. What do I think? Well It does do the show justice but there are a few problems with it.The plot is that after Gomez (Raoul Julia) and Morticia (Anjelica Huston) have a baby Wednesday (Christina Ricci) and Pugsley try and kill it a couple of times. Gomez and Morticia do see the error of their ways and decide to hire a nanny. The nanny, named Debbie (Joan Cusack) really plans to marry Uncle Fester (Christopher Lloyd) and kill him, but Wednesday stumbles upon that and Debbie decides to send them to Summer camp. Soon the family becomes concerned with what's going on after the marriage and decide to help Uncle Fester come back.What did I like about this movie? Well Wednesday and Pugsley at the summer camp for one. In there you see them being terrified of being normal and with some situations even though you can tell where they are going, it is still funny to see them being paid off in this way. If the whole film was like this then it would be the perfect salute to the original show.With that said - If there was an antagonist that doesn't fit in with the grand scheme of things, It would be Debbie. Her plan revolves around killing them but the problem is The Addams family don't fear death - if anything they embrace it. If the risk was something like Uncle Fester becoming normal after the marriage then that would fit because the family has something at risk (or they think they do) and it would also be to the spirit of the show. When the family was tied to the electric chairs that just didn't make sense... Isn't Fester a human power socket? This shouldn't harm him. With that said Joan Cusack does a good job.So the rest of the movie is well done. I liked the acting from pretty much everybody. I haven't seen Christina Ricci in many things but I am sure to because based on this she's actually a pretty good actress. The sets are well done but I'd like to see a modern rendition of their house in the show (you know with that swordfish head that looks like it's eating someone).So if there were a few changes to the character of Debbie this movie could have been the perfect salute to the original show. I admit the scenery isn't up to standard of the original show (Did I mention I love the props in the living room of the original show). I would recommend it to fans or people who like the idea of a rich happy family with a belief of A Spider and an Octopus are okay pets for children but a puppy! That is SIMPLY going too far!. It isn't as good as the show but it is still a fun little watch. "},{"Title":"Overuse Of Special Effects","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Maybe I was expecting too much. But I did not find the film overall to be especially funny, though there are scattered scenes that are mildly amusing. To me, organic humor is expressed through dialogue. In this film, however, what we get are mostly sight gags brought about largely by intrusive special effects. The result is comedy that is highly contrived and artificial.A new nanny named Debbie (well played by Joan Cusack) comes to take care of the Addams' two mischievous kids; but the very attractive Debbie has ulterior motives. I like the contrast between her upbeat behavioral facade and the predictable gloom of the Addams family.We get even starker contrasts when the two diabolical kids are sent off to summer camp, where they encounter the nauseating sweetness of suburban kids and counselors. It's the camp segments that come closest to being funny. It's also the script element that generates some useful thematic depth.Casting is generally acceptable, although the actor playing Pugsley seems miscast. Overall acting might be slightly above average. Sets and costumes look good, with lots of attention to detail. Lighting choices manipulate well the film's mood, both for the downcast Addams house interiors and the cheerful outdoor scenes at camp. The film also exudes fine editing skills. The visual effects are competent but way overdone, especially toward the end.I would have preferred a film wherein the humor is expressed through dialogue rather than so many physical gags. This is one film where the basic premise is fine but lost points with me because of the overuse of special effects enhanced slapstick. "},{"Title":"A Black comedy with a ton of style!","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" 'The Addams Family' originating from the mid of cartoonist Charles Addams have always been a delightful mash-up of Gothic horror and Americana imagery. Whilst their best known for the excellent black and white TV show, 'Addams Family Values' captures the spirit of the Addams at their best.It's a well paced and witty script, nailing the friendliness of the mad family right alongside their morbid obsessions. By splitting up the family for a good portion of the film, they really give the a chance to shine. Whilst the first film suffocated from having too many characters in the same scenes, this one takes the chance to go crazy. If there is a criticism it's the main plot once again follows Uncle Fester. He's fun to be sure, but the highlights go the b-stories.The cast are once again on excellent form. Raul Julia and the others are clearly having an absolute blast playing the macabre characters, and the addition of Joan Cusack as the nanny/serial killer is played to absolute perfection.So with a great script and a flawless cast, why is this only a 7? Strange as it may be, the production values do seem a tad lower this time around. Whilst the set design is all top notch, it did feel a lot more studio like in many scenes. Also the humour may go a little too dark for some. The blacker the better in my opinion, but this is obviously aimed at getting kids in front of it and the horror does amp up a lot at times.But at the end of the day what you have here is a film that managed to go above and beyond it's status as a product of the Hollywood production line and just be plain old fun. Worth checking out for the cast alone! "},{"Title":"loyal to the comic strip","Date":"12 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" *Spoiler/plot- Addams Family Values, 1993. It's love at first sight when Gomez and Morticia welcome their new baby son, Pubert. Fester falls in love for a voluptuous nanny taking care of their new baby son. The other two kids discover the nanny is a black-widow husband murderess who plans to kill Fester. The family future turns worse when the kids are shipped to summer camp.*Special Stars- Raul Julia, Anjelica Huston, Christopher Lloyd, Joan Cusack, Carole Kane, Christina Ricci.*Theme- Families are the best hedge against the cruel world.*Trivia/location/goofs- Most of the set wooden materials were of expensive oak, mahogany, and other rich and rare woods. Many parts of this film's sets were stored and for the film's proposed sequel. Due to Raul Julia untimely death the sequel never was produced.*Emotion- A thoroughly entertaining and loyal to the comic strip film that put the lead characters in some funny situations. The richness of the sets, costumes, and acting makes this film one for the video library.*Based On- Charles Addams comic strip. "},{"Title":"A reasonably good sequel","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The Addams Family Values is a sequel to the 1991 movie The Addams Family. As such, it doesn't really bother to introduce the characters any more but, as they are all pretty straightforward and were already part of the universal pop subconscious, this is for the best, avoiding repetition and letting us jump straight into the action. The problem is that discovering all those crazy personalities was what I preferred about the first movie; there is therefore less of a sense of macabre wonder this time around. Some will also find the plot to be too predictable but I didn't mind that much there is a childish pleasure in anticipating what punishment is coming for the characters. Still, I would have loved to be surprised a bit more often. Thumbs up for the writers, who didn't hesitate to put a baby on the guillotine. I doubt this would still be possible nowadays in a family movie. And let's not forget Nina Ricci (Wednesday) Anjelica Huston (Morticia) and Raul Julia (Gomez) who are still excellent in their respective parts.Overall, The Addams Family Values is a worthy, if maybe slightly inferior, sequel. If you can summon the sleeping child inside you, it should provide good, simple entertainment. "}{"Title":"Funny, witty film","Date":"15 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I have such happy memories of this movie. I saw it when it came out during the Christmas season of 1993. We had a Christmas Eve dinner at my new apartment, my first year on my own. The folks came over and after dinner some went home but my mom stayed and heard me describe the movie, which I had seen a few days earlier with friends.She thought it sounded hilarious and on a lark we went to see it right then and there. It had us both laughing almost non-stop. The film pokes fun at kids going to camp (a highlight), in-laws, dating, gold-diggers and the rivalry within families all to great effect.Watch for the slideshow scene towards the end...priceless. A gem. "},{"Title":"Almost Better than the First-Still Something Missing?","Date":"9 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The cast is almost perfect, as even Christopher Lloyd has grown into the role of Fester, but something is still lacking in this sequel. The mansion interior seems smaller and incomplete. Pubert is a great new character. He saves the ending of the film. His cannonball-Rube Goldberg-baby-saves-the-day sequence is brilliant. It appears that a key scene were shot together with the first film, as the graveyard wedding gives the Addams extended clan very little to do here. Sadly, there are too many movies made like this A great beginning and ending with a draggy middle. Like the first film, too much time is spent on several non-Addams characters and locations. The summer camp sequence is good, (BBQ'd camp counselors, anyone?) but it seems out-of-place somehow, except for Wednesday's new creepy boyfriend. The atmosphere of the film seemed best at the Addam's Mansion, and not enough time is spent there in both films (and even less here). There is no growling bear rug, Cleopatra plant or exploding toy trains in this one. I wish a sequel had been made exploring the relatives in the graveyard; like a haunted graveyard sort of theme. I suppose another good sequel became impossible due to Raul Julia's untimely death. (I hear the totally-recast-straight-to-video 2nd sequel is dreadful--I have not seen it.) Back to what's missing in this second attempt More visitors to the mansion. More for the supporting actors to do. A longer film. Also, the ending title music (rap-remix) is worse than the first. I would have used the original Addams Theme. However, a good sequel, as the turkey pageant at summer camp very is very appropriate for Thanksgiving viewing.I doubt there will be another attempt to do this series. Well, at least it wasn't as bad as the Bewitched remake. "},{"Title":"Cult Hilarious.....","Date":"15 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Hard to believe this movie is more that 15 years old!Super funny and does total justice to the original cult and classic TV series.All the cast are hilarious and the special effects are first rate. Laugh a minute in a tale where Fester Addams is in love with the new nanny who has her own motives.... Best bits are when the kids are trying to get rid of the new baby or they are in summer camp.This film is very good!8/10 "},{"Title":"Well More of the same","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Well More of the same here This Addams family movie covers two basic plots 1. A Gold Digging Female wishes to trap Fester into Marriage take his money then kill him. 2. The family has to adapt to a new infant addition to the family.This movie is pretty much the same as the first movie with the addition of the baby (Pubert) into the picture. The parts are once again acted out very well and the family still puts off the very Sinister vibe that they did in the first film.Having the move to Summer camp for the two child cast members is an interesting twist in the film and makes for some good extra jokes but really doesn't work enough to make the film any more or less enjoyable than the original.All in all the second Addams family movie is also an entertaining watch but nothing that one should head out to buy if they didn't like or wen't that impressed by the first one. "},{"Title":"The second greatest kids movie of all time...","Date":"31 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is a sequel to the first movie and is based on Charles Addams's comic strip about the strange and weird Addams Family; the film delivers once again the Gothic masterpiece that made the first so unique and attractive. As the Gomez and Morticia welcome a new member into the family, Pubert Addams. But the jealousy of Wednesday and Pugsly force Gomez and Morticia to employ a nanny, Debbie. Debbie happens to be also known as 'The Black Widow'; a woman who finds a rich man, marries them and then kills 'em....And she has her eye on Fester Addams.This film is just as fun as the first and brings to the table what the first brought and excels; the film focuses more on the children and gives Christina Ricci more screen time and she holds her own against screen titans such as Raul Julia and Anjelica Huston.Raul Julia's last performance is truly igniting on screen, Anjelica Huston is marvellous just like the first film although her screen time was cut...Christopher Lloyd is much more funnier in this movie.I would have preferred to see a third instalment but the untimely death of Raul Julia has made these performances iconic.The stage sets are lavish and elaborate keeping the audience glued to the screen, this is another film that I find myself watching when its on... "},{"Title":"Very Funny Movie and a Worthy Sequel","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Addams Family Values (1993)`Hello, Polly. I'll clean my room.In exchange for you're immortal soul.' -Wednesday (Christina Ricci)A new baby, Pubert, has been born into the delightfully morbid Addams Family.  Finding it too difficult to raise three crazy children alone, Gomez (the late Raul Julia, putting out a great performance) and Morticia hired a nanny.  Little do they know, but the seemingly sweet Debbie (Joan Cusack) is actually a multiple-husband killing, ax-murdering seductress.  Setting her sights on Uncle Fester for his money, she sends the two older Addams kids to a disgustingly perky summer camp, to pursue her advances without problems. Some of the funniest scenes occur at the camp, as the morbid Wednesday (played memorably by Christina Ricci) and Pugsley contrast and, eventually, wreak havoc on the vilely perky `Chippewa' campers. This is a very funny movie, even more so (in my humble opinion) than the 1991 original. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Classic","Date":"22 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Is this movie stupid? YES! Is this movie worth watching? YES! Why? Number one everybody in the world has seen this movie ten times and number two its so stupid its funny. I think maybe I like it better than the first! Everyone performs wonderfully in this cute star studded movie particularly Christopher Lloyd. Christina Ricci, who is a great actress, had gotten a tad bit old for her part by then but still pulled it off quite well! 8/10. "},{"Title":"A sequel that lives up to the original!","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Addams Family Values is finally a sequel that lives up to the original. I thought this film was just as good as the first film if not better. Yet again Raul Julia and Christina Ricci turn in great performances as Gomez and Wednesday Addams, respectively, and Joan Cusack gives a great performance also as the homicidal Debbie Jillinsky who marries men for their money and then kills them, but after marrying Fester she just can't seem to get rid of him. The whole part of the script that dealt with Wednesday and Pugsley at summer camp was hilarious. And I thought Mercedes McNab as Amanda was hilarious and good in her role. The only thing I found sort of annoying about this movie was that it centered on Uncle Fester again. But, overall this is a great sarcastic comedy that lives up to it's predecessor. "},{"Title":"Better than the first one!!","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  If you didn't like the first movie watch this one, it's more entertaining! It is so funny in parts, it made me not wanna go to Summer Camp. "},{"Title":"A rare occurrence - a sequel that's better than the original!","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It's a pity that this was one of Raul Julia's last movies, because he really is excellent in what is a better sequel than the original movie of the old '60s TV show. Angelica Huston is also creepily funny, and slinks about in black dresses just as we expect Morticia to. Thing is very well portrayed. An excellent try. Just wait 'till you see baby Pubert with a mustache! "}{"Title":"pleasant surprise!","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I never would have expected that this is as funny as it is.  Vastly superior to the by-the-numbers first movie.  Check out this underrated film!  "},{"Title":"Absolutely hilarious - even better than the original!","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the most wickedly funny movies of all time.  The Addams children get sent to a very wholesome summer camp and the results are hilarious.  Christina Ricci gives a great performance as Wednesday, and she is only overshadowed by Joan Cusack's character, Debbie, the Black Widow. Some of their monologues alone make the movie worth seeing. "},{"Title":"I found the sequel a slightly better film than the original.","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is a bit better than the first movie, though it shares a similarity with the first film in that the main part of the plot revolves around Uncle Fester. There is a new baby in the house for the family so that means they need a nanny and they end up hiring a really crazy one at that. The kids are jealous and end up getting sent to camp while the babysitter manages to sink her claws into Uncle Fester. The plot is superior to the first movie and I think overall the laughs are better too. Though it still needs work as there are just certain things about the Addam's Family movies that just do not work or feel right. I never cared for the way Lurch never spoke any words, I myself prefer David Cassidy's version on the television series. I also just do not care for the way Anjelica Houston performed Morticia as she still speaks to softly in this one, though I will say she was better in this one. Raul Julie though is still excellent as Gomez. There are many funny scenes in this one as I loved the riot at the summer camp and I also way the family sympathized with the nanny/killer in the end. The very end of the movie though was a bit too dark even for an Addam's Family movie. Still, all in all a nicely done sequel to the original being a bit better than it. "},{"Title":"Even wittier and funnier than the original. Uncle Fester is the main character.","Date":"31 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Follow up sequel to the always funny original. This sequel focuses on Uncle Fester big time. He is the main character in the movie and all the situations move around him.He's rich, but ugly and bald yeah we know but he has a HUGE fortune that is being chased by a hot milf widow that marries him in order to murder him and then get the money but the Addams Family is not dumb at all and will stop her before she commits her macabre plan.This sequel is even funnier, darker, and more witty. Kids should enjoy it but it's oriented for an older audience who will get the sexual jokes and more. I really dig it and think this is one of the most funny movies of the 90's.The technical values are also here and Raul Julia, Christopher Lloyd, the hot Joan Cusack and the sexy sexy Christina Ricci shine in the running time.Recommended for the 90's kids. "},{"Title":"Great one","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This somewhat more cohesive follow-up to The Addams Family has the same director, Barry Sonnenfeld (Men in Black), but a better story line. Joan Cusack plays a busty gold digger who ingratiates herself into the Addams home and convinces Uncle Fester (Christopher Lloyd) that she wants to marry him. Besides Lloyd, the cast includes Anjelica Huston and Raul Julia, ideal as those Brontëan lovers, Morticia and Gomez. But Christina Ricci again walks away with the best moments as the chilly Wednesday Addams, making life miserable for two camp counselors (Peter MacNicol and Christine Baranski) who want her to fit in with other kids. "},{"Title":"Addams Family Values","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This is the sequel to the film based on the comedy horror TV series. Golden Globe nominated Anjelica Huston returns Morticia Addams and Raul Julia as Gomez Addams. They now have Uncle Fester (brilliantly cast Christopher Lloyd) living with them. But it isn't long before Fester meets a beautiful woman that he wants to be with. I can't remember all of it but the film is mainly focused on Fester living with this awful woman. I think they get married and she keeps trying to kill him, but that's the comedy of it, he always survives. Also starring young Christina Ricci as Wednesday Addams, Jimmy Workman as Pugsley Addams, Peter MacNicol as Gary Granger, Nathan Lane as a Desk Sergeant and even the director, Barry Sonnenfeld appears as Mr. Glicker. A very good comedy horror from the director of The Mummy. Christopher Lloyd is the highlight of the whole film. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Art Direction - Set Decoration, and it was nominated the BAFTA fro Best Make Up Artist. Very good! "},{"Title":"the darkest of the dark, and beautiful for it","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" SPOILERSWay back in 1991, that wonderful of television families, the family Addams, made their film debut. Featuring a wonderful cast including Christopher Lloyd, the late Raul Julia, Angelica Huston and a young Christina Ricci, the first outing was a superbly dark feature directed by Barry Sonnenfeld. After such a successful feature, it was obvious that eventually a sequel would appear. Few expected however that this sequel would not only be as good as the original but vastly superior.In Addams Family Values from 1993, Gomez and Morticia (Julia and Huston) have a new child in the form of baby Pubert. Proving however that the family isn't quite so different from anyone else, the other children proceed to become bitter and frustrated at the new attention their parents give to the baby. In an attempt to solve this problem, the two parents of the family hire Debbie Jellinsky (Joan Cusack) as a new nanny. Debbie has an agenda of her own however, and it isn't long before things begin to go wrong for this creepy and kooky family.This film is one of those films which never really gets tired. Whilst some films can be magnificent in everything and win countless awards, after a while, even the most ardent fan will grow tired. It is a rare, and often unpredictable, quality to be able to create a film which someone could watch over and over again without growing tired with at least one point. Addams Family Value is a superb comedy because the second it has finished, there is a strong craving to watch it again and to look for yet more subtly placed jokes.With a stunning script, consisting to quite a strong degree of superb satire of aspects of American perfect life, this film makes us laugh from start to finish. With it's ridiculing of the American obsession with Summer Camp (does this genuinely happen or is it just cinema over exaggerating it?), we get to see what we've always wanted to see. Finally all those irritating kids who act like they're perfect and who get the best roles suffer, along with the obnoxious teachers, whilst the fat, spotty and ugly children all get to succeed in teaching them a lesson.As well as being so wonderfully dark and so superbly satirical, the true beauty of this film (and it's predecessor) is that the family group works so well together. The late Raul Julia IS Gomez Addams in so many people's eyes. Whilst appearing in 43 films before his untimely death aged 54 from a stroke, Julia is always remembered for his chemistry with Angelica Huston and the way he portrays Gomez. Huston herself was aware of this, and this is one of many reasons for her absence in 1998's dreadful Addams Family Reunion (in fact, only Carel Struycken's Lurch was a member of the original cast to return). Aware that the chemistry would not be repeated with Tim Curry, Huston chose to back away from the tired and infuriating third film.As well as Julia and Huston's performances, as little Wednesday Addams, Christina Ricci is marvellous. Showing a steely cold face for the majority of the film, Ricci plays Wednesday as the cold, dark, slightly disturbed child which she is. Aged only 13 when playing the role, Ricci demonstrates a considerable ability and should really have built upon this performance. Whilst doing good jobs in 1998's The Opposite Of Sex and in 2003's Monster, Ricci demonstrates a potential in this film which has perhaps been relatively limited in it's appearance so far.All in all, Addams Family Values is a wonderful film. Combining darkness, satire and decent acting, this experience is one to be treasured. You'll laugh, you'll cry and you'll admire at how good a job everyone involved has done. One for anyone's collection. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie simply had a perfect cast. Who else could play Morticia like Anjelica Huston? (NOT Daryl Hannah.) Who else could play Gomez like Raul Julia? (NOT Tim Curry.) Who else could play Wednesday like Christina Ricci? (NOT whoever played Wednesday.) Who else could play Fester? (NOT whoever played Fester.) Who else could play the stunning yet devilish Debbie Jellinsky? Who else could play the goody-goody Amanda? That is the question we must ask our audiences that enjoy The Addams Family Reunion. "},{"Title":"Superior to the first in every way!","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This installment was far superior to the first in every way! It was better in story line, direction, acting quality, dialog, and intent. This was the perfect addition to the Addams Family franchise. Unfortunately, it's also the last. Raul Julia has passed on, and Christina Ricci is frankly too old to be doing Wednesday Addams anymore. Their next attempt with Tim Curry as Gomez Addams, and Darryl Hannah as Morticia, was appalling, atrocious, and puerile. I HATED...LoAThED...dEtESTeD that movie with a PASSION! I left it out of my Addams Family collection; acted like it never existed. While I love Tim Curry, he is NOT Gomez Addams! The nerve!But I digress.Wednesday and Pugsley are sent away by their new nanny to allow her adequate time to vamp Fester. Why? Because he's rich. Why else? Now, Wednesday and Pugsley have to contend with the preppy bratlings at summer camp, while Morticia and Gomez must deal with the new gold-digger in the family.Grand Mamma has been replaced by Carol Kane...I hate it when they change players like that. But I'm torn between hating the change, and liking Carol Kane better. They should have cast her in the part in the first movie and I would not be IN this quandary.But that not withstanding, this is a far superior effort to the first, which was perfect to begin with.It rates a 9.8/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Better than the original.","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Anjelica Huston, Raul Julia, Christopher Lloyd, and Christina Ricci all return in Addams family values, an even better film than the original. It's got more laughs, more character development, and it's just better.Int the sequel, The Addams welcome a new child in their lives. They name it Pubert. Also, Uncle Fester falls in love with the new nanny(played by Joan Cusack). She is not what you'd think, she is actually a serial killer who marries men and murders them the next day. Also, Debbie, Fester's new wife, convinces Gomez and Morticia to send their children to Summer camp, where they creep everyone out. I think that Addams family values is a bit better than the original. The original film was funny, but the sequel was even better. I liked Joan Cusack as the serial killer. Though I wasn't quite convinced that she was a murderous wench. But she was. Thumbs up for The Addams family values.Addams family values***/**** "}{"Title":"Very funny, possibly better than the first!","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I absolutely loved the first movie. I bought this two days ago, and I was really impressed, because this is a really funny movie. it is possibly better than the first but only just. If there are any flaws, they are minor, but why is the rating for this movie so low? 6.2? It is much better than that! I can name other great movies that have fallen victim to low ratings. The humour was wonderful. Black humour suits the Addams Family perfectly. As for the acting, it was superb. Christina Ricci tops them all as Wednesday, but that doesn't mean that the others weren't good either. Raul Julia and Angelica Huston are note perfect as Gomez and Morticia. To be honest, I think that Gomez is Julia's best role. Christopher Lloyd was born to play Fester, just as entertaining as he was in Back To The Future and Who Framed Roger Rabbit? Jimmy Workman was also really good, and the underrated actress Joan Cusack took me completely by surprise as Debbie. That baby was cute too. If there was one minor flaw, it would be that you don't see much of Cousin It and Margaret. As I'm probably not able to write a review for the first film, what I've said for this film, applies pretty much also for that too. I give this a 9/10, same with the first, but avoid the New Addams Family and unless you're a Tim Curry fan, avoid Addams Family Reunion also. 9/10. Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"a classic, the start of the great sequels","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Be afraid, be very afraid. This hysterical movie emerged during an era when they were not only ameliorating the craft of the sequel, but transforming it forever. Moviegoers were guaranteed to waste their money on sequels like Porky's II, Grease II, Revenge of the Nerd II, III and somebody explain to me any of the Police Academy sequels. Then arose from the ashes, the Phoenix of sequel classics such as Addams Family Values. Instead of joke leftovers, served with a dubious sauce, we are treated with lines like, Lurch, was she in there before you baked (the cake)? We get a 2nd helping of the same actress who played the Girl Scout in movie 1. Who can forget, Is your lemonade made from real lemons? Wednesday replies dryly, Are your cookies made from real Girl Scouts? Maybe Wednesday is thinking of baking a batch after our girl scout is burned at the stake (apple in WASP mouth). Wonderful cast with Nathan Lane and Carol Kane popping in for a spell. You're going to die laughing. "},{"Title":"Not as memorable, but even more of a scree-yum","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The first Addams Family film was really funny, and somehow this one's funnier. It could be the whole concept of the completely anti-cutesy-Disney children, Wednesday and Pugsley, morbidly running amok through a children's camping grounds. It could be the quirky and lovable (as usual) Joan Cusack as the villainous and spoiled rotten fiancé of Christopher Lloyd's Uncle Fester. More than anything, I think Christina Ricci's show-stealing performance is what makes the movie. No, literally; I think this sequel wouldn't even exist if Ricci hadn't done such a stellar job in the first one. Her Wednesday Addams was even richer than the TV show's, and in Addams Family Values, she delivers the bulk of the film's patented dark humor. My favorite scene is Wednesday's adlibbing in the Thanksgiving play to the horror of the squeaky clean counselors. In the play, Wednesday and her tribe of children who have trouble fitting in forced to play braves give the audience what they should want to see when they take the perfect little angel pilgrims hostage and torture them for intruding on their land. I happen to think the first Addams Family film is a lot more memorable, but as far as cult classics go, this flick is a must for the collection. Ricci rocks. "},{"Title":"Taking it to the next level!","Date":"13 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A new addition to the Addams household. Pubert Addams(The Hooper Twins,Katilyn & Kristen), the third child to Wednesday(Christina Ricci) and Pugsley(Jimmy Workman). Jealousy is common to the family household, and the kids will do anything to kill Pubert. And Nannies are the Addams' worst nightmare or is it the other way around. When Debbie(Joan Cusack) comes to the household, sees eyes one thing Fester(Christopher Lloyd). Is it his looks? Hmm! Is it his fortune? YES! This nanny is a gold-digging black widow. And when the kids go to camp, they make it the summer no one will forget. When the gifted one asked Wednesday about the way she's dressed. Wednesday said Wait. All the hilarity is never lost in this movie, and the people moving in every scene was unbelievable. Especially when Morticia(Anjelica Huston) set the dance floor on fire. The real hero in the movie is Pubert. Seems like no harm have ever occurred around him when the family is put in danger. Just as funny as the first, and the laugh track is still intact. Great movie! 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Why are you dressing like someone died?           Wait.","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Okay, the Godfather part II and Terminator 2 and Day of the dead are similar to this in the way that it is hard to admit which one you like better. This was a great film and one of my favourite films, without a doubt Christiana Ricci indeed takes away the show here, one of her best performances. To me, this film is all about HER! Heck, she should be in the starring role and in the middle in the bloody cover...okay, maybe I'm over exaggerating there. The film is hilarious, funny as hell indeed. Peter MacNicol and Joan Cusack co-star as well as Christopher Lloyd, my Lord they're great in this film especially Joan Cusack. I like the original a little better but this film I give nearly all the credit to. The acting is great by Ricci, Lloyd, Cusack and of course you can forget dearest Anjelica Houston and Raul Juilia (may he rest in piece) I don't care about the high PG rating, just go see this film...with the whole family! "},{"Title":"It's alright, as far as sequels go","Date":"10 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The problem with sequels is that they can't be as good as the originals; they have to improve on the original, be even better than the original, etc. This movie would be great, if it stood on its own...The first film had a certain and style of humor that all the camp scenes managed to equal, but it had trouble following through and continuing this unique dark humor in the scenes with the adults. All the best lines are with Wednesday and the barely-used Pugsley. And wasn't Uncle Fester a Ladies' Man in the original? Still, if it was on TV, I'd watch it. Still a great film. I do love watching idiotic blonde girls getting their comeuppance. "},{"Title":"strangeness and charm work well in an sadly underrated movie","Date":"27 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It's not often sequels are better than the original...but this is one of the select few.This is a fantastic film, cynical and biting with the best of them. While you can obviously mistake this movie for just a family film, I totally disagree and would put it up there in masked strangeness and charm along with the gene wilder and the great willy wonka and the chocolate factory. From the scenes at the summer camp to uncle fester and his wife. There's something special about this film that i can't quite put my finger on.See this movie, I like it a lot.  "},{"Title":"Better than the first, a truly hilarious black comedy","Date":"16 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" While the first Addams Family had a few problems, mainly in the script and plot, this one is almost entirely flawless. Whereas the first has a tiresome, almost cliché-like plot, this one has a far more original and interesting approach to the Addams'. I guess it is a little lame that it, once again, mainly revolves around Fester, but that's the only thing I can think of as far as negative thoughts toward this masterpiece of black comedy goes. Nearly all of the actors who were in the first film reprise their roles in this one. All of the main characters are played by the same actors, and they do a just as good job as they did in the first. I would probably say that Christoper Lloyd as Fester even did a better job than he did in the first, but that may just be that his character is written better in this one. Anjelica Huston, Raul Julia, Christina Ricci and Jimmy Workman each give as great a performance as they did last; Christina is even more chilling in this, and once again gives a magnificent and scary performance in this, once again proving how talented she is(she was 12 or 13 when they made this). Joan Cusack is a great addition to the cast, providing some great wacky comic relief, which is a welcome view on the actress that yours truly had only experienced in the wretched series What About Joan. I also very much enjoyed the other new character, Pubert. He brought in a lot of good new gags and jokes. There were also some reoccurring gags and jokes more or less reused from the first film, but none of them seemed unoriginal. The film is about as eventful as the first, possibly more. The plot is great, much more original than the first one. It has a good pace, you're never bored. The acting is as flawless as it was in the first, possibly better. The characters are very well-written, better than in the first. Morticia still looked like a clown, but at least she did the walk better this time around. Gomez was still flesh-colored, but Fester achieved a consistent paleness. All in all, a great black comedy, and a very worthy sequel to the first. One of the few sequels that surpasses the first film. I recommend it to fans of the actors, as this is them at their best, fans of black comedy, and anyone who enjoyed the first film. 7/10 "},{"Title":"More eccentric and ingenious morbidity &#133; YAY!","Date":"28 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  You definitely can't reproach this sequel of being an uninspired, repetitive copy of the original! The entire family and their lovely extravagant behavior returns, but the situations in &#145;Values' are of a much wider range. The family comes into contact with the outside world in this film, which results in an even more effective satire/black comedy. Gomez and Morticia welcome a new brat, uncle Fester falls in love with a dangerously disturbed serial killer (magnificently played by Joan Cusack) and the offspring is sent to Summer Camp! The sequences where the joy-joy camp leaders try to bring some color into the lives of Wednesday and Pugsley are downright hilarious. The jokes and situational humor in this sequel is constantly on the same (high) level as the original, while cast and crew obviously had a lot of fun. Of course, it would never have been this great if the initial cast wouldn't have returned as a wholesome. The group of actors fit together perfectly and the chemistry between them is almost natural. Once again&#133;special mention for Christina Ricci, who's the loveliest little witch in the history of cinema. Both films are comedy efforts to watch over and over again! Preferably in pair!  "},{"Title":"Creepy and kooky?","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I'm a big Christina Ricci fan, but this remains her best work.  It's also a sequel far superior to the original &#150; the director really lets his cast off the leash.  But the show is stolen by Wednesday Addams, sent away to camp.  There's a scene where she is forced to crack a smile that had me hollering with laughter in the cinema.  Touch wood, remakes of old TV series seem to be on the wane at the moment, but this was one of the bunch that used love of an old show to do its own thing.  In many ways an ultra-black comedy, it boasts a fantastic cast (I swear Anjelica Huston was born for this role) and a director caught just before the point he went downhill. "}{"Title":"Oh God!","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I know that woman!  She is my dad's ex-wife.  Same name too.  Did she write the character for that bitch?  My dad was even horrified when he saw the movie.  Joking manner really.  But you get my point.  She didn't try to kill him but short of that exact the same.  Once my dad ran out of money, she left him.  Now, I know it was a comedy and I shouldn't talk about something serious.  I definitely enjoyed this movie over the first.  But it was kind of scary of how close that woman was to my dad's ex wife.  Same color hair, same name, oh god.  I gave this movie an 8 because it wasn't perfect or the funniest thing but it was just a B Comedy. "},{"Title":"fester is so gross. so why marry him?","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  what a great and funny follow-up to the first addams family movie. with the same cast portraying their ooky and cooky roles as the addams', fester falls in love with a murderous woman known on the show that wednesday watches, the black widow. she attempts to do the same to fester, but he really is attracted, and she cant seem to do away with him or the family.  meanwhile, while all this is going on, the addams have a new boy join the family, causing the children to become jealous, so they go to camp and terrorize all the children.  this movie is so funny and weird, like the addams, and a better follow-up compared to most movies, like jeepers creepers, but i wont go there. take time and soak all the weirdness that the addams dare to keep alive.  (B+ B) "},{"Title":"100 times funnier then the first one","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Even though the first Addams Family delivered a ton of laughs, you will get more kicks and need more air from this movie. I cannot understand how even one person could not get at least a laugh from this film. The whole camp sequences are hilarious. Christina Ricci has come a long way, and despite the many wonderful films I have seen her in, this was always my favorite role. The kids were just perfect for this comedy. Fester and Debbie, I absolutely loved them. I thought Debbie was the perfect edition to the Addams clan. D Her speech at the end about her victims was right on key and on the floor funny! Any true film lover should give this movie a chance and have fun. It's a great film that might even brighten your day. In an Addams Family way D.10/10 "},{"Title":"another fantastic movie","Date":"15 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Addams Family Values i think is another fantastic movie, this one was made in 1993, 2 years after when the 1st addams family movie was made. Then in 1998, a one off special The Addams family reunion was released. I give this movie 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Underrated in every way!","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  *Spoilers* Addams Family Values is one of those rare gems in two respects; a sequel which is better than its predecessor and  a TV to Movie conversion success. Raul Julia and Anjelica Huston play a better Gomez/Moticia duo than from the TV series, Christopher Lloyd plays a better Fester, Ricci plays a sublime Wednesday and the supporting cast is generally good. Fester is lovestruck by a psycho nanny and moves away from the family, causing no end of troubles. Wednesday and Pugsley are bottled off to a Summer Camp, which provides much of the good humour in the movie.Just watch this film, It always brings a smile to my face. "},{"Title":"Tops The Original Movie","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The 1991 Addams Family movie was brilliant but this film tops the original movie in more ways than one. Plenty of laughs, a new addition to the family and more shenanigans involving those who would try to get their hands on the Addams Family fortune.Once again, what helps this movie is the casting. Wisely,the original actors and actresses reprise their roles which helps the film continuity wise and enables them to produce another good film. Fester is uglier and madder than ever whilst Mortician and Gomez love each other even more. Once again, the ghoulish family prove to us all why they are the perfect family-the odd disagreement, plenty of eccentricities but most of all, plenty of love.Producing a sequel to a good film is most obviously an unenviable task but the makers of this movie succeeded in producing an even better film full of black humour and some of the best dialogue ever. "},{"Title":"a worthy follow-up","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Affable sequel finds the macabre family adjusting to life after the arrival of a newborn baby boy. More specifically, the focus is on Uncle Fester (Lloyd) who falls in love with an overly perky nanny (played to perfection by Cusack) with her own agenda. There's also a hilarious subplot involving Puglsey and Wednesday who reluctantly get sent off to summer camp where their moribund lifestyle causes all kinds of havoc for the other campers. As you'd expect it's not quite as fresh as the original, but there are plenty of laughs throughout, and a slew of broad performances by its first-rate cast. About as good a sequel as you could hope for. *** "},{"Title":"The Addams Family Gets A Little Stranger","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS        The Addams Family is back in their first movie since their last one. It opens with Morticia saying she's going to have a baby...Right now.        The baby is soon born and...It's an Addams! Wednesday and Pugsley grow jealous of the attention their family gives to the new baby, Pubert. They try to get rid of him several times but each time fails. Gomez and Morticia try to hire a nanny. The first three just didn't seem right, then another one arrived, Debbie Jellinsky. She seemed perfect. But what the family didn't know is that Debbie was in fact the notorious Black Widow Killer. She weds wealthy men then kills them on the wedding night and skips town with their money. And not only that, she's a master of disguise. She's got her eyes on Uncle Fester now. The first thing she does is tell Gomez and Morticia that Pugsley and Wednesday had asked to be sent to summer camp! So they head to Camp Chippewa that was filled with happy campers and sunshine. Scary! But not half as scary as the counselors Gary Granger and Becky Martin- Granger. Another annoyance was a young camper, Amanda Buckman. She and Wednesday began going at it with one another immediately.       Back at home, Fester and Debbie become close. They go out to dinner where Gomez and Morticia dance up a storm, while Fester tries to impress Debbie by sticking things up his nose. Soon they become engaged! Back at camp, Wednesday befriended a camper, Joel Glicker, who had bad allergies. That's Barry Sonnenfeld playing his father! Wednesday, Joel and Pugsley try to escape from camp, but are caught. They also get word that Uncle Fester is getting married! Oh, no! Their honeymoon was in Hawaii. Debbie attempted to electrocute Fester, but failed. She also made him promise to never see his family again. This saddens Gomez.      At camp, Gary decides to put on a play of the first Thanksgiving. He chooses Amanda to be pilgrim Sarah Miller and casts Wednesday as Pocahontas! When Wednesday refused to cooperate, Gary and Becky threw them in the Harmony Hut and forced them to watch Disney cartoons!        The Addams Family pays a visit on Debbie and Fester. Debbie had subdued Fester and enslaved him. They went right to the police, but Sgt. Nathan Lane could care less. At Camp Chippewa, the play was done, but Wednesday performed her own version which resulted in the scenery being burned down. Gary and Becky were tied to a spit and barbecued. Amanda was burned at the stake. Gary, Becky and Amanda survived however but I'm sure they'll think twice before behaving in this way again. Debbie tries to assassinate Fester by blowing up the house. But it was Thing to the rescue! He and Fester took off for home. Unfortunately, Debbie followed. She strapped each of them in an electric chair and made them watch slides of her childhood. Then she tried to electrocute them, but it was Pubert to the rescue! He somehow reversed the current so Debbie was fried! Soon, all that was left was a pile of ashes, shoes and credit cards.       A pretty good movie. The original cast is back, minus the actress who played Granny. Carol Kane plays her in this movie. I'm sorry to say that Raul Julia passed away a year after making this movie. That's too bad. He was so young! In this movie, Wednesday became the more dominant character. She is one of the more popular ones, after all. This one's better than the first! So in conclusion, if you saw the first and wanna see further adventures of America's favorite family, then check out Addams Family Values!-  "},{"Title":"Very nice and surprising sequel","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Being a huge fan of the original, I never saw the sequel because my rental store didn't have it. Plus I heard it was really stupid. But a few years back I caught it on tv and I was impressed. For a sequel, the Addams Family Values is quite an achievment. Sure, there've been much better sequels (The Godfather Part 2) but for a sequel to a comedy this is great. Same brilliant cast, same humor. Loved it. Just don't bother with the third straight-to-video ADDAMS FAMILY REUNION-it was horrible. 3.5/5 stars. "},{"Title":"Better than the first!","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  When I rented ADDAMS FAMILY VALUES I didn't think that it was going to be nearly as good as th first ADDAMS FAMILY movie, but it was surprisingly a lot better than the first one was. It had lots of dark and morbid humor which I love, and it had an excellent cast. I can't wait to buy the  DVD. "}{"Title":"not better than the first","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Contrary to what people think, I dont think this is better than the sequel. The Addams have a new baby boy and the kids go off to camp. Uncle Fester is being used by Joan Cusack as a nutty nanny who wants Fester offed so she can get his money. Hokey and lame. If the Addams are so weird then how come nobody goes to their house and messes them up? * "},{"Title":"Addams Family Values (Warning- may include spoilers)","Date":"18 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought that the family wasn't the funniest part- they were good, but i thought that Joan Cusack (Debbie) stole the show!!! She was sooo funny! Christina Ricci was very good as Wednesday, as she had some good lines and said them with just the right amount of edge. I thought that the only downsides of this movie were the dance number between Morticia and Gomez and the guy that Wednesday makes friends with at the camp, but those are only small things. Overall, I'd give this film *** (out of ****) "},{"Title":"Almost valueless","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Those critics who complain that movies aren't as good as they used to be should be informed that today's critics leave much to be desired, as well. After watching Addams Family Values on video, I dug out some old issues of Entertainment Weekly to look up Owen Glieberman's review of this sequel to the 1991 hit to see if he agreed with Jeff Craig of Sixty Second Preview who is quoted on the video box as saying this film is screamingly funny.  Sure enough, Glieberman had more good than bad to say about the film, but he is by no means an island. Even Siskel and Ebert were, for the most part, approving.  What transformation occurred between the film's theatrical and video release to cause me to form an entirely different opinion? The fault must lie with those critics, not with the change in screen size.  Addams Family Values damn near stinks, although some of the people associated with the production do manage to come out smelling, if not like a rose, than at least pleasant.The first Addams Family was a surprise hit, much to the chagrin of Orion Pictures which, nearing bankruptcy, sold the completed film to Paramount.  A hit or not, the film was widely criticized for its lack of a story.  The filmmakers had decided that all that was necessary to produce laughs was to exploit the macabre weirdness of the Addams clan.  This time out, screenwriter Paul Rudnick has provided a story, but not one strong enough to support a 94-minute film.  Morticia has given birth to a third child and it is decided that the new offspring, Pubert, requires a nanny.  Unfortunately, the nanny is a golddigging black widow style murderess with designs on Uncle Fester's fortune.  This scenario could be a framework for some solid comedy, but Rudnick just lets it hang there while they pour on a series of lamely sophomoric jokes that could have been cooked up by a fourth grader.  Far more interesting and somewhat more effective is a subplot concerning the adventures of Wednesday and Pugsley at a snobby summer camp.  The deadpan morbidity of Wednesday is especially out of place here and the bizarre contrast between the cynical girl and the blonde giggly campmates could have been a knee-slapping delight.  Instead it is only mildly amusing, saved from total mediocrity by Christina Ricci who, as Wednesday Addams, puts most child actors to shame with her excellent performance.  Aside from Ricci, the best thing about Addams Family Values is Joan Cusack as the beautiful blonde nanny.  A sexy, voluptuous babe with a devious yet charming smile, she would have been perfectly cast in those screwball comedies of the 30s. Ricci and Cusack would probably make a terrific team in a script that, unlike Rudnick's, is worthy of their talents.  Until such a script comes along, Addams Family Values is worth seeing if only to fall under their spell.  "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to the original","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Where the first film focused on Gomez and Mortisha with Fester in support the sequel is dominated by a focus on Wednesday Addams. Fester still is the underlining plot that keeps the movie going, but only in a limited manner. Fester meets Debbie a con-artist who wants all his money and is frustrated that she can't kill him once they are married. She sends the children to summer camp and thus the film splits into two separate stories.One thing that is strange is that in the first film Gomez explains that fester was quite the charmer and he felt in competition with him. In this film fester seems almost silly in his desperate attempts of woo Debbie. Debbie would have accepted anything to work with as she wanted to take advantage of him. Yet most of the scenes is her struggling with the little that Fester produces.In many ways, all the other characters become slapstick versions of that which we saw in the previous film. Almost like a parody. With the exception of Lurch the butler who though similar to Frankenstine finds different ways to express his more creative side, by painting, cooking, gardening and playing the organ. In some ways, he may be the most complex character in the film and that's a little sad.In many ways, this is a theme of the film, to take what they had done so well in the fist film and make fun of it. In some scenes it almost seems like Loony Toons, anvils and all. The number of scenes that can be characterized as slapstick silly as numerous. For instance, Wednesday painting herself into the wallpaper, Gomez spinning Mortisha so quickly that the floor bursts into flames, and of course the new addition to the family, Pubert Addams being shot into the air and momentarily being seen through the window on an airplane.The jokes are at times difficult to understand and often not funny. Some light word ad-libbing is done well but mostly it's hit or miss. In addition, the so called normal characters they introduce in the film to contact against the Addams' weirdness end up being so silly and weird themselves that they make the Addams look normal. Ie. most of the kids and camp councillors at the summer camp. Maybe that the joke, but it misses the point of what the Addams family is. They are the weird ones not us. They just don't know it.Overall, the film is not that funny, watchable but just barely and ultimately killed the franchise. It feels that they could have done so much more but chose to be silly instead. "},{"Title":"As well made as the original, but not nearly as original","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Continuing with the same class viewers have come to expect from the original update, Addams Family Values is still the macabre fun time viewers would hope for, although the material definitely feels rehashed. Essentially this methodical sequel just mimics the success of the original, perhaps too closely to accumulate any individual honors.Of course the whole gang that made the first film such a treat is back, and right away that ensures this Addams is worth a watch, even if it is a blatant retread. Already familiar with so many of the clan and their darkly eccentric ways, the script just continues with the same site gags and impressive one-liners that were prevalent in The Addams Family. A plot, if you want to call it such, introduces a new nemesis, the killer-divorcée Joan Cusack into the black mansion, which merely gives Christopher Lloyd a larger chance to shine in the funny love story. Likewise, the miserably cute Christina Ricci is given a larger part with a funny romantic angle thrown in for good measure.Despite the new romantic angles and funny summer camp segments, Addams Family Values seems a little light on purpose to justify it's existence as anything but profit-driven. The same fantastic elements are still there, which in itself makes the film worthwhile, although only die-hard fans of that latest franchise incarnation would need to seek out part two, as everything was already covered appropriately before an obligatory family redux was demanded. "},{"Title":"An okay sequel","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  While this didn't quite capture the magic  of the original, it was still fun to watch simply  due to the great performances of all of the  characters involved. While this film is a  good follow-up to a great movie, it just felt  lacking in so many parts. Just goes to show  a sequel is never the best thing. However,  all of the scenes at the summer camp are  priceless, truly making this film a funny and  comedic addition to any movie collection. "},{"Title":"Another one?","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Addams Family Values is that rare bird, a sequel that is better than its predecessor. Fortunately, playwright/screenwriter Paul Rudnick has seemingly been allowed to have free rein this time out, and the results are mostly hilarious. Sure, the plot is on the thin side, but there are so many priceless lines and scenes that you will hardly notice the narrative slack. There's a brand new baby in the Addams household. Pubert's a cute little bugger with slicked-back hair and a pencil-thin moustache just like Daddy Gomez. Pubert is something of a cross-dresser too, as he is played by the Hooper twins, Kaitlyn and Kristin. Wednesday and Pugsley, the darling Addams children, are less than thrilled with the new competition of a bouncing baby brother. They are sent off to summer camp after attempting some baby bouncing of their own. At uppity Camp Chippewa, the favored campers are blondes with names like Amanda, Muffy and Heather from privileged families. Needless to say, Pugsley and Wednesday don't exactly fit in. It all culminates in one hilarious and revengeful Thanksgiving pageant, A Turkey Named Brotherhood. Meanwhile, back at the family mansion, Uncle Fester has his eye on the new nanny, a shapely gold digger named Debbie. Debbie has a shady past and seems anxious to waltz Fester down the aisle. Till death do us part, indeed. Angelica Huston (loved her eye lighting) and Raul Julia are again marvelous as Morticia and Gomez Addams, though their parts are scaled down for this sequel. Mr. and Mrs. Addams do get a showstopping dance number, however. The ever-delightful Joan Cusack playing the nanny gets her share of laughs as Debbie does Fester. Christina Ricci, as Wednesday, gets the best lines, and she makes the most of her opportunity. T.G.I.W. "},{"Title":"The Addam's Family should be like good porn...the less plot the better!","Date":"13 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" As far as sequels go, Addam's Family Values is just more of the same as in the first movie...so you're bound to like the sequel as much (or as little as the original). The sequel has the same problem as the original the plot is large and cumbersome and often gets in the way of the fun of the zaniness that is the Addam's Family...usually the pay-off is worth it. For example Paul Rudnick spends a lot of time building a plot in which Wednesday and Pugsley get shipped off to a summer camp. No one really cares why Wednesday and Pugsley are at summer camp, all we want to see is what happens when they're put in charge of directing a play about the first Thanksgiving. (If anyone knows where I can get a recording of Eat Me!, let me know!) The saving grace of the cumbersome plot is Joan Cusak who is interminably funny and can save pretty much any bad screenplay that she gets her hands on. Go enjoy both Addam's Family movies, but be warned that you just have to ignore the scenes where they try to build up the plot. "},{"Title":"Not Much of a Film.","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Terrible sequel to the box office smash of 1992 just does not make much sense and is even worse than the ho-hum first installment. This time the evil Joan Cusack decides to marry the strange-looking Uncle Fester (Christopher Lloyd) and take all his money by killing him and making it look like a freak accident. Of course nothing she tries can kill him and the situations get more and more stupid as the film progresses. There is also a new baby that looks like Raul Julia literally and that is also an unintentionally spooky part of the movie. The kids are sent to camp for a while and that odd side-story was not even necessary. In fact most of the things that happen are not needed in this huge yawn that did have some box office muscle but little else. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Even worse than the first, and it was horrible.","Date":"6 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" A gold digger comes after Festor and she pretends to be a nanny while she seduces Festor. There's a new baby in the house now named Pubert and the older kids are trying to kill him, so the nanny suggests they get sent to summer camp. At summer camp the kids learn of the wedding between this mysterious nanny and uncle Festor and they insist on getting home to stop it, but it is too late as the nanny has married Festor and made him promise to no longer associate with the rest of the clan. She tries to kill him to get the inheritance, the kids have to suffer the annoying camp counselors and other children and granny, Morticia and Gomez have to deal with the curse on their new born.Yea my description sucks but I hate trying to explain how bad movies are. This movie was the same boring type of plot as the first one. It offered nothing new and although it had a few laughs it was still worse than the original.Sonnefeld's direction was even lazier and the music was worse. They tried the TV theme song and kept playing it in different musical styles. The cool song they picked to promote the movie was by rap group Tag Team doing basically Whoop, There It Is and adding lyrics about the Addams family, how boring is that...rap songs are always flavors of the week and will never be popular as little as a year in the future. Too bad they dropped out with the Michael Jackson song.The old cast is back, the grandma has been replaced with the wonderful Carol Kane and she does such a better job. Joan Cusack plays the nanny and once again Christinna Ricci is the star of the film, with her brilliant sarcastic lines. Raul Julia, Angelica Houston and Christopher Lloyd did exactly as they did before, but there was more screen time for Morticia and Gomez. I was always most fond of Lurch but neither of these movies focused on him at all. The counselors did a great job too, very funny. Also some great cameos by people like Peter Graves and Nathan Lane.Perhaps kids might like it, but movies like this are just a waste of time to me, although they have fans and a following, they just lack comedy and can't handle the test of time 1/10 stars. "}{"Title":"the biggest dark gag is that you actually liked this one....","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I never was a fan of the animated series so i couldn't have liked this movie too much. But i was in a good mood for a dark comedy so i decided to watch. Unfortunately it was just as i expected dumb. I can't understand how people could appreciate so much a movie like this... that's a mistery. Some gags were good and funny, but nothing more. And Fester is played superbly by Lloyd. These are the only good points. Except that, a morbid ride inside a family you'd never wanna meet. Vote 3.5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"ok sequel","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  The Addams return in another creepy and kooky adventure..As the first one ended with Morticia preganant the second begins with pubert, the new addition to the family. The new addition makes the other kids Wednesday and pugsley homicidally jealous. This makes Gomez and Morticia hire a nanny (played well by Joan Cusack) who plans to steal their fortune by hitching up with their Uncle Fester and offing him. Of course her plans go up in smoke , so to speak.  While still having the dark humor moments and great acting by the cast..especially Ricci in a campground as an indian..it lacks real interest..Ricci almost steals the movie..on a scale of one to ten..5 "}]