[{"Title":"When Gay-Friendly Film Making Goes Horribly Wrong","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"65 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I read Tom Robbins' EVEN COWGIRLS GET THE BLUES as a teenager. I loved every word. It was sexy, funny, and full of glamorous scenery and beautiful writing. But when I saw the movie, I could not believe what a dull, sour, joyless piece of junk it was. How did this happen? I think someone in Hollywood read this book and filed it under GAY PRIDE -- WOMEN -- LESBIANS. (That's the Library of Congress subject heading.) Now anyone over 12 who reads the book will know it has NOTHING TO DO with real lesbians, any more than STAR WARS is about real space travel. The book was obviously -- and I do mean OBVIOUSLY --written by a heterosexual male who loves the IDEA of lesbians (in the nude, all the time)but has never really met one.Still, someone in Hollywood said, uh oh, better give this to a Gay director or Gay People will make trouble. So they handed it to Gus Van Sant. Nothing against the man, but -- however Gay he may really be -- he has not a clue as to how to make a funny film. Gus Van Sant took a straight man's playful fantasy of guilt-free girl/girl action and male voyeurism turned it into a dull, literal-minded Lesbian Power Recruiting Poster. It's like turning an Oscar Wilde comedy into an Arthur Miller tragedy. Not pretty.The main clue that Gus Van Sant had absolutely no idea what to do with the source material is the riotously bad casting. His clout allowed him to hire the very best. His ignorance of the novel's real subtext (a straight man's fantasy, not a gay pride recruiting poster)caused him to make choices that were not only bad, but bizarre.Let's meet the cast of EVEN COWGIRLS GET THE BLUES.PAT MORITA as THE CHINK Okay, there are few name-recognition Asian actors. And Pat Morita, in HAPPY DAYS, was fairly funny. But casting him as THE CHINK was wrong, wrong, wrong. Pat Morita has no idea that the Chink is a very funny man. (Gus didn't tell him.) Pat also doesn't seem to know that the Chink is . . . well, SEXY!!! In the book he's not wise old Mr. Miyagi. He's more like Hugh Hefner! He's a randy old goat and he knows A LOT about pleasing the nubile and responsive Sissy AND Bonanza Jellybean. (You see, in the book, they aren't REALLY lesbians. Do you get that this is a straight man's fantasy yet?) JOHN HURT as THE COUNTESS. Okay, he's a gay friendly man. But he is a SERIOUS, SHAKESPEAREAN ACTOR!!!! You need someone who is fun, and camp, for this role. For John Hurt to be cast as a goofy guy like the Countess is tragic and sad. I kept expecting Paul Scofield to wander in all dressed up as Thomas More, and sadly shake his head. Now, Richard, you know you've lost your soul entirely. For shame, my former student! And yes, John Hurt was funny (and pretty gay) as Caligula. But that was BLACK humor, not playful and breezy humor like the book.RAIN PHOENIX as Bonanza Jellybean. No talent, no training, no problem. Except that in the book Bonanza is funny, playful, cheerful, (mostly) heterosexual, and loving. In the movie she's sullen, passive, expressionless, and dull. As for her taste for women, Robbins in the book puts it like this. God knows I love women, but nothing can take the place of a man that fits. Uh, Gus? Did you read this book? UMA THURMAN as Sissy Hankshaw. This is a tough role. In the book Sissy really is an unusually passive and timid heroine. Still, a more accomplished actress might have manufactured a twinkle in her eye, or a sway in her walk, to imply some sort of hidden strength or hidden enjoyment of her adventures. Uma doesn't pull it off, probably because Gus never told her Sissy is supposed to ENJOY being a hitch hiker with a beautiful body and giant thumbs. Uma plays it more like she's in a TV movie about a girl dying of leukemia. This movie is sour and dull. And I accuse YOU, Gus Van Sant! "},{"Title":"Sorry.  No Spoiler.","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"39 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've loved reading the comments about this film.  In fact, some of them are even more zanier than Robbins, and that's going some.  Look.  If you're going to read a book by Tom Robbins, you know it's going to be goofy.  Tom Robbins does goofy.  OK.  Now, if you're gonna see a movie about a Robbins book with Robbins input, what do you expect? Right.  Goofy.  So, what's the big deal? If you want Disney, go see some Bambi reruns. If you're gonna see Robbins, better read a few of his books first.  I personally like Robbins's books.  I howled my way through Jitterbug Perfume. And, being married to a Redhead, I loved Still Life with Woodpecker...OK.  Now, what's this film about?  Read the book.  If you want to see Uma, Rain and all the gang, rent the video but don't expect Disney.  You ain't gonna get it.  Obviously, most of the other reviewers didn't either.  Look.  A movie can't pull the same things off that a book can, and vice versa.  Robbins's books have a style that would seem very difficult to capture on film.  If anything, this film proves that.  Does it (i.e., the film) work?  Is it a viable form beyond the book? Does it fly on its own merit?  Can't say.  YOU watch it and decide.  I found many, many flaws in this film but also enjoyed much of it.  So, friends, check it out for yourselves...but, I'd strongly advise, reading some Robbins before you do.  It will save the shock later. "},{"Title":"4.0??? No way...","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"56 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I could not agree less with the rating that was given to this movie, and I believe this is a sample of how short minded most of spectators are all over the world. Really... Are you forgetting that Cinema used to be a kind of art before some tycoons tried to make it only entertainment? This movie is not entertainment, at least not that easy entertainment you get on movies like Titanic or Gladiator. It has style, it is different, it is shocking... That's why most of you have hated it so much because it does not try to be pleasing to you. It's just a story, a very weird one I admit, but after all, only a weird story. It is not a great story, not even a great cinema work, but I believe it is worth a 7-stars rating only for the courage of both author and director to shot a story that is not made to please the audience, thus selling billions of copies and making the big studios even richer. This movie is, for me, European-artistic-like movie made in the US, and everyone involved in the making of it deserves respect. Be it for the courage, or be it for the unique sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Disappointment for Tom Robbins fans","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I absolutely love all of Tom Robbins books, so I was very excited and interested to see a movie made after one of his books. I knew that there would be no way that the movie would capture even half of Robbins' magic, but after seeing the movie, it made me never want to read the book again. The movie Even Cowgirls Get the Blues doesn't include an eighth of the content in the book, and it seems to focus more on the love connection between Bonanza Jellybean and Sissy than anything else. Along with the incredibly weak plot line in the movie, I think that better actors definitely could have been chosen to play the characters. The only actors in the movie that I thought played their roles fit to Robbins' descriptions in the book were Julian's friends, in their five minute clip in the beginning of the movie. Those who haven't read the book might enjoy the movie, but as a huge Tom Robbins fan, this movie was nothing but a disappointment. "},{"Title":"Godawful","Date":"19 March 2005","Score":"31 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" We actually watched this twice in the theater because we could not believe how bad it was the first time. Maybe we'd missed something... nope, what's missing was missed from the beginning of preproduction. I actually went back to Robbin's novel to see if I could find the problem, and I discovered that what I thought was funny and exciting back in the day is now just so much disconnected and fuzzy-headed junk.So, the initial problem with the film was deciding to do it at all, and the rest of the train wreck progressed from there. Absolutely nothing works - not a blessed thing. Some beautiful exterior photography gets steamrolled by random camera placement in interior shots. All of the actors look at least uncomfortable - Angie Dickenson looks positively mortified - except for Rain Phoenix, who gives the impression that she is too unaware to realize how awful her performance really is. The dialog is one, long, unwavering cringe. Scenes don't make sense from second to second, and the connections between them are nonexistent. And yet, the movie stumbles blindly on, convinced that it is saying something profound.This is too bad to even be funny; it is simply excruciating. Gus Van Zant has done other good-to-great movies which I encourage you to see, and I'm happy he survived (and appears to have learned from) this mess. "},{"Title":"You'll get the blues, all right....","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Uma Thurman plays Sissy, a young woman with a gypsy spirit (and freakishly large thumbs) who hitchhikes cross-country, eventually finding her true place amongst a group of peyote-enlightened cowgirls on a ranch devoted to preserving the Whooping Crane; Rain(bow) Phoenix is their lesbian leader, Bonanza Jellybean, who falls in love with Sissy, thumbs or not. Gus Van Sant directed and adapted Tom Robbins' book, but his satire has no primary target and just skitters all over the map, like Sissy (maybe that was his goal, but it's not involving for an audience). Notorious box-office flop wasn't so much panned as it was ignored, and one can see why it's a series of sketches in search of a plot, and the performances, directorial touches and cinematography are all variable. Thurman is a stitch posing alongside the highway trying to get a ride, but this pretty much put the kibosh on Phoenix's career. Writer Buck Henry (who didn't write this, but perhaps should have) gives the most assured performance as the doctor who works on one of those thumbs.Two thumbs down. "},{"Title":"If you think the movie is weird...","Date":"5 June 2007","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" you should read the book. I wouldn't call it unfilmable, but it's certainly not a James Patterson or an Ira Levin novel. A girl born with large thumbs becomes a hitchhiker, a model, and a lobbyist for whopping cranes with her lover Bananza Jellybean. I love this book. The movie is not as bad as you may have heard. Uma Thurman is perfectly cast. She is just quirky enough to pull off the thumbs and obviously good looking enough to be a model. The rest of the cast is woefully miscast, mostly due to being too old for the parts, such as Lorraine Bracco and Pat Moriata. But the thing that really drags the movie down is that the spirit is missing. Even Cowgirls Get the Blues was written in the sixties, the time of free love, and man is the love free in the book. There is too much fear now to make a movie like that. Also, there were different ideals about psychiatry, philosophy, and freedom. It's a true product of it's time and could be filmed by someone with guts. Until then, I can always read the book again... "},{"Title":"Crispin Glover Makes the Movie","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After reading all the comments on this film I guess I was expecting on par with plan 9 from outer space or something. Perhaps it was my low expectations going into it but I actually found the quirky style to be quite intriguing and quite funny. I mean what isn't funny about lesbian cowgirls taking over a ranch using nothing but their unwashed reproductive organs. And the Chink? Hilarious - some crazy guy that lives in the mountains and dances to polka? I must admit the only reason I watched this movie was to fulfill a personal goal of mine seeing every Crispin Hellion Glover movie. Who I might add delivered his usual awesome performance. But overall I enjoyed the movie. I probably wouldn't recommend it to everyone but for fans of movies like the pickle the killer tongue fast sofa or Naked Lunch I would say check it out. hey for what its worth it was better than the psycho remake. That my friends was a slap in the face. "},{"Title":"Even Good Directors Get The Blues","Date":"18 December 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gus Van Sant has directed some truly brilliant films. His directorial credits include My Own Private Idaho, To Die For, Drugstore Cowboy, and, most recently, the audacious and thought-provoking allegory of school violence, Elephant. He also was the executive producer of the infamous, eye-opening Kids. However, his reputation took a tumble with the needless, colorized shot-by-shot remake of Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho, with Vince Vaughn standing in for Anthony Perkins! However, Even Cowgirls Get The Blues goes down in history as one of the most witless, undramatic, incoherent, dumbest, laziest, and plot less films ever to be released upon the public. The counter-culture novel by Tom Robbins is 100% trashed here. The novel shouldn't have been filmed at such a late date anyway. Or, perhaps, it shouldn't have been filmed at all.Uma Thurman stars as Sissy Hankshaw, who somehow is a professional hitch-hiker (remember the book is set in the 60's; the movie makes no attempt to let us know exactly what time period this is supposed to be) who manages to get easy rides by sticking out her bulging, grossly large thumb. Yeah, that pulls the guys over every time.Sissy meets up with an insane slew of Hollywood stars who seem to be doing a special favor for Van Sandt. Meandering around are Roseanne Barr, John Hurt, Keanu Reeves, Crispin Glover, Carol Kane, and...are you ready...Angie Dickinson! For unknown reasons, Sissy hitches a ride to a feminist ranch that pampers spa services to rich women. For further unknown reasons, there's a gaggle of cowgirls living and working on the ranch, led by Rain Phoenix as Bonanza Jellybean. What results is nothing...nothing at all. There is not even the slightest story to speak of. The film seems to have been edited with duct tape. Van Sandt reportedly re-edited this film furiously after it was booed off of the screen at various premieres. I would love to see what he cut out. He would have been better off just completely scrapping this project.But Van Sant is all forgiven for this travesty. He has gone on to prove himself as a solid director/producer. Even Cowgirls Get The Blues is probably the only Gus Van Sant film that you can get for $2.00 out of a bargain bin at Family Dollar. "},{"Title":"a little unsatisfying, but good","Date":"24 January 1999","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked this movie more than the other previous users here... I liked the character of Sissy, I like movies about girls who go their own way, whether they be Good Girls or Bad Girls. And I like road trip movies that travel around a lot. I have never read the book, so I don't know how close the movie is to the story or characters. The acting was a bit stilted at times, and the story left me a little empty, but for the most part I liked it, the whole freedom and traveling and feminism thing really fascinates me, I guess that's what drew me into it.  "}{"Title":"Unconventional and entertaining film","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow, I can't believe that the average rating for this movie is a 4! At first I thought it was rated by closed minded mainstreamers who enjoy The Avengers or Fast and Furious, but after reading the reviews I realized that most of the bad ratings come from the people who read the original novel the movie was based on, and I can totally understand where those people come from. But as a person who has not read the book and just accidentally stumbled upon this film, it turned out to be a pleasant surprise. It was strange, surprising, sexual. It kept me tuned till the end and although the original plot may have been truncated and the details emboldened by the pace of the film, I definitely don't think it deserves a 4. As a new viewer to this story, I was left with a feeling of being entertained. "},{"Title":"Another case of the book being much much better","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Gus Van Sant has made some excellent films. I truly am a fan.However, I can't help but feel that the cerebral edge of Tom Robbins book Even Cowgirls Get the Blues is lost in translation to the big screen. Alone, Tom Robbins and Gus Van Sant are incredible visionaries and towers of talent. Ultimately though this one just didn't work. It wasn't that the characters weren't well developed or the plot and content didn't come alive. It's just that our imaginations are much more powerful when reading a book like this. We're taken away to a different time and place and we sometimes think the worst and/or the best and it adds to the overall roller-coaster of the book as it neatly unfolds according to the author's precision. Movies however can leave one with less of the imagination and emotion roller-coaster detracting from the overall experience. This is what I believe happened here.I suggest reading the book! "},{"Title":"why is t he world so cruel","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was an excellent film. I don't understand why so many people don't like it. There was so much in it to connect with, so many beautiful images, and so much compassion in the things that weren't said. I was thoroughly entertained, and was left with a feeling of joyous exuberance, just as I am when I finish most any Tom Robbins story. Now I haven't read this particular book of Robbin's, so I don't now how this matched up, but I can't imagine this movie could have been a very bad interpretation. The movie left a lot for you to define yourself, which is the best part of any Tom Robbins novel, dreaming up the details. To all of you who said this was the worst movie ever, I pity what little must be left of the dimming light in your hearts. Far from the worst ever this movie was glorious. Long live the whooping crane. "},{"Title":"Decent Movie Version of a Tough Book to translate to screen.","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" If you have ever read and enjoyed a novel by Tom Robbins you will appreciate this movie as a whole-hearted attempt to translate his outrageously unconventional writing style into a workable piece of big screen art. The actors and the direction of this film are both good. The only trouble with the film, as I can see it, is that Robbins can relate ideas and sentiments with his words that were still beyond Hollywood's capabilities at the time this film was shot.Given both the irreverence of today's movies, as well as the willingness and abilityof today's audiences to delve into the bizarre, I think Even Cowgirls... would receive a better reception today than it did when it was originally released. "},{"Title":"absolutely recommended to open minded people","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" i saw this movie the first seconds the voice of T.R. took me on to the journey - well i disliked the big glued thumbs in the beginning, but the absurd humor it and the gordious looks of both sissy actors - i do not know who played the young her - but she was great and so was uma!!! -the two other people who where in the cinema went out after about half an hour, i was with a friend - and it is always a test to watch a movie i like good with one of my friends - and, we both enjoyed it too the maximum - hilarious laughs - sadness about the realistic police- normalos . both of us fans of T.Robbins books...i found it well done - thought, that Robbins would also approve, though i do not have an idea if he likes the film or not...i would love to see the cut out stuff - i heard that gus v. sand had to take out lots of scenes because of the first-time viewers (or the producers???) well still it is an artistic movie. much too short though... it is one of my all time favorites - and i am aware of it that the majority of people can't stand that kind of movie and assume that people who enjoy that films are whatever they think .......what a pity. hopefully there will come the day that there will be a DVD with the full material - hoping to see more of crispian, keanu - expecting to see her baby and allif you have the chance to see it, think twice, and enjoy it if you made the choice to watch ... m "},{"Title":"&#133;and you Right-Wingers thought that Harold and Maude was odd&#133;","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you think that being a model for a female hygiene company owned by a man who says the hardest thing about his childhood was being born a female Russian aristocrat to a strict southern Baptist home is funny, than this film may be for you. Personally, I kind of have a soft spot for it, mainly because I hate movies to be disregarded simply because they're weird. Uma Thurman gives a good, quiet performance and that old guy from the Karate Kid appears. All in all, I thought it was interesting but I would never rent it again. "},{"Title":"Worst movie of all time???  What sheltered movie-watching lives you must lead","Date":"5 March 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Worst movie of all time? Wow, whoa now. You cannot be serious.Maybe it's all about what you expect a movie to do to you. I live in Oregon, so I got to enjoy the beautifully-filmed shots of familiar yet still amazingly beautiful Smith Rocks and other areas in Central Oregon (as well as the sweet cameo of our own Ken Kesey and Ken Babbs looking down on baby Sissy's cradle at the beginning of the movie). Those alone were enough to spur me to give the movie a better than average score.Or .... Maybe it's all about what expectations you have. Having read the book AGES ago, and thinking to myself goodness, no one could ever make a movie out of this interesting, quirky, weird book ... especially 20 years later, when mores (MORAYS -- can't put in the accent mark online) have changed -- I was actually quite pleasantly surprised when I first watched the movie when it came out in 1994 and even liked it more today watching it again.Sissy was exquisitely cast, and I don't care what you all say, I was also pleasantly surprised at Rain Phoenix's and John Hurt's performances. I am not a lesbian nor bi nor trans, but have met many folks who are similar to the folks they were supposed to portray -- and those real folks kinda acted the same way as these actors acted. Stilted a bit, stage-ey -- always a bit on. Gus Van Sant is one weird native Oregonian but by garsh he done a good job adapting this crazy book, IMHO. "},{"Title":"So bad it almost killed me, and I mean that literally.","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" So bad,it almost killed me, and I mean that literally. I made a video review explaining how this is the worst movie ever made and how watching it almost caused me to die.http//youtu.be/Y4VqXl0BOGM Sorry Uma Thurman. Maybe I should not have read the book.Maybe I should have expected less from Gus van Sant. But I am not making this up. After watching this movie, which was absolutely the worst I have ever seen, almost supernaturally bad, an event happened that almost took my life as a direct result of watching the movie that almost killed me. It is that bad! "},{"Title":"Don't throw the baby out with the bath water...","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is quite weird, to be sure, but I found it was actually worth sticking it through and pondering it all. I even watched it three times - maybe perhaps driven by the same compulsion that makes it hard for one to take their eyes off a train wreck, but still...In a way this movie is for the Mondo Caine, David Lynch, John Waters et al crowd - for folks who want to see really odd stuff in the guise of a movie. But there's a lot going on in this film. Here you have such varied things as rowdy dude-ranch cowgirls who stage a mass revolt against the ranch's owner by collectively exposing their (we are lead to assume) unwashed vaginal areas. (I pity the poor people who saw this film in Surround-sound smell-a-vision equipped theaters). What else? Well, you've got Uma Thurman, gyrating along the side of the road in an attempt to hitch a ride from any passing vehicle - she does an attention-grabbing motion that's somewhere between a cheerleader and a striptease dancer, but nevertheless quite erotic in its perfection. Then there's Crispin Glover, with a comb-over from hell. Roseanne Arnold as a fortuneteller. Sean Young, and Carol Kane, doing something or other that I still can't figure out. Rain Phoenix as Bonanza Jellybean - THE cowgirl. John Hurt in drag, as the Countess, with some deliciously bizarre lines. (The one I like best is when he offers the newly arrived in New York Sissy Hankshaw (Uma Thurman) a glass of sherry Would you fancy some sherry? (checks his little mini-fridge...) Oh goodness, I'm all out of sherry. How 'bout some Red Ripple?). A full-sized computerized robotic mock-up of actor Keanu Reeves - who acts and talks just like Keanu Reeves! (Maybe Keanu can't act, but his robot sure can!!) Buck Henry playing a zany doctor with some truly strange and funny lines. Whip-snapping Lorraine Bracco feeding peyote buttons to migrating whooping cranes. Pat Morita earning a paycheck in the most delightful way. A K.d. lang soundtrack which is truly worth buying and listening to. Snippets of Richard Nixon addressing the nation on radio. Fragments of (almost) forgotten 60's hits (Ma Belle Amie by The Tee Set and A Taste of Honey by Herb Alpert & The Tijuana Brass, for example). Interesting (and beautiful) landscape shots of the Oregon wilderness, and odd freeze-frame segments that make you scratch your head. Tom Robbins doing periodic voiceovers - and he sounds just like Al Gore (and about as inspirational, too...) All this and a lot more, too. Angie Dickinson, for example.I don't know, it's a weird movie that ultimately gives feminists and lesbians a bad name (and we all know how painful that can be). But it has some images, and lines of dialogue that really make you do a double take (the ones from Ed Begley, Jr. come to mind). I was intrigued enough by the film, though, that I rewound my tape and watched the thing two more times just to get more of the quirky Tom Robbinsesque lines into my head. That doesn't necessarily mean it's a great movie, but it's by no means a bad movie either. It actually is kind of clever and charming in a few spots. Weird but cute, kind of like Ozzie's daughter, eh? So get over your constipation, take a break from the war on terrorism and watch this strange but fun film. You'll love the escapism of it all. Perhaps Pat Morita's character in the film best sums up the ultimate reaction I have to this movie Ha ha. Ho ho. Hee hee. Bye bye.  "},{"Title":"Poor","Date":"14 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Even Cowgirls Get the Blues (1993) * (out of 4)Sissy Hankshaw (Uma Thurman) had a bad joke played on her when she was born and that is the fact she was born with two huge thumbs. Her parents feared she'd never get married or amount to anything in life but one day her father makes a joke that she'd make a good hitchhiker. Sissy takes that advice and heads off in the world thumbing a ride to wherever she can get. As a teenager Sissy finds a modeling job in NYC for feminine hygiene advertisement, which claims she smells as good as she looks.After being the champ of feminine hygiene for five years running, Sissy finds herself back on the road traveling across the country. She eventually gets a phone call from the drag queen known as The Countess (John Hurt) who has managed to get her a new job up in Oregon.This job is working on a ranch, which has been taken over by a group of cowgirls who seem to be fighting exploitation. With Sissy there, the girls have a new fighter as well as possible lover.Even Cowgirls Get the Blues is based on a novel from Tom Robbins, which I haven't read.Perhaps had I read it I would have understood what this film was trying to say or trying to be about but as it is, I really have no idea. My only guess is that director Gun Van Sant was trying to recapture the exploitation films of the 1970's like Beyond the Valley of the Dolls but he fails miserably here and makes a film that's a bigger disgrace than his future remake of Psycho.The biggest joke running throughout the film is the stuff dealing with feminine hygiene and the fact that Sissy smells better than any other woman around. This stuff here is simply unfunny and I'm sure many would be offended by this humor. Since it's doesn't work and manages to be somewhat offensive I've got to wonder who this humor was meant to entertain. The other big joke is the huge thumbs, which lead to various dialogue scenes dealing with the joys of hitchhiking but once again, who in the world is suppose to find that entertaining? I've always enjoyed watching Uma Thurman because she's one of the most enlightening actresses out there. She can certainly handle comedy, which was proved in Mad Dog and Glory but it's clear she has no idea what to do with the material given to her. There's not a single moment in the film where I believed this was a real character and instead of any insight we are given two fake looking props to tell her story. What attracted her to this project is anyone's guess but what's even worse is the fact that the director got an all-star cast to appear in the film. Lorraine Bracco, Keanu Reeves, Crispin Glover, Angie Dickinson, Sean Young, Heather Graham and Roseanne are among the many familiar faces and none of them bring anything to their roles. My only guess is that these folks forgot to read the script and just thought the idea of being in a cameo would be cool.I remember watching this film opening day in Louisville, KY where the theater was fairly packed Before the movie opened you could tell there was a loud buzz about the film due to the director's previous films, which included Drugstore Cowboy. As soon as the film started you could feel that entire buzz leave the theater and for the next two hours there was a complete silence that was rather haunting. No one was fascinated by what they were seeing but instead every single person was in a state of shock. Was this film some kind of job? Did Van Sant make a bad film on purpose? That's my only guess because there's nothing going good for this turkey, which would give anyone the blues. "}{"Title":"WTF is that for a movie!?","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw the movie years ago in a small theater in Brussels. Small theater, small crowd, quite comfy to appreciate an independent movie.That movie made a very strong impression on me as I left the place wondering if I had turned completely stupid or if the movie didn't make any sense at all !? Honest, I do appreciate (some) art films for their different view on the world's craziness. But this movie is pure spit in the audience's face. The cast is amazing but the way these poor fellows were directed into this joke is pure bad. I don't know maybe the director was under very strong influence when directing and editing? Which would explain why it makes no sense...I admit I didn't read the book and maybe I should have. But we're talking about the movie here and clearly I couldn't find anything good or appealing in it. It's a shame Uma Thurman started her acting career with that. I'm just glad it didn't stick to her later on... same for Keanu Reeves! "},{"Title":"What the...???","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I was torn between watching this film or tuning into the Paint Drying Channel. Deciding to watch this train wreck was the obvious wrong choice! Chock full of high-wattage stars that apparently made this on their lunch break, it was shot in Oregon but unfortunately it survived. The characters are so absurdly drawn and the acting is so wretched it is not even enjoyable on a So-Bad-It's-Good level. This is the perfect time-waster to watch if you have no standards and don't like movies which contain such annoying things as coherent narratives or even a point! How this turkey managed NOT to go direct-to-video is one of the amazing mysteries of the universe. "},{"Title":"stupid","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie just don't have any reason of being. While the Tom Robbins` novel is highly entertaining, poetic, feminist, intelligent, philosophical, funny, the movie is boring, nothing is taken seriously. The director adapted the book  very faithfully by not making major changes in the plot, but by filming in a very facile and insipid way. Inexorably disappointing . "},{"Title":"crap on a stick. crap on toast.  crap plus crap.","Date":"26 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i love this book.  i think it may be my favorite among the robbins books ive read.  but shit -oh-goodness, that movie was total crap. i have to tell anyone reading this review... i stopped midway through. i just plain couldnt take it. anyways, in an effort to clarify why it was so crappy, lets start at the beginning Uma.  uma dear, the character's personality does not rely on her accent. and perhaps this is my personal interpretation of the book, but you seem a bit weak-hearted for sissy; sissy in my mind had a reverberating presence.  shes not rough-and-tough like bonanza, but is instead a pleasant mix of curiosity, fertility, wisdom and ignorance; everythign a strong robbins female lead should turn out to be.  i simply didnt get the impression that you did justice to the depths of her personality... nor did the other actors to their respective roles, really...  and a comment on casting the sallow-faced, sunken-eyed, limp-haired uma did not fit at all with the pink-cheeked, sparkle-eyed, wind-tossed hair sissy that mr robbins seemed to convey.   it  dampens sissys chacterization even more. i know having a big name as a lead helps it get seen, but um. come on.  put some spunk in her.Next rain phoenix, where the heck is your zing!?  you *cant* be bonanza and *not* have an unquenchable thirst for life, excitement, and dare!  it felt like you were on pot or prozac.  get INto it.  this would be an inCREDibly fun role to play, but youve GOT to have fun.  bonanza *knows* things; shes a step or two down from the chink, but occasionally shes somewhere on his level, and you need to recognize that.  she has a thirst for life because shes smart enough to do so; she PLAYS GAMES with life because, well, why the heck not? Third  delores wheres the badass from the beginning? right away you let out  the coke-fiendish interp. of this gal, and thats not how robbins set it up.  get that badass up front; we are not supposed to know you right off the bat.  you need to gradually reveal yourself, not  right from the start. delores is full of mystery and black clouds; her whip is like a tantalizing c'mere-and-figgure-me-out cat's (or snake's) tail or something.  yes, you do convey parts of delores' personality we learn of later in the book, but slow down girl. Fourth  the rest of you guys.  i guess the chink was okay, but not as vulgar as he should be.  i know intruducing vulgarity into the movie would *really* screw with the minds of the masses coming to see uma, and eh, itd probably scare em a bit.  but um. wouldnt that be kindof fun? )   anyways, one constant theme through mr robbins' books is that sex is HUMAN, and GOOD, and ohhhh. yum. (this is more to the director...) you give us a few scenes, but you cut things out (julian? husband? hello?) or shorten them (scene with the couple in julians apt) or hide them (the chink looking on the girls making out from afar rather than from their own eyes).  i know you dont want it to cross into the realm of pornography, but well.  sheesh. to the director  dangit man.  try again. and not a movie, maybe a television series or something.  maybe just a series, screw the tv crap.  but to make this movie successful, you really do need almost all of the substance of the book to shine forth.  you cant take things out ad-hock... im sure it wasnt all that random, but the deletions you made did seem inappropriate; the lack of important information created a throughly disjointed feel.  if you wanted to make a movie out of a robbins book, you probably really liked the book, and probably had a really good idea of what each character seemed to be.  well, fer cripes sake, stick to yer guns.  find people who you know fit the roles; encourage them to READ THE BOOK... infact, make it mandatory... maybe read it with the cast like it was an english class, so you get class discussions and debates going back and forth.  it should be a learning experience and rocking fun time for the actors, the crew, and the director... and it *should* be somethin similar for the viewers too. thats my two cents. "},{"Title":"YIPES!","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Certainly one of the dozen or so worst movies ever released in any form, featuring a bizarrely abominable performance by Rain Joan of Arc Phoenix (River's sister, inevitably), as Bonanza Jellybean plus inconceivably awful voiceover narration by Tom Robbins, the author of the novel, which had/retains its peculiar sweet/loopy charms.   "},{"Title":"And the point is...","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this film because I'm a big fan of River Phoenix and Joaquin Phoenix.  I thought I would give their sister a try, Rain Phoenix. I regret checking it out.  She was embarrasing and the film just has this weird plot if thats what you want to call it.  Sissy was just weird and Jellybean just sits on a toilet who both sleep with this old man in the mountains, whats going on? I have never been so unsatisfied in my life.  It was just total rubbish. I can't believe that the actors agreed to do such a waste of film, money, time and space. Have Sissy being 'beautiful' didnt get to me.  I thought she was everything but that.  Those thumbs were just stupid, and why do we care if she can hitchhike?  WHATS THE POINT??? 0 out of 10, shame the poll doesnt have a 0, doesnt even deserve a 1. Hopefully, Rain is better in other films, I forgive her for this one performance, I mean I wouldnt do much better with that film. "},{"Title":"Surreal lesbian iconographic dark comedy","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film is exceptional in it's gay iconography and extends this beyond the asthetics to the music and cast. Throughout the whole film exists a childlike wonder as seen through the eyes of the main character. Her lighthearted take on the world around us is comical and beautiful. In a way it's a slacker movie for girls. Watch this is you fancy a relaxing entertaining mid-night movie. Buy this if you like diferent takes on the world of media and love combined (?).  "},{"Title":"OK name one MOVIE that isn't BAD in one way or another.","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I feel very sorry for people who go to movies with a pad and pencil to write down flaws and keep notes on how bad a movie is. I feel equally contempt for people who go to movies and CAN'T suspend reality and/or let themselves enjoy 90 minutes aways from their boring or busy lives! Get a GRIP people. ECGTB is a very ENTERTAINING movie. If you take movies seriously, this is NOT for you. If you are expecting the movie to resemble the book in ANY way, this is not for you. But if you enjoyed the utter hilarity of Priscilla Queen of the Desert, or the what the hell am I watching of Moulin Rouge. Or the gross out comedy of The Sweetest Thing Then let yourself escape to Cowgirls. It has some really funny parts. Hilarious actually. It also has some really good music;kudos to kd.lang. Also did I mention it has 90 minutes of Uma Thurman.....need I say more? "},{"Title":"Two Hours Of My Life That I'll Never Gonna Get Back Again","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A respectful director, a talented group of actors and one of the best first ten minutes I ever saw in a motion picture. Even Cowgirls Get the Blues lacks humor, talent, and most of all a good plot. And what's left to say? One of the Worst Films ever. I'll say to you don't even bother watching because it's a completely waste of time (for those who are about to rent it a waste of money, I feel sorry for those Gus Van Sant's die hard fans that payed for this nonsense to see this in theaters back in 1994). I mean, not absolutely total waste of time. The first 40 minutes are great, they left a curiosity in see what's going to happen next and then it's all downhill.Uma Thurman plays Sissy, a woman who was born with enormous thumbs that help her hitchhiking through the US. So far so good. When she goes to New York she becomes a model and eventually she starts working with 'the Countess' (John Hurt) an agent who sends her to a ranch in CA to shoot a commercial. In this beauty ranch she becomes friends of a bunch of cowgirls (all of them lesbians) and the movie turn out to be a unfunny piece of wasted moments where actors come and go without no explanation and we're sorry for them. A great list of good actors are present in this movie and they're all wasted Keanu Reeves, Pat Morita, Udo Kier, Rain Phoenix, Angie Dickinson, Crispin Glover, Lorraine Bracco, Carol Kane, Sean Young, Grace Zabriskie, Ed Begley Jr., Buck Henry, Roseanne, Heather Graham and the uncredited appearances of Edward James Olmos and River Phoenix (I didn't find him through the whole movie so I can't say if he's good or bad, but I trust his enormous talent. This shouldn't be one of his last features).The bottom of line is this a bad bad movie, without reasons to exist, and Gus van Sant shouldn't in any moment direct this thing. He's the accomplished author of masterpieces like My Own Private Idaho, Good Will Hunting, Finding Forrester, Milk, and Drugstore Cowboy. He shouldn't be a part of such a creepy pointless movie. You can see that his name is written differently than in his other movies. Perhaps it's just a way to say how embarrassing this movie was to his career. Holded the record of the Worst Film I've seen until last year when I watched Freddy Got Fingered, that one was a total disrespect to movie lovers. Anyway, I'm only giving one star to this because the beginning was quite impressive. That's it! 1/10 "},{"Title":"An unfortunate senseless mess","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved the book, and am a big fan of Robbins. He is an acquired taste, and translating his bizarre and satisfying metaphors and bizarre and sometimes satisfying philosophies to film is a very difficult undertaking.But van Sant's screenplay and direction fall incredibly short of the book's energy and entertainment. There's no story arc that makes for any sense or cohesiveness. If I hadn't read the book I'm sure I would have been staring hopelessly confused as the end credits rolled.The cast on paper is amazing. But only John Hurt gets a chance to really do anything--and he's great. Uma is fine. But Rain Phoenix is surely the anchor that sinks this film to the ocean floor. Not only is she not nearly charismatic/attractive enough to be Bonanza, she is perhaps the most limited actress I've seen since Bo Derek in Tarzan. I can't imagine why she was cast.If you're a fan of Robbins or not, don't bother. Sadly, there is nothing here of interest. "}{"Title":"Guys probably won't like it (I didn't); some funny characters though, and good music","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sissy Hankshaw has very large thumbs.  Naturally, she likes to hitchhike. She doesn't consider herself a freak; people were made the way they were for a reason (the dancer Nijinsky, for example, has unusual feet).  Her parents did not feel the same way; when she was a child in the 50s, they took her to a wacky fortune teller (good performance by Roseanne, but too brief) to find out if she had a future.  But as an adult in the 70s, Sissy is comfortable living on the road with no permanent address.  One day she goes to visit a friend in New York City named The Countess, another goofy character of uncertain gender.  She gets restless in the city, but The Countess wants her to go to a 'beauty ranch' out west which The Countess owns.  There are cattle there, but the primary purpose of the place is to make women more beautiful.  Sissy was a star in TV commercials in the 60s, and her job will be to make more commercials.  The cowgirls who run the ranch don't like being told what to do, and they eventually take over the place violently. Sissy is befriended by the tough but attractive Bonanza Jellybean, who apparently wants to be more than friends.  Sissy leaves when things get violent and meets an old mountain man nicely played by Pat Morita (another quirky character, and one who doesn't spend enough time onscreen, though he returns later in the movie).  She returns to the ranch later when a dispute over endangered birds makes national headlines.There were some good acting performances, mostly by the comic characters. The woman playing Bonanza Jellybean did a good job, and Uma Thurman was pretty good as Sissy. Most of the music was quite good, with some vocals by k.d. lang.  Many of her songs made me wonder why they can still call it country radio.I thought this might be a comedy when I saw the various strange characters. Unfortunately, too much time is spent on showing how tough and independent the women are, and even though that's not always a negative for me, it was in this case.  If you are uncomfortable with references to lesbian behavior, you may not want to watch.  And something almost happened (of a sexual nature) in New York City that I'd just as soon not describe.  SPOILER And if seeing two women kiss (and more) bothers you, this may not be for you. "},{"Title":"A long list of notable 'faces' could not save this turkey","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I missed this movie in the cinema but had some idea in the back of my head that it was worth a look, so when I saw it on the shelves in DVD I thought time to watch it. Big mistake!A long list of stars cannot save this turkey, surely one of the worst movies ever. An incomprehensible plot is poorly delivered and poorly presented. Perhaps it would have made more sense if I'd read Robbins' novel but unless the film is completely different to the novel, and with Robbins assisting in the screenplay I doubt it, the novel would have to be an excruciating read as well.I hope the actors were well paid as they looked embarrassed to be in this waste of celluloid and more lately DVD blanks, take for example Pat Morita. Even Thurman has the grace to look uncomfortable at times.Save yourself around 98 minutes of your life for something more worthwhile, like trimming your toenails or sorting out your sock drawer. Even when you see it in the under $5 throw-away bin at your local store, resist the urge! "},{"Title":"Utter shambles","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Sissy Hankshaw is born with extraordinary thumbs and it is at some point in her teenage years when she decides that hitchhiking must have been God's plan for her life.  She travels for years, being a model as well, before she is drawn back to the city with a job offer.  She travels to the ranch of The Countess and gets involved in a lesbian love affair, a siege involving wildlife and all manner of soul searching.Reading a critic deriding Kill Bill by saying that it's lack of humour left `Even Cowgirls etc' as Thurman's funniest film, I decided to watch it to see what he meant.  I can only assume he meant funny as in `so bad it's good' type laughs, as I was simply left annoyed and bewildered by the whole film. The plot is a road movie style affair but it lacks any sort of cohesion at all.  Scenes and plot devices have almost no wider meaning and it all feels like a collection of unusual ideas which have been fired at a script in the hope it all works out.The opening scenes are funny enough to start my interest but after that it all just falls apart as one pointless scene follows another.  The lack of any real characters was a major problem for me as I had not even one character who could help me get into this mess of a film.  Most of the characters have no depth to them - even Sissy herself is a poorly constructed character who's motivations and feelings are so badly explained that they might as well have been just presented and then forgotten (oh, hang on, they were!).  When a group of women drops their trousers and march on a crowd, frightening them with their `unhygienic vaginas' you know that things are not as they should be!The actors cannot save this mess.  Thurman looks lost and as unsure of her character as I was.  Instead she tries to wring humour out of the film by embracing any moment which may have had some value in it's unusual actions. Bracco is a mess - no character, poor lines and dropping her trousers for a film of no merit.  Hurt is an embarrassment and I really wondered what on earth had made him sign up for this. Cameos from Keanu Reeves, Roseanne Barr, Sean Young, Rain Phoenix and Begley Jnr slightly add interest but really just provide yet more poorly constructed characters to not care about.Overall this is not the worst film in the world and some may like it for it's freewheeling nature, lack of linear plot and attempts at humour by creating one `unusual/weird' situation after another.  Me, I hated it for all these reasons.  I found it rambling, without point, without comic or dramatic value and, put plainly, a real shambles of a movie that was an effort to get through. "},{"Title":"Just Plain Bad","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a candidate for the single most disappointing movie experience of my lifetime. Cool title, excellent director (I saw To Die For and Drugstore Cowboy before this), and hey - Uma Thurman in the cast. How can you go wrong? Well, that is a question that throbbed in my temples for hours after I watched this turkey.Disjointed and unfunny in an attempt to be offbeat, this is a dead-zone of a movie that should be avoided at all costs. Its critical lambasting was well deserved. You have here one of those rare films that does not contain a single redeeming quality. Zero out of ****. "},{"Title":"Re-Defines how bad a movie can be.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  There are movies like Plan 9 that are so bad they have a charm about them, there are some like Waterworld that have the same inexplicable draw as a car accident, and there are some like Desperate living that you hate to admit you love. Cowgirls have none of these redemptions. The cast assembled has enough talent to make almost any plot watchable, and from what I've been told, the book is enjoyable.How then could this movie be so intolerably bad? To begin with, it seems the director brought together a cast of names with no other tie than what will bring in the 20 somethings. Then tell them to do their best Kevin Costner imitations. Open the book at random and start shooting whatever is on the page making sure to keep the wide expanses of America from being interesting in any way. Finally give the editing job to your brother-in-law, because the meat packing plant just laid him off. He does have twenty years of cutting experience.This movie now defines the basement for me. It is so bad, it isn't even good for being bad.  "},{"Title":"IM NOT SURPRISED.","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Im not surprised that even cowgirls get the blues if this movie is anything to go by. I expected something better from Uma Thurman, which was the reason I suffered my way through this experience in the first place. An awful film with only the music as a redeeming quality. Its just a shame that we are incapable of giving 0 out of 10 in these reviews. This movie deserves it. "},{"Title":"I've got your a spoiler right here this movie stinks!!!","Date":"17 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Uma Thurman is not a very good actress. She's tall, & reasonably attractive, & sometimes blonde, but she was the poster-girl for the Uber-hip set in the late 80's/early 90's so for that set, she was a perfect choice as Cissy Hankshaw. Having read & loved this book, I knew she was not a good choice, and she was subsequently was named Worst Actress of 1993 for her terrible attempt to portray Cissy. Likewise, Rain aka Rainbow aka Rain Phoenix was also miscast, as well as not being talented enough to pull off what could have been a great role, that of Boss Cowgirl Bonanza Jellybean. Rain Phoenix didn't look as if she was reading off a TelePrompter, she looked like she was A)Wondering what a TelePrompter was & B)Wondering what to to with a TelePrompter once she figured out what it was. I've seen better acting in 1950's Mexican porn. Did I detect her lips moving before she attempted to deliver her lines? The reason she was not named Worst Actress of 1993 was that to win that award, she had to be an actress, which she clearly is not. Sean Young looked so sexy I almost forgot about her psychotic meltdown over James Woods, but she showed less acting ability than in her role in Blade Runner. Angie Dickinson, that 60's-70's retread hearthrob of teenage males was nearly as bad as Phoenix & Thurman, but she had an excuse, she hadn't worked for many years, & seemed critically hungover. That's the bad news. The good news is, the rest of the cast was a hoot! Batting leadoff, the always weird & wonderful Carol Kane & Buck Henry(why don't those two have children?? What a great idea), John Hurt in drag, Crispin Glover, Pat Morita(as Noryuki)as The Chink(Ha Ha Ho Ho and Hee Hee!!), Keanu Reeves was entirely adequate as Julian Gitchee, but any one of a number of Native American, Canadian, or Ecuadoran actors would have been a better choice, such as the lovely & talented Gary Farmer. Two other bones to pick 1) Tom Robbins' favorite Native American tribe, is not pronounced See-Wash, but Sigh-wash and B) Why was the locale moved from the Dakotas to Deschutes County, Oregon, and then accused of being California(rather than just Californicated)? Stupid idea. I really loved Crispin Glover & John Hurt, but their performances are not enough to tempt me to watch this terrible movie again. The personnel not named Phoenix, Young, Dickinson, or Thurman are the reason this piece of crap gets as many as two stars. Like many reviewers, anger is my strongest emotion at this attempt to adapt a really good book. "},{"Title":"Would seem better without the book to compare it to.","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Had I not previously read Even Cowgirls Get the Blues I might have liked this movie better. But since the book is excellent on so many levels, the movie only contains a crumb of the creative genius is the Tom Robbins novel. The book is about 400 pages, so obviously there would have to be alot of stuff edited out, which is why it just doesn't translate well into a movie. Another thing that makes the novel such a joy to read is Robbins quirky writing style, obviously absent from the movie. I guess the only good thing was that the characterization stayed faithful to the book. Still, if you're thinking of renting this movie, read the book instead. "},{"Title":"I get it. I just don't like it.","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I understand the jokes, insights, and characterization....I just don't see the point of spending a dollar to see it or whatever you paid. I really don't understand why some top stars decided this was worth several months of their time. If you figure it out, please let me know...but only if you've already seen it.  "},{"Title":"Suuuuuuuuuuuuucked big time","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Why would any legitimate actor having read the script participated in this piece of crap? My god it is actually embarrassing to even watch it. I can't imagine the shame these people must feel for being a part of it. Also, there is apparently some controversy as to whether River Phoenix had a cameo in the movie. He was uncredited but his list of roles here (IMDB) does give him credit. BTW... Rain is his sister for those who have were asking before. This film is proof that no matter how many big names you have. Sow's ears don't make silk purses. I love Lorraine Bracco but this was just sad, sad, sad... Maybe somebody someday can explain to me the reason for this kind of film. It has no endearing, entertaining, or even comedic properties in comparison to it's bad everything else. "}{"Title":"The worst film I've watched all the way through.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Like many I watched this film because Una Thurman was in it, and John Hurt has been in some pretty amazing films too. I continued watching to the end in hope that something interesting/amusing/dramatic might happen.  It didn't, so I was left wondering why it was made and cursing my stipidity in watching it to the bitter end.  I recommend this film to people I secretly dislike! "},{"Title":"Hold Your Nose!","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie stinks.  The stench resembles bad cowpies that sat in the sun too long.  I can't believe that so many talented actors wasted their time making such a hopelessly awful film. Whew!  "},{"Title":"Not so great, really.","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" No one should ever try to adapt a Tom Robbins book for screen. While the movie is fine and the performances are good, the dialogue, which works well reading it, is crap when spoken. Or, to put it another way, no one would be likely to suggest that hearing someone else's name was like seeing it written in radium on a pearl.Overall, the movie feels like a badly-adapted Cliffs Notes to the book - most of the parts have been hacked down to a fifth of their size in the book, in terms of backstory and current story, and the ending is wildly (and unpleasantly) different from that of the book. Most of the plots from the book have gotten lost, including the one that makes everything make sense at the end, and there's more than one reference that makes sense in the book that makes the viewer say Huh? Not a worthy effort, unfortunately - the script should have been read, compared to the book, burned, and all the actors sent off to do something far better. I admire Gus Van Sant tremendously, but not even someone of his calibre could have made a decent movie of such a complex book without making a miniseries. "},{"Title":"Shockingly a very BORING movie. Huge stars wasted.","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I couldn't believe how lame & pointless this was. Basically there is nothing to laugh at in the movie, hardly any scenes to get you interested in the rest of the movie. This movie pulled in some huge stars but they were all wasted in my opinion. I think Keanu Reeves must've taken some acting lessons a fews years after this movie before he stared in The Matrix. Uma Thurman looked very simple & humble. Luckily i got this movie for a very low price because its certainly not a movie to remember for any good reasons. I won't write anything about the story of the movie, but as you should know that she is meant to be the most famous hitchhiker across America because of her huge thumb. I would give this movie a 2 / 10. Before I watched this movie I was wondering why this movie has only got a 4.0/10, & now I know why. A very disappointing movie. Don't buy it even if you see it for under $5. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"24 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film got terrible reviews but because it was offbeat and because critics don't usually get offbeat films, I thought I'd give it a try. Unfortunately they were largely right in this instance.The film just has an awkward feel too it that is most off putting.  The sort of feel that is impossible to describe, but it's not a good one.  To further confound things, the script is a dull aimless thing that is only vaguely interesting.The immensely talented Thurman just drifts through this mess creating barely an impact.  Hurt and Bracco try in vain to add something to the film with enthusiastic performance but there is nothing in the script.  It may have been less embarrassing for them if they had merely chosen to drift and get it over with like Thurman.One thing the esteemed film critics did fail to mention however is that the film is actually quite funny.  Whether it be moments of accurate satire or some outrageously weird moments like when the cowgirls in question chase Hurt off their ranch with the smell of their unwashed...ahem...front bottoms.Because of the chortles acheived throughout, while I wouldn't recommend this film, there is entertainment to be had and watching Even Cowgirls Get the Blues is worthwhile for something different. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When it comes to movies, I am generally easily entertained and not very critical, but must say that this movie was one big flop from the start.  I gave it 30 minutes and then rewound it.  What a waste of some great talent! I was very disappointed with this movie, as it was not what I expected. "},{"Title":"not even worth watching just for Uma.","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  i'll admit. i think Uma Thurman is the most beautiful woman on the planet and have made it a mission to see every movie she has been in (unfortunately that includes the horrible films Batman and robin, The Avengers) and this one.this has to rank as the worst movie i've ever seen. (yes it ranks even lower than The Avengers). everyone looks lost in it and it is incoherent beyond belief. even if you think Uma is a goddess like i do, PLEASE PLEASE don't subject yourself to this movie. you'll hate yourself the following morning for it. "},{"Title":"The more I watch it the more I like it.","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"10 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I admit, the first time I watched Even Cowgirls Get the Blues, I didn't think it was very memorable in any regard.   But now after viewing it the 7th time, I admit that it has very much grown on me.  The characters of Sissy, Ms. Jellybean, and the Countess have become very endearing.   And the romance between Sissy and Jellybean seems very sweet.  Though the plot is very weak, I think the satirical humor more than makes up for it. Then there's the kick-ass soundtrack which features the tremendously talented K.D. Lang (who reminds me a little of Patsy Cline) at her best.   I can't think of any movie that has grown on me after an inauspicious first impression, as much as  Cowgirls has.  "},{"Title":"Worse than the book.","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  While watching this movie I tried to figure out why the actors seemed to be mouthing the words and not putting any effort into making the characters come alive, with the possible exception of John Hurt. What was the director trying to do? The acting was worse than some elementary school productions. I'm sorry, Rain Phoenix turned in an embarrassing performance. I had hoped for more from Uma Thurman who looked like she couldn't wait to get off the sets. Thank goodness I only had to pay 99 cents to see this video! "}]