[{"Title":"Almost Stallone's best","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"76 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I don't think I'll ever understand the hate for Renny Harlin. 'Die Hard 2' was cool, and he gave the world 'Cliffhanger', one of the most awesome action movies ever. That's right, you little punks, 'Cliffhanger' rules, and we all know it.Sly plays Gabe Walker, a former rescue climber who is 'just visiting' his old town when he is asked to help a former friend, Hal Tucker (Michael Rooker), assist in a rescue on a mountain peak. Walker obviously came back at a convenient time, because the stranded people are actually a sophisticated team of thieves led by Eric Qualen (John Lithgow). Qualen & co. have lost a whole lot of money they stole from the U.S. government somewhere in the Rocky Mountains and they really would like it back...Essentially, 'Cliffhanger' is another 'Die Hard' clone. Just trade in the confines of Nakatomi Plaza to the open mountain ranges of the Rocky Mountains, complete with scenes created to point out the weaknesses of our hero and keep him mortal. Naturally, that set up is totally ripped to shreds soon enough, as Stallone's character avoids quite a large number of bullets with ease, and slams face-first into several rock faces with no apparent side-effects. After all, isn't that what action movies are all about?'Cliffhanger' is one of the most exciting action movies around. A showcase of great scenes and stunts. One of the early stunts is one of the best stunts I've ever seen in a movie, and while the rest of the movie does not get any better than it did at the beginning, it maintains its action awesomeness. John Lithgow's lead villain is entertaining, and one bad dude. Quite possibly one of the coolest lead villains ever.'Cliffhanger' is easily one of Stallone's best efforts, definitely Renny Harlin's best effort, and a very exciting action movie - 9/10 "},{"Title":"Action Classic!","Date":"23 July 2004","Score":"54 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sly's best out and out action film. It is a superbly enjoyable movie with some interesting characters, solid performances and Renny Harlins direction is stylishly assured. Stallone is rarely this interesting in his action films and he certainly looks the part in terms of the action scenes. This was one of the best action films of the year and one of the most thrilling and enjoyable of the 90's, a definite genre classic. As a Stallone fan this is one I look back on with fond memories. Plenty of superb action and Sly in prime action man form. Action lovers appreciate this film because it has all the hallmarks that make a good aciton film. The film looks great and there is great support from Janine Turner, Michael Rooker and John Lithgow. **** "},{"Title":"The majestic mountains are a magnificent character in the film!","Date":"9 July 2007","Score":"38 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Wracked with guilt after a lot of things felt apart on that ledge, an ace mountain rescue climber Gabriel Walker (Stallone) comes back for his girlfriend Jessie (Janine Turner), while over the cloudy skies where the weather looks a bit threatening, a spectacularly precarious mid-air hijacking goes wrong and $100 million taken from a Treasury Department plane get lost in the middle of nowhere followed by a crash landing&#133; Stranded off the snowy peaks, and needing mountain guides to win back the stolen cash, the high-trained hikers make an emergency call asking the help of a rescue unit&#133; Unfortunately, Gab and Hall (Michael Rooker) have to team up to arrive at the scene of the crash unaware that the distress call was a fake, and a bunch of merciless terrorists led by a psychotic (John Lithgow),are waiting for them only to find out a way off the stormy mountain with the dumped cases of money&#133; With breathtaking shots, vertiginous scenery, dizzying heights, perilous climbs, freezing temperatures, Cliffhanger is definitely Stallone's best action adventure movie&#133; "},{"Title":"Ah, nostalgia for an old-fashioned action movie!","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"42 out of 62 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Watching Cliffhanger makes me nostalgic for the early '90s, a time when virtually every new action movie could be described as Die Hard in a /on a.  Cliffhanger is Die Hard on a mountain, and pretty good, for what it is.But unlike Passenger 57 and Under Siege, which are decent Die Hard clones on their own terms, Cliffhanger dispenses with the enclosed feeling of many action movies and embraces breathtaking landscapes that, in their immensity, threaten to overwhelm and  trivialize the conflicts of the people fighting and dying among the peaks.Years before other movies like A Simple Plan and Fargo dramatized crime and murder on snowbound locations, Cliffhanger director Renny Harlin recognized the visual impact of juxtaposing brutal violence and grim struggles to survive against cold and indifferent natural surroundings.The opening sequence has already received substantial praise, all of which it deserves its intensity allows us to forget the artifice of the camera and the actors and simply believe that what we are seeing is actually happening.  Not even Harlin's shot of the falling stuffed animal, which is powerfully effective but still threatens to become too much of a joke (and which he repeated in Deep Blue Sea), or the ridiculous expression on Ralph Waite's face, can dim the sequence's power.The next impressive set-piece is the gunfight and heist aboard the jet. As written by Stallone and Michael France and directed by Harlin, the audience is plunged into the action by not initially knowing which agents are involved in the theft and which are not the bloody double-crosses are completely unexpected.  As Roger Ebert has observed, the stuntman who made the mid-air transfer between the planes deserves some special recognition.Later, during the avalanche sequence, one of the terrorists/thieves appears to be actually falling as the wall of snow carries him down the mountain. So far as I know, no one was killed in the making of this movie (a small miracle, considering the extreme nature of some of the stunts), so obviously a dummy was used for the shot.  But the shot itself remains impressive because we're left wondering how Harlin (or more likely one of the second-unit directors) knew exactly where to place the camera.I'll take Sly Stallone as my action hero any day of the week, because he's one of the few movie stars I've ever seen who's completely convincing as someone who can withstand a lot of physical and emotional pain, and at the same time actually feels that pain.  The role of Gabe Walker really complements Stallone's acting strengths he plays an older, more vulnerable kind of action hero, giving an impressively low-key performance as a mountain rescuer who must redeem himself.In contrast to many of today's post-Matrix, comic book-inspired action heroes, Stallone's Walker is an ordinary man who becomes a hero without any paranormal or computer-enhanced abilities.  In Cliffhanger, the hero almost freezes to death, and his clothes start to show big tears as he barely escapes one dangerous situation after another.  He winces when he's hit and bleeds when he's cut, particularly in the cavern sequence when he takes a Rocky-style pummeling from one of the mad-dog villains.It should be noted that the utterly despicable villains really contribute to the movie's effectiveness when I first saw this movie as a teenager, I was rooting for the good guys every step of the way and anticipating when another bad guy would bite the dust (or rather, the ice); at one point I actually cheered as one of the most cold-blooded characters in the movie deservedly suffered a violent demise.Lithgow's British accent is as unconvincing as the movie's occasional model plane or model helicopter, but he's fundamentally a good actor, and one of the few who can perfectly recite silly dialogue in one scene, looking at his hostages Stallone and Rooker, trying to decide which tasks to give them, he actually says You, stay!  You, fetch!  Even a better actor, such as Anthony Hopkins, might have had trouble with that line.Even if Cliffhanger occasionally tosses credibility aside, it does so only for the sake of a more entertaining show.Early in the movie, for example, Lithgow openly says to one of his men Retire Stallone when he comes down.  No real criminal mastermind would have made this mistake even unconsciously his carelessness allows Rooker to shout a warning up to Sly on the rock face, and this precipitates a gripping tug-of-war between Stallone and the bad guys trying to pull him down by the rope tied to his leg.Lithgow could have given his order by a more subtle means, but the sequence might not have been as much fun to watch if it hadn't given Rooker an opportunity to openly defy the arrogance of his captor.Done very much in the style of a Saturday matinee serial or (at times) a Western, Cliffhanger is built on such a solid foundation that it survives some weak elements that would have undermined a lesser film.Besides the painfully obvious aircraft models mentioned before, the weak moments include a couple of scenes shot on cheap indoor sets with REALLY fake snow, as well as two other scenes involving bats and wolves that seem unnecessary in an already action-packed narrative.  Finally, Harlin's decision to film some of the death scenes in slow motion seems pointless, since the technique contributes nothing to the scenes.It's a shame that Stallone is now too old for action movies, because his character in this movie seems so credible that inevitably I wonder what he would be like years later.  But perhaps it's best that Cliffhanger stands on its own for all time, without a sequel there are enough tired and obsolete movie franchises already.  There was an unofficial sequel that called itself Vertical Limit compared to that clinker, Cliffhanger belongs on the IMDb's Top 250 list.Rating 8 (Very good, especially considering most of Stallone's other movies.)  "},{"Title":"Prepare yourselves for an awesome thrill ride","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"49 out of 76 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Hold on for dear life as Sylvester Stallone takes you on the ride of a lifetime. With extreme non-stop action, gripping and suspense-filled scenes; Stallone has proven why he is a SUPERSTAR with his role in Cliffhanger. I knew I would be in for an action packed treat as soon as I realized Stallone was starring in this film; however, I failed to realized how great the other actors were in this film.Stallone is joined by Michael Rooker, Janine Turner and John Lithgow as they produce quite possibly the best action film of 1993. The cast is perfectly selected and chosen to play their parts. It was a joy to see a reversal of roles. I'm not accustomed to seeing Rooker as a hero or Lithgow as a villain; it is a refreshing change.I couldn't have asked for a better villain than Lithgow. He is one of the most ruthless and cunning villains I've seen. I enjoyed how he never let anything get in his way and spared no expense to get what he wanted. I'm glad I got the chance to see him play the villain and hope I see it again.Turner gives tremendous support to this film and creates an atmosphere where it is enjoyable to watch. She is the heat that warms a cold room because everytime she comes on screen it seems as though it is hot. It is a delight to see an incredible actress to have that much power. Rooker makes up the other the third of talented actors that makes Cliffhanger a delight to watch. Rooker brings a fresh view to the film as well as credibility; all I have to say is awesome work, Michael.There is an avalanche of talent in Cliffhanger. Stallone is an unstoppable force and incredible action hero. After watching Cliffhanger, I'm convinced that Stallone was the only man for this job. Stallone had the fire in his eyes for this part that told me he means business. Only true action stars have the fire I saw; furthermore, I was fascinated with the strength, power and conviction with which he took on the role.Another reason I enjoyed Cliffhanger was the writing because it contained unbelievable action sequences, a man dealing with redemption and dialogue is awesome. I was impressed to see that Stallone also co-wrote the script because he really has a knack for what action fans want.Cliffhanger is a super-charged, heart-racing, suspense-filled action thrill ride that you should take because at the end it will leave you asking for more.  "},{"Title":"Last great Sly movie !","Date":"30 November 2005","Score":"24 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" To be honest, I didn't like that much this movie when I saw it for the first time. But I guess the trouble is that I haven't seen it in a theater. Big Mistake ! Because the #1 thing to see in Cliffhanger is the settings and #2 is the cinematography. Try to see this movie on the largest TV possible and a great sound system. The music is good and puts the movie to a higher level (and a commercial potential). The more I see it, the more I like it.It's definitely one of Renny Harlin's best movie. THis guy knows about action. Die Hard 2, The long kiss good bye, etc. And it's particularly good in this movie. The special effect are great and spectacular. Stallone really needed that movie get back with success. Still good to see him ! "},{"Title":"The BEST action movie!","Date":"4 October 2003","Score":"26 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Since I first saw this in the theater it has been my favorite. Since then I've seen it countless times and I never get tired of it. The setting has a lot to do with it (the Colorado I know would be jealous), but the storyline is original and I liked how it used small town mountain folk as the heroes. There has not been a movie I can compare this too. John Lithgow plays a smart villain, but I love how he is completely out of his element--he has to follow Tucker around and that's what keeps it interesting. This is an action movie at it's BEST. I don't think I'll see another that is so entertaining.You don't need 50,000 rounds fired to qualify as an action movie. It just has to keep you captivated, not shell-shocked.  "},{"Title":"Good and Bad","Date":"19 November 2005","Score":"20 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Every time a movie comes out which features rock climbing and mountain travel/rescue, I cringe with anticipation, notepad in hand, and annoy all my friends with my nitpicking. So, let me get that out of the way first. I counted approximately 100 factual and technical errors related to geography, climbing, mountain travel and rescue. Let's just say it was atrocious, though not as bad as Vertical Limit.Viewed purely as a mindless action flick, I must say I was entertained. The film was visually stunning with engaging action sequences. The acting was superb- those poor bastards did all they could with their ridiculous characters and inadequate, clichéd script. Cheers to Lithgow, Stallone, and Rooker in particular.I could be pretentious and pick the whole damn thing apart, but I think Renny Harlin did exactly what he set out to do- entertain. "},{"Title":"Not the most intelligent movie, but enjoyable and one of the better in the genre","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"25 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm far from a Sylvester Stallone fan and I guess the only time I really appreciated his appearance was in the French movie Taxi 3, which is an almost inexistent small role. And yet I must admit that this movie was actually not that bad, even though I feared the worst.When Gabe (Stallone) fails to rescue the girlfriend of one of his friends and she plunges to her death from a 4000 feet high mountain top, he can't possibly force himself to keep working as a mountain ranger. For almost a year he doesn't set a food in the reserve, but than he returns. Soon after he's back, they get an emergency call from a group of hikers who got trapped in a snow storm. At least, that's what the rangers believe. In reality it is a group of robbers who crashed with their airplane in the mountains after their daring plan to steal cases full of money from a flying government plane failed. The cases are spread all over the reserve and they need the help of professional climbers to retrieve them...This is of course not one of the most intelligent movies ever, but in its genre it's an enjoyable one. I especially enjoyed John Lithgow as the evil master mind and leader of the gang of robbers. I know him best from the TV-series 3rd Rock from the Sun, but I enjoyed his performance in this movie as well. Overall the acting is OK, it had a lot of action to offer and of course also some one-liners, but it also offered a very nice decor. This movie was filmed in a magnificent natural environment. I loved the snowy mountains and valleys, the mountain rivers and the forests... Perhaps that's why I give this movie a score higher than what I normally give to an action / adventure movie of this kind. I give it a 6.5/10. If you don't expect too much, this is an enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Idiotic but fun action film.","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Was this based on a comic-book? A video-game? A drawing by a 3 year-old? There is nothing in this movie to be taken seriously at all; not the characters, not the dialog, not the plot, not the action. Nothing. We have high-tech international terrorists/criminals who bicker like pre-school kids, Stallone's man-of-steel-type resilience towards ice-cold weather, dialog so dumb that it's sometimes almost hilarious, and so on. Even the codename that the bad guys use is dumb (tango-tango). A film that entertains through some suspense, good action-sequences, and a nice snowy mountainous setting. Oh, yes and the unintentional humour.The film opens with some truly bad and unconvincing gay banter between our go-lucky and happy characters who are obviously having a swell time. Then comes a sweat-inducing failed-rescue part, which should make anyone with fear-of-heights problems want to pull their hair out. And then we have some more bad dialog, and after that some more great action. This is the rhythm of the film in a nutshell. Stallone's melodramatic exchange with Turner, when they meet after a long time, is so soapy, so clichéd, so fake, and so bad that it should force a chuckle out of any self-respecting viewer. Soon after this display of awful dialog-writing, we are witnesses to a spectacular and excellently shot hijack of an airplane. The entire action is one big absurdity, but it's mindless fun at its best. Although the rest of the action is exciting and fun, the airplane scenes are truly the highlight of the film. After the landing, our master-criminals seek for a guide and end up with Stallone and Rooker. They send Stallone to fetch the first case of money, but somehow they do everything to make it as difficult as possible for him to reach it; they take most of his clothes off (so he can freeze) and they won't give him the equipment he needs (so he can fall off). DO THESE GANGSTERS WANT THEIR MONEY FETCHED OR NOT??? Very silly. Apparently they don't trust Stallone, but surely they know that they can always black-mail him by using Rooker as a hostage. Nevertheless, our gangsters make Stallone's climb difficult, if for no logical reasons then to at least show us how truly evil they are - lest there be any doubts. And for those who might still doubt how evil the bad guys are, they overact, brag, and snicker in a truly evil manner. Everyone convinced? Good. You'd better be. Otherwise the writers will throw in a mass execution of twenty school children, just to make sure that the evilness of the bad guys is crystal-clear to everyone.The old guy who flies the chopper... How the hell did he fall for the trap? Firstly, he must have been warned by the MTV airhead about the criminals, and secondly, he must have heard Stallone's and Rooker's voices on the walkie-talkies. A whole bunch of idiotic verbal exchanges take place, with Lithgow having the questionable honour of getting most of the silly lines. Get off my back! Lithgow I haven't even started climbing on your back. Or, Lithgow to Stallone We had a deal, but now we only have each other! And as for Lithgow's gang of murderers these guys never seem to want to kill immediately. They are very creative about it; they philosophize, pretend that they are playing football with your body, and so on. Stallone co-wrote this thing. I have no idea what drugs he was on when he did it. I'd hate to think the script is this bad because of a low I.Q. "}{"Title":"Die Hard on a mountain (spoilers)","Date":"26 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The opening to Cliffhanger is meant to be a harrowing experience. We're meant to feel terrible that an innocent woman plunges to her horrible death. But how can we experience the horror when Frank, a helicopter pilot played by Ralph Waite out of The Waltons, is in the background cackling with laughter. Just watch him. His eyes sparkle when Stallone tells the woman that she's not doing to die and he collapses in near hysterics when she falls. Contrast this with Michael Rooker's overacting &#150; he almost faints when the girl plummets, while Frank is hooting in the background &#150; and you have a scene that is nowhere near as powerful as it should be.But to be fair to Stallone and the girl, they do a pretty good job. The girl pleads and pleads, and Stallone gamely hangs on. And the situation itself is excellent &#150; huge drop; cracked harness; burly, lazy-mouthed actor trying to hang on to hysterical woman. But whenever I watch the scene I can only see Frank's huge grin, his glowing eyes and a shocked reaction that looks more like him doubling over in laughter.However, laughter is a common reaction in Cliffhanger. Well, for me at least. But that's not to say I dislike the film. It's a very enjoyable action movie. But it can't transcend the clichés of the genre. Instead it buries its face in them and thrashes about like mad for over an hour and a half.One of the clichés the film adheres to is that the villain must be English. Well, at least I think he is. John Lithgow puts on an accent of some sort. But it's an amusing performance. His best bit has to be when he gets Stallone to climb up a rock face to get his money. You, stay. You, fetch. The joy is in his exaggerated enunciation. Another funny bit is when Stallone throws Lithgow's money into the helicopter's rotors. Damn you, Walker! he screams like he's split a fingernail.But there are other English villains. The first is Caroline Goodall who comes across in the film as sort of a low-rent Emma Thompson. But much more amusing is Craig Fairbrass (Dan out of EastEnders). His performance is atrocious. All he does is shout and swear. And he does it in a thick Cockney accent. But he's immortalised in the scene where Michael Rooker goads him into beating him up rather than killing him straight away &#150; the Cockney is about as bright as a puddle of oil. It turns out that Fairbrass' character is an ex-footballer. And I guess that shouldn't be too surprising when his dialogue consists of lines like Yeah? And you're a loudmouth punk slag who's about to die. The only people I know who talk like that are West Ham fans. But Fairbrass proceeds to give Rooker a surreal football-themed beating &#150; he even runs up to take a penalty. Is this how Hollywood sees the English? We're either effete brigands or beer-swilling hooligans. Actually, thinking about it, it's quite an accurate observation.But my favourite villain is played by Leon (he's so cool he doesn't even have a surname). He eschews Fairbrass' shouty brand of villainy and tries to be quietly intimidating. But his line delivery is so bad that he's about as scary as a moustachioed villain twiddling his exaggerated face fur. However, it's notable that unlike Fairbrass he actually does excel once he gives into his urge to shout. He has a great scene in a cave where he actually seems like a genuine threat &#150; he stalks Stallone and his girl with menace. But then Stallone grabs him by the balls and presses him through a spike. It's a WWE sort of death&#133;which I dig a great deal.But what about Stallone? How does he fair in the film? Well, I've never really had much of a problem with him. Yeah he's not a terribly good actor and yes he sounds like man who was born with an upside down brain, but that's part of the joy of watching him act. Just take the scenes after the accident at the start. His idea of being haunted is to mope about like a thirteen year old that's been told to stop using his father's credit card to download porn. It's so amateurish. And I love the way that the villains, when making him climb the mountain, order him to remove his jacket. I can't help but feel that this wasn't done to prove how evil the villains are, but to allow Sly to climb while flaunting his thick, muscular arms. We don't want those babies covered up.However, Stallone looks like Marlon Brando compared to the Whoa, dude! extreme sports enthusiasts. They're sort of like Bill and Ted but without the charm. In fact, I wasn't distraught that one of them died; I was distraught that one survived. But at least the death of the one who looks like Kurt Cobain gives us a hilarious silent No! moment from Michael Rooker. But then later on we get to relive the hilarity, because Frank's death elicits another's rib-tickling No! moment. Hey, what can I say, the old bastard had it coming. You ain't laughing now, are you? "},{"Title":"Lithgow owns","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Gabe Walker (Sylvester Stallone), of the mountain climbing rescue team. Gabe is haunted by an incident from his past when he couldn't save the girlfriend of his best friend Hal Tucker (Michael Rooker) from falling to her death. Gabe has left rescue work and has set up business in Denver. He returns to the mountain rescue office to persuade his lover Jessie (Janine Turner) to quit and come with him. While he is asking Jessie to go with him, things are happening in the skies overhead. A gang of crooks, headed by Eric Qualen (John Lithgow), they hijack a U.S. Treasury plane carrying millions. But the plane crashes, and the thieves are stranded on top of a mountain with three cases of money scattered around the wreckage and with no way to get down to retrieve the cases. They put in a phony distress call that is received by the rescue team. Gabe agrees to take part in one last rescue, and they head to help rescue the thieves. But Qualen forces them to climb through the dangerous snow covered peaks to find the cash. Cliffhanger was a pretty entertaining film, when I first saw it the girl falling bothered me for months. I can't say enough about John Lithgow he was awesome as Qualen, he should play more bad guys.  "},{"Title":"Cliffhanger A Decent Action Crime Adventure With Some Flaws","Date":"28 June 2009","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhanger is a decent action crime adventure with some flaws from director Renny Harlin whose admirable in making this movie about an expert climber who finds himself taken hostage with a fellow friend by a gang of dangerous criminals on the search for suit cases full of stolen cash in the Rocky Mountains. Sylvester Stallone is impressive as Gabe Walker the expert climber especially in the action/fight sequences but some of them definitely border on the line of unrealistic. For the sake of the film though I willing to suspend my disbelief. The rest of the cast including John Lithgow, Michael Rooker, Janine Turner, Rex Linn, Caroline Goodall, and Leon are respectable as the supporting characters in the movie. The action/fight sequences are well executed but as mentioned before some aren't very realistic no matter how tough you are. The climbing sequences however are very well done because instead of doing the whole film in a studio somewhere the locations they chose felt very real and the Ariel views of the mountain ranges are marvelous adding a touch of reality to the movie. The deaths are inventive while others are sort of predictable. The villains are solid but it would've been better if they had focused on a more central one instead of having many of them. The pacing of the movie was a little slow but the good outweighs the bad in this one. If you're a big fan of Harlins or Stallone's than chances are you'll enjoy this one too. Overall Cliffhanger has character development with enough action, drama, some suspense, excitement, thrills, and good performances by the cast who make this movie worth the time to watch. "},{"Title":"This movie is still impressive 20 years later","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I just did a long overdue re-watch of Cliffhanger and it stood up really well. Definitely one of Stallone's better (less cheesy) action flicks and seeing his body in its prime is pretty nice too ) That opening scene gets me every time but I enjoyed everything about this (even if you do have to suspend disbelief occasionally) The action, the stunts, the scenery, the cast. John Lithgow is great as the bad guy, although his British accent could use some work as it fades in and out, he seems to be relishing playing this character though. Also fun to see Michael Rooker from The Walking Dead in an earlier role, I had forgotten he was in this.The ending helicopter scene is still awesome as is the opening accident with the silly panicking girl on the zipline. Stallone caught under ice and climbing the rock face in a t-shirt during a blizzard... awesome. Many great and well done action scenes. 03.13(4) "},{"Title":"One of Stallone's best from the 1990's","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Stallone's mini-comeback after a succession of PG rated stinkers and a couple R rated flops during the Bush One administration. Ironically on the other hand one of Carolco's swan songs in the entertainment world. Stallone co-wrote the screenplay, which is about as minor a writing- type credit you can get, but I still take note of it. Directed by a rebellious (at the time) Euro newcomer fresh off the Die Hard and Elm Street franchises, and about to kill the hand that fed him with the Cutthroat Island bomb. John Lithgow plays yet another of his typical 1980's psychotic type villains. The opening scene is gut-wrenching to watch no matter how many times you see the film. "},{"Title":"Fun High Altitude Action Movie","Date":"12 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Overall, I thought this was a pretty passable action/adventure movie that featured a bit of an outlandish story about a group of international criminals who steal millions of dollars from a US Treasury plane and then have to depend on a couple of mountain rescuers to help them find it after a crash. The movie featured pretty good performances from the very versatile John Lithgow as the mastermind criminal Eric Qualen, as well as from the generally one-dimensional (read Rocky Balboa) Sylvester Stallone as climber Gabe Walker, who overcomes a tragedy at the start of the movie to become the great hero by the end. There was some pretty exciting action that was scattered throughout the movie, thus keeping the viewer interested, a lot of bad guys to root against, and a good supporting performance from Michael Rooker as Walker's rescuer sidekick Hal Tucker. In addition to the outlandish plot, there were a few things that just didn't work for me. Why it was decided that this movie needed to include a couple of pretty typical stoner-type characters is a bit beyond me. The two kids added nothing to the movie and really served only to irritate me. Then there was the absolutely unnecessary (and at least mercifully brief) bat-scene in the crack through which Walker and Jessie (Janine Turner) were crawling. That also accomplished nothing except allowing any bat-squeamish viewers to go eeewww when Walker sticks his hand in guano and the bats start to fly at them. Finally, does anyone actually believe that John Lithgow could hold his own in a fistfight with Sylvester Stallone the way the respective characters did at the end of this movie? Not likely, in my opinion. For all that, for a movie with a story that was at best very limited, this movie was fun most of the way through, which gains it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Great opening scene! The rest is mediocre action.","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  You have got to watch the opening scene, it is just as exciting every time I see it. The rest of the film is for those who are really in to action and regular Stallone films. It is not bad but not good either, just ordinary -No more or less than expected.Grade 6/10 (would have been 4 if it was not for the opening scene)  "},{"Title":"5 minutes","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Listen, this movie isn't worth a nickel.  The only part worth watching is the first 5 minutes in which there is a suspenseful scene made ridiculous because of the old man, next to Michael Rooker, who was smiling, and could barely contain himself when Rooker's wife was hanging by a thread and eventually falls to her death.  Sorry to ruin this scene for anyone, but it's not that that even matters...it's the old man smiling while this woman was scared witless that makes the scene a classic.  How did that escape the editing room?  Terrible, but at least it gave the movie one good scene. "},{"Title":"Hold On!","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the success of Die Hard and it's sequels it's no surprise really that in the 1990s, a glut of 'Die Hard on a .....' movies cashed in on the wrong guy, wrong place, wrong time concept. That is what they did with Cliffhanger, Die Hard on a mountain just in time to rescue Sly 'Stop or My Mom Will Shoot' Stallone's career.Cliffhanger is one big nit-pickers dream, especially to those who are expert at mountain climbing, base-jumping, aviation, facial expressions, acting skills. All in all it's full of excuses to dismiss the film as one overblown pile of junk. Stallone even managed to get out-acted by a horse! However, if you an forget all the nonsense, it's actually a very lovable and undeniably entertaining romp that delivers as plenty of thrills, and unintentionally, plenty of laughs.You've got to love John Lithgows sneery evilness, his tick every box band of baddies, and best of all, the permanently harassed and hapless 'turncoat' agent, Rex Linn as Travers.He may of been Henry in 'Portrait of a Serial Killer' but Michael Rooker is noteworthy for a cringe-worthy performance as Hal, he insists on constantly shrieking in painful disbelief at his captors 'that man never hurt anybody' And whilst he surely can't be, it really does look like Ralph Waite's Frank character is grinning as the girl plummets to her death.Mention too must go to former 'London's Burning' actor Craig Fairbrass as the Brit bad guy, who comes a cropper whilst using Hal as a Human Football, yes, you can't help enjoy that bit, Hal needed a good kicking.So forget your better judgement, who cares if 'that could never happen', lower your acting expectations, turn up the volume and enjoy! And if you're looking for Qaulen, he's the one wearing the helicopter. "},{"Title":"Cliffhanger","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Stallone makes a comeback with a double dose of action with Cliffhanger and Demolition Man (review coming soon).Gabe Walker is a Rocky Mountain rescue climber, who walks away after a tragic accident. But he is forced into doing a job, recovering lost money for a group of thieves who lost it during their heist. Walker breaks free and the hunt is on.Breathtaking action and photography in this one, Stallone did a change of pace after Tango & Cash that wasn't successful. A lot of cool action scenes in this one, including a plane to plane robbery, and some awesome mountain climbing. Italy was the perfect location for this one. 1993 was the year of Stallone and this was another classic. "}{"Title":"Breathtaking Alpine Adventure/Drama","Date":"11 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The selection of Sylvester Stallone to perform the protagonist by Renny Harlin is commendable since Stallone is that sort of tough and craggy person who had earlier rendered the requisite audaciously versatile aura to the characters of Rocky Balbao and Rambo. But to compare Die Hard series with Cliffhanger is a far-fetched notion.The excellently crafted opening scene introduces the audience to the thrill, suspense and intrigue which is going to engulf them in the ensuing bloody and perilous encounter with the outlaws. The heist and the high altitude transfer of hard cash in suit cases from one plane to the other is something not filmed before.The biting cold of the snow capped Alps and the unfolding deceit and treachery among the antagonist forces makes one shiver with trepidation. The forces of awesome adventure and ruthless murder kicks the drama through to the end.Good movies are not made every year and people don't get a feast for eyes to watch every now and then. Apart from the filthy language/parlance which endows brazen excitement during certain scenes, the movie can be regarded as one that is not going to fade its captivating appeal even watching it after so many years. "},{"Title":"entertaining action film gone awry","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  ***spoilers***Cliffhanger starts out riveting but ends less so.  The opening sequence was REALLY frightening.  I don't recommend anyone who has acrophobia seeing this film.  There are moments in this film that take your breath away.  There's a heist that takes place between two moving planes, and numerous sequences where Sylvester Stallone is hanging by the tip of his fingers over mid-air with nothing but hundreds of miles underneath him.Unfortunately about midway through the film starts to go awry.  Instead of more cliffhanging sequences there is simply unpleasant violence.  The bad guys start shouting at each other and characters start killing each other.  It's as though the filmakers ran out of story and had to find a way out.  The scene in which John Lithgow shoots one of his gang is, I suppose, supposed to show how evil he is but instead it shows how stupid the filmakers are.  The film ends up leaving your ears ringing instead of leaving you feeling exhilarated.Still, this film is worth a try for any action fan just for it's first half. "},{"Title":"Die Hard on a mountain but still quite enjoyable","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When Hal Tucker's girlfriend dies in a botched mountain rescue, Gabe blames himself and leaves.  Years later he returns for his own girlfriend.  Meanwhile a cash transfer by plane gets hijacked and the cases are lost in the mountains.  The hijackers use Tucker and Gabe to recover the mountain however Gabe escapes and must get the cases before the criminals to in order to bargain for Hal's life.Stallone's sort of semi-come back film, Cliffhanger is yet another `Die Hard in a&#133;&#133;' type film.  However that doesn't mean it's bad &#150; on the contrary it's quite good.  The opening 10 minutes sets out the stall well &#150; heights, good visuals and real fear.  However this doesn't hold and soon we are back in standard thriller mode with Stallone picking off the gang one by one in a Die Hard fashion.  This is all still fun if formulaic and the director uses the vertigo inducing locations well.All the Die Hard trademarks are there &#150; the one liners, the multinational villains, big shoot outs etc.  Most of it is really good and while it never gets to the heights of Die Hard in terms of action or tension, it is solid entertainment none the less.The cast is a strange mix.  Stallone is OK as the hero &#150; he can do this tough, wisecracking stuff in his sleep (and seems to occasionally).  Lithgow is actually quite good, isn't the way that the bad guys have the best parts!  `You want to kill me don't you?' he asks at one point `well, take a number and get in line'.  Corny tough guy lines but hammy enough to be good.  The rest are weird &#150; Turner (from Northern Exposure) is ok but then we have Craig Fairbrass from Eastenders!Overall it's not as good as Die Hard and it's open setting prevents real tension or claustrophobia but it's still very enjoyable.  Solid enjoyment without too much flash &#150; although it is a downside that the best bit is over in the first 10 minutes. "},{"Title":"Living On The Edge","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If you are interested in outdoor adventure, or if you have ever wanted to be a rock climber, this is the film to see. It is set in rugged, wilderness terrain, amid spectacular mountain peaks and spires. But, in addition to the magnificent scenery, Cliffhanger has something more. Most adventure films are scaled horizontally. Cliffhanger is scaled vertically. This up and down perspective thus conveys a genuine sense of physical danger. Director Renny Harlin keeps the camera in motion, and uses visual and special effects to provide the viewer with the perception of vertigo.Given this rare visual achievement, we can, therefore, forgive the film for its hokey story about thugs who stage a heist using airplanes. The villains are conventional in their behavior inept, scowling, and lacking a sense of humor. Further, the film's dialogue is weak, with such lines as Get out of there man; and Watch out. The acting is a little below average, overall. John Lithgow's performance is so not credible I have to think he is playing his role as a spoof. The background music is intrusive and manipulative. And the film's ending is so melodramatic as to be laughable.Despite the film's many glaring flaws, I admire the way that photography is used here to pull the viewer into the character's risky living-on-the-edge experience. Cliffhanger is an example of a film wherein the visuals are so well done that they overshadow a dreadful script, thus rendering an enjoyable cinematic experience. "},{"Title":"A deadend fork in the robust Stallone App","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The year was 1993 and arguably SS was at the peak of a career so long that even he could not predicted it.He had just rebuilt his body for the 100th time and wanted to try something different.This was it. Almost maybe possibly you would not recognize Sly as Sly, he just seems like a regular action hero. He also got a chance to perfect his patented Sly running for his life slow-mo move which would turn up in most of his subsequent films.In fact this was a one and done. He never took this sort of role again preferring either Rocky variations, Mission Impossible variations, or roles involving a suit and tie and a sharp outfit.So the film has historical value mainly As a film ... it is OK. Thats all. Too coincidences and Lithgow is miscast, he is playing Lex Luthor instead of a regular criminal on the run. "},{"Title":"Good, but not great Stallone adventure","Date":"17 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For several years, Sylvester Stallone had been in one turkey after another. Before he starred in Cliffhanger, he starred in a number of flops such as Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot and Oscar. For some reason, Stallone somehow lost his way in the movie world and got stuck making forgettable flops like those two movies. My best guess is that either his next film will be a hit or a miss. And to tell you the truth, Cliffhanger is definitely an hit, an huge hit for the box office.Stallone plays an rescue mountain climber who, in the beginning of the movie, is trying to rescue his friend, Hal Tucker, (Michael Rooker), and his girlfriend from an mountain. Unfortunately, the rescue attempt doesn't go smoothly as the clip on Rooker's girlfriend snaps and slips through the harness. She falls to her death down an gorge, leaving both Rooker and Stallone, devastated.Months later, Stallone is living by himself, away from his other friend, played by Janine Turner. Stallone is scarred for life because of what happened months ago with the death of Rooker's girlfriend death. However, he continues to climbs mountains anyway.The centerpiece of the story involves an group of villains, lead by John Lithgow. Their plan is to rob an U.S. Treasury plane with three cases holding millions of dollars. Their high-altitude plan goes completely wrong when their plane crash lands in the Rocky Mountains, leaving the bad guys, stranded in the snowy wilderness. Seeking help, they radioed help from the local mountain rescue center. Soon enough, Stallone and Rooker finds themselves caught up with the bad guys as they are being used by the villains to help find their stolen loot in the Mountains.The great thing about Cliffhanger is it's mountain climbing scenes. I actually started to believe that these actors were really climbing an mountain, instead of climbing an fake mountain that was build on a studio set. These are real mountains, all right. With that being said, the action sequences are well directed although I had a hard time believing in the way the bad guys were able to get the three cases into their plane while trying to fly their plane through the high altitude. Most of the action sequences in Cliffhanger are so energetic and sometimes scary due to the fact that some of the bad guys fall off the mountain. And when these characters are leaning over the edge of the mountains in some of the scenes in the movie, I was actually afraid that they would fall.The movie was directed by Renny Harlin, who directed the second Die Hard movie and he does a very good job creating an stunning visual sensation with the beautiful shots of the canyons and gorges. The movie was shot in the Rocky Mountains in Colorado and the use of the locations in the movie are very useful as a setting for a movie like this. I couldn't really picture myself climbing those mountains by hanging off the side of it. For those who know what I am talking about, it pretty scary.Stallone is okay as the lead character. He tries his best to not only play an action hero, but an flawed one, too. The best performance comes from John Lithgow, who plays the leader of the group. His British accent and his ways of taking people out of his plan is very sadistic, making him the perfect villain. He is maybe different from the villain in Harlin's last film, Die Hard 2, but Lithgow does a very good job playing the bad guy who doesn't take chances.With the exception of Cliffhanger, I could only say that Stallone is mild in this movie. He isn't really that great, but at least give him credit for trying to become an flawed character. That's important because we've seen Stallone play heroes before like Rocky Balboa or John Rambo. Those characters are like superhuman characters that are meant to win in the end of the movie. Here, it turns an different direction. It's interesting to see him tackle this kind of role because it's surprising and interesting. As for the action sequences and the mountain scenes, those scenes will have you admiring the breath- taking views of the Rockies. I will say though that this movie might even give you vertigo because of the scenes involving climbing especially the beginning of the movie which is clearly authentic. ★★★ 3 stars. "},{"Title":"A cliff-hanger.","Date":"14 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone stars in an action thriller where his character, Gabe Walker, has to deal with a tragedy that occurred while climbing a mountain range. Meanwhile, a group of thieves led by Eric Qualen (John Lithgow) hijack a $100,000,000 delivery but their plans go awry and they wound up crashing into the mountain range. After they radio for help, Gabe and his partner Hal Tucker (Michael Rooker) respond, not knowing they would be forced to guide the thieves to locate the money.This is an exciting little action flick full of thrills and roller-coaster rides as our heroes attempt to scale the mountain in search for the missing money before the bad guys do. Thrown in the mix is a daring rescue mission and awesome stunt work. Stallone makes a formidable action hero while Lithgow makes a ruthless, love-to-hate lead villain. The plot is fast-paced and the acting is serviceable, albeit a little corny at times. One major issue I had is that I didn't like the part where the villains first appear before Gabe and Hal. There was no suspense or tension built-up like you would normally see in action movies when the film's protagonist first sees the antagonists.Other than some minor set-backs, it's a neat action flick to watch for a friends night-out.Grade B- "},{"Title":"The Snowy Mountains.","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Renny Harlin directed this exciting action film that stars Sylvester Stallone as Air Rescue Mountain Climber Gabriel Walker, who, along with his colleague and girlfriend Jessie(played by Janine Turner) are called upon to answer a distress call in the mountains, but instead are taken hostage by ruthless mercenaries led by Eric Qualen(played by John Lithgow) who are trying to retrieve a fortune of stolen Treasury Department money that fell down there after a botched mid-air hijacking. It is up to Gabriel to save his friends, and defeat the villains. While an obvious copy of Die Hard, this is a good one that works, thanks to efficient direction, good script, and acting, especially Lithgow as an over-the-top psychotic mercenary. "},{"Title":"Time to kill a mountain man...","Date":"14 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A group of thieves hijack a $100,000,000 delivery. Their plan to transfer the money mid-air to collaborators in another plane goes awry, and the hijackers crash land and lose the money in the surrounding mountains. They radio for help, and former ranger Gabe Walker and his former partner Hal Tucker answer the call. The hijackers have a high-tech tracking device that shows them the locations of the three cases of missing money, but they need help travelling through the mountains, so they force Gabe and Hal to be their guides. Forced to scale a rock face in the middle of a snow storm, Gabe grabs some of the money and escapes. Gabe knows the group will kill Hal as soon as they have the cash, so with fellow ranger Jessie, Gabe tries to reach the money before they do.....It was wonderful return to form for Stallone, after nearly three years of duds. And does this movie really make up for it. It's basically Die Hard in the mountains, and at the time of the films release, these were the most successful action films going. Seagal and Snipes had one going, so why shouldn't the second best action star of all time have one?Harlin grips the viewer from the word go, and the opening scene is one of the most memorable openings of any action movie, and sets the tone for the rest of the movie.Lithgow tries to out-Gruber Rickman, but despite his best efforts, can only pull out pantomime villain, albeit to great effect.The action is brilliant, and although its narrative is a little foolhardy (fight, climbing, fight climbing), you cannot help but get lost in all the action.Its Stallones best film from the nineties, and Harlins finest piece of work.A Brilliant start to a brilliant year of summer blockbusters. "},{"Title":"The first 10 minutes is the best","Date":"23 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Rock climbing was the fad of the time, and this and another movie K2 appeared around the same time.They really did a seamless job of going from studio shots to on the location shots. The cliffhanger scenes were really realistic. This movie has one of the best opening scenes of any movie made. The mistake perhaps was that they didn't keep going with this flow. As soon as the scene changed to the plane crash scene, it lost some of the momentum, then it was down hill from there.The movie basically makes super human hero out of Sylvester Stallone, but he really fits the bill. He had the right flamboyant attitude as the hero too. Then he carries the guilt which really wasn't his fault. They should have just went on with the flamboyant attitude, and it would have been even better.I liked the scene where Stallone climbs up the snow covered rock face in a T shirt (this of course is totally preposterous in real life). Very cool. Seriously, this movie had some of the best Silvester Stallone moments, and I wished they'd make more movies like this of his. "}{"Title":"A Nice Climb","Date":"2 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The opening scene, as intrepid rescue worker Sylvester Stallone attempts saving a woman hanging onto a cable connected from a really high mountaintop to a helicopter, sets a nice stage to one of the better (or perhaps the only decent) Sly action flicks during the 1990s.Cut to a group of T-MEN embarking on a plane trip to move three suitcases of money, and wouldn't you know they just happen to crash on the same mountain where Stallone had worked before quitting and, eight months later, returning for his woman. But she's content with the same job as a rescuer who, along with Michael Rooker, Ralph Waite and a reluctant Stallone, is thrust into saving the plane-wrecked villains led by a really nasty John Lithgow, who really wants the money residing in various locations throughout the storm-ridden mountaintops. And it's up to Stallone and Rooker to recover it, or else.Stallone makes for a worthy action hero, which is no surprise, but since you can tell he's doing most of his own stunts in genuinely dangerous settings, his physicality, along with Renny Harlin's weaving camera, makes for a star-director collaboration that, although loaded with corny dialog, is a fun ride. With every scene there's another goon to thwart (including Rex Linn in a great performance) and a new peak to climb.Janine Turner is more than eye-candy as Stallone's independently daring girlfriend, while John Lithgow not only chews the scenery but blows bubbles with it. And that's okay &#x96; because even the silly stuff works.For More Reviews www.cultfilmfreaks.com "},{"Title":"Don't you see what he's doing! He's hijacking the shipment!","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** Sylvester Stallone as mountain rescue climber Gabe Walker has a chance to show off his muscles in this high climbing adventure while wearing in most of his scenes a sweat drenched t-shirt in sub-zero temperature. That as he tries to get his nerve back that he lost some eight months ago.It was back then that Gabe in an attempt to save her life lost his best friend Hal Tucker's, Michael Rooker, girlfriend Sarah's, Michelle Joyner, grip as she was dangling some 4,000 feet above ground level when her security belt gave out! With Sarah's tragic death and his friend Hal holding him responsible for it Gabe just dropped out of sight not willing to face or see anyone for over eight months.Now in town to get back with his girlfriend mountain ranger Jessie Deilghan, Jennie Turner, Gabe suddenly finds himself face to face with arch-enemy Hal Tucker as he's reluctantly recruited to save a number of people lost in the high Rockies after their plan crashed. What no one realizes is that the persons trapped in the snow are a gang of skyjackers who sky-jacked a government plane with over 100 million dollars in denominations of $1,000 dollar bills! It's the skyjackers headed by former US Government Intelligence Agent Eric Qualen, John Lithgow, who want Gabe and Hal to find the cash,in three large suitcases, that they lost during the failed skyjacking attempt!****SPOILERS**** It takes a while for both Gabe & Hal as well as Jessie to figure out what Qualen & Co. are really up too but that's after all three ended up getting captured by Qualen and his gang. It's Gabe who escaped, wearing only a t-shirt and pair of torn up pants, and made it to safety who had to save his fellow mountain rescuers Hal and Jessie's lives depended on the Qualen Mob getting the lost money which Gabe was threatened or better yet blackmailed to find. But in what we soon see how Qualen & Co. interacted with each other, by murdering themselves over the slightest mess-up, it's a given that as long as the cash is not recovered that will assure that both Hal & Jessie will remain alive!***MORE SPOILERS*** Great action scenes with both Gabe & Hal really getting worked over by Qualen and his thugs but still having enough left to finally put them out of commission. Incredible final sequence with Gabe & Qualen having out on a disable helicopter hanging by a string, or cable, on the side of a one mile high mountain. Gabe who in all reality should have died from the beatings he's taken as well as the bitter cold, wearing only a wet and unfrozen t-shirt, was able to turn the tables on Qualen at the very last moment. In the end Qualen ended up with his fellow hijacked for all intents and purposes dead and buried in the snow. And as for the 100 million dollars in $1,000.00 dollars bills that Qualen & Co. was after It ended up burned shredded and blown away to the four winds where,in the high snow covered and impassible Rockie Mountains, no one would ever find it! "},{"Title":"An intense, pulse-pounding, heart-stomping, adrenaline-rushing action thriller!","Date":"17 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhanger is one of the best action thrillers ever made. It stars Sylvester Stallone, John Lithgow, Michael Rooker, and Janine Turner. Excellent acting and outstanding special effects really bring out the excellence in this film. Intensity and sheer terror really bring out the thrills in this film.Sylvester Stallone is the perfect action-rescuer guy, John Lithgow is the perfect bad guy that uses guns, fiery explosives, and extreme violence to win the thing he desperately craves. I'M NOT GIVING ANYTHING AWAY! I strongly recommend that NOBODY under the age of 14 see this film. It's violence level is on the heavy scale and the language is on the extreme scale and it's terror is on the terrifying scale. There is a lot of blood and gunshots in this movie. There was a lot of 'F' words and 'motherf***er' works too. And the terror...terrifying.This movie has non-stop action from it's frightening beginning to it's explosive conclusion. It's conclusion is explosive, but very short and very mediocre. Well, I mean the ending is literally explosive, if you know what I mean. The director could have done more with the ending. But otherwise, this movie is filled with violence and terror and fiery explosives that makes this one of the best action-adventure-thrillers ever made.Spectacular, intense, strong, pulse-pounding, heart-stomping, throat-tightening, great, awesome, sweet, incredulous, super, brilliant, and very violent! Violence/Gore 10/10, Sex/Nudity 1/10, Profanity 9/10, Drugs/Alcohol 2/10Original MPAA rating R Violence and LanguageMy MPAA rating R Brutal Violence, Strong Language, and A Scene of Sheer TerrorMy Canadian Rating 18A Extreme Violence, Frightening Scenes, Coarse Language "},{"Title":"One of Sly's best films","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Hold on for dear life as Sylvester Stallone takes you on the ride of a lifetime. With extreme non-stop action, gripping and suspense-filled scenes; Stallone has proved why he is a SUPERSTAR with his role in Cliffhanger. I knew I would be in for an action packed treat as soon as I realized Stallone was starring in this film; however, I failed to realized how great the other actors were in this film.Stallone is joined by Michael Rooker, Janine Turner and John Lithgow as they produce quite possibly the best action film of 1993. The cast is perfectly selected and chosen to play their parts. It was a joy to see a reversal of roles. I'm not accustomed to seeing Rooker as a hero or Lithgow as a villain; it is a refreshing change.I couldn't have asked for a better villain than Lithgow. He is one of the most ruthless and cunning villains I've seen. I enjoyed how he never let anything get in his way and spared no expense to get what he wanted. I'm glad I got the chance to see him play the villain and hope I see it again.Turner gives tremendous support to this film and creates an atmosphere where it is enjoyable to watch. She is the heat that warms a cold room because every time she comes on screen it seems as though it is hot. It is a delight to see an incredible actress to have that much power. Rooker makes up the other the third of talented actors that makes Cliffhanger a delight to watch. Rooker brings a fresh view to the film as well as credibility; all I have to say is awesome work, Michael.There is an avalanche of talent in Cliffhanger. Stallone is an unstoppable force and incredible action hero. After watching Cliffhanger, I'm convinced that Stallone was the only man for this job. Stallone had the fire in his eyes for this part that told me he means business. Only true action stars have the fire I saw; furthermore, I was fascinated with the strength, power and conviction with which he took on the role.Another reason I enjoyed Cliffhanger was the writing because it contained unbelievable action sequences, a man dealing with redemption and dialogue is awesome. I was impressed to see that Stallone also co-wrote the script because he really has a knack for what action fans want.Cliffhanger is a super-charged, heart-racing, suspense-filled action thrill ride. "},{"Title":"not upto the mark!!","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  lets face it renny harlin is no john woo or a certain mcteirnan but he definitely knows hot to make good popcorn action with tones of excitement(die hard 2).his movies may not have critical appeal but they do provide some action oriented entertainment for the buffs.though cliffhanger is not as gr8 as rambo or die hard 2.it definitely is not as awful as it is made out to be.it is worth a watch and i would reccomend it to all stallone fans.the opening sequence probably one of the most thrilling in recent past along with the mid air heist form the 2 highlight sequences of the movie.apart from that i found the movie lacking somewhere in content.definitely worth a watch once.3.5 out of 5. "},{"Title":"Another great action flick from Sly","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Hal Tucker(Michael Rooker) who is a rescue mountain climber ends up getting stuck on a mountain with his girlfriend Sarah(Michelle Joyner)Gabe Walker(Sylvester Stallone) also a rescue mountain climber and as well a close friend to Hal comes to the rescue.Hal gets across fine to the helicopter waiting.But Sarah who has no experience climbing is moving slowly towards the chopper.When the equipment starts to break Gabe goes to her rescue, but he is unable to save her and she falls to her death.Eight months have passed and Gabe returns home to his girlfriend Jessie(Janine Turner)he wants her to leave with him.Upset that he just left she turns him down, so he goes to pack his stuff.A group of terrorist led by Eric Qualen(John Lithgow) plot to steal million of dollars but things don't go as planned, and they crash.Now stuck on the mountain and need to find their money, they call for help.Jessie is at the station with Hal. When the call for help comes in.Hal goes out to the rescue and Jessie goes back to her house to see if Gabe is still there.When she arrives Gabe is just about to leave, she tells him what happened, but at first he doesn't wanna help due to his guilt over Sarah's death. But he finally agrees.When Gabe gets there he meets up with Hal, then when they find the people who called for help they are taken hostage and they force Gabe to search for the money while holding Hal hostage.Now with millions of dollars and their own lives at stake Gabe must find away to keep himself alive plus Hal and Jessie.With heavy fire power from the terrorist plus bitter cold Gabe must outwit the Terrorists.Leon co-stars plus a cameo from Bruce McGillSome truly great action sequences and some good suspense as well.Sly gives a solid performance.Sly also co-wrote the scriptDirector Renny Harlin does an amazing job, he is very underrated as a Director. Cliffhanger just might be Renny Harlin's best work.The DVD special edition is loaded with Extras, Renny Harlin gives a lot of good insight on why he chose to get certain camera angles.And Renny Harlin put together some really great camera angles it makes you feel the rush like you're really there.A must see for any Sly fan.I give Cliffhanger 8/10 "},{"Title":"One of Sly's best","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After years of unsucessful action movie's and bad attempts at comedy, Sly finnally came back with a solid action movie.  The setting is pretty original for a movie, the Rockies, and the plot is simple but still strong.  The supporting cast is good too.  Lithgow is great as the creepy villian, as is Rex Linn.  Other honorable menchains include Leon, who was good as the crazed terrorist, and Micheal Rooker was good as the berieved mountain climber.  This is a must see for action fans, there's plenty of gruesome deaths, explosions, and avalanches.  I give it 4/5.  Its a great way to kill a long Sunday afternoon. "},{"Title":"Poor Teddy Bear.","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Stallone plays Gabe a member of the Rocky Mountain Rescue who is faced with the challenge of recovering his nerve after a tragic accident leaves him doubting his abilities. John Lithgow plays Qualan a ruthless international thug who decides to highjack a federal jet and steal millions in international trade notes. When the jet Qualan is in crashes in the mountains Gabe an his fellow comrades are forced to play deadly games with the thieves and who knows who will survive the storm.	Cliffhanger is a fairly tight action flick that never takes itself too seriously and offers some good set pieces. The production looks great and all the technical aspects are solid. Of particular interest are the stunning photography and Trevor Jones beautiful score. 	For a action flick there's not much to complain about. Qualan's bunch of thugs are your typical fodder for the hero and its' obvious from the onset who in our group of heroes will be expendible. The only major problem is that the first major set piece, the accident I mentioned earlier, sets a thrilling tone that is not quite matched by the rest of the movie.	One of Stallone's most enjoyable &#145;90s films and a guaranteed action fan favorite.  "},{"Title":"Great action flick!","Date":"26 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is by far Sly's best movie... Alot of great scenes and stunts in this film. Sly and his friend Hal are called apon to rescue some people that were on a plane that crashed on the side of the mountain and it leads them to a bunch of Terrorists..John Lightow(Qualen) is the leader of the bunch as he and Rex Linn(Travers) Craig Fairbrass(Delmar) and Caroline Goodall are retriving stolen money from a airplane...The scene where Hal(Michael Rooker) and Delmar are on the mountain was great where Delmar talks about the soccer rountine was great....Yeah this movie is like Die Hard but in a different way... I give this movie 4 stars ****!!!!! "},{"Title":"Dangerously Original","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sylvestor Stallone (Rocky,Rambo) teams up with Renny Harlin (Die Hard 2) for the well-casted film Cliffhanger. Original, realistic, and just plain entertaining. There is a little something for everyone in this film, including a bit of humor.***/***** Stars "}{"Title":"Sometimes you hit. Sometimes you miss.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhanger is a movie with potential. It fails at delivering much of this, but effort is half the battle. Stallone does his job, the story isn't half bad either. Unfortunately it fails to live up to the decent set up in the first half when it goes the route of the typical inane and borderline stupid action flick in the second act.Which is too bad. It's not too often you see an action movie that takes place in snow covered mountains of rock. If nothing else it makes for unique scenery. The cast are the real losers here though as they just aren't given very much to do. Michael Rooker gets to hobble around being embittered. Stallone gets to do his prerequisite number of screams as he dives out of danger's way while John Lithgow gets stuck playing the one dimensional mastermind bad guy. Paul Winfield probably gets the best and the worst. He doesn't have too much screen time which is good when you are stuck in this movie, but his only appearances are inside a helicopter barking mad dog orders to an underling.Cliffhanger is watchable on a rainy day, but not memorable in my book. Everything feels tired and predictable. It may have made grand bank in it's day, but even die-hard Stallone fans or non-discriminating action junkies will have a hard time highly praising it. "},{"Title":"Another great action movie with Sylvester Stallone!","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  If you want the thrills, excitement, terror, danger, and just all out drama and action then this is the movie for you. One of the biggest stars around Sylvester Stallone is just magnificent with this role especially some of the stunts he does, this role has Stallone as a mountain-rescue worker attempting to recover money stolen from the U.S. Treasury. Not only is the action and thrilling drama of Cliffhanger great, but the spectacular scenery and special effects are just great. This movie is a must watch for any guy who loves action films so have a blast! "},{"Title":"Not a film about climbing, but Die Hard in the Rockies","Date":"19 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  When I first heard about Cliffhanger, I expected it to be an action film about climbing.  It's not, and that's why i was fairly letdown the first time I saw it.  In fact, Cliffhanger  is just Die Hard set in the Rockies. With that in mind, Cliffhanger is a very acceptable action flick.Cliffhanger stars Sylvester Stallone, Michael Rooker (JFK), Janine Turner (Northern Exposure), and John Lithgow (3rd Rock from the Sun, Shrek) in his usual role as a villain. After a fatal accident in the Rockies which he blames himself for, Gabe Walker (Stallone) retires from climbing.  Nearly a year later, he returns to say goodbye (!) to his girlfriend, Jesse (Turner).  Walker discovers that some climbers are caught in a storm high in Rocky Mountain Nat'l Park, and his nemesis Hal Tucker (Rooker) has gone out alone to rescue them.  Walker follows, and the pair of them soon discover that whom they were trying to rescue were not climbers.  Instead, a small jet used by international criminal Eric Qualen (Lithgow) and his gang crashed in the storm, and $100 million in cash was lost.  The criminals then enlist the climbers to recover the moneyAlthough it has a thin plot and some unbelievable scenes (remember Sly guns and water don't mix), it pulls through quite nicely, with Oscar nods for Best Visual Effects, Best Sound Effects, and Best Sound.  Filmed in Italy's Dolomites due to enviromental concerns by the DoI.  One of the beginning scenes saved the day for the President's family at the end of Air Force One "},{"Title":"It costs a fortune to heat this place","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Along with 1993's other vehicle, Demolition Man, Cliffhanger is probably the peak(!) of Stallone's going through the motions (c. 1985-1996) period.Sylvester treads water almost as much as he treads rock in this one, though post-Copland it doesn't seem to matter anymore. Stallone acts again, and so candyfloss capers like this can be looked back upon as a lightweight bit of fun. The film opens with a scene which, while predictable, cannot help but get the palms sweating. Don't look down! indeed. Unfortunately, the rest of the movie becomes a preposterous artillery hunt for some missing cash and the high level of tension in the first five minutes is therefore absent throughout the rest of the film. You can laugh at the illogic, and snigger at the Perspex (supposed to be glass) on the villains' plane, flapping in the wind, but you can never recapture what that first scene promised.One upsetting thing is John Lithgow as a Brit villain. I long for a Hollywood exec (preferably a pretty blonde one) to give me a reassuring hug, tell me everything's alright and that America doesn't hate the English. (There's even a review on the IMDb from a guy in Texas that adds and even the English dude was good &#150; like it was a miracle for an English actor to give a decent performance.) Until that happens I guess I'll have to settle for seeing movies where English wars are won by the US, and the villains always have clear-cut Cambridge accents. Or, in Craig Fairbrass' case, an East-End one. Seeing Fairbrass as a minor henchman in this film is a nice touch, as he's now very famous in Britain as the barman lothario Dan Sullivan from soap opera Eastenders. (Incidentally, while an Englishman might, possibly, say soccer instead of football, they would never use the word punk as an insult. Okay?)It's also a nice change to see Sylvester play a part where he's not actually that tough, and only gets to live through sheer luck and determination. It would have been nicer to have seen him tackle the taller and similarly-muscled Fairbrass, but as it is even John Lithgow sends him to bed with no supper. There are the occasional funny lines (such as the title quote after Stallone has burnt money in order to keep warm), and Lithgow is likeably over the top as Eric Qualen. You're never rewarded with anything you don't expect to see, and the ending is a little abrupt, but this is a passable way to spend an hour or two. I used to really hate Cliffhanger, but it isn't so bad. Just simple, average action entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Poor film","Date":"2 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A very disappointing film. Stallone's acting skills have never been the finest but he was clearly wasted on this pointless attempt at showing how rock climbing can be dangerous. Probably one of the worst films I have ever seen. Unusually Ralph Waite, who is 65 plays the part of the helicopter pilot. He was the father figure in the Waltons. I have no doubt about Ralph's acting skills but why on earth choose someone like him to be a helicopter pilot. The cheapness of how each and every one of the actors was killed or shot at beggars belief. I was very surprised this film ever reached the cinemas. 1993 was clearly not the best year for Stallone movies. "},{"Title":"An Excellent,Thrilling And Exciting Action-Adventure-Thriller. Slyvester Stallone And Renny Harlin At Their Best.","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhanger is an excellent,thrilling and exciting Action-Adventure-Thriller that combines terrific direction,a wonderful cast,fantastic Action,incredible stunts,amazing photography and a memorable score. All of those elements make Cliffhanger not only one of my favorite Action films but also one of the best Action movies of the 1990s that is Slyvester Stallone and Renny Harlin at their best.Cliffhanger tells the story of Gabe Walker(Slyvester Stallone),a mountain climber and rescue ranger who goes up against sadistic criminal Eric Qualen(John Lithgow)who along with his hired guns are looking for three briefcases that's filled with 100 Million Dollars. With his back against the wall Gabe has to find the money before Qualen does stop Qualen and survive at all costs.Cliffhanger is a brilliant and unforgettable Action-Thriller that is easily one of the best Action movies of the 1990s and another Slyvester Stallone classic that is an absolute roller coaster ride from beginning to end that is an Adventure in highest order and when you watch the movie you will have a blast. It's also one of two films released in 1993(the film other being Demolition Man)that were Box Office hits for Sly Stallone and were seen as a comeback for Stallone after some Box Office flops. Right from it's now classic and memorable 13 minute opening scene(which perfectly sets the tone for the entire film)Cliffhanger is an Action movie that just grabs viewers by the throat and never lets go with everything done in an large,epic scale whether it's the Action or Suspense you will not be able to take your eyes off the screen. It has everything a great Action movie should havea good story,incredible Action Good Guys Vs Bad Guys everything that makes a good and entertaining popcorn film while putting viewers on the edge of the seats throughout the film. While Cliffhanger is basically Die Hard on a Mountain Cliffhanger is one of the best films to take the Die Hard concept and place it in the Rocky Mountains giving viewers an intense and amazing experience. The Action sequences in Cliffhanger are fantastic,explosive and done with terrific skill and suspense and when the suspense stops the Action comes at you like a punch in the face. With every Action scene everything from the gunfights,explosions and stunts is big,loud and very powerful. The stunt work in Cliffhanger is truly sensational whether it's with the Action scenes or the Mountain climbing scenes giving the movie a realism and accuracy even though some things are exaggerated. While Cliffhanger is still an Action movie it's also a movie that is very beautiful and stunning to look at thanks to the photography by Alex Thomson. Thomson's photography is amazing and make the Rocky Mountains more beautiful than they already were giving the movie a stylish and memorable look that makes Cliffhanger standout from most of the Action movies during the 1990s. The main character Gabe Walker is very much an Action movie character that gets into fights and is heroic but doesn't use a gun instead using the mountain and his smarts to beat the bad guys. While an Action hero Gabe is also a character with depth because we see Gabe trying to climb the mountains again after a unfortunate incident that killed his will to climb a mountain. We see Gabe trying to not only save the day and trying to climb the mountain again but also try to repair his friendships. The ending of Cliffhanger is a fantastic and memorable conclusion because there is enough Action,thrills and excitement that will leave viewers happy and satisfied. A terrific ending.The cast is great. Slyvester Stallone is excellent and at his best as Gabe Walker,with Stallone bringing depth,intensity and charisma to the role. John Lithgow is brilliant and at his bad guy best as Eric Qualen,with Lithgow being delightful and evil. Michael Rooker is wonderful as Hal Tucker,Gabe's best friend. Janine Turner is terrific as Jessie,Gabe's girlfriend. Rex Linn gives an outstanding,hilarious scene stealing performance as Agent Travers,a corrupt Treasury Agent working with Qualen. Paul Winfeld is good as Walter Wright,a Treasury Agent. Ralph Waite does a fine job as Frank,a rescue ranger. Caroline Goodall(Kristal),Leon(Kynette),Craig Fairbass(Delmar),Gregory Scott Cummins(Ryan)and Denis Forest(Heldon)are memorable as Qualen's henchmen. Max Perlich and Trey Brownell are fun as Evan and Brett best friends who are thrill seekers. Michelle Joyner(Sarah)and Vyto Ruginis(FBI Agent Matheson)give good performances as well.The direction by Renny Harlen is outstanding,with Harlen always moving the camera and giving the movie a stunning and memorable look while doing a fantastic job with the Action scenes. Great direction,Harlen.The score by Trevor Jones is amazing,epic and suspenseful and fits perfectly with the tone and atmosphere of the film. Wonderful score,Jones.In final word,if you're a fan of Slyvester Stallone,Renny Harlin or Action films,I highly suggest you see Cliffhanger,an excellent,thrilling and exciting Action-Adventure Thriller that you will watch again and again. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"One Of Stallone's Better Efforts.","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This run-of-mill actioner has all the basic cliché ingredients of the genre but is set apart by its unique isolated setting and some amazing stunt-work. The typical 90's action aesthetic is it play here, that of a fallen anti-hero protagonist who, traumatised by a passed event, comes back to save the day. This coupled with your typical trigger-happy bad guys, unpredictable head psycho, characteristic female moral conscious and the right hand man who was once your friend offers a predictable premise. But the set-pieces and spectacular scenery shine through and throw in some great one-liners then you have a pretty entertaining night in with some beers.7/10 "},{"Title":"Cracking actioner from Sly and the gang.","Date":"15 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Gabe Walker (Sylvester Stallone) is an expert climber, but after a tragic incident leaves a girl dead, he leaves the mountains to get his head together. After his self imposed break he returns in the hope of rekindling a relationship with Jessie (Janine Turner). Whilst at the rescue centre he is called to help a group who are stranded in the mountains, he agrees to help out this one last time, unaware that the group in the mountains are heavily armed, murderous thieves, and they need help of another kind.Directed by Renny Harlin, this is one of those films that shows that Stallone once had box office clout as big as his bodily frame. It's a delightful no brain action film that delivers royally to those with a bent for the action genre. What really lifts Clifhanger above average is the wonderful use of suspenseful situations. The film opens with a quite breathtaking sequence and then kicks on to literally have us hanging on by our fingernails. The bad guys are deliciously over the top, none more so than the bullishly nasty John Lithgow as Eric Qualen, whilst Sly gets beefcake support from the ever reliable Michael Rooker. Cinematography by Alex Thomson is gorgeous as he brings to life the Cortina d'Ampezzo area of the Dolomites in Italy. Score is by Trevor Jones, who keeps it orchestral as he lifts from his own work for Last of the Mohicans, which in turn is mixed with what sounds like the lead theme of Alan Silvestri's work on Predator.Slam bang action, tense fraught moments, and a script written with knowing tongue in cheek persuasion, Cliffhanger literally does ROCK. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"First word that comes to mind... Fake!","Date":"2 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This was a below-average, mindless action flick like thousands that Hollywood has produced over the years. The film is full of clichés, the plot is ridiculous, the script and dialogs totally unbelievable, the characters cartoonesque. The motion picture is worthy of a dozen Razzie awards (it actually won 'only' 4). But then, what surprised me most, and what usually is a strength in such movies was camera, set decoration and special effects. Not even these where up to standard, making the movie seem even more unrealistic, or to but it bluntly, fake. How these visual effects could have been even Nominated for an Oscar is a mystery to me... (just watch the scenes in the cave and you will know what I mean, you can actually smell the paint off the cardboard used to make the cave walls).Stallone plays out as a cross between Rambo and Rocky and many scenes show he didn't put much effort into researching and learning how a real climber actually moves. Both he and Michael Rooker are miscast for their roles. They are far too heavy and have far too many muscles to be even remotely convincing as professional climbers. A much better, more realistic film with this theme was certainly 'Vertical Limit'. This one leaves us with the feeling that the only people satisfied with this picture will be 5-year old kids and the bean counters at the box office... "},{"Title":"Action-Packed","Date":"28 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I loved this movie when it came out on Pay-per-View! Loved this movie so much that I begged for my parents to get on videocassette. Cliffhanger is appealing for its breath-taking scenery of the Alps which posed as the Rocky Mountains, but both are impressive to behold in a movie such as this. The plot execution of a mid-air plane hijack/robbery was genius at best. No one except D.B. Cooper ever conducted such a daring and death-defying feat! The fight sequences were outstanding, something that is expected in a Stallone picture. Cliffhanger shows a lengthy and challenging Race for Survival in all of its middle acts.But the most intense part of the movie was the film's very beginning, which starts out as a happy, cheerful mountain-climbing excursion. Then it turns into a nightmare, as the girlfriend of Michael Rooker's character hangs on to a broken harness by her fingertips. You can feel the terrorizing agony that this poor woman is going through. Who wouldn't? Stallone shows a heroic move to try to save her. This move was I'm just doing my job. action without ego-centrism. After ward her death brings a believable tension between Stallone and Rooker very convincingly played out. Nothing was lame , dumb, and pathetic in the movie at all. With the exception of the ending. Ahh! The ending. Who could forget the makeshift and rather watered down fight scene on the upside-down helicopter between Lithgow and our hero? This was an afterthought; poorly planned and barely convincing. Lithgow's character Qualen was undoubtedly evil and didn't suffer enough as the rest of the cast. The theme is Survival or Death not wussy schoolyard fight. Cliffhanger is worthy of my praises and would suggest this film to anyone with an action fetish. "}{"Title":"A halfway reasonable Die Hard imitation","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Die Hard certainly had an impact on the action film genre. I can't think of another action film replicated or alluded to more. Films like Under Siege, Speed, Passenger 57 all have the same basic premise. Cop or special forces guy find themselves cornered by terrorists or criminals, and gradually outmanoeuvre them. And Cliffhanger definitely falls into that category.When I first saw Cliffhanger, I loved it. I thought it made use of great stunts, dizzy-inducing mountain climbs and exciting action sequences. But as the years passed, and I've grown a bit wiser, Cliffhanger doesn't quite do for me what it used to.It's a film that requires you to suspend disbelief a little too much. Not surprising considering it's directed by Renny Harlin. He tends to specialise in action films barely held together by explosive action scenes with little regard for characterisation or plot development.Harlin previously directed Die Hard 2, a film with many of the same problems as Cliffhanger. Die Hard has layers of sophistication and style that Harlin is unable to bring forth in his films. I'm sorry but he's no John McTiernan. Still, despite its flaws Cliffhanger does hold your attention fairly well, the location shooting is often breathtaking, and some of the action scenes are really spectacular.Cliffhanger was billed as Sylvester Stallone's comeback film after his disastrous attempts at comedy. In fact, the only time I ever liked him in a comical role was Demolition Man. That film worked because it was a very funny satirical vision of the future, and Stallone was helped no end by the ebullient comic timing of Sandra Bullock. Cliffhanger certainly has its shortcomings, but its better than the dreadful Stop, Or My Mom Will Shoot!Gabe Walker (Stallone) is the leader of the Rocky Mountain Rescue Team. When his best friend Hal Tucker (Michael Rooker) is stuck on a mountain ledge with his girlfriend Sarah, Gabe leads a rescue party. Gabe rigs a support line to a rescue helicopter, but Sarah's safety harness comes loose. In one of the best scenes, Gabe has to struggle to hold on to Sarah. Filled with quick pans and close-ups, that is a very nail-biting scene. Tragically, Sarah slips from his grasp and plunges to her death.Eight months later, Gabe has returned to the mountains after a self-imposed exile. Gabe has lost his nerve, and doesn't want to be responsible for any more lives. But a chance for redemption presents itself when a Treasury Jet with a hundred million dollars on board is hijacked by a group of terrorists led by the psychotic (and sarcastic) Eric Qualen (John Lithgow in British Alan Rickman mode).The plot goes awry when the money falls into the mountains and Qualen's plane crashes. With no way to get down, Qualen sends out a fake distress call picked up by Hal. When he goes alone Jessie, Gabe's ex convinces Gabe to help. Although Hal is in no mood since he blames Gabe for Sarah's death.The two are captured by Qualen's men, and forced to lead a search through the mountains for the missing money. But Gabe manages to escape, and teamed up with Jessie, plays a game of cat and mouse with Qualen's gang to get to the money first.If reading any of this has left you scratching your heads in disbelief, its not hard to see why. Cliffhanger has so many inconsistencies and glaring plot holes you may find yourself cracking up at the absurdity of it all. Still, Stallone is in his element and he's up to the strenuous stuff. But you wonder why they bothered with the beginning, plunging Gabe into a crisis of confidence. Once the action has started, that idea is dropped and it never resurfaces.Cliffhanger is also an action film that's a little rough around the edges. Some of the editing is clumsy and not as tight as it should have been. For example, Gabe has driven off making it clear he wants nothing to do with any rescue attempts. The next time we see him he's on the mountain ahead of Hal. We get the impression there may have been a scene in between showing him changing his mind, but that's been left on the cutting room floor. Harlin may have been going for slick, but honestly it comes off as a hatchet job.John Lithgow is completely over the top, but at least he gets a lot of memorable one liners. Lithgow is an odd choice for an action film villain, and its clear he's trying to channel a bit of Hans Gruber into his performance, but he can't quite pull it off. A pity really considering John Lithgow is a fine actor most of the time.Janine Turner gets a thankless role as the love interest. Her performance as Jessie is really bad, and her character is so poorly written because of the way she alternates from feisty to useless screamer. When you think of Sandra Bullock in some of her action films, you will see how this character could have been played.There are some memorable action scenes to be had though. As well as the opening one, there's a great moment where an actual stuntman makes his way across a cable from one plane to the next in midair. That's a fine bit of stunt-work, and gives new meaning to death-defying. I also like the scene when Gabe falls through the ice being pursued by one of Qualen's men, his fight with Qualen on a helicopter, and the lovely closing shot of the mountains.Cliffhanger is by no means motion picture poetry. But it's not a bad way to spend an hour and a half, and you do cheer along when some of the villains get their comeuppance. You just wish it were a bit more coherent.But then, they can't all be Die Hard, can they? "},{"Title":"one of Stallone's best and a great movie.","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" There are those who hate Sylvester Stallone no matter what he does and/or says. While I have many movies that he has done that are awful, CLIFFHANGER is and an aptly film that is terrific from start to finish. Stallone gives a cautiously measured performance as a rescue climber who seems to have lost his edge after a horrifying accident. When a Federal Treasury plane crash lands in the mountians with a band of ruthless murderers and thieves on board, it is up to the rescuers to do what they do best. They find out about the plane's cargo and it's passengers only too late. Renny Harlin directs CLIFFHANGER with style and energy to burn. Stallone, Michael Rooker, and Janine Turner are the rescuers and John Lithgow leads his band of criminals through the mountians looking for three suitcases filled with untraceable cash. CLIFFHANGER has some incredible scenery and camera work and it's script is literate and intelligent.I do have one curious question? Was it really necessary to have Lithgow speak with an British accent? Never to quibble over technicalities, CLIFFHANGER is a solid action picture; fun, exciting, and well worth 2 hours of you time. CLIFFHANGER-***1/2 out 4. "},{"Title":"Die Hard on a mountain","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is pretty much Die Hard, but on a mountain. After the original Die Hard there were some pretty terrible clones, Passenger 57 and Under Siege. Under SIege had a sequel which was better than the first, the only difference in those clones is that they used martial arts and different settings, the die hard sequels didn't even stay in one place!!! This film is pretty much Die Hard, but on a mountain and with Stallone replacing Bruce Willis and adding Michael Rooker as a sidekick. The villain is deadly and evil, and there are some pretty creative action scenes in this, most were fist fights but that doesn't matter. This remains a classic Stallone film with great acting (even from Stallone) and a great villain whom is really cold hearted. I expected less from this film but i got way more. The only problem is that Stallone went half the movie in a tee shirt on snowy mountains and was never really cold. still, great movie, see it to believe it!! "},{"Title":"Stallone Is Good In Mountain Actioner","Date":"19 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Renny Harlin directs this white knuckle thriller starring Sylvester Stallone as a mountain climber/rescuer who is having second thoughts about his work. This is due to the fact that he loses his friend's girlfriend while trying to rescue her, and she falls to her death. Stallone is then in conflict with his friend, Michael Rooker, for the remainder of the film. Meanwhile a group of international wackos, of course, have hijacked a plane containing $100,000,000 dollars; they end up crashing into a mountain while the money, which is enclosed in suitcases, ends up scattered over the mountains. Stallone is good and believable, most of the time, as the rescuer taking a second chance in life. Michael Rooker provides tension as Stallone's friend who feels Stallone is responsible for his girlfriend's death. John Lithgow is the leader of the crooks after the money. Lithgow is absolutely menacing as a man with no conscience who only looks out for himself and the money. The movie was filmed in the Italian Alps substituting for the Rocky Mountains, and the eye-popping stunts, fantastic cinematography, group of characters, and fast pace action keep us interested. However, the film is rather formulaic in its execution, and the story is not always believable, but it is enjoyable nevertheless. *** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Loud, violent and hugely entertaining","Date":"27 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" CLIFFHANGER Aspect ratio 2.391 (Panavision)Sound format 6-track Dolby Stereo SR(35mm and 70mm release prints) Members of a rescue team are taken hostage by ruthless criminals searching for stolen money lost somewhere in the Rocky Mountains.After an unpleasant opening sequence in which Sylvester Stallone's fearless mountaineer loses one of his friends in a tragic accident (staged and edited to maximise the suffering of the victim prior to death), Renny Harlin's bombastic potboiler retreats into familiar blockbuster territory, as Stallone and co-stars Michael Rooker (HENRY PORTRAIT OF A SERIAL KILLER) and Janine Turner (TV's Northern Exposure) fall victim to psychopath John Lithgow and his gang of ruthless assassins. Their cartoonish villainy is matched by Stallone's equally flamboyant heroism, which finds him dressed in the flimsiest of attire in sub-zero temperatures whilst dodging bullets and missiles of every conceivable description! It sounds ridiculous - and it is! - but Harlin throws logic and subtlety to the wind and stages the crowd-pleasing action scenes with expert precision. Eye-popping cinematography by Alex Thomson. Co-stars include Ralph Waite, Paul Winfield, Craig Fairbrass and Leon. "},{"Title":"Top 5 action movie of the 90's","Date":"25 May 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie is just great. It's entertaining from beginning to the end, you're always gonna be at the edge of your seat throughout the entire movie. In my opinion this movie is highly underrated by the critics.Sly suits perfectly into the role of the well trained mountain-rescue guy Gabe Walker. Together with him Michael Rooker makes a great appearance as Hal Tucker. And then, John Lithgow, one of the best performances I've seen of him as a villain.And the fact that 75% of the movie takes place at a mountain with a whole lot of bad guys on it makes way for a lot of action! Brilliant movie! "},{"Title":"Stallone's last decent actioner","Date":"28 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  CLIFFHANGER (1993) *** Sylvester Stallone, Janine Turner, John Lithgow, Michael Rooker, Ralph Waite, Leon, Max Perlich.  Great action sequences are this film's assets thanks to director Renny Harlin and at its center is Stallone as a mountain climbing guide whose personal demons are best tested when he must rescue a friend form a group of international terrorists in the Colorado Rockies led by sadistic Lithgow (in a wonderfully over-the-top performance).  Filmed on location in the Italian Alps and with Stallone doing most of the hair-raising stunts makes for an authentic agorophobic's nightmare.  Hang ON! "},{"Title":"Good movie... solid watch for 2nd or 3rd time!","Date":"2 November 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed it a lot... in fact, I saw it a bunch of times. And, guess what? I enjoyed it EVERY, SINGLE time.Great job to all the people that made this movie possible.Not a bad movie to watch @ 1am on a late Wednesday night (or early Thursday morning, depending on how you wanna look at it).As for the cast, all of them put in a solid effort. I'm a big fan of Sylvester Stallone (especially from Over the Top and Rocky and Rambo). So, I guess this opinion is a little biased, but they all put in an excellent effort.I enjoyed it and so will you! "},{"Title":"great action film","Date":"16 March 2002","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The action and suspense hardly let up for a moment in this Sylvester Stallone film. After a botched attempt to steal money ends up with the suitcases containing the dough scattered across the Rocky Mountains, a bunch of criminals (led by John Lithgow in a terrific performance) fake a distress call and make Stallone and one of his friends track the money down. Stallone, still recovering from a failed rescue attempt at the start of the film, has no choice. I thought this movie was good.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"How can you even take it seriously?","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  (Spoiler included, some would say)This film is not possible to take seriously. At some parts it is so awfully stupid that I just can't help laughing at it all. Try me for the sequence where Stallone's character jumps some 20 meters with full climbing gear or (and this is really my favorite) snuffs a bad guy by sticking him onto a stalactite. Yeah, what ungodly strength did he muster to accomplish such feats? I dunno, but he sure gives reality a run for the money. "}{"Title":"Stallone's last really good movie.","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Well Demolition Man had its moments, but for me, this was Stallone's last good movie.  Part of the reason is the great scenery here as the mountain shots are breathtaking and they were really good in the theater.  This one is a lot better than the recent mountain movie Vertical Limit in that it has a much better plot.  In this one some guys who steal money from a plane and end up crashing on the mountains.  Lithgow is the villain here and he is great.  They get the mountain rescue team to come help them.  Stallone who has been out of the loop because of an accident also goes to lend a hand.  The thieves basically hold Stallone and his friend captive and get them to locate their money, which is in three suitcases on the mountain.  Stallone gets away and proceeds to get in the thieves' way any chance he can get.  I can't believe someone thought the action scenes were dull, but to each his own.  I think this movie is great to watch and it has one heck of a conclusion. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"27 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The movie is shot very well. One of Harlins best films. One of the last films to have many action scenes filmed without green screens. There are some but not what you see today.. The story is solid, the casting excellent. To me one of the films underestimated. One of Stallones most under looked films. The villain John Lithgow was also a great casting choice. John Lithgow is a great actor and brought much to the story. Reny Harlin is known for fast action and being physically demanding on his actors. Clifhanger is thrilling and keeps you on the edge of your seat. I think one of the overlooked films of that year. It's also one of those films that stands the test of time even on 2016. "},{"Title":"Cold blooded killers!","Date":"26 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Finnish director Renny Harlin, whose career gradually nosedived after the massive financial disaster that was pirate adventure Cutthroat Island, really should have stuck to the freezing cold environment he clearly knew so well having already scored a massive hit with his sub-zero Die Hard sequel in 1990, he had an even bigger box-office success with snow-bound action adventure Cliffhanger, which starred Sylvester Stallone as mountain ranger Gabe Walker, who unwittingly finds himself pitted against a ruthless gang of plane hijackers searching for their lost cargo of cash.Essentially Die Hard on a mountain, with Stallone's Walker the fly in the hijackers' ointment, the plot really isn't all that original, but there is so much else to enjoy about this slam-bang slice of '90s action the spectacular, rugged, outdoor setting, marvellously captured by cinematographer Alex Thomson; the gratuitous, bloody, brutal violence; the entertaining performances&#x97;John Lithgow is a blast, relishing his role as loathsome leader of the baddies, Michael Rooker is as great as always as Gabe's pal Tucker, and Eastenders star Craig Fairbrass hams it up a treat as Cockney thug Delmar; and, last but not least, Harlin's faultless handling of the action, starting with a masterful exercise in tension that will cause vertigo sufferers to have sleepless nights, and finishing with a wonderfully overblown set-piece involving a helicopter hanging off a cliff-face. "},{"Title":"Some mountain climbing thrills","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Gabe Walker (Sylvester Stallone) is an expert mountain climber. While rescuing injured friend Hal Tucker (Michael Rooker), equipment failure causes the death of Hal's girlfriend. Gabe is haunted by the death and blames himself. Eight months later, a government plane transporting bulk money is hijacked. However the 3 suitcases of $100M are lost in the aerial transfer. The criminal gang led by Eric Qualen (John Lithgow) crash lands. Gabe and Hal are tricked into rescuing the gang, and are kidnapped to track down the suitcases.The money transfer looks silly when the whole hijacking is suppose to be thrilling. However the climbing chase in the mountains has its thrills and its spills. In the end, it's a fun little ride and probably better than one might expect from this standard B-movie. "},{"Title":"Stallone's best movie in the 90's","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhanger is quite underrated action movie . It's a mix between The Eiger Sanction and Die hard . I think that from all Die hard clones this is the best one. It's refreshing to see an action movie set in mountains . It allowed the filmmakers for some nice ideas and a breathtaking views.This is Stallone's finest performance along with the Rocky and Rambo series. He fits his character &#x96; Gabe , a mountain rescuer with troubled past &#x96; perfectly . He's character isn't a ex-marine , ex-soldier or cop , but a normal human . That's what makes it interesting to watch how will he be able to defeat the bad guys. He's got solid support from Michael Rooker (Hal) and Janine Turner (Jesse). John Lithgow is great as the cold blooded leader of bandits &#x96; Quialan. This movie and Ricochet proves that comedy actors can give a great serious performance , only if somebody needs to give them a chance.The best scene of the movie happens at the beginning . It always makes hair on my back stand up. It's a really thrilling scene that takes audience by surprise , because we were expecting a different end to it. I also have to mention the final showdown between Stallone , Lithgow and the helicopter.Cliffhanger is directed with professionalism by Renny Harlin (Die hard 2) . The screenplay offers some nice laughs and twists. The whole movie is photographed well and looks good , even if sometimes it's obvious that some scenes were filmed in studio. Also you have to suspend your belief few times ( the unrealistic destruction of airplane , Stallone not freezing to death despite wearing almost nothing) , but after all this is an action movie.Cliffhanger should be rated higher. I give it 8/10. "},{"Title":"action","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A veteran mountain climber / search and rescue man loses a woman in a rescue attempt in the mountains, and I guilt ridden when she falls to her death. flash forward a few years. he disappears into isolation, but when a group of bad guys loses 3 briefcases full of hundreds of millions of dollars he comes out of seclusion to help out his friends. he reluctantly teams up with the man who was gonna marry the girl he lost years ago, John Lithgow heads up the bads guys, with Michael Rooker, the bad guys have lost briefcases which need recovering before the FBI gets' involved,, add in a crooked DEA agent and you have a movie with a tons of action,, great footgage of avalanches, lot's of gunplay , twists, and drama,, one of the better action films to come out of the 90's if you ask me,, definitely a perfect movie for Sylvester Stallone to shine in. but Litgow steals the show for me. "},{"Title":"Dangles and Dangles","Date":"3 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" True to its Title, a lot of folks do hang from a lot of cliffs, and they also hang from other things as well. Ropes, bridges, helicopters, trees, ladders, and credibility also hangs in the balance. This type of thing can be charm- fully exciting, Wow-Cool stuff.This one delivers quite a bit of that. But somehow nothing seems to work very well. The broad expanse of the landscape is beautifully shot but adds little to the menace. It is more breathtaking than, well, breathtaking in a suspenseful kinda way. The Villain, is usually a diabolical genius in the Genre, but here he is so stilted and unannotated (maybe he was freezing) that John Lithgow's usually creepy self is reduced to playing Second-Psycho to His Gang of the more Psychopathic.The Star and the Director have done much better Work elsewhere and go through the mountains motionless and everyone on the set seems surprisingly uninspired. In the end it is mildly entertaining and worth a view, but there are so many Action Movies that are better, that this one can only be considered lost in the Wilderness of its contemporaries. "},{"Title":"Flawed but still an enjoyable romp - 78%","Date":"7 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I had planned, as part of my plan for my 500th review, to watch one of the all-time iconic pictures - Casablanca - but in the event, I wasn't in the mood. I needed something brainless to cheer me up and figured that a Stallone pic would do the trick. I know, I shouldn't have expected to be as entertained or enriched as I might have been with Bogie and the others but sometimes, you just need to disengage the brain and settle down to watch fancy stunts, excessively macho fight sequences, cheesy one-liners and ridiculously silly plots. And this film delivered exactly what I ordered and for once, it was a relief to watch a Stallone film without that nagging sense of cheapness that normally accompanies such outings.Sly plays Gabe, a rugged member of a small mountain rescue team who's struggling with guilt after failing to save his best friend Hal's (Michael Rooker) girlfriend. A year later and Gabe returns to the area in order to win over his old flame and fellow colleague Jessie (Janine Turner) but is interrupted by a distress call. Deciding to conquer his demons, Gabe joins up with Hal in order to locate and rescue some hikers trapped by a fast-approaching storm. But the distress call is actually an attempt by professional criminals, led by Eric Qualen (John Lithgow), to recover three missing suitcases filled with stolen money and escape the mountain using Hal and Gabe as their guides...Although it is a much better film than this, Cliffhanger is rather reminiscent of another Nineties action blockbuster with a daft plot, Speed in that it balances ludicrous plotting with some half-decent action. The film is amazingly shot with some stunning scenery and pretty physical action amid the peaks and precarious drops. The plot, however, is as clearly nonsensical as some of the action scenes (I love the fact that Gabe will climb sheer cliffs in his shoes, despite the fact he has crampons in his shoulder-mounted tool-kit!) and Lithgow, as the lead baddie, is frankly hilarious as he hams it up with his dodgy English accent. Stallone, to his credit, gives the role a fair game and most of the stunt work looks pretty good too. So it ticks all the technical boxes for an all-out action pic - it's stupid, predictable and laden with impossible plot contrivances and action sequences. All I wanted was a bit more thought behind it.And yet... despite the flaws, there is something else that is harder to measure. It isn't your regular action movie - gun play is kept to a minimum and the mountain setting offers something different to the thousands of identikit action pics out there. Cliffhanger doesn't pretend to be anything other than your boys-night-in rental offering, a heady cocktail of stunt-work and machismo without anything much to really think about like plot points. In short, it delivers precisely what you expect it to but without that usual sense of being short-changed watching a Stallone pic. Normally, I find myself wishing I could watch a Schwarzenegger film instead of whatever Sly flick is showing but not so this time. And while it may not become as iconic as Casablanca, it's still a great action movie that fans of the genre would appreciate. "},{"Title":"Yup, there actually is someone dangling over a cliff every so often in this","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sly stars as Gabe, a rescuer in the Rockies, who fails to save the girlfriend of Hal, after which they both blame him for it(and really, that's the entire character of Stallone in this right there... and he's surrounded by an equally underdeveloped cast... if Lithgow is an enjoyable, if bland, villain). So he doesn't climb for a few months, and then goes back to the town, where his ex(who doesn't think it's his fault) sends him to meet his former friend(so they can discuss the subject of who should feel guilty for it) up on the mountain, where they're both headed to check out what turns out to be a faked distress call, sent by a gang of thieves(who, with the help of a moustache who betrayed his fellow agents(of the government), are looking for three suitcases full of millions of dollars, somewhere in the area(they have tracking devices)) who are prepared for almost any situation, somehow(I guess they expected their heist to go wrong...). The two try to sabotage their efforts, and it plays out like you'd expect. This is essentially an average 90's Hollywood action-thriller, if it's slighty better than that. That comes from a few aspects. For one, it's genuinely rather exciting. The pacing is tight, with next to no time wasted, and though some of the surprises lead to nothing, it keeps you on the edge of your seat. They got pretty creative with setting up scenarios, most of them credible, where nature is a real threat to these people. Heights, cold, drowning, being eaten, even claustrophobia is utilized to increase the tension(this must have been amazing to see in theaters!). The FX are highly impressive... they must have used a lot of stunts and practical effects. Everything comes off as realistic. There is overkill in this, and it does hit most of the major clichés. The bad guys are obnoxious, have no personality other than that and are constantly arguing(with their hostage, the turncoat and *each other*!). Dialog is deliciously dumb. The performances are decent, I'd say it's the writing that lets the actors down. This is also incredibly filmed at times. If the camera merely showed us the death-defying feats, it would be terrifying. But it goes further than that. The best example is when we arc around Sylvester scaling in the intro sequence. There is graphic, bloody and disturbing violence as well as plenty of strong language in this. I recommend this to anyone who enjoys turning off their brain to take in their entertainment. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Enjoyable romp","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" With Cliff Hanger, Stallone returns to what he does best, the non-stop action with the muscle-bound hero in the centre of it all.This actioner is a cross between Rambo (with Sly flexing his muscles while copping a beating), Deadly Pursuit (the film is based in the Rockies) and Die Hard (with the suave but ruthless terrorists - or rather thieves - led by John Lithgow).All the very fast paced action is of course over the top, but its still a lot of fun, whilst the script (from Michael France) actually lends the movie a little depth and credibility, even though some human elements of the pic are left unresolved. I guess we can't expect too much depth from a film like this . Enjoyable romp.Thursday, July 22, 1993 - Hoyts Cinema Centre Melbourne "}{"Title":"Another Stallone action classic...but was it always this cheesy?","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I love Stallone films, Sylvester Stallone is one of my faves...mock if you will. Cliffhanger I had seen many, many years ago and considered it a Stallone must see and it was only recently I sat down to watch it again in order to review it. It was still the guns blazing, vertigo inducing action film I remember with absolutely stunning shots of mountain tops and amazing stunt climbing (all done without the benefit of computer generation or trick shots.) What I was a little surprised about was that I don't remember the stunts and some performances being so cheesy and I don't mean Stallone. I mean I give the film makers kudos for keeping it real by not doing a lot of over the top, ridiculous stunts and having the actors actually battle it out against each other but there were shots and scenes that were almost laughable by today's action standards that show this film wouldn't have a prayer if it were released today. If you read a little about Cliffhanger the costs were astronomical and they did so much of it without the aid of special effects or trick camera shooting but some of it just seems so cheesy watching it now. Still the story is good and most of the performances are very strong and you definitely get attached to the main characters. It's not quite the non-stop, adrenaline pumping action film I used to think it was...in fact so many of the stunts and scenery are so much alike that it almost drags just a little. Still it's unique in that way as well.Sylvester Stallone headlines the cast during his peak (no pun intended.) Say what you will about Stallone but the man can command the screen and is a powerful presence. I happen to think he can be a very versatile actor and has this way of, even in action films such as this one, being a very emotional and important character. Stallone also co-wrote the script and put a lot of time, effort and money into the film. He does a terrific job as disgraced mountain climber Gabe Walker who left it all behind after being unable to save his best friend's girlfriend from plummeting to her death. He returns to the Mountains just in time to get caught up in a high stakes robbery for millions that has been inadvertently spread all over the mountain range. Michael Rooker is also really good in his role as Hal Tucker, the best friend and fellow mountain rescue ranger. Tucker has some incredible stunts to perform and is under duress through the whole film but is really a hero as well. Janine Turner is Stallone's love interest who was left behind by him when he took off from the mountain. Turner is decent and they establish a strong relationship between them early on but she kind of comes across as a little bland, and looks like a deer in the head lights and kind of just weighs everything down. Her character is important to Stallone's character arc but she doesn't really succeed in being all that significant. John Lithgow, plays blood thirsty super villain Eric Qualen and I KNOW Lithgow can play evil and I know he is a very versatile and brilliant actor and he has his moments of really being creepy but he also has a bit of a cheesy performance going on. His accent and the way he performs certain lines and situations comes across as being cheesy and takes away from how evil he really is or could be. Stallone and Lithgow don't have that good vs evil, hero vs nemesis chemistry that I would have hoped for because I think they could both pull it off. Rex Linn plays almost a better super villain as the sleazy treasury agent working with Qualen. But his character is very whiny and a weak villain the way they wrote him.The big draw to Cliffhanger is exactly what you'd expect...the cliffhanging. Renny Harlin did an absolutely incredible job filming the breath taking views from these mountains. The stunts were first rate and all done with actual people. Because this is such an isolated set to work with it almost feels a little monotonous by the end which is unfortunate because that doesn't make it any less beautiful but you can only enjoy a shoot out in a cave or on the side of a ledge so many times. There is no shortage of gruesome deaths and a few really intense moments but it never really reaches the status of a truly remarkable action classic. Still if you're a Stallone fan, there is no avoiding it and you'll enjoy it. 7/10 "},{"Title":"You Bostid!","Date":"30 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" For slack-jawed amazement--and I don't mean that as a good thing--there's Renny Harlin's Cliffhanger, a movie that will leave you dehydrated and short of breath.From laughing until you're crying.I don't think I've ever seen such a high-budget piece of sheer (as in rock walls) nonsense, an action-adventure story so filled with bad acting, ridiculous stunts, and dialogue a group of fifth-graders would be embarrassed to take credit for.It's really that bad, folks! If you haven't seen it, I recommend not paying for the rental. It shows up on one of the Turner channels every once in a while and also on Arts and Entertainment (although this movie is neither artful nor entertaining, unless you like wallowing in this sort of idiocy).The only thing worth paying attention to in Cliffhanger is, maybe, Janine Turner, the actress who gained fame in TV's Northern Exposure. She is a lovely woman and she looks good in a snug (only in the butt--go figure!) jumpsuit. Possibly you'll enjoy John Lithgow, too. He tries vainly to commit career suicide by Stallone movie. Lithgow chews whole mountains of scenery as the EEVILL mastermind behind the whatever it is that brings Sylvester Stallone to the rescue. He keeps calling Stallone a bostid. Can't find that one in my spell-check, but I'll keep trying.Folks, I'd be kicking a dead horse if I went on with this.Lucky horse! "},{"Title":"Stallone is in top form","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhanger is a great film. I'm a Stallone fan.This film, admittedly, is not the best of the genre but it is entertaining if you set aside the obvious parallels to films that came before. In fact, the script intentionally incorporates previous films by references. The one at the end was nail biting.It could have been better in a few places and it certainly could have been worse. Better have a little more animated performance from Stallone's partner, perhaps a little less gore and sadistic behavior by the Lithgow group and a bit more believability in the fire-fights. Kudos to Mr. Harlin for keeping it from becoming worse! My wife and I enjoyed watching this film and would recommend it to any free-thinking adults looking for a fairly good film to watch after the kids are in bed. Don't forget the popcorn. "},{"Title":"Easy-going action, good reel","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This flick is Mr Harlins first (and best) collaboration with Sly Stallone, and a fairly good one, too. Stallone does one of his better performances and it is fun seeing John Lithgow (best known for his goofy character in the TV-series 3rd rock from the sun) as a ruthless bad-ass killer. Cliffhanger is very well executed, delivers some good performance and keeps you on the edge of your seat throughout the whole movie. There is no message or philosophy in this one, it is a straightforward (or perhaps straight downward...) bang bang hang hang action reel. The script is a bit thin at times, but hey, just how much can you ask for? "},{"Title":"An action-flick to pass time","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I'm not a fan of Sylvester Stallone's movies, but Cliffhanger is definitely one of his better works. Yes, his acting never has been impressive and he has no chemistry with the other actors whatsoever, especially the leading lady. The villain's plot is, if you really look at it, just too ambitious.Speaking of the villains, the group is plainly filled with cliché characters. There's the black dude, the corrupt cop, the mastermind and his woman, and for some reason, a Brit. Doesn't exactly scream harmony, does it? And personally, John Glithgow as villain is laughable, especially if you've seen Orange County lately.Nonetheless, Cliffhanger is quite enjoyable, particularly the scenery and the climbing sequences. You'll get acrophobia from the get-go. Anyway, if you don't mind Stallone's acting and cheesy lines, watch Cliffhanger if you have nothing better to do. "},{"Title":"Hold on tight !","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Two mountain climbers fall into the hands of a gang of dangerous criminals whose aeroplane has crashed on the mountainside.  Between climbs, falls, bad weather and a band of tough villains, Sylvester Stallone has no time to dawdle in this spectacular and brutal thriller.  An action film through and through. "},{"Title":"Hang on and experience the ride of your life","Date":"6 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Hold on for dear life as Sylvester Stallone takes you on the ride of a lifetime. With extreme non-stop action, gripping and suspense-filled scenes; Stallone has proven why he is a SUPERSTAR with his role in Cliffhanger. I knew I would be in for an action packed treat as soon as I realized Stallone was starring in this film; however, I failed to realized how great the other actors were in this film.Stallone is joined by Michael Rooker, Janine Turner and John Lithgow as they produce quite possibly the best action film of 1993. The cast is perfectly selected and chosen to play their parts. It was a joy to see a reversal of roles. I'm not accustomed to seeing Rooker as a hero or Lithgow as a villain; it is a refreshing change.I couldn't have asked for a better villain than Lithgow. He is one of the most ruthless and cunning villains I've seen on screen. I enjoyed how he never let anything get in his way and spared no expense to get what he wanted. I'm glad I got the chance to see him play the villain and hope I see it again.Turner gives tremendous support to this film and creates an atmosphere where it is enjoyable to watch. She is the heat that warms a cold room because everytime she comes on screen it seems as though it is hot. It is a delight to see an incredible actress to have that much power. Rooker makes up the other the third of talented actors that makes Cliffhanger a delight to watch. Rooker brings a fresh view to the film as well as credibility; all I have to say is awesome work, Michael.There is an avalanche of talent in Cliffhanger. Stallone is an unstoppable force and incredible action hero. After watching Cliffanger, I'm convinced that Stallone was the only man for this job. Stallone had the fire in his eyes for this part that told me he means business. Only true action stars have the fire I saw; furthermore, I was fascinated with the strength, power and conviction with which he took on the role.Another reason I enjoyed Cliffhanger was the writing because it contained unbelievable action sequences, a man dealing with redemption and dialogue is awesome. I was impressed to see that Stallone also co-wrote the script because he really has a knack for what action fans want.Cliffhanger is super-charged, heart-racing, suspense-filled action thrill ride that you should take because at the end it will leave you asking for more.     "},{"Title":"In all sense of the title!","Date":"13 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone returns to the die hard style action movies with one so full of suspense and tension its a cliffhanger!. Keeping you on the edge of your seat this is a better Stallone film. In his first action film since Rocky V it was great to see the action man doing what he does best instead of comedies that just didnt suit him.Here he is a down on his luck mountain rescuer who is called in to save victims of a plane crash in the mountains but he only thing is these arent any old plane travellers buy thieves who have tried to steal large cases of cash from a federal plane in the skies. The only thing is that om taking the money from one plane to the next they lost all 3 cases and then caught up in a storm crash and have to find the money as well finding a way off the mountain.John Lithgow is the main villain and if he doesnt get to play a James Bond bad guy, heres his best chance. Like many action movies the villain is extremely menacing. A style created by James Bond films and their villains. He plays a very interesting character and acts the part well.This film is better than Stallones other film of the year 'Demolition Man' as the action is so good and so much better. A film that will keep anyone with a fast moving mind or life excited. Fantastic tough guy film and a film which has been considered bad and stupid but which is a tough guy film which counts as brilliant and if this is bad and stupid, I just wonder what the same people think about Star Wars as this is so many times better. "},{"Title":"Not that bad... not that good, either","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Let's face it, this is as good as Renny Harlin is ever going to get, which is pretty sad considering that this film rarely gets above two and a half out of five. Considering all the drivel that spews out of Leon's mouth (do all Afro-Americans speak such s***, or is that just how Hollywood wants me to think?), I was waiting patiently for Delmar to gut him like a fish. I was massively disappointed, even though I cheered when he was killed in a highly impossible manner by Gabe.I think the best thing that can be said for the film is that it is beautifully photographed, and wins the case against panning and scanning on its own quite convincingly. Do NOT, under any circumstances, watch this film on TV broadcast, as you will be missing out on as much as fifty percent of the picture. Get the DVD instead, as this film simply demands to be shown a) in its proper aspect ratio and b) with glorious 169 enhancement. Anyone who tells you otherwise should be banned from commenting about films for life. "},{"Title":"THIS one put Sly back on the map for ADVENTURE & ACTION!","Date":"1 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  THIS was an exciting film! The 1st time I saw it, I did not know HOW it was gonna turn out! Sly's a ROCKY Mt. Ranger w/his girlfriend (1-time REAL ex-girlfriend, Janine Turner) & buddy named Hal. After Hal's girlfriend dies from a fall off a mt. that Sly thinks is his fault, he takes a leave of absence from everyone & everything to mourn. When he returns, he returns for his girl but she spurns him. After menacingly evil John Lithgow & Co. kidnap Hal & then Sly's girl, he decides to take up the challenge to see if he can save them. And how does he proceed to do it? Clad in pants, hiking boots, some equipment & a tee-shirt! THAT'S IT!! They took his coat away from him & he gets nothing else to wear throughout the film except an old grimy ripped up sweater he finds in a 'safe house' out on the side of a mt! Oh yea - & a vest at the end of the film when he's fighting Lithgow on a helicopter! THOSE scenes are spectacular!I liked the computer tracking devices used to find the money that flew out of the hijacked airplanes in the beginning of the film. Very 'up-to-date'. Lots of snow & great scenery in this one. Leon is a fine treat, as always, although he plays one of the bad guys. Ralph Waite (the Walton's father) is the helicopter pilot & lends a sense of maturity & stableness to the film. Janine Turner is sure not the actress one would choose for the look of her & Sly as a couple, but she has a spunk that works well w/roles like this. Not the 'Oh, No! I broke a nail!' type girl.Anyway, see this one when it comes on TV! It IS exciting & will make you remember what Sly's career is really all about - ACTION! "}{"Title":"Sly climbs the highest of the Rockies (get it?)","Date":"21 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  One of Sly's best action flicks when Rambo isn't concerned, Cliffhanger is guaranteed to push you over the edge! Sly plays Walker, a rescue worker swimming in his guilt, tries to stop a greedy maniac named Qualen (played with grease by John Lithglow) and his cohorts from finding several caches full of greenbacks hidden in the Rocky Mts. Sly gets his kicks, with having human weaknesses in this film, finally (he gets frostbite), and hangs on to dear life.  "},{"Title":"High strung fun!","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I instantly became a big fan of director Renny Harlin after Die Hard 2 and this movie is another great mark in his career.I really liked this movie, together with Rambo and Rocky it makes it one of my fave Stallone movies. Stallone is cool as a mountain climber,that is forced to battle a bunch of baddies in search for some lost loot on a mountain. The film has a spectacular opening and some very cool action scenes.And John Lithgow really seems to have fun chewing up his scenes as the badass leader.If you haven't seen it rent it and be surprised. "},{"Title":"Great movie!!!!!","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sly this is your best movie no question about it!!! The scenes from one of our wonderful  states Colorado were awesome! John Lithgow  played a really great bad guy but there  was no way he could have beat the  crap out of Sly cause at first I couldn't  picture Lithgow as a bad guy but after  this I was wrong. Basically all the bad  guys were terrific. Caroline Goodall and  Rex Linn did the best along with Lithgow  and even the english dude was good. I  give this 5 ***** stars all the way!!!!!  "},{"Title":"Sheer Entertainment","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Cliffhanger is a thrill ride, with fantastic stunts and non-stop excitement.  The opening sequence sets the pace for the mile-a-minute action.  Alex Thomson's photography is unbelievable and makes you feel like you are really hanging from a cliff.  The story is sufficient and the content makes you forget about any lack of orginality or bad dialogue.Renny Harlin brings life to a lot of very entertaining action sequences including an air-to-air transfer that is nothing short of astonishing.  It is good to see Stallone back at what he does best.  Lithgow is an impressive villain, very diabolical and heartless.  Turner was a disappointment but the entire love story took an appropriate back seat to the action.Cliffhanger is just supposed to be summer fun and it definitely delivers. It keeps its fast-pace and builds to a very exciting climax.  It is a formula action film at its best.  If you just want to be entertained for 2 hours and not have to worry about thinking about the complicated story, Cliffhanger is the way to go. "},{"Title":"Excellent film","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone plays Gabe Walker who hasn't recovered from a terrible climbing accident, so when he's asked to search for a group, missing in the Rockies, he is initially reluctant. Adding to this the fact he has to work with an old friend, who now hates him (his friend´s girlfriend died in the climbing accident). Gabe is not a happy man. Unknown to Gabe and his 'friend', the group they are out to rescue are armed and dangerous. The group needs a local expert to locate and recover millions of stolen money. This film has a great deal of suspense and the action is great on the dizzying, snow-covered cliffs. And John Lithgow is a great villain. Renny Harlin came to this project with one other action\thriller under his belt - DIE HARD 2, and he knows how to serve up the action. Since CLIFFHANGER, he has made a couple others - THE LONG KISS GOODNIGHT, and last year's disastrous CUTTHROAT ISLAND. He knows how to devise exciting, and original predicaments for his heroes to struggle out of. What CLIFFHANGER is missing in suspense and snappy dialogue, it almost makes up for with pyrotechnics and amazing stunt work. So this is a good action flick that provides a large dose of pyrotechnics and amazing stunt work. If it's action you want - it's action you'll get. Great film. "},{"Title":"Awesome!!!!","Date":"7 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I'm a big Sylvester Stallone fan, I have seen most of his movies and have only disliked one (Stop or My Mom Will Shoot).  Although I should mention that I refuse to watch Rhinestone, because I know it's going to be bad.  His best movies are still his more dramatic ones, (Rocky, the underrated Lock Up, and Copland).  But his action movies are all cool and Cliffhanger is one of his best, if not his best action movie.  Stallone (Demolition Man, Daylight) plays an expert mountain climber who used to work on an emergency rescue team, until while trying to rescue a friend he lost his grip and she died.  But now in present time, a group of terrorists try to steal millions of dollars on a treasury plane (in a fabulous sequence).  They get the money out of the plane but lose it in transfer to their plane.  Their plane also crashes, but one of them had a tracker on the suitcases, so they fake a call to the emergency rescue team asking for help.  Stallone is convinced to go with Michael Rooker (Deceiver, The Trigger Effect) and help the people. When they arrive the leader of the terrorists, played by John Lithgow (Raising Cain, At Play in the Fields of the Lord) orders them to find the cases.  Soon Stallone gets separated from everyone and tries to save Rooker and himself and kill the terrorists.  This movie isn't very believable, but most movies aren't.  The action is awesome and exciting.  Stallone is, as always, good as the hero.  Lithgow is a great villain.  This movie is awesome and I highly recommend it.     "},{"Title":"Stunning Photography And Action","Date":"23 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Spoilers Ahead;The movie was attacked for its acting and violence. Come on, it is an action movie. If you want great acting watch Citizen Kane. This has some of the best photography and climbing scenes in any movie. It has the requisite for all great action movies A Great Villain. Lithgow is a skilled actor and he really holds the story up here. I love that line,you know what real love is? Sacrifice. Then he blows his squeeze away, Mr. Ruthless. He is so dark in this movie that it keeps your interest. The henchmen are constantly fighting amongst themselves just like real life. Look, I like The Sting but criminals are none too fond of each other they really do not wink and touch their noses like in that silly movie. These guys act like real criminals; they hate each other, are constantly arguing and worried about their pay. The romance between Stallone and TV girl is thankfully short though there are a few painful scenes with her lecturing him on his life, how to handle the grief and his buddy's vendetta about his girlfriend buying it at the beginning. The star of the movie is the climbing scenes. They have to be seen to be believed. There were lots of attacks on the movie. Yes, it is a Renny Harlin movie which means turn off your brain there will be big gaps in logic in some of the action scenes. Especially the final showdown between Gabe and Lithgow will have some, I don't think so moments. For all of its flaws, once it gets going it doesn't stop. Compared to some of Sly's other dreadful movies, like Cobra, Over The Top, or the one with his mom this is a masterpiece. The shots on the mountains will evoke gasps out of your living room when you watch it. Lithgow is a great villain and he is surrounded by a good group of henchmen not in the best of moods. There is a little humor but not much. Sly's partner has some fun with Soccer Boy before he throws him off the cliff. The movie is a bit slow at the beginning where Sly has to deal with the guilt from the opening shot of his buddy's girlfriend taking the big fall. It is a very short period; then it really gets moving. Enjoy it for what it is An Excellent Action Movie. "},{"Title":"Cliffhanger AKA Potboiler","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The sweeping orchestral music (probably the highlight of the film) prepares us for an epic and exciting film and the opening scene does not disappoint. One may quibble as to how a girl who is afraid of heights manages to climb to the top of a high mountain. That said, her acting is almost perfect, with a look of genuine fear through-out. The whole scene with her swinging helpless on the line is grippingly (pun not intended) done and the outcome was a surprise to me, at least.Alas the film then falls more steeply than she does. A cast of cookie cutter homicidal villains make a failed (and very bloody) robbery of a plane and the booty is scattered over a mountain range. making it a bugger to retrieve. This crew of cut-out villains are led by John Lithgow (affecting a curious English accent which makes him sound like Stewie Griffin)and comprise two other genuine Brits, a black guy who looks strangely out of place, and an angry bald white man. They all hate each other and are quite prepared to murder each other in cold blood, so one wonders how they ever got together. This is clearly bad script writing 101, and one can imagine the script-writers (which include the great Stallone himself) saying we must have conflict between the characters, but it is so overdone that it almost becomes comical.However there is so much swearing and gore that laughing is quite out of the question. Obviously Stallone swings in to save the day, although not without a number of innocents being mowed down.This is one of those movies where all the creativity goes into devising the most gruesome deaths possible and none goes into the script. The script is actually completely ludicrous, a mere peg to hang these gruesome scenes on. Possibly the most gory and ridiculous is the death of the black guy. In a display of superhuman strength, Stallone Clean and Jerks him to be impaled on a stalagmite.The final fight between Stallone and Lithgow is impressively shot. "},{"Title":"Action and adventure in the Mountains","Date":"13 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is undoubtedly the best movie of Renny Harlin , one of the best masterpieces of action films of the nineties, is one of my favorite movies, this is a perfect example of a great adventure film , excellent performances from the entire cast , great cinematography by Alex Thomson, beautiful music by Trevor Jones, special edition of Frank J. Urioste , and wonderful script.The beginning of the film offers us an unforgettable tragic drama, then we displayed a thrilling aerial assault , and what follows is the struggle for survival , the struggle of good against evil, cruel villains, heroes realistic , shocking scenes of fights and scenes of well-performed deaths; the whole movie is original and very creative , this film production is a gift for lovers of action cinema , the film offers very good sound and special effects.The actors bring their emotions interesting characters, for example, Sylvester Stallone, John Lithgow, Michael Rooker, Janine Turner, Rex Linn, Caroline Goodall ... this film conveys energy , the entire set is admirable, the result is high entertainment power. "},{"Title":"A peak for Stallone in a hit-or-miss decade","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" On paper, Cliffhanger probably shouldn't be nearly as entertaining as it is. It plays like the run-of-the-mill Die Hard knockoffs that littered '90s cinema, with a curious assortment of unintentionally hilarious bad guys and some pretty cheesy one-liners. But I've had a soft spot for this movie for 20 years now, and age isn't curbing that anytime soon. For an action movie, it's tightly wound and moves pretty damn well. The stuntwork is right up there and the gorgeous mountain scenery doesn't hurt either. And they spared no expense on bloody carnage; I was surprised by the level of violence for the time. Oh, and Lithgow? That guy does scenery-chewing wonders with (what could've been) a stock villain. He is undoubtedly a highlight of this movie.Sometimes you're just in the mood for some cheap thrills, and to that end, this is comfort food.8/10 "}{"Title":"stallone's best-watch k2,vertical limit too..","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" stallone's best action movie i think.. good story-best supporting cast,stunts,and of course that huge money...!greedy people,high peak...!! dangerous situations,a fast tragedy...!!stallone exells in acting... i liked it a lot.. and highly recommend for u all........spend some hours to catch a glimpse of high peak-greed-and man in action- stallone......!!some scenes are really breathtaking...............i give 10/10 it n of course it deserves it...happy watchingaaaaaaaa... "},{"Title":"Stallone As A Rescue Climber","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhanger is an action-adventure thriller that features Sylvester Stallone and John Lithgow together with Michael Rooker,Janine Turner,Leon Robinson,Paul Winfield and Ralph Waite.Stallone plays Gabe Walker, a member of a mountain-climbing rescue team who is haunted by an incident from his past when he couldn't save the girlfriend of his best friend, Hal Tucker,from falling to her death.It was directed by Renny Harlin.Gabe has left mountain-climbing rescue work and has set up business in Denver. He returns to the mountain rescue office to persuade his lover, Jessie to quit and come back to Denver with him. While he is begging Jessie to head out to Denver, things are happening in the skies overhead. A gang of professional crooks headed by psychotic Eric Qualen has hijacked a U.S. Treasury plane carrying millions of dollars. But the plane crashes, and the bad guys find themselves stranded on top of a mountain with the money that was placed into three cases scattered around the wreckage and with no way to get down off the pinnacle to retrieve the cases. They put in a phony distress call that is received by the mountain rescue team. Gabe agrees to take part in one last rescue attempt, and they head up to help rescue the thieves. But Qualen has plans for the rescuers to force them to climb through the dangerous snow-covered peaks to find the three suitcases of cash.Cliffhanger is a device to entertain us, and it works, especially during those moments when Stallone is hanging by his fingernails over a three- mile fall, and the bad guys are stomping on him.Also,it is a big-scale action adventure with plenty of blood and blasts. It resembles some Shakespeare plays only in that by the end of the story almost all the characters are laying in pools of blood.Finally,it may go down in screen history as the nail in the coffin of the Die Hard sub-genre, in which all the key elements of that blockbuster have been recycled to the point of self-parody. "},{"Title":"Camp doesn't get any better than this","Date":"29 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Anything that Stallone did in the 80's and 90's was so bad it's good, but this one is simply spectacular on epic scale! Stallone doesn't have a clue about acting (and he couldn't have), but he's trying so hard, God bless him... The icing on the cake here is John Lithgow, none other than the master of the over-the-top acting, whose fake British accent only adds up to the camp. Magnificent alpine landscapes make a perfect setting, and the pace is alert indeed, with some of the most spectacular stunts and action sequences ever filmed. Bad characters are really evil (and extremely funny, I might add), the good guys are really good and brave and have super-human strength (Stallone is climbing mountain walls bare-handed in the blizzard, wearing just a T-shirt), the one-liners are on the same epic scale as the breath-taking scenery, and of course Cliffhanger has dialogue so dumb it's unintentionally hilarious. The plot is laughable, just as much as everything else in this movie, but never mind&#x85; This is what we call mindless entertainment of the best kind. I thoroughly enjoyed this masterpiece, it's great comedy. I dare you not to laugh out loud at the preposterousness of it all. "},{"Title":"High on Action But Low on Character Development","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" From what I remember, Cliffhanger is a very exciting heart-thumping action movie that situates Gabe Walker (Sylvester Stallone), who is a has seen it all rescue worker stepping up into a wild confrontation against a group of money hungry terrorists under the leadership of Eric Qualen (John Lithgow) who's on the hunt to find some missing loot that has been hidden in the mountains. When it became released on DVD, the memories of that movie all came back to me like a bolt of lightning. Granted, Cliffhanger was best described as a movie that exceeds on many levels than your typical action flick, filled with thrills and excitement that lives up to its running time. The main drawback from this movie from becoming an exceptional film was the poor editing which is the result of poor character development. At times though the scenes seem to finish too abruptly without fully completing them. If they would've extended the scenes a bit more, I would've given it a higher number.John Lithgow was the best performer of the bunch who played his bad guy role with natural flair as he did in Raising Cain almost as though no one could play this antagonistic role better than him. Sure Stallone was truly kick-ass as the leading hero, Gabe Walker, however, his performance pales in comparison to Lithgow's authoritative role. What gets my adrenaline pumping in this movie is the scintillating title sequence. The sequence makes the film look and feel more realistic than I had anticipated when I saw this movie back when I was a late adolescent. The locations of the mountain sites is absolutely breath-taking. Sure the movie was no Oscar winner, but it had enough energy and plenty of twists to keep the action lover in full satisfaction. Even though there are a plethora of flaws depicted here, the movie isn't customized to make you think. Stallone's best work is still in the hands of the Rambo series, which is where you could sympathize with a man who's been through a lot of suffering both physically and emotionally and can't seem to get any kind of redemption from it. I guess Assassins would be his only real notable movie where he's not playing either John Rambo or Rocky Balboa and was effective in his feud with Antonio Banderas. But in Cliffhanger Stallone is in his comfort zone playing another individual put in another awkward situation with obstacles that are overwhelmingly impossible to overcome. "},{"Title":"One of the best action adventure flicks EVER.","Date":"8 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Greetings from Lithuania.Almost 20 years past after Cliffhanger hit the screen, but it's still one of the best in it's genre. A story is quiet original in terms of similar action movies (aka Die Hard, Speed). But what makes this movie unforgettable it's the setting. Mountains in Cliffhanger is a one big character of this movie - breathtaking beauty and deadly at the same time. As far as i remember these mountains in Cliffhanger are still the most spectacularly filmed mountains in a movie history.And then we have the action, S.Stalone at his best, Renny Harlin in his top form, John Lithgow in his most villain performance (yea i saw Dexter), and one of the best - breathtaking and shocking opening sequences in a movie history.Put it all together and you'll have Cliffhanger - one of the best action adventure flicks EVER. "},{"Title":"Terrific action adventure","Date":"12 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhanger came at a very interesting point in Sylvester Stallone's career. After Rocky kicked him into the big league, he seemed to settle into a career pattern of gradual decline - Rocky and Rambo sequels with diminishing returns, and a succession of identikit action thrillers which passed the time and did little else. Then there was the ill-advised venture into action comedy with Stop Or My Mom Will Shoot!, and suddenly the decline was an outright slump.Then, to maintain the boxing metaphor, he came off the ropes with the mighty one-two of Cliffhanger and Demolition Man, as fine (and diverse) a pair of action movies as ever graced anyone's filmography.Cliffhanger starts with a nerve-shredding sequence - one of the best opening sequences of any movie ever - which takes mountain rescuer Gabe (Stallone) out of the business and destroys his confidence. Then there is a plane crash in the mountains. This involves a group of crooks led by John Lithgow attempting to steal a large amount of money. Gabe has to buckle on his crampons again in order to rescue his mountain rescue colleagues and defeat the bad guys.This movie is simple, spectacular, suspenseful, action-filled enjoyment from start to finish, and brought Stallone roaring back to the top of the box office. "},{"Title":"Thrills, spills & great stunt work!","Date":"13 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I have seen this film quite a few times before, but this is the first time I've attempted to review it. It's quite interesting seeing films that you haven't seen for a while; you tend to notice things that you missed before. This is no exception, for instance, I hadn't realised that British actor Craig Fairbrass was even in it until watching it this time! But I digress, here's a short summary first (summary haters this next paragraph is just a figment of your imagination).Rescue worker Gabe Walker is about to give up his job after losing a climber in a rescue attempt a year ago. He has returned to clear out his stuff from the house he shared with his girlfriend Jessie Deighan when a call comes in. Some hikers are trapped on a mountain, the weather is too bad to get the helicopter out and Gabe is persuaded to go and help. His former friend Hal Tucker is also on the rescue attempt. Little do they know, the people they are heading to rescue are robbers who, after a failed hijacking, are now on the hunt for their loot. Their leader is Eric Qualen, a psychotic killer who is very determined to find the money as quickly as possible. He is aided, amongst others, by US Treasury employee turned bad, Richard Travers who has a tracking device for the three cases of cash. Walker and Tucker get separated and, while the gang keep Tucker as a guide, it's up to Walker, who is later joined by Jesse, to try and get to the money before they do. They know that when the bad guys found all of the cases they will kill Tucker.There is some stunning scenery in this film; the helicopter flying shots are particularly good. The special effects are maybe not quite up to the standard we are used to today, but still passable. There is also some great stunt work, hats off to those guys! Decent performances all round, particularly from Sylvester Stallone as Gabe Walker, John Lithgow real bad-ass as Eric Qualen and Michael Rooker as Hal Tucker. Honourable mentions go to; Janine Turner as Jessie Deighan, Rex Linn as Richard Travers and nice to see Ralph Waite as Frank.I thought John Lithgow was particularly good as the bad guy; he really made the audience hate his character. Plenty of thrills and spills and I like the way the tension is slowly built up throughout. Although it looks a little dated by today's standards, still a pretty enjoyable watch and overall&#x85; recommended.My score 6.7/10 "},{"Title":"It's a Cliffhanger alright!","Date":"10 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Breathtakingly Awesome Cinematography, especially in the opening credit shots! I give this one two thumbs up for story and entertainment value. There are a few minor things in the story that seem wrong, but still, this is a wild ride through the mountains, with actors that do a great job with their parts. Best I've seen of Sly. John Lithgow plays the cold-hearted villain to perfection. Michael Rooker is excellent as Sly's hot-blooded climbing colleague, and Michelle Joyner is superb as his girlfriend - her performance haunts me still! Janine is lovely and excellent, though her part is much like her NorEx character. The story is well-crafted and acted, with plot twists aplenty, and with the awesome cinematography, this one is well above (no pun intended) most other mountain flicks I've seen.** I recommend viewing it on a BIG, Wide-screen TV! "},{"Title":"Mountainous mediocrity.","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" To address Cliffhanger as stupid would be true, but it would not be very effective criticism. It is a Hollywood blockbuster, only one in ten of these films is NOT stupid. What is more important is whether the film does its job in providing a hundred plus minutes of adrenaline and thrills. It is easy enough I suppose for one to make the argument that Cliffhanger suffices...but I am NOT one to make that argument. Assuming you haven't seen anything by Michael Bay, Roland Emmerich and/or the far more talented James Cameron, Cliffhanger may do the job for you. Otherwise, I find it a less-than-average action spectacle with a cardboard thin plot. In the end, Cliffhanger proves to be nothing more than a string of action sequences with too much landscape photography taking up screen time that should've gone to story.A group of British thieves high jack an American aircraft transporting a hundred million dollars, in three traceable cases over the Rocky Mountains. The plan goes south, the money gets lost, and the plane goes down. The survivors fake a distress call, and the two mountaineers who are sent to rescue are then high jacked and forced at gunpoint to climb the mountains to retrieve the cases. One gets away, and races to get the money before the 'bad guys' do in the hopes of sabotaging the plan.It's kind of ironic. There is so much action in Cliffhanger, that there is virtually nothing else, and the end result is not only uninteresting but it feels pretty dull. There is only one (I dunno maybe two) scenes that really come close to edge-of-seat suspense. Action is the only thing that director Renny Harlin wants to invest time and effort into. If it was more compelling, perhaps it would be easier to let Cliffhanger slide for its bad acting and equally feeble writing. Unfortunately, the movie is not the spectacle it could have been. The plane crash in act one, has nothing on (among many other examples) the train wreck in The Greatest Show on Earth. For god's sake, that was forty years earlier with a tiny plastic toy, and a map painting. The avalanche in act two is about as intimidating as a pile of stones, and the climactic fight feels like such a recycled scene and the explosion it ends in is about as epic as a firecracker. I didn't much care for anyone in the picture, especially Stallone. Janine Turner as the girl by his side, gives an ugly stiff performance. what these two could really use is a few one liners, the kind Steven Seagal gives himself. Such lines end up going to John Lithgow, who is a pretty icky villain.For a while (a very short while) Cliffhanger feels captivating and has you eager to see what happens next, but as the film increases in adventure, so do does it (unfortunately) degrade in brains, appeal and originality. Even though I didn't set my expectations too high, by the end I was rather disappointed. It kind of makes me wanna go back to see Harlin's financial disaster Cutthroat Island, which is starting to feel much more epic after all. "},{"Title":"A Breathtaking Stallone Classic!","Date":"5 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Many of Stallone's movies are made not to be believable. They are not made in a way that you are going to struggle to find some technical fault. They are not made to depict real life. They are made to create a whole new world altogether where you can have fun and enjoy the movie to the fullest setting aside for that moment that part of the mind that seems to differentiate between the possible and the impossible. And we do need these kind of movies time and now because always watching a movie that depicts the real life and nothing more can be quite boring. We do need our escape routes from the daily grind.Stallone's movie Cliffhanger is an action classic. One of the best movies that Stallone has been a part of. Breathtaking stunts, beautiful action sequences and a screen play that simply fails to bore us, Cliffhanger is among the best action movies I have ever seen. There is no doubt about the fact that time and now one gets to see a lot of sequences that you know are virtually impossible in the real world but as I have already said, it is good to have some movies like these that within certain limits provide an escape route from our routine world into a world of fantasy.Stallone plays the role of a professional mountaineer and a rescue officer. At the very start of the movie, you see a beautiful shot of a rescue mission gone wrong. Gabe (Stallone) does not manage to ever forgive himself for letting that operation go wrong. After a break he comes back and finds himself a part of the sinister gang operation. Every shot in the movie is so awesome and amazing. The stunt team assembled to achieve these shots is among the best ones I've ever seen. They leave us with images that have a lasting impact.The plot does not become boring and obvious anytime. It keeps you to the edge of your seat and gives you your money's worth. No matter how much you choose to criticize Stallone and his movies, there is no doubt that this is one of the best Stallone action movies ever. Surely it deserves the praise for its well shot scenes more than the criticism for being unrealistic. And even when this movie becomes unrealistic time and now, it still comes with its thrills and excitements. One will find it easy to ignore the realism aspect of it anytime in exchange of the enjoyment and the thrill the overall movie gives you.This movie is highly recommended for all movie fans. The action sequences and photography are something to watch out for. No matter how low this movie is rated, it will continue to excite fans for ages to come. Cheers. "}{"Title":"My Favorite Stallone Movie of All Time","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie is starting to show its age a bit, and, let's face it, some of the stuff that goes down in the film strains one's credulity, but on the whole it's a terrific movie.Stallone manages to straddle his two basic character roles in this film, the first being the ultra tough guy (see Rocky and Rambo) and the other being the regular guy put into a weird situation and trying to deal with it (see Stop or my mother will shoot). Apart from a few early scenes where he is moping around, you mostly get the tough guy and that, of course, is our preferred Stallone format.John Lithgow is also in fine form as the villain of the piece.The plot line is clear, understandable and plausible. The scenery is incredible, the suspense and tension consistently keeping you on edge.Apparently Sly did a lot of his own stunts and he's in fine form.My only complaint about the entire film is the opening sequence where Stallone and his crew of forest rangers are rescuing another ranger and a novice climber off a mountain peak. Now, on the whole, the scene is intense and works well, but the underlying premise is ridiculous. We are expected to believe that a novice climber would find herself, with no visible equipment, on top of an extremely difficult rock climb and that an experienced ranger would take her there. Then we are asked to accept that they would choose to rescue her by tethering a helicopter to the mountain with a metal cable and letting her traverse to the helicopter in a kind of bosun's chair with safety cable, all of which would then inexplicably and utterly fail. It's preposterous.This initial scene sets up an apparent identity crisis/tension with the other forest rangers and Stallone, but the thing is, that after the first reel, there is really no reference to it at all and you wonder why they bothered. But that's a small complaint, enjoy the movie, its 90 minutes of pure escapism.Two thumbs up from this critic. "},{"Title":"Fantastic stunts and scenery but traditional cat-and-mouse","Date":"6 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I hesitated between 7 and 8 but I give it 8 for its incredible stunts and very professional shooting of a fantastic scenery which is out of the ordinary. The plot itself is also interesting, at least in the beginning, so long as you don't expect much reality. The last 45 minutes or so, the cat-and-mouse game that Hollywood loves so much starts getting a bit boring, though. The degree of predictability also points downwards, and am I the only one who is getting tired of watching scenes where someone with a machine gun is able to hit everything but the man running in front of him? A bit more reality such places would not make such movies less interesting. But to conclude, just sit down, enjoy the ride and switch off the brain. It's a movie for the eyes, not the head. "},{"Title":"Help! Someone grab my hand! I'm going to fall!","Date":"28 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" There are different kinds of thrillers.The most effective kind of thriller depends on the individual watching them.The most effective kind of thrillers for me personally are those that take place at a high altitude.I am afraid of heights is the reason for this.The film doesn't waste any time getting to the thrills.I like the way the film begins with the spectacular aerial shots and pleasant musical score,making you think that things are at least going to be okay for a few minutes.Then,just as you are settling into your chair with your popcorn,pow!Things go wrong very quickly as we see Sylvester Stallone struggling desperately to save a girl from plummeting to her death.Does she make it?You'll have to see for yourself.Then,while almost never leaving it's high altitude,the film effectively turns into an old fashioned,and without much gray area,good guys versus bad guys tale.This film works on all levels for my taste and it is definitely one of Sylvester Stallone's few highly entertaining films.Worthy of note also is the deliciously good performance of John Lithgow as the chief bad guy.He is definitely one of the most underrated entertainers I have ever watched and he has incredible versatility.Find something to hang on to and enjoy Cliffhanger! "},{"Title":"Great action film","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Great action film that revolutionized the early-90's action film. Every so often, a film comes along that resets the standard for it's genre. Cliffhanger did just that very thing for action films.Any film that inspires copycats and wannabes really does it's job well. Stallone makes a very successful transition from an everyday Joe forced into being the hero. This film has all the necessary ingredients to qualify it as a great action film.All you have to do is see it for yourself. Particularly well done is the performance of Leon. You can come up with good arguments for many action films as to which is the best all time,and this one is no exception.Well done. "},{"Title":"Ignore the absurdities and treat it as a fun ride.","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"   Cliffhanger is violent, foul-mouthed and absolutely absurd, but on a certain level it is also rather entertaining. You have to be in a particular frame of mind to enjoy his movie. You can't be in one of those moods where you spend all your time grumbling about obvious plot holes. You can't be in one of those moods where you are constantly groaning at the physical impossibility of some of the stunts. You also can't be in one of those moods where you get annoyed by cliched dialogue. However, if you are in the mood for non-stop action, mindless yet spectacular set pieces, and good giving evil the whooping it deserves, chances are you'll find Cliffhanger good fun. Sylvester Stallone plays Gabe Walker, a mountain rescue hotshot. At the beginning of the film, he sees a rescue attempt go wrong and a young lady climber plummets to her death. Walker can't bear his failure to rescue her, so he quits and becomes a recluse. A few months later, a plane crashes in the same region and Walker - against his better judgment - agrees to help in the hunt for survivors. Unfortuantely, the plane was no ordinary aircraft but a US Treasury plane full of cash. A group of hijackers who were trying to steal the cash have survived the crash and are swarming all over the mountain-side trying to recover the money which was scattered far and wide during the accident. It's clear from the plot synopsis that Cliffhanger requires a big leap of faith if the audience is to overcome the lack of plausibility. However, director Renny Harlin isn't too concerned with logical plotting and he opts for breathtaking action instead. Fussy viewers may struggle to get by the outrageously improbable events which litter the movie, but if you can watch the movie when you're in a couldn't-care-less-about-believability mood, it'll probably pass a couple of hours for you quite pleasantly. To summarise, treat it as fun and you'll have fun; treat it as serious and you'll be groaning with despair. "},{"Title":"FORGET CREDIBILITY","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  FORGET CREDIBILITYYou must not expect credibility with action movies where the superhero has to perform an endless string of unbelievable feats, being trodden upon in the process but recovering at lightning speed, and transforming innocuous gadgets in lethal weapons... especially when Renny Harlin is directing.CLIFFHANGER  is no exception. But the movie has numerous assets  breathtaking scenery gorgeously photographed, stunning special and visual effects ( the first five minutes are gripping and give the tone of the film ), excellent musical score, welcome attempts at levity to relieve some of the tension, and a solid cast  two heroes ( Stallone, star and cowriter, has the lion's share of the footage, but the excellent Michael Rooker more than stands his ground ), a charming heroin ( Janine Turner ), and one of the most darstardy bunch of villains ever ( priceless John Lithgow and deceivingly feminine Caroline Goodall, but also Rex Linn - in a longer than usual part and who makes the most of it, Leon, Craig Fairbrass ) Good, solid entertainment then , if no credibility.As Roger Ebert wrote ( about another film )It's the kind of movie you can sit back and enjoy as long as you don't make the mistake of thinking too much. "},{"Title":"Not for the faint-hearted !!!","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Currently available in France on DVD for under THREE Euros, I couldn't resist buying this one and certainly wasn't disappointed. I'm no expert of Stallone and know him for the Rocky and Rambo series.Apart from the beginning of the film, which is SHOCKING to say the least, this is a very good action film with beautiful mountain scenery (that alone is enough to make the day). Be warned that some parts of the film are EXTREMELY VIOLENT, notably a scene where an ex football player with a common English cockney accent is trying to boot one of the mountain guides over the edge ( it's best to turn one's head away from the screen for two or so minutes ........... ). Also there is a lot of unnecessary bad language which spoils the dialogues. But these are minor defects as are some of the stunts which are so exaggerated as to be unbelievable. The acting is very good, and I have always liked ( if that is the word ) John Lithgow as the actor just seems to emanate evil from his eyes (like Christopher Walken). I'd seen him in Brian de Palma's obsession, and that was shocking enough ! He is even more frightening here. Of course we know with Stallone, that it will all turn out right in the end, that saves unnecessary anguish throughout the film and allows the spectator to sit back, relax and enjoy minute after minute of superb action sequences ...... Also , I thought the actress Jessie was really cute !! Well recommended for its entertainment value, but beware of the violence !!! "},{"Title":"The Usual Sylvester Stallone Action Spectacle","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After a few really out of character films, Sylvester Stallone becomes an action hero again in this 1993 Tristar Pictures release. However, it's not entirely worth the wait. The film has some great action scenes but it ultimately pales in comparison to many of Stallone's earlier action vehicles. It's not a huge letdown by any means. After all, any Stallone film is better than Cop Land.  "},{"Title":"Stallone reached new heights","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Just about non-stop action from beginning to end.  Very good special effects and cinematography. The sound was exceptional, at certain points in the movie this is especially clear, such as when Jessie is standing on a ridge to greet the bad guy in the chopper thinking it was a friend of hers there to rescue her.  The helicopter blades say it all.  Stallone's acting was pretty good and he looks to be in top condition physically.  A great movie to take us away from it all and especially good to watch during summer's hot spell!  "},{"Title":"Your basic grade A actioner ***mild spoiler***","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  All right, now here's an action film that delivers! Picture a school that the action directors of the future go to. Before they graduate, they have to study and analyze a basic action flick from a list of ten actioners. If such a school and list existed, Cliffhanger should be on that list! We got a setting, a situation, heroes and villains and all of them are way above average. The plot keeps it all (in a good way) simple all the way, and director Harlin is in his own territory- result is an outcome as energetic and exciting as ever! Suffers just a bit from editing made after test screening  The shooting of the bunny - after editing the bunny still looks like it got hurt. If Harlin wasn't so sadistic, he'd have let the bunny get away unharmed in the first place. The outcome would have been welcomely hilarious- now it's just semi- hilarious. Enough violence already!The King's leap- scene - read the alternative versions A dumb idea in the first place! Why didn't they have the bridge blown up in the middle - Stallone would have jumped to the hanging half of the bridge on the other side and using it as a ladder, climbed up. Now of course that would have resembled Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom a bit, but either that or dump the whole jump (I'd have used it, because one like it looked great in Vertical limit)!  Now, the 'jump' Stallone uses when he escapes from Travers, looks weird and out of place - as it is!But, two minor complaints in an overall good action movie is nothing. All in all... if you haven't seen this one already- go rent it out now! You WON'T be disappointed! "}{"Title":"Theater projectionists everywhere should have been instructed to, at least, run the film in reverse.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  After a stupendous beginning of alpine photography and climbing, Cliffhanger so progressively bogged down by mercilessly milking one lamer calamity after another, in just as many lame attempts to follow its own first act, that, by its end, I was seriously disappointed that Sylvester himself didn't also take a mortal fall -even, if by that point, from the only calamity that could have been left Off someone's basement floor.Theater projectionists everywhere should have been instructed to, at least, run the film in reverse.  "},{"Title":"just another in the action genre","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Good action show, but nothing new. This one took place high in the mountains, which showed some nice scenery and such. One man takes on a group of mercenaries, the lead flies, and he kicks butt. It could have been called Rambo Goes to the Rockies, it was that pat. It did have one very effective scene right at the first of the film which had me cringing in horror. Not a bad picture, but just same ol', same ol'.  "},{"Title":"Starts off great, stays solid","Date":"12 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhanger is one of the most-seen films from 1993. It reached no°10 in the box office ranking from that year. The director is Renny Harlin from Finland who has worked on several sequels to classic movies including Die Hard, Nightmare on Elm Street and The Exorcist. The script comes from John Long, Michael France and lead actor Stallone himself. For some reason, the Razzie Awards decided to nominated this movie in several categories, which is pretty ridiculous as it is by no means a bad movie. John Lithgow is a great villain (as we know from Dexter) and Janine Turner gives a decent performance as well. The Razzies really messed up by nominating these two as well as the screenplay and film itself. Turner was probably cast as she played the central character in an Alaska-based television series which was very successful at that point. Snow movies seem to be her genre.The movie centers on Sylvester Stallone, who is sometimes displayed as almost too perfect here. Even when he fails to rescue a woman in the first 13 minutes, we see that he made everything right. Everybody sees that except him and Rooker's (The Walking Dead, I did not recognize him though) character. That's why the friendship of the two men is also a crucial emotional plot point as the film goes on. The two go on an extraordinary journey when they get kidnapped by a group of criminals deep in the snowy mountains and have to help the thugs to get back some suitcases full with money.All in all, I enjoyed watching these 105 minutes. It's pretty good entertainment. There are minor flaws. For example I did not understand really the inclusion of the two young guys in the mountains who added absolutely nothing to the story. Other than that, i can certainly recommend watching this film and I am not even a great Stallone fan. The fact that I knew Lynn and Lithgow and these two had major roles helped me a lot in appreciating this film I guess. Visually, it is pretty nice too. The snowy mountains landscapes are great to watch and I can see how this movie scored three Academy award nominations, which it lost all of them to Jurassic Parc. I recommend watching it. The first 15 minutes are certainly one of the best intros to a 1990s movie. "},{"Title":"Oh, the horror","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Let me start by stating that I usually do like Renny Harlin's directing style, for the most part, and that the cinematographer should be commended for some the shots.  Unlike Harlin's Elm Street 4, and Die Hard 2 which I really liked, there is something that is missing from this movie.  That, my friends, is a script.  The dialogue in movies like this is always pretty awful, but this one takes the gold medal for stupidity.  There are so many awful lines in this movie, I don't even want to have to remember any of them.  Not just that but the execution of the lines is pathetic and seems more suited toward a bad porn movie than an action adventure.  It's almost like Harlin thought that if they slowed down the words being said, they could improve the script.  Wrong again.The sad part is that there is some talented actors thrown into bad roles with worse dialogue.  Stallone has never been a favorite of mine, but when he is acting circles around Lithgow, Turner, and the worst of the bunch Rooker, there is something wrong with this picture.  Lithgow played one of the best villains in Ricochet, yet comes across as someone who can't act to save his life here.  How is that possible?  I've always been a huge fan of his and he gets schooled in acting by Stallone, who himself still phoned-in his performance.  Turner's part is so small and pointless, but she still manages to appear lost on screen.  Michael Rooker CAN act.  I know this because I have witnessed it in Days of Thunder, but he seems like he is READING his lines from cue cards.  Has it come to this?  When Rooker and Lithgow have scenes together where they are speaking, I just wanted the movie to end right there, or have them both amazingly find their acting ability.  Unfortunately, neither of those things occurred.Which brings me back to Harlin, who can be the only one to really blame for this mess other than the screenwriters.  It's his fault that I was never drawn into this movie at all, because he should have made the people actually act.  The script is not very good, but still the actors' performances are what destroys this movie and that has to lie with the director.  I don't care how much was paid for the special effects, which for the most part are good, you still can't just sacrifice the movie with terrible acting.  Plus, the pacing of this movie seems to be off.  The opening sequence was good and the plane scene was very well done, but how are you supposed to care about the outcome of the heist at all.  I mean I understand that they were trying to create tension with all of the bells and whistles of the plane scene, but I really didn't care if they got the money or not in that scene.  If the bad guy's would have won early, maybe I wouldn't have had to witness one of the worst movies ever! "},{"Title":"Good (for a Sly flick)","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If you like the standard Sly flicks that involve over the top action, unbelievable stunts (unbelievable is not intended to be complimentary here), and retarded dialogue; you will love this steaming pile of mountain goat dung. I had high hopes based on the trailer. I thought that Stalone was going to be forced in his has-been days to yield to smarter people and make an action film that would place a credible hero in a credible situation where the story, setting, and (believable) action would prevail. I crave action that is at least close enough to reality that you can imagine the fear and excitement that would come from such an event. My limited knowledge of hypothermia and its effects rendered at least one scene laughably ridiculous. Judge Dredd is only better because you know going into the theater that you are going to see a comic book made into a movie. The character, setting and everything else are beyond comparison to anything we might encounter ourselves. Cliffhanger on the other hand turns a mountain climbing guide into Rambo before you can say yo, Adrian! "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  There are some Stallone movies I like, but this movie didn't meet my low expectations.  I found this movie hard to believe.  For example, a bunch of terrorists who crash land in the wilderness are prepared to survive for at least two days.  Also, in all this wilderness Stallone and company keep running across bridges and ladders that provide convenient short-cuts or plot devices.  Also, the Treasury cops don't seem to coordinate anything with the local rescue people.  Also, bad guys who couldn't hit the side of a barn with really high-tech looking automatic weapons.I liked John Lithgow's villain initially, but the character is such a complete psychopath that he doesn't care at all about any of his own bad guys, or all of them getting killed.  Eventually I just couldn't believe the character anymore.Not worth the price of a rental, not even worth taking the time to watch. "},{"Title":"Impaled","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Somewhere in this mess of poorly-executed action sequences and implausible plot turns, two characters duke it out in a cavern.  At the fight's climax, one character lifts the other above his head and, as he screams and squirms, slowly impales him on a blunt stalactite.  As I watched, the only thought that came to me was, That's exactly what I feel like watching this movie. "},{"Title":"Of Of The Greatest Openings To A Movie Ever","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Continuing my plan to watch every Sly Stallone movie in order, I come to 1993's Cliffhanger.Whilst his muscle bound rival, Arnold Schwarzenegger was scoring huge with Terminator 2 in his last movie, Sly's movies were tanking and tanking hard. So after coming to terms with the fact he wasn't going to score a hit movie with comedies, and unable to return to the safety net of Rocky and Rambo (after the last movies under performed) Sly returned to the action genre, more in need of a hit than ever.Plot In A Paragraph A botched mid-air heist results in suitcases full of cash being scattered throughout the Rocky Mountains. Mountain worker Gabe Walker (Stallone) is forced to guide the high jackers (Led by John Lithgow) to the suitcases. Cliffhanger has one of the greatest openings to a movie ever!! I rate it up there with Jaws, Raiders Of The Lost Ark and Saving Private Ryan! It's that good!! Renny Harlin is a director who is either great or awful. Thankfully it's the former here, and the action scenes are all brilliantly (if slightly unbelievable) staged. Trevor Jones score is a real winner too. Despite some awful stunt doubles, some dodgy use of miniatures, and obvious studio sets mixed with real footage, Cliffhanger is very enjoyable. With the exception of an over the top John Lithgow, Rex Linn and Caroline Goodall, who all put in fine turns. The villains are as cardboard, two dimensional and cliché as the come. But this is the Stallone show, and backed up by the always reliable Michael Rooker he is back on top form. OK it's still a bit of a one man army story, but it's certainly more believable than the last Rambo. He may not be the number one Box Office Star in the world anymore, Kevin Costner, who'd been scoring big in The Untouchables, No Way Out, Bull Durham, Field Of Dreams, JFK, Robin Hood Prince Of Thieves, The Bodyguard and the Oscar winning Dances With Wolves (which he directed) whilst Sly movies under performed, had over taken over him as the biggest movie star on the planet. And rival Schwarzenegger was doing better than him too, thanks to Predator, Total Recall and T2, but Cliffhanger proves that back in the action hero role, Sly still had it in him to deliver the goods. "},{"Title":"One of the best underrated action thriller movies from Sylvester Stallone of the 90's!","Date":"4 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhanger (1993) is one the best Action thriller heist movies in 90's. I love this film to death! Besides the Rocky and Rambo which are Stallone's most popular stuff I would put Cliffhanger right above those! I absolutely LOVE this film!!!! Gabe Walker is awesome I love it. Renny Harlin made an awesome job on this movie. The movie is awesome. It has slow motion running jump! The action sequences in this movie are fantastic! It is actually the first best favorite Action that Stallone did, I love this film and it is my childhood film I love it. One of the most Stallone hit and the most successful Stallone film!Is one of my first best favorite movies ever. Why I love this movie and I put it above Cobra? Simply because the whole movie is about thrills in the rocky mountains during snow time. Renny Harlin's 'Die Hard 2' was cool, and he gave the world 'Cliffhanger', one of the most awesome action movies ever. That's right, 'Cliffhanger' rules, and we all know it. Stallone uses his mind and not his muscles, a machine gun or a hand guns to defeat terrorists. He uses his mind,he is rescuing people and he try's to save his friend's life, who is held hostage by terrorists. They are thrills, suspense, avalanche and action all over the place in the Rocky Mountains. And I seriously love this Action thriller. The opening scene where the girl is hanging on the line for her dear life, still makes my hands sweaty. And When Gabe Walker couldn't saved her, I really felt pain and I mourn with Stallone's character. Cliffhanger was actually the film I grew up with it. It is a stone cold classic action film a film that I will always cherish! Mine favorite is Cliffhanger and almost no one puts Cliffhanger into their favorite best action movie so I put it as my Top 1 best Stallone action movie out there. Sly's best out and out action film. It is a superbly enjoyable movie with some interesting characters, solid performances and Renny Harlins direction is stylishly assured. Stallone is rarely this interesting in his action films and he certainly looks the part in terms of the action scenes. This was one of the best action films of the year and one of the most thrilling and enjoyable of the 90's, a definite genre classic. As a Stallone fan this is one I look back on with fond memories. Plenty of superb action and Sly in prime action man form. Action lovers appreciate this film because it has all the hallmarks that make a good action film. The film looks great and there is great support from Janine Turner, Michael Rooker and John Lithgow. On the airplane, the plane heist up in the air from plane-to-plane airborne transfer, a money transfer stunt was filmed in the USA as such a stunt is illegal in Europe. The stunt itself cost over $1 million to film. I love this film to death beside Rocky and Rambo , it is one of my favorite trills action movies. It is Die Hard in the mountains. I love the music theme from Trevor Jones, he write and made a perfect music score that fits to the film. The basic plot story is about A botched mid-air heist results in suitcases full of cash being searched for by various groups throughout the Rocky Mountains. It is die hard movie in the mountains. Cliffhanger is a 1993 American action adventure film directed by Renny Harlin and starring Sylvester Stallone and John Lithgow. Stallone, who co-wrote the screenplay, plays a mountain climber who becomes embroiled in a failed heist set in a U.S. Treasury plane flying through the Rocky Mountains. The film was a critical and box office success, earning more than $250 million worldwide10/10 Grade Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio TriStar Pictures Starring Sylvester Stallone, John Lithgow, Michael Rooker, Janine Turner, Leon, Paul Winfield, Ralph Waite Director Renny Harlin Producers Alan Marshall, Renny Harlin Executive Producer Mario Kassar Screenplay Michael France, Sylvester Stallone Story John Lon, Michael France Rated R Running Time 1 Hr. 52 Mins. Released May 28, 1993 Budget $65.000.000 Box Office $255,325,036 "},{"Title":"Doesn't actually end of a 'cliffhanger' but not to worry","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone sort of fell out of favour at the Box Office (just slightly before Arnold Schwarzenegger did), so many see 'Cliffhanger' as a kind of 'come back' film. To be fair... it did produce Stallone's best returns in terms of revenue at the Box Office. It may not have the 'cult appeal' of Rambo, but it's still pretty good if you're into a solid little action film.As with the best films (and certainly the action-orientated ones) the plot is simple &#x96; a gang of bank robbers lose their loot while flying over an American mountain range. To get it back they kidnap the only man capable of scaling the treacherous terrain and try to force him to recover it for them. Unfortunately, the only man is Sly, and he's not going to make it easy for them.So, as many people have commented, it's basically 'Die Hard in the snow.' And that's a fair appraisal of the film, but, seeing as Die Hard was a classic, there are worse films to be based on. Plus Sly adds a natural A-list quality to the proceedings, making sure that no one ever thinks that this is nothing more than a glorified B-Movie. Plus you have John Lithgow (sporting a pretty decent British accent for some reason) as the head bank robber, who displays the menace that would also be present in later series of Dexter.It's a simple enough action film. It has all the thrills, kills and set-pieces that you'd expect from any action film that has been given a decent budget (and this one definitely has!). You don't really need to pay an awful lot of attention to the plot to enjoy it, just be in the mood for some harmless (well, not for the bank robbers anyway) fun and watch Sly do what he does best &#x96; kicking bad-guys' asses.Bonus points of having Michael Rooker (now better known as 'Merl' in The Walking Dead) as a good guy for a change! "}{"Title":"Cheesy but fun Die Hard on a mountain","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Yes, CLIFFHANGER is nothing more than DIE HARD on a mountain, and Renny Harlin's second best film following on from DIE HARD 2 DIE HARDER. It's an ultra-cheesy and ultimately funny action romp filled with special effects sequences which range from the breathtaking to the downright silly, and it's a film which is over the top and bombastic in every respect.The best part of the film is the electrifying - and much-parodied - opening sequence, and after that point we're in B-movie territory with an A-list cast and budget as backup. Sylvester Stallone appears in one of his more wooden performances as a haunted mountain guide who becomes involved with a criminal gang who are searching for three briefcases full of stolen cash which have been dropped high up in the snowy peaks.There are some fun one-liners here, along with plenty of action and stunts, so there's very little to dislike as the whole thing has a good sense of fun. The bad guys don't have much menace and concentrate more on chewing the scenery. John Lithgow gives the best performance as the chief nasty, a guy who couldn't be any less imposing if he tried (he's a far cry from his role in BLOW OUT) and he's supported by various unsavoury types. Craig Fairbrass, playing an ex-footballer turned international criminal, is a real hoot.Harlin's direction is acceptable and although Stallone is doubled for a lot of the difficult stuff there are some truly impressive stunts on offer here. Being a 1990s film, as much stuff blows up as humanly possible. Watch out for Michael Rooker in a rare good guy role. "},{"Title":"Top notch action thriller.","Date":"21 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Sylvester Stallone is in Haunted Hero mode in this slam bang bit of escapism, playing Gabe Walker, a mountain rescue expert who in the movie's opening set piece is unable to stop a climber from meeting their doom. Racked with guilt, he spends some time away before returning to his old haunt to ask girlfriend Jessie (Janine Turner) to come away with him. This coincides with the actions of some ruthless airborne criminals who have purloined international currency from the Treasury Department. These people are led by John Lithgow as Eric Qualen, and Lithgow here shows he definitely has what it takes as an action movie villain. He truly is a cold blooded and nasty s.o.b. Director Renny Harlin proves once again to be a master of the large scale action film, keeping the pace going through one riveting sequence after another. Cliffhanger is the kind of movie where even at a hefty enough running time (1 Hour 53 minutes in this case) the time just flies by. Of course, this is due in no small part to the incredible setting. The Dolomite mountains of Italy stand in for the American Rockies, where the story is set. All of this natural grandeur really takes ones' breath away, and the sense of being at dizzying heights is extremely palpable. This is white knuckle stuff all the way. Taking away a little from some of the enjoyment are some stupid and annoying characters doing stupid and annoying things, but then, this movie is hardly unique in the world of film when it comes to that element. The bad guys, also including Rex Linn ('C.S.I. Miami'), Caroline Goodall, Leon, Gregory Scott Cummins, Craig Fairbrass, and Denis Forest, are largely the kind of scum where you have a high old time just aching for their demise. And on the other side, the good guys are all likable enough, with Stallone showing again how he can be under appreciated as an actor; old pro Ralph Waite is delightful as Frank, and Michael Rooker is aces as Gabes' friend and fellow climber who's spent some time resenting him for that failed rescue attempt at the beginning of the movie. Other familiar faces lend a welcome presence Max Perlich, Zach Grenier, Vyto Ruginis, Don S. Davis, John Finn, Bruce McGill, and the always solid Paul Winfield. Soaring music by Trevor Jones and excellent cinematography by Alex Thomson add to the enjoyment. This is genuinely exciting and suspenseful stuff that reels you in right from the start and keeps you watching the whole time. It's one of Sly's best ever vehicles. Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Superb!","Date":"23 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" 'Cliffhanger' is a Superb Action-Adventure, that works Big Time! Its vintage entertainment, at its finest! 'Cliffhanger' Synopsis A mountain climber gets embroiled in a failed heist set in a U.S. Treasury plane flying through the Rocky Mountains.'Cliffhanger' was a critical & commercial smash, and deserved all the hoopla it got. As mentioned, the film works Big Time, as it provides Superb entertainment in those 112-minutes it runs for.John Long, Michael France & Stallone's Screenplay is Power-Packed. Renny Harlin's Direction is Appropriate. Cinematography by Alex Thomson, is Stunning. Editing is sharp. Visual Effects are fabulous.Performance-Wise Stallone scores, yet again. He plays the tough hero to perfection. The Under-Rated Michael Rooker, is fantastic, as always. John Lithgow plays the loathsome villain, remarkably. Janine Turner is pleasant. Rex Linn is functional. Gregory Scott Cummins is highly menacing. Others offer good support.On the whole, 'Cliffhanger' is a Big Winner! "},{"Title":"Keeps you on the edge...","Date":"25 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Plot A group of criminals have lost 3 cases full of stolen cash in the Rocky Mountains and were forced to make a crash landing. Unaware of their intentions, two men of the region's rescue team set off to help them and become their guides against their will.You'll love Cliffhanger if You want to see a waaay above average Action film, without too much cheesiness, if you love good adrenaline pumping, manhunt adventures and if you admire excellent cinematography. Cliffhanger will keep you on the edge of your seat&#x85; why? Well because the characters will be on the edge too! Sly is just a skilled man who bleeds and has to cope with a lot of problems throughout the film and not a testosterone-filled beast that eats bullets for breakfast. The action scenes are great, full of nicely directed battles, chases and mountain climbing stunts. The performances are quite solid with characters you'll actually care for and with villains that you'll actually hate. Finally the film simply looks beautiful. Usually Action Movies don't look too good, even when we talk about good movies. This one looks though and not only because of the wonderful and breathtaking mountain setting but also because of excellent cinematography.You'll hate Cliffhanger if If you wanted a more typical RAMBO-like action movie, with insane fights and cheesy characters and one-liners oooooor if you hate Action Movies!!! There aren't exactly many bad things to say about this film, so unless you hate Action films you'll love it. The ONLY bad things I can think off is that the pacing of the film is a bit slow, that the plot is a tad predictable and that it isn't a movie you'll see twice&#x85; at least not in the same year&#x85;FINAL VERDICT Great Action Movie For Renting (7.1/10)+ Great cinematography in a wonderful mountain region. One of the best 90's Action films.- Predictable plot. Somewhat slow paced. Rent, don't buy \ Not a movie you'll watch more than once.Also Check Daylight (1996) &#x96; First Blood (1982) &#x96; Taken (2008) - The Transporter (2002)P.S. My purpose in all my IMDb Reviews is not to say I like\don't like this movie but to help you decide whether YOU will like it or not since everything is all about taste and expectations IMO... "},{"Title":"Terrific Action Movie","Date":"16 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is no cerebral or arty thriller. It is an old fashioned mix of a great story, good acting, great action and an imposing setting. Director Renny Harlin cut his teeth on big budget movies with the adequate Die Hard 2. But here he excels, getting the maximum out of every part of this picture to create a hugely satisfying entity.The opening scene is like a James Bond pre-credit opener. Sly Stallone revels in the part of Gabe Walker as he reluctantly comes out of retirement to assist with a climbing rescue. The scenery is staggering and provides an awesome backdrop to a climbing accident which results in Gabe dropping a fellow climbers girlfriend to her death from a rope between two towering stacks much to the displeasure of her boyfriend. These two are then thrown together when a bank heist goes wrong and they are forced to help the criminals recover the loot which has been scattered across a mountainous landscape which Gabe is uniquely placed to assist them with.John Lithgow does the evil as the lead criminal, with Craig Fairbrass from English Fire Station Soap London's Burning pleasingly villainous as his side-kick, Delmar. Avalanches, shoot outs, white-outs, helicopter rescues and cliff-face peril thrill throughout as the baddies try to get away with their ill-gotten gains. Yes the scenes are set-pieces, and the scene in which Gabe lets his would be female rescue slip through his fingers clichéd in the way it is shot. But it doesn't matter. Without exception the action scenes are riveting and entertaining which is surely what a good slice of cinema going should be about. "},{"Title":"Hang on sloppy...............................................","Date":"27 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Guilt - ridden former Mountain Rescue worker (Mr S.Stallone) actually hangs on quite a lot during Cliffhanger.To ropes,broken ladders,falling bridges,helicopter skids,cliff edges,and,during a tense opening sequence,a young lady whom he is unable to save from falling thousands of feet down a ravine - hence the subsequent guilt that fires him to take risks that a more rational man might consider unacceptable. A hi - jacked plane crashes in the mountains and,under the guise of str anded mountaineers,the occupants call for help.Mr Stallone and his companions go to their rescue and it is not long before the villains' fiendish plan is revealed. The bad guys are led by Mr J.Lithgow who has trouble taking himself seriously which,in a nutshell,is the movie's weakness. There is a basic dichotomy in a film where you have some first - rate stunts,breath - taking photography,a fair amount of cold - blooded murder but a set of villains that might have graced a Batman movie.Just when you are beginning to feel involved,Mr Lithgow or one of his henchpersons exhibits the kind of behaviour makes Jack Nicholson's Joker seem like a masterly study of the criminal mind. If it is meant to be taken seriously it is sloppy film - makingif it is supposed to be a little light relief it is still sloppy film - making. Because it detracts from the tension,lowers the threat - level to that of clowns in a circus. I admire Mr Stallone and consider him to be a far better actor than he is often given credit for.He has not been well - served in Cliffhanger where Mr R.Harlin has rather hedged his bets and attempted that notoriously difficult genre the comedy thriller and,as is so often the case,the comedy side has blunted the thrills. Fortunately he got it right a few years later with The Long kiss Goodnight,but Cliffhanger can only be considered as a missed opportunity. "},{"Title":"Another Good 90's Action Movie","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhanger is a good action movie. Very ruthless and cool bad guys, Stallone is good, i like michael rooker, everyone in the movie. Pretty good stunts, and of course the snowy mountains and climbing is cool in the movie. Some good fights. It has kind of a good story, and a very intense scene at the beginning. And its one of those movies where you count how many more bad guys are left to be killed. And i like how there are things that get screwed up with the money they are trying to find. The bad guys are mean. It is a very brutal and bloody movie. The movie is great to watch on DVD, it is extremely loud, the speakers nearly explode, with the explosions, sound effects, and gunshots. You can really hear the blood when people are shot and punched or whatever, you can hear squishy noises, very loud bone breaking, a lot of blood. And its very satisfying when the bad guys get killed. And there's a great ending action scene when Stallone and Lithgow fight on the helicopter. "},{"Title":"Sylvester Stallone - Action Hero","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" My Stallone kick goes on.Ever since I saw Rocky Balboa recently I've been re-watching all the Stallone flicks I remember enjoying. I recently watched the Rambo trilogy and wrote here on IMDb about Rambo III and how much I enjoyed it more than the other two. And I look forward to Rambo IV.I am an unabashed Stallone fan, within reason. I cannot watch everything that he's done. But Stallone is without a doubt one of my absolute favorites. When he delivers the goods in movies, it usually counts as a very memorable viewing experience.Let me say right now that there is nothing better on TV on any night of the week than Cliffhanger on DVD on a 42 Phillips plasma screen with Ambi-lite and 5.1 surround sound. Period.The scenery, the villains, and the action are top dollar. Cliffhanger is very enjoyable. Not for the kids mind you. The violence is absurd as a cartoon but very intense. My ten year old was mesmerized watching the first few minutes with me as he stalled going to bed. We let him watch the beginning, and then I found myself explaining to him that it was just a movie. So parents beware.Stallone is all action here. He plays down his super hero status to play a believable and well fit mountain climber who is thrust into a wild situation. And that's really it. There's no other way I can dissect this flick. I had a huge bowl of popcorn, a can of ginger ale, a brain on auto pilot and not a care in the world. Kinda like when I was a teen. For a couple of hours at least. And I enjoyed Cliffhanger immensely. Much of the film is 'over the top' and I think that's exactly what Stallone and the filmmakers wanted. "},{"Title":"Reny Harlin finally gets it","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Will someone please tell me how someone like Reny Harlin can make a good film like this, then do Cut Throat Island and the worst film of all time, Driven? Stallone and Harlin did a great job, so my counsel for him (them) stick to what works. This film is very enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Awesome action/adventure/thriller","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Sylvester Stallone didn't make alot of good movies in the '90s. At the beginning of the decade he got caught in two comedies that were big bombs (Oscar and Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot). Stallone realized comedy is not what he does best (wouldn't you think he learned that after 1984's Rhinestone?). So he returned to action movies in 1993 with Cliffhanger. It's his best movie of the '90s. This film has a whole lot of action, stunts, effects, and thrills to last a lifetime. Stallone plays Gabe Walker, a veteran mountain climber who returns to the mountains for the first time since a tragic accident happened eight months earlier. A new problem starts to brew. A plane carrying thousands of dollars in currency is somewhat hijacked by a crazy villain flying beside the plane in a small jet. Their plan, with the help of a foul-mouthed baddie on the plane, is to steal the money by transferring it from the plane to the jet. This plan takes a very wrong turn. The plane explodes, the money just as its being transferred over falls into the mountains, and the jet crash lands on top of the peak. Stallone, along with fellow mountain climbing experts Michael Rooker and Janine Turner, receive a distress call from the villains claiming that they're trapped and need to be rescued. What Stallone and his team don't know is that its a trap, and when Stallone gets away, he preceeds to play cat-and-mouse with the bad guys. Cliffhanger is one extremely exciting movie. Director Renny Harlin has made an action movie the way it should be made pile on as many action sequences one after another and it's done very effectively. This is Harlin's best directorial effort to date. It's a shame he had to take the low route with his follow-up movie, the monumental bomb Cutthroat Island (which starred his then wife Geena Davis). He followed that with another box-office loser, The Long Kiss Goodnight (also starring Davis). He returned to form last year with the excellent horror-thriller Deep Blue Sea, and he reteamed with Stallone for his next movie called Driven (to be released next spring), about race car driving (which also stars Burt Reynolds and Kip Pardue from Remember the Titans). I just saw a preview of this movie recently, and it looks good. But I don't think it will top Cliffhanger. Stallone is excellent in this movie. He's much better here that he was in most of the movies he made in the '90s. Turner (from TV's Northern Exposure) and Rooker (currently in The 6th Day) are terrific too. And what about that performance by John Lithgow as the lead heavy? He makes an outstanding villain here (even though his British accent had me laughing at times). And veteran Waltons actor Ralph Waite has some good moments as the other part of the good team, the helicopter pilot. Cliffhanger is for anyone who loves action movies. This one delivers!**** (out of four)  "}{"Title":"Lots of fun, Lithgow steals the show","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I can only guess the relatively low average rating for this movie comes from those who were expecting something totally different. Go in with the expectations you'd have for a Bond movie and you'll love it.This flick is what it is and what it is is fun. The opening ten minutes are about as nail-biting as it gets. The plot the rest of the way could be right out of one of those crazy thrillers being mass produced by the likes of Cornwell and Patterson, no more believable, no less. Bond fans will appreciate some of the aerial plane to plane, sky-diving, and mountain climbing feats accomplished here.The incredible plot twists hold up quite nicely, thank you. And Stallone has plenty of opportunity to be the man in both strength and intelligence, just as all Stallone movies demand.The movie is made most fun, however, by John Lithgow's delightful work as the international villian. He seems to relish his own evilness and we get to enjoy it with him. Check his callousness and nifty lines as he bumps people off, it's just too much. His most fun to watch role since the mad scientist in Buckaroo Banzai.A poor turn by Janine Turner stops me from giving this movie a full 10. Seems like the cast of the wonderful Northern Exposure just can't find comfort elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Great!!!","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I didn't watch this for Stallone, I've never been a fan of his. I watched it purely for John Lithgow because I love him playing the bad guy and this movie didn't disappoint me. I rate it 8/10 for the action and of course Lithgow!! "},{"Title":"Cliff copter caper","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This was the one that brought Sly back in a big way for a couple of years in '93, after all those bad early '90s films he did like 'Oscar' and 'Stop or Mom shoots'...it opened with 20M on Memorial Day weekend and went from there. Great scenery, stunts, action, you get to see the father on the Waltons, Paul Winfield and the gal from Northern Exposure all going toe to toe with a group of Hellaciously nasty terrorist/robbers. John Lithgow is esp. vile here. Effective yes.I liked how Micheal Rooker held up his end of the film too-he is a fine actor, and to my thinking, under-used. (Have always admired his work in JFK, for example...)And the Bald guy, the ex-FBI guy who winds up dead on the bridge, with Sly, the Ice and everything...he is a familiar face who does his work here quite well too.It's too bad that Sly couldn't find more films of this nature and quality to follow up the big jumpstart he got from this and Demolition Man in '90. The Specialist did well a year lator, but was universally laughed off the screen, then came Judge Dread, Asassination, etc with but Copland to hang his hat on.He is better than that.*** outta ****, good stuff. "},{"Title":"Definitely not a cliffhanger","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  As with most action movies, the plots are generally not Oscar-worthy, the acting is average or subpar, and the action itself is pretty unbelievable. However, if one enjoys the action genre, these movies can be very entertaining.  But then there are movies like Cliffhanger, which stretch credibility so far (while pretending that it has some) that the movie suddenly becomes laughable.  The strongest, well-bodied and athletic person in the world could not even accomplish 85% of the things Stallone seems to be able to achieve in this movie.  Not only that, but sometimes the movie defies basic scientific theories (like Armageddon does).  Even more unrealistic than True Lies, and with a much worse plot, this movie gets put near the bottom of the barrel, even among the action movies that I've seen. Stallone fans and action movie buffs may enjoy this movie, but I can't imagine anyone else feeling like their money and time was well spent. "},{"Title":"Stallone's high-altitude action film is ordinary.","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Are Sylvester Stallone's days numbered as an all-out action hero? It appears as though CLIFFHANGER built a tremendous amount of hype upon its first release as visions of snow-covered mountains and bloody violence went through our minds. I expected better. From the opening where Stallone loses his grip on the damsel in distress hanging on his arm, things got suddenly ordinary. Other than the amazing scenery set at the Rocky Mountains, the key action and plot substances are too simple, too safe. Much of the time, our villains get a lot of credit for acting. If you have the perfect 20/20 vision, you may spot a couple of aerial views looking utterly cheesy. Consider this film to give you a small taste of SPEED. Not up to my expectations, I'm afraid.   "},{"Title":"This movie is certainly no cliffhanger","Date":"18 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Well, this movie did not really live up to its title. To me a movie can't really be a cliffhanger because we are watching everything in one straight shot. Doctor Who on the other hand was brilliant at just simply leaving the story hanging drawing the audience back the next night, or week, to see how the situation was resolved. Cliffhanger was not like that. It did not keep me gripping my seat and the only thing I was waiting for was for the bad guy Qualin (John Lithgow) to die and the movie to end.I could end here because to me there wasn't much in this movie that I have not seen before. The scenery didn't thrill me and the cinematography wasn't all that crash hot (unlike Bad Boys where it is brilliant). The reviewers seemed to have loved this movie but personally it may have been breathtaking in the cinema, but it was not at all breath taking for me. Stallone's character does not need a name because the character is simply Stallone. He is a very good actor but when directors cast him to be the typical brutal action hero then I am not really impressed. Tango and Cash was not Stallone and that is what I liked. Here he was a typical clichéd hero in a different role, where as he might be a cop in one movie, he is a mountain man here. No real point to it.John Lithgow and his gang of thugs are pretty poor. They are just too brutal and evil to really catch my interest. They may have been cool and calculating in the air, but on the ground in the mountains they are just desperate, sadistic, and just running around with signs on their back saying kill me please! John Lithgow puts it aptly in his line, I guess you want to kill me, well take a number and get in line. That is in line behind all of the audience who simply want to see him dead for being such a pathetic bad guy. Bad guys are supposed to have style and sophistication. They supposed to know what they are doing and have a goal in mind. They are also supposed to be intelligent, especially if they are able to pull off a mid-air heist such as the one the pulled in this movie. Lithgow is none of these, he even lacks the intelligence to know that you don't kill, or even intimidate your guides. You play it nice and easy. But if they were to do that then there would be little room for your stunts. Personally, I could probably rewrite this movie to make it much better. "},{"Title":"Classic Snow Setting Flick","Date":"20 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Director Renny Harlin who also created other classic flicks, Twelve Rounds 2009, Deep Blue Sea 1999, The Long Kiss Goodnight 1996, A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 The Dream Master 1988 and Prison 1988 has created another gem in Cliffhanger.Starring Sylvester Stallone who has also been in other classic flicks, The Expendables 2010, Rambo 2008, Cobra 1986, Rocky IV 1985, Rambo First Blood Part II 1985, First Blood 1982 and Rocky III 1982.Also starring John Lithgow who has also been in other classic flicks, Ricochet 1991 and The Day After 1983.Also staring Michael Rooker who has also been in other classic flicks, Whisper 2007, Slither 2006, Renegade Force 1998, The Replacement Killers 1998, Tombstone 1993, JFK 1991 and Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer 1986.I enjoyed the snow settings, action and violence.If you enjoyed this as much as I did then check out other classic snow setting flicks, Frozen 2010, The Last Winter 2006, Man in the Wilderness 1971 and A Simple Plan 1998. "},{"Title":"Hanging Around for More Action","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" If you were to add up all the bad things with 1993's Cliffhanger, you'd only have half of the number of positives.Sure, when the movie's bad &#x96; dialogue, clichés, laughable acting and too many slow-mo shots&#x96; it's bad. Really bad. But I remember the only other time I've seen this movie was when it first came out 17 years ago and I would've called it a guilty pleasure, if I knew what one was at that time.I loved the cinematography &#x96; it was beautiful, I loved the suspense and despite the (most times) predictable script, the opening blew me away. Yep, it's a major plot point, but unfortunately I can't spoil it. It's a wonderful and grand scale beginning that most directors would actually use as their climax verses their prologue.And even though the film concerns mountain-men who climb up to get idiots down, there actually was a lot of action, explosions, hand-to-hand combat in addition to gun battles.Stallone plays Gabe, Rocky Mountain Rescuer Extraordinaire, who participated in an accident and leaves the high altitudes and wife behind for more than a half a year. As in most action films, the retired is always drawn back in for one final mission and low & behold he needs to assist when criminals plead for help recovering thousand dollar bills located in three remote areas.Actually, it's pretty exciting how that was really set up, or that the suitcases of cash were distributed. They really spent a lot of time making a whole lot of nothing into multiple action segments.Suspending your disbelief involves every-day-man Stallone who gets his ass kicked from Colorado to Castle Rock. But, if you can get past that, and the occasional obvious blue/green screen and scenes lifted out of Die Hard, you might enjoy the thrill ride. Despite the layman's obvious plot holes, I'm sure there are more for people who actually know a few things about rock climbing. I don't know the first thing, so it's just exciting and suspenseful for this amateur.Okay, it didn't prove a huge box-office sensation or that Stallone could act or write, but it's an enjoyable adventure that absolutely requires your brain to be checked in at the door before viewing. "},{"Title":"Clichehanger","Date":"12 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I don't think I've ever seen so many clichés nailed together in a single movie. We've got the 'failed' action-man/expert in the form of Stallone as a mountain rescue oik who's lost his nerve and is stricken with guilt after an accident in which some female gets dropped. But he's soon whipped into line by a spirited, rasp-tongued young harridan accusing him of cowardice etc. We have the good-buddy who despises him - I think he was related to the dropped wench. There's an amiable old patriarch who's got 'marked for death' written all over him. The airborne heist that marks the beginning of the adventure is a worthy bit of action. It's tense, visceral and edge-of-the-seat stuff. The aerial transfer is also an unusual twist. After that, the whole plot comes down like the jet. The miraculous crash landing is a foretaste of many miracles to come. Firstly, 3 big cases of money come adrift and fall somewhere in the rocky mountains. No worries; each is fortuitously fitted with a homing beacon. Why; did they expect it to happen? All they've got to do now is find them - in the rocky mountains. It's a doddle. The jet, in the meantime, has struggled on for many miles.The baddies are a gang of such nasty pieces of work that they're almost comical. Their leader is so cold-blooded that you wonder how he survived adolescence. Stallone and his good-buddy respond to their distress signal only to find themselves dragooned into finding the money. Together, everyone hops around the mountains as if they were the local park. They scale terrain and cover distances in hours that would take skilled technicians days. Trust me; I've been wilderness trekking. Even, the raspy young harridan reappears, flown in by the old patriarch to some place about 10 miles away. That's about a week's hard struggle, but she meets-up with Stallone in less than half an hour. Despite having no electronic tracking device, Stallone miraculously finds one of the cases all by himself. How? Don't ask; it was in the script. Never did a needle make so light of a haystack.There's a couple of hedonistic adolescent paragliders who refer to each other as 'dude' in classic 1980's style - yeah, man. One gets shot the other escapes. Suddenly the mountains are beginning to look very crowded. There's a scene in which Stallone shoots a baddie from under water. Anyone with more than half a braincell knows that the gun would simply have exploded. But miracles just keep on coming. And there's a final confrontation in a hanging-by-a-thread helicopter that is bloody, needlessly protracted and as predictable as expected. That's about it. Well worth watching for the heist sequence, and some of the photography is excellent. But then it's hard to foul-up the splendour of the Rocky mountains. Otherwise it's just a clichéd turkey. 'Die-Hard' in the peaks. "},{"Title":"elaborate and effective action movie","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhanger, while it is in no regards, a great movie overall, is by all accounts, a great action movie. If you want a relatively simple story built around nonstop fun, action, shooting, and fistfights, Cliffhanger is definitely the kind of movie that will suit you. It is the perfect, late-night, enjoy-the-ride film since it keeps you riveted and entertained. It is Sylvester Stallone's best action picture since First Blood and still remains one of his better.The plot of the film is very simple. Mountain climbers are forced by terrorists to find lost bags of loot that they need in order to flee the country. Along the way, friends are endangered, they encounter the hostilities of nature, and are struggling to beat the other side while the FBI wants to end everything right away. Sure, that's not particularly complex or original. But when it's done right, a simple plot like that can turn into an effective movie.The film is elaborately designed and performed. It was shot on a real mountain range, and therefore, the scenery looks breathtakingly beautiful, especially when combined with the memorable music score. Sure, the rock climbing techniques done by Sylvester Stallone and Michael Rooker aren't entirely accurate. The bolt gun that Stallone uses is something that no real rock climber would dare use. And some incredible things happen. Such as a character falling into freezing cold water without a shirt on, climbing back out, and ending up just fine. But it's just a fun movie and should be treated as such.Cliffhanger might be too violent for some people to enjoy. The body count is fairly high, there is a fair share of blood (although it's not used too recklessly), and it could be just too intense for some. But overall, it's a great movie to just sit back and watch for fun. Do not take the movie too seriously, and you will be riveted, thrilled, and have the ride of a lifetime for your first viewing. Afterward, it's still a good solid action picture. "}{"Title":"Memorable action movie","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhanger has always been one of my favorite action movies since it came back in 1993. It holds up pretty well today. Reasons the movie is as predictable as many other movies in the genre. But two things sets it apart humor and villains. There are MANY cool one- liners in this movie and many fine villains, where John Lithgow hits bullseye with an downright evil performance so to speak. He simply is that pure EVIL. He don't care for anyone. He don't have sympathy for anyone. Feelings are something he don't know. That's why he's so cool he is completely over the top. Otherwise OK acting(even by Stallone), spectacular scenery and action scenes. Photography is amazing. Story is weak, but the scenery makes up for it. But my praise for this movie goes to the villains. Simply great villains. Shame Hollywood don't make them like this anymore. Shame Renny Harlin has fallen like he has. Now he makes just crap. No Cliffhangers anymore. If you should recover Renny welcome back. "},{"Title":"One of the best action movies ever made","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The appealing story of an ace mountain climber who has to prove himself by accomplishing a series of Herculean tasks in order to redeem himself in the eye of his best friend, his lover and himself (looking for a second chance) is one that Stallone relates to, both personally and emotionally. The first Rocky movie, which was made from a script written by Stallone himself, was about a man who gets a second chance in life when he is chosen to fight the heavy weight champion of the world. Cliffhanger takes this immortal premise another step further into mythological territory, where a man must not only struggle against himself, but also against powerful and wild enemies equipped with deadly firepower and the relentless force of nature. About the negative opinions many people seem to have about this movie, I can only say that critics are dead wrong. Cliffhanger is often criticized for being a mindless violent movie, but hey, Cliffhanger is an action movie, if you want high drama and academy award acting go to see THE GODFATHER, GLADIATOR or FORREST GUMP. Many people don't like Stallone, and they attack his projects, mostly, if they are hits, but hey, you want real cheese ?, take a look at Arnie's LAST ACTION HERO, unquestionably one of the worst movies ever made. The plot is interesting and the cast was wonderfully chosen, John Litgow was one of the best movie villains I have ever seen on film. So, sit down, pop some corn, grab a bottle of Coca-Cola, and get ready to watch CLIFFHANGER --a must for any action buff or fan of Sylvester Stallone. "},{"Title":"Cliffhangar is Amazing","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhangar is a true gem in the action movie genre. Action movies have become stagnant and clichéd in a gradual downward spiral since this film. Who could ignore Stallone's colossus of a performance or not cower in fear of the greatest villain of all time, played charismatically and viciously by John Lithgow. Unlike his most famous other role, Rocky Stallone's diction was easily discernible and even, sometimes, quite apt. Mountains themselves could never be as timeless as the roller-coaster, nail-biting, thrill a minute, powerhouse of a picture that is Cliffhangar.Cliffhangar is so good no critic could possibly do it justice. That's why they haven't, ignore them all. Simply watch Cliffhangar. "},{"Title":"Dymatic Suspense Action Thriller.","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" After the unexpected accident that killed an inexperienced climber (Michelle Joyner). Eight months has passed... The Rocky Mountain Rescue receive a distress call set by a brilliant terrorist mastermind Eric Quaien (John Lithgow). Quaien has lost three large cases that has millions of dollars inside. Two experienced climbers Walker (Sylvester Stallone) and Tucker (Micheal Rooker) and a helicopter pilot (Janine Turner) are to the rescue but they are set by a trap by Quaien and his men. Now the two climbers and pilot are forced to play a deadly game of hide and seek. While Quaien is trying to find the millions of dollars and he kidnapped Tucker to find the money. Once Tucker finds the money, Tucker will be dead. Against explosive firepower, bitter cold and dizzying heights. Walker must outwit Quaien for survival.Directed by Renny Harlin (Driven, Mindhunters, A Nightmare on Elm Street 4The Dream Master) made an entertaining non-stop action picture. This film is a spectacular, exciting, visually exciting action picture with plenty of dark humour as well. This was one of the biggest hits of 1993. This is one of Harlin's best film. Lithgow is a terrific entertaining villain. Stallone certainly made an short comeback of this sharp thriller. This is probably Harlin's best work as a filmmaker.DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an terrific-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has an running commentary track by the director with comments by Stallone. DVD also has technical crew commentary as well. DVD has behind the scenes featurette, two deleted scenes with introduction by the director and more. Do not miss this great action film. Screenplay by Micheal France (Fantastic Four) and actorStallone (The Rocky Series). Based on a premise by John Long. Excellent Cinematography by Alex Thomson, B.S.C. (Alien³, Demolition Man, Legend). Oscar Nominated for Best Sound, Best Sound Editing and Best Visual Effects. Panavision. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"And some people find this movie good?","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I am still shuddering at the thought of EVER seeing this movie again.I have seen action films, I have even liked quite a few of them, but this one goes over the top.Not only does it have the worst male actor ever (Sly Stallone) playing the lead role, but the plot of the movie is so stupid from the beginning (why not rob the money while the plane is on the ground, would be hell of a lot easier) that it requires a person with IQ less than his shoenumber to believe it. Furthermore, the plot has no real twists at all, a three year old kid could guess what comes next. It is a set of cliches (of action genre), with Sly performing even worse than his other movies (he was better even in Rambo III if you watch that movie as a comedy rather than action film). Now there is an actor who can't act A) surprised B) sad C) anything else than his basic face. I would still like to point out that this movie has two factors that might make some people like it. EXPLOSIONS are outstanding, but then... you can see better on the 4th of July. LANDSCAPES are magnificient, but then... there are documentaries about the Alps and Himalayas, so you can see better sights that way, rather than waste time on this flick.Go watch some other movie instead, there are hundreds, even thousands better action movies.  "},{"Title":"If nothing else, watch it for Lithgow","Date":"5 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhanger was an expensive and dangerous to film vehicle for Sylvester Stallone. But odds are you will remember John Lithgow's performance as the lead villain more than anything. Maybe even the fine stunts. Considering he was a last minute replacement for Christopher Walken, Lithgow more than creates a dynamic and diabolical baddie. His performance, along with the rest of the cast and fine stunt work make this a watchable film.This is certainly Stallone's movie though, and it came out at a time when his career was beginning to sink to depths from which it never really recovered. Though certainly not on par with his better Rocky and Rambo flicks, this absolutely beats the stuffing out of Demolition Man, Daybreak, or whatever that race car movie he made was called. Stallone plays the leader of a mountain rescue team. After an accident early in the film claims the life of a colleague's girlfriend, he abruptly retires from the business of saving lives. Little does he know that his skills will be needed once more when a team of reckless mercenaries crash lands onto his range and tears the countryside apart looking for their lost loot. Can they be defeated before they recover the money? Will anyone they encounter survive? Or will these crooks end up killing each other until only the worst of them are still standing??? Go ahead and watch this film. Not a shred of it is believable, but Renny Harlin has done worse.The cast is full of recognizable faces, many of whom peaked in the early 1990s. We don't see that much of Michael Rooker these days, or Janine Turner for that matter either. Leon Robinson or Leon as he is typically billed is here as one of the bad guys. You may recall him from Madonna's Like a Prayer video or his role as a player in Waiting to Exhale. The late Paul Winfield has an all too brief role, and Bruce McGill is barely on hand long enough to have a cup of coffee! What the heck? He's too good of an actor to waste like he is here. Several of the stunts are such that they could only have been done in the controlled confines of a movie set. Some scenes are just impossible to begin with. Stallone is going to hide under the ice of a frozen river and wait for the opportune moment to shoot a bad guy with a climber's bolt gun? Sure. Stallone is apparently going to catch a wild rabbit with his bare hands and tie a tracking device to it so it can lead the bad guys in the wrong direction. Uh huh. Why not? The explosions look real enough, at least. Stallone still can't deliver a funny line properly, though. Where's the money? asks a bad guy. Burned it, Stallone replies. Never could save anything. Or as he's burning the money in a cave to provide warmth for he and Ms. Turner, Costs a fortune to heat this place. Ughhhhhhh!! 6 of 10 stars.The Hound. "},{"Title":"Die Hard Meets Rocky.","Date":"16 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Two of the most influential Hollywood films of the 1980's were Die Hard and Fatal Attraction. These blockbusters left a blueprint for dozens of films in their aftermaths, which also wound up being moderate hits at the box office. Cliffhanger hit theaters about a year after the success of Under Siege, one of the many bastard sons of John McClaine. The original 1988 Bruce Willis action vehicle involved European terrorists planning a multi million dollar heist in the top floors of a skyscraper. It's sequel, 1990's Die Hard 2, had this scenario take place in an airport. 1992's Under Siege used the premise on board a submarine. 1993's Cliffhanger finds the terrorists attempting a big heist in midair. When the plan goes haywire, the money lands in the rocky mountains where Sylvester Stallone happens to be rock climbing with several peers. This film might as well have been another Rocky sequel, with Rocky stumbling across these international terrorists while training for his next fight by climbing the Alps.Cliffhanger is the Die Hard formula at it's most absurd. Here, Stallone does to rock climbers what he did to Vietnam vets with Rambo 2. A he-man like Sly has no need for protective equipment or warm clothing while scaling ice-capped mountains at such high altitudes. A tank top, bicycle shorts & his bare hands suffice. But does he get even with the bad guys who kidnap his fellow mountain climbers when they attempt to recover the suitcases full of money? If you don't know, you've never seen one of the countless Die Hard clones Hollywood cranked out in the early '90's.Cliffhanger was surprisingly one of the few Stallone vanity projects to make a profit over the past few decades. Unfortunately, it managed to bring the film careers of the lovely Janine Turner and the great John Lithgow to a screeching halt. The moral here is that sometimes success comes with failure in Tinseltown. Stallone is certainly no stranger to that. "},{"Title":"The best action film of 1993","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Cliffhanger is what appears to be Slyvester Stallone's last action movie before he became such an underrated actor. It's about a mountain climber that must help his friend after being held hostage by mercenaries that want them to find three suitcases carrying money over 100 million dollars. It has great action sequence's, edge of your seat fun and a great time at the movies. "},{"Title":"Great action packed Stallone movie with some REALLY bad guys!","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is really nerve racking Cliffhangin movie!Stallone was good as always!Michael Rooker put on a surprising performance and John Lithgow play a excellent villain!The music is fantastic especially the theme!The movie is action packed and never dull!If you are a Stallone fan then watch Cliffhanger,you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"It's Rocky in the Rockies","Date":"26 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This film is an insult to anyone's intelligence. A romp through the Rockies, where people are oblivious to freezing cold, where men can jump like mountain goats and not slip, etc. In one scene, Stallone falls through a frozen stream. We see him under the water, beneath the ice.He inexplicably takes his jacket and shirt off ( I know it's obligatory for Stallone to take his shirt off in every film he's in, but this just wasn't the time for this) and shoots through the ice, killing his foe. Then he bursts through the ice and is helped out. In the very next scene, he has his clothes back and is completely dry. He didn't even sneeze, let alone lapse into a hypothermic coma. In another scene, he is 3/4 the way across a hanging plank bridge between two cliffs, when an explosion ahead of him collapses the bridge. He runs a quarter mile faster than a 550 hp Camaro and manages to grab the cliff at the other end as the bridge dangles beneath him. A bad guy fires off a magazine of ammo from an AK47 at Stallone. Stallone runs away in a straight line and jumps off a cliff onto some trees. You guessed it - the bad guy missed with all 100 bullets. Stallone is bleeding from the fall, with blood from his chest soaking though his layered clothing. The next scene, it's as if nothing had happened...all gone. In another scene, a little brown bunny rabbit gets shot at by a bad guy who heard it rustling and thought it was Stallone. The little critter got away, but it is wearing a harness. I guess he was making a fashion statement. All in all, dumb...very dumb....and the background music sounded like the soundtrack from a Bugs Bunny cartoon. "}{"Title":"One of my favorite action films of all time! it's really thrilling, with brilliant action scenes and amazing performances","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is one of my favorite action films of all time! it's really thrilling, with brilliant action scenes and amazing performances. All the characters are wonderful, and the story is fantastic, plus Sylvester Stallone is simply amazing in this!. I thought the scenery was absolutely beautiful, and all the characters are extremely likable, plus John Lithgow plays one of the coolest villains ever here!. Michael Rooker is always an outstanding addition to any cast and here is no different, and I though this was extremely well made and written as well, plus It's kind of like Die Hard on a mountain!. The opening is one of the best ever, as it's so intense, and it had a couple of very cool fight scenes as well, plus it's unpredictable for the most part!. Stallone had a bit of a rough patch for a little while back then (I still enjoyed most of his films though), but really redeemed himself with this one!, as it got him back to the top, plus he had very good chemistry with Janine Turner!.This should be much higher then 6.0 in my opinion, and I feel this is Renny Harlin's best film! plus some of the stunts just blew me away!. The cinematography is outstanding, and believe it or not Stallone does not have as much screen time as one would think, which was good and bad, because Stallone is one of my absolute favorites, but it was good because he did a nice thing and gave the other stars just as much as him, plus the ending and finale were both especially awesome!. I loved how ruthless and sadistic Lithgow was, and the climbing scenes are awesome as well, plus there is plenty of violence as well. Yes it is somewhat of a Die Hard clone,however it also adds tons of new stuff as well, plus This is one of Stallone's absolute best!. It will keep you on the edge of your seat until the very end, and the scene where the bats attack Stallone and Turner was very cool, plus I loved the setting as well. This is one of my favorite actions films of all time! it's really thrilling, with brilliant action scenes and amazing performances, and if you haven't seen it please do so immediately you shouldn't regret it!.The Direction is superb!. Renny Harlin does a superb job here with outstanding camera work, fantastic angles, great zoom in's and zoom out's and lots of other awesome shots as well, plus he kept the film at an extremely fast pace.The Acting is amazing!. Sylvester Stallone is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, intense, plays one of his coolest characters, was focused, had very good chemistry with Rooker and Janine Turner, kicked that ass, and brought his usual wonderful charisma, he was amazing! (Stallone Rules!!!!!!!). John Lithgow is brilliant as the main villain, he plays one of the best ever, is extremely menacing, and cold, and you will love to hate him, he impressed me big time!. Michael Rooker is outstanding as usual, and is his usual intense self, he had some great scenes with Stallone, and I was happy they gave him a lot of screen time, because I love this guy!. (Rooker Rules!!!). Janine Turner is good in her role as the love interest, I liked her lots. Rex Linn is good as the traitor I dug him. Rest of the cast do fine.Overall if you haven't seen it please do so immediately you shouldn't regret it!. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Let it go.","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Approached this in the mood for a good action movie but it was overall pretty disappointing. Good Lord. How much suspension of disbelief can you demand of one human being? The story involves a handful of thieves and murderers taking four innocent Mountain Rescue Team hostages and forcing them to lead the way to three suitcases containing collectively some forty million dollars. Maybe it wasn't exactly forty million but, as you'll see, it makes no difference.You can mostly figure out what's going to happen from moment to moment and you don't have to work especially hard to do it. Sylvester Stallone escapes from captivity and acts alone against the hoodlums. Will he natter them in all sorts of unimaginable ways? Will there be one or two times when he is forced to doff his shirt and show off his muscles? If you really need to ponder issues like these you may find the flick more absorbing than I did.Think for a moment of a stereotypical action movie. The first red digital readout on a bomb that I remember seeing on film was in a James Bond movie, the one with Odd Job, from perhaps 1963. The movie was made 43 years ago, as of this writing. I'm not at all sure that there has been a single action movie involving a time bomb since then that has not features a red digital readout clock, ticking down the second. This movie gives us THREE red digital readout clocks attached to bombs. Okay? Getting the picture? Let me note, though, to be fair, that the final stunt was very well choreographed, a failed helicopter on the side of a huge mountain, slipping away, held only be a wrought-iron ladder from which Stallone is swinging. Don't ask. It's not as finely tuned as Harold Loyd in Safety Last. But it's the equal of the stunt in Die Hard in which Bruce Willis leaps from the top of a skyscraper with a fire hose tied around his waist.Beyond that scene -- well. This takes place atop some giant snow-veined colossals, so we have multiple bodies falling through space, sometimes with parachutes, sometimes not. We have two avalanches, one of snow and one of rock, so you can thrill at the avalanche of your choice.The thieves are led by John Lithgow with a fake British accent. Often these otherwise mindless movies are redeemed by a good, smart heavy who has been given good wisecracks. Example John Travolta in Broken Arrow. Earlier (and classic example) Orson Welles as Harry Lime in The Third Man. Not here, though. The wisecracks mostly fall flat, as if they'd been toppled from some stony peak. You'd like to kill me, wouldn't you. Well take a coupon and get in line. There is one pretty good bit of dialog given to Lithgow though. See, this jet is damaged and wobbling around in the sky, and one of the gang has been wounded. What are we going to do with him? asks another thief. Lithgow Get him to a hospital -- fast. (Throws him out the door.) Otherwise the dialog is not only not innovative but redundant. A helicopter is chasing Stallone across a snowy field. Stallone is running like hell in slow motion, while Janine Turner watches. RUN!, she screams.The hull of the helicopter with Lithgow trapped inside falls to the valley and explodes in a slow motion fireball. Stallone, his bare torso flexed, is trapped under a sheet of ice while a heavy stands over him and aims a machine gun at him. So long, Pal, says the heavy, or something like that. That's what he thinks. Stallone simply pulls out a pistol and shoots him several times -- THROUGH THE WATER.I wonder if I ought to revise my opinion when I reconsider incidents like that. Was the whole film supposed to be a comedy? "},{"Title":"That very rare movie","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Once in a while, a movie will sweep along that stuns you, draws you in, awes you, and, in the end, leaves you with a renewed belief in the human race from the artistry form. This is not it. This is an action movie that lacks convincing action. It stinks. Rent something else. "},{"Title":"About as bad as film making gets","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the worse cases of film drivel I have seen in a long while. It is so awful, that I am not sure where to begin, or even if it is worth it. The plot is the real problem, and I feel sorry for 'Sly' as he puts in a decent performance for his part. But that plot ... Oh dear oh dear. I particularly love the way near the end he manages to pop from the foot of a mountain to the top, whilst the helicopter is on the way. A climb of a day or two takes him all of five minutes! I could go on but it isn't worth it. Apart from the grim opening (which even a five year old would be able to predict the outcome of) the rest is drivel. Sorry folks, but this is about as bad as film making gets. "},{"Title":"In a minute I'll be dead but you'll always be an a*shole. Great Stallone action flick.","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhanger starts as the United States Treasury in Denver prepare to ship $100 million in a plane, however en-route over the Rocky Mountains in Colorado soon to retire agent Richard Travers (Rex Linn) turns traitor & kills his fellow agents aboard, a jet with know terrorist Eric Qualen (John Lithgow) & his henchmen aboard flies behind it as Travers performs a daring mid air transfer between the two planes. The plane's pilot (Kim Robillard) who is also in on the plan is supposed to send the money which is packed in suitcases across but things go wrong & the cases fall to earth somewhere in the mountains, the pilot is shot as is Qualen's jet which crash lands in the desolate, icy terrain of the Rockies. The men are desperate to get the money & agent Travers has a tracking device which will lead them to it but they need guides so they make a call to the local mountain rescue team who send Hal Tucker (Michael Rooker) & Gabe Walker (Sylvester Stallone) who Qualen intends to use to lead them to the money but Gabe knows once they have it he & Hal are as good as dead so sets about spoiling Qualen's plans...This Italian, French & American co-production was produced & directed by Renny Harlin & I think it's one of those terrific action packed unashamedly violent & excessive big budget adventure flicks from the 90's which they just don't seem to make anymore. The script by Michael France & star Sylvester Stallone is a story of an ordinary man who turns the odds on a gang of known international thieves in a far fetched but sensational way, basically there's enough needless killing, fighting, bad language, gun fights, crashes, improbable action set-pieces, plot holes, rock climbing & downright overblown silliness to keep any action junkie such as myself happy for it's two hour duration. The character's are pretty good although the scene at the start where Gabe tries & fails to rescue Sarah (Michelle Joyner) is quickly forgotten & doesn't really amount to much, the heroes are suitably heroic while the bad guys are suitably bad, what more do you want? The dialogue is alright & the story is quite exciting, it moves along like a rocket so it never bores & I just think it makes for fantastic action packed entertainment. A lot of these types of films are criticised because they are brainless, well that's true but that's why people do like them. They are pure popcorn flicks you can watch & enjoy all the wanton destruction & needless violence taking place, I'm a big fan of the 90's action flick & Cliffhanger is right up there with the best of them. There are a few silly moments like how Gabe manages to survive the avalanche that falls right on top of him, how he can swim in what would be literally freezing water without a shirt & survive with no ill effects & how the strapping on Sarah can magically un-do itself but what the hell no-one said these sorts of films had to be realistic, it's only a film right?Director Harlin does a good job & the mountain location provides a striking backdrop to the action, set in Colorado it was actually shot in Italy when apparently the American Environmental Protection Agency refused the production permission to film because of potential damage by the filmmakers! Cliffhanger also contains the most expensive aerial stunt ever filmed, at over $1 million the plane-to-plane transfer cost a lot considering how long it appears on screen. While the film does have plenty of action scenes they are mostly of the gun fight & beating people up variety, there's a plane & helicopter crash but not much else. One word of warning though, Cliffhanger in it's uncut state (sorry anyone who has a UK copy it's cut to bits) is an extremely violent film & a very bloody one as well with every bullet hit accompanied by a wound gushing blood.With a supposed budget of about $65,000,000 Cliffhnager is quite well made & has impressive widescreen cinematography but there are a few continuity problems, for instance when Qualen's jet crash lands the final shot of it is of the nose overshooting a cliff edge by a fair margin but in the very next shot the jet is completely on the ground. The acting is OK but nothing special, apparently Christopher Walken had been cast as the lead villain before dropping out which is a shame because he's an intense actor & he'd have made for a great baddie.Cliffhanger is one of those 90's action flicks which are just so entertaining & overblown, this is one of the better ones with great action & loads of unnecessary violence. I liked it a lot & think there are far worse ways to spend a couple of hours, definitely recommended but just stay away from the rubbishy cut UK versions. "},{"Title":"Good effort....","Date":"20 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie set out to be better than the average action movie and in that regard they succeeded.This movie had spectacular cinematography featuring spectacular mountain snow and heights,a very fit Stallone putting in a good performance as well,an exciting plot,and a great performance from it's main villain becouse he will really shock you with his evil ways.The movie does not rank an all time great becouse of the weak screen play.The plot and story cries for this movie to make Stallone an extra special human,much like the Rambo or Rocky or Bond movie characters.They chose to humanise Stallone's character in this one which is ok but considering the plot's style,weakens the excitement factor.Also,the dialogue was cheesy and carelessly condescending at times.The script should have been more realistic and less talky.Another weak point was the unrealistic shooting scenes.The movie makers should have been more carefull how they hadled the shooting hits and misses.They should have continued the quality of the scenes of the shooting sequences during the plane hijacking early in the movie.Instead,they decided to water down a lot of the shooting sequences (ala A-Team TV series) as soon as the villains set foot on the mountain tops.This movie had a lot of all time great potential.Crisper action sequences,better dialogue and more Rambo/Rocky style emotion/determination from Stallone would have taken this movie to a higher level.I know this was not Stallone's fault.I sense the movie's director wanted to tone down Stallone's character and try to steal the movie by taking credit for his direction which was not all that great if not for his cinematographer.Sill a good movie though........           "},{"Title":"one of the best action films","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Cliffhanger is one of the best action films I have ever seen. SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL YYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY plays very good and the film has a excellent action like no other film. In this film are great and new ideas, very good special effects,a perfect creating of suspense and so in my opinion this film must get an 9 or 10. In this times there were no good other action films to see and some like Bad Boys, Predator 2,Total Recall,Lethal Weapon are not as good as Cliffhanger.So cliffhanger must get a very good vote because he the best actioner out of the 1990th and a vote around six is not OK for this wonderful action film. "},{"Title":"Very interesting and good!","Date":"6 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is directed by Renny Harlin the finnish miracle. Stallone is Gabe Walker. Cat and Mouse on the mountains with ruthless terrorists. Renny Harlin knows how to direct actionmovie. Stallone needed this role to get back on track. Snowy mountain is very good place for action movie and who is better to direct movie where is snow, ice, cold and bad weather than finnish man. Action is good! Music in the film is spectacular. The bad guy is John Litghow, other stars Micheal Rooker ( The portrait of serialkiller), Janine Turner ( Strong Medicine). The is placed in beautiful place and it is very exciting movie. Overall good movie ****/*****Remember Extreme ääliöt special collectors edition, with good extras. Comig soon in Finland straight to video. "},{"Title":"A fantastic action movie","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I enjoyed watching Cliffhanger, at the beginning when that woman (Sarah) was full of terror when she was slipping, i thought that was a terrifying scene as i would think that when you see that see, your nerves in your body get to you because it makes you get full of fright and your heart beats faster. I did like watching Cliffhanger, i think Silvestar Stallone is a great actor and i think he'll be known as playing Rambo and Rocky. "},{"Title":"Cliffhanger? More Like Big Snoozer","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Another Stallone movie. This should be all we need to say, but it's not. Why? Because it also has Michael Rooker and John Lithgow. And two extreme guys who should be in a Mountain Dew commercial or in Harold and Kumar listening to Wilson Phillips. But anyway. Coolest stalactite scene ever (although the competition is slim). Is Lithgow Walken? The part Lithgow was cast for was originally meant for Christopher Walken, but unfortunately Lithgow got it. (No offense to Lithgow, but Walken is the best character actor on Earth - he actually made Gigli worth watching - despite my unbridled love for Ben Affleck.) Long storyshort, this movie is awful. Everyone compares it to Die Hard, but that's a disgrace to the Die Hard series. This film doesn't have the decent plot or excitement those films have. And I'll choose Bruce Willis over Stallone any day when it comes to fighting terrorists (Willis is a one-man Homeland Security). If you have a fetish for Stallone, watch this movie. Or maybe if you really like IMAX films. Otherwise, watch Die Hard for the 42nd time. "}{"Title":"Bad people and bad acting in high places","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Oh, what a bad, bad, very bad movie! Cowritten by and starring Sylvester Stallone&#151;that should have been enough&#151;and featuring too many rock-climbing scenes, vertigo, falling, and scene-chewing villains and a botched airborne heist. There are two plots, both lame. One involves a traumatic failed rescue, and the other involves bad people wrecking an airplane for booty, and killing various harmless people whenever possible. The usually reliable John Lithgow, perhaps depressed by the sheer awfulness of the product, is reduced to sneering and calling those for whom he doesn't care Bostid! in a vague approximation of an English accent. Janine Turner, who was sprightly and enigmatic when she played Maggie on Northern Exposure, is sadly wasted in the part of a rescue climber and pilot. Stallone is stolid and muscle-headed. No deathless lines in this one. No living lines, either. "},{"Title":"this might be the best movie ever made","Date":"6 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" thats right the best! granted that Renny Harlin is a awful director...granted that Sylvester Stallone isn't the best actor in the world... granted that Micheal Rooker is ugly...still... *SPOILERS* Hal tucker(rooker), perhaps one the best climbers the world has ever seen forces his woman up on a remote mountaintop, supposedly to have a pick nick or something. unable to come down they would be done for weren't it for the perhaps even better climber Gale (Stalone) who shows up and saves the day in a helicopter. tragedy strikes however when its time for Hals women to slide across the cable to the helicopter. the safety-harness fails and unable to do the simplest of things and hang on to Gales hand she and a stuffed animal of some kind falls to their deaths. Hal is furious with Gale for daring out on that cable (made for one) to save her (disregarding that it was the harness that broke, not the cable) and blames him for the death of his woman and possibly the harness.can Hal ever forgive Gale and can Gale ever forgive himself? maybe... heres the actual storyline.a rotten cop (john lighgow) is going to heist a plane transporting money. but something goes wrong when it comes to the part of the plan where they slide the briefcases over to another plane by a cable (sort of like they did in Air force one only a lot cooler because this movie doesn't end with the president saving the day). The money is lost and the plane crashes. I don't remember why this happens but there's a lot of shooting. anyway they crash on Gales and Hals mountain and sends out a distress call claiming they're lost hikers.G and H is now forced to work together to get to the hikers only to find out that they're really terrorist. the heroes, setting their differences aside are taken hostages and forced to guide the terrorists to their money (they had some sort of transmitter or something). this leaves Gale no choice but to rip his shirt of and kill them ONE BY ONE! somewhere along this ongoing killing spree explosions and hot chicks are produced. I don't remember how but it all adds up...you're going to want to see this film 1-2 times day to get the most out of it. did I mention there's a German getting impaled?enjoy! "},{"Title":"Laughable","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie with my rock climbing instructor, and we found the entire thing so ridiculous as to be beyond pity.  (For one, if Stallone is out free-climbing by himself, there's no need to carry any gear, but I guess those dangling carabiners look sorta mountain climby, so let's throw them in).  For those lobotomized folks who think that Colorado looks anything like the Dolomites in Italy (where the movie was filmed), well the Hollywood moguls have got a lot more ridiculous & foul-smelling stuff for you to swallow.   "},{"Title":"scary vampires","Date":"6 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I wondered why they used comedian Lithgow in this. Then I got it. This was actually meant to be a comedy. There is some good climbing action. That's the exception however rather than the rule.I realize that the criminals are idiotic jerks but even so nothing they do makes sense, let alone what the mountain rescue team does. Were all these characters really outer space aliens?Enjoy the climbing, particularly by Stallone, ignore the goofiness in the battles, and never let yourself wonder why anyone is doing what they are. If all criminals were this incompetent, crime would be stamped out by Tuesday. On the other hand, if all cops were this incompetent, civilization would crumble. Pretty scenery. "},{"Title":"Too Many Dull Action Sequences and Not Enough Flair or Originality...","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  A Review On the Film Cliffhanger by John Ulmer     Sylvestor Stallone and John Lithgow star in `Cliffhanger,' a film with too many dull action sequences and not enough flair. The only scenes I really enjoyed were those involving John Lithgow's character. As always, Mr. Lithgow is a strong, yet subtle personality, oozing with lurking evil. Sly Stallone is his plain-old self, where one thinks in an effort to remind audiences of how he had starred and written one good film years ago (when he wasn't full of himself) the next thing we will hear him say is `Yo, Adrienne!' `Cliffhanger' is a good example of how not to make an action film. No brains, no charm, no direction, no good story, and not enough action sequences to establish itself in the genre is what `Cliffhanger' holds in store for audiences. Not to mention a horrible lead actor.2/5 stars &#150; two stars only because the climax was reminiscent of a `Die Hard' type action film, and John Lithgow's strong performance throughout. John Ulmer  "},{"Title":"Fair Thriller","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This gets off to a great start with a tragic and strangely affecting incident , but then CLIFFHANGER decides to delete the human aspects  and carry on being a straight forward blockbuster thriller which is a pity.Once again the bad guys have mainly British accents , but in a fit of artistic radicalism we have an American actor playing the main Brit villain. Wow maybe this might catch on , but seeing as John Lithgow`s  ( And just about every other American who has tried ) attempt at an English accent is rather unconvincing maybe not . You can also tell it was an American who wrote the script because of the dialogue  Did I tell you I played soccer mate ? I was a really good soccer player me  Eh sorry but it`s called   Football  in Britain and the rest of the World  . It`s only baseball nations that call it  Soccer  . That aside CLIFFHANGER is a fairly good film , crammed full of exciting setpieces and the director does a pretty good job , especially the scene where the bad guys open fire but no gunshots are heard over the soundtrack only music  "},{"Title":"Another Die-hard Ripoff","Date":"23 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I just can't get past what a ripoff of die-hard this movie was.-Solitary hero visits his ex only to find a gang of international thieves have taken over her workplace in the process of a multi-million dollar heist.-Villians kidnap the ex and her coworkers and use them to help recover their money.-Old father-figure sage is executed by the lead villain.-Hero takes it upon himself to take out team of thieves one at a time.-Hero narrowly escapes with his life thanks to his wits and some death defying leaps.-Throw in several major explosions and a helicopter crash and it ends with a final showdown with the hero and lead villain hanging from a sheer cliff.-Eventually the villain plummets to his doom and the money rains down everywhere.I'm surprised it didn't take place on Mount Nakatomi. "},{"Title":"Too predictable, illogic decisions","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I don't know who wrote the script for this movie, but from the first moment on, I was irritated. Of all possible decisions they could make up in the mountains, why do they make the decision, which is the most dangerous of all? Why do the criminals act dumb, although they managed to get a huge amount of money out of a bank and get away with it? Why doesn't the main criminal land the helicopter, shoot Stallone, grab the money and fly away with the chick as a hostage? And there are more cases of illogical behavior. I'd give this movie 5 points for nice action and great landscape scenery, but due to the illogical behavior of the characters, I just can give this movie 1 point... "},{"Title":"Cliffhanger","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" From director Renny Harlin (Die Hard 2 Die Harder, The Long Kiss Goodnight) I knew it was about climbing, so I decided to try it. The film opens with Gabe Walker (Sylvester Stallone, also writing) trying to save the girlfriend of Hal Tucker (Michael Rooker), but he couldn't hold on and Sarah (Michelle Joyner) fell to her death. Eight months later, Gabe has given up rock climbing, and it is only when there may have been a plane crash in the mountains that he and Hal are called to rescue. It turns out to be a bunch of criminals who have dropped three suitcases containing $100,000,000 in the mountains, and led by Qualen (Razzie nominated John Lithgow), these villains want the expert climbers to help them get it back. Gabe manages to make them believe he is dead for a little while, and with the help of fellow climber Jessie Deighan (Razzie nominated Janine Turner), they are determined to stop them getting to the all the suitcases, as they will obviously kill Hal when they have them. Also starring Rex Linn as Travers, Caroline Goodall as Kristel, Leon as Kynette, Craig Fairbrass as Delmar, Gregory Scott Cummins as Ryan, Denis Forest as Heldon, Max Perlich as Evan, Paul Winfield as Walter Wright, Ralph Waite as Frank and Trey Brownell as Brett. I recognised the opening sequence from it being spoofed in Ace Venture When Nature Calls. Filled with some good chases, explosions and small gripping moments, it is a good energetic adventure film. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Sound Effects Editing, Best Visual Effects and Best Sound, and it was nominated the Razzies for Worst Picture and Worst Screenplay. Very good! "}]