[{"Title":"It's Not That Bad","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm slightly puzzled as to some of the harsher comments featuring BOILING POINT . I will confess that it's not a thriller classic but I will defend it against the accusation that it's a terrible movie Red ( Dennis Hopper ) is released from prison and owes some mafia types money and so is given a seven day ultimatum . Jimmy ( Wesley Snipes - And no early 90s urban thriller is complete without Wesley Snipes )loses a friend in the course of duty and the audience instantly know that these two unconnected characters will tie in with the plot somehow - And they do in a script that while not being the most tightly plotted screenplay you will ever see since there's a few too many characters involved is at least undemanding and easy to follow .On the style front it's not exactly in the same league as HEAT but probably contains more substance than an episode of MAIMI VICE while we also get to see an early supporting role from Viggo Mortenson . I rate BOILING POINT six out of ten "},{"Title":"snipes and hopper do battle","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Wesley snipes as a detective out to find his partners murderer and Dennis hopper as a man on the run from the mob.. the two stories interweaving until they both cross paths and one meets a violent end.. an ok suspense action flick with good acting by snipes and hopper in an understated role Davidovich plays her part well as an ill fated lover but there is just not enough for all the talent to work with ...overall a disappointment.. on a scale of one to ten ..a 4 "},{"Title":"I Just Had to Chime In....","Date":"2 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" With everyone battling each other over this movie, I just had to put my own say in it as well.Boiling Point is a movie that I got for free on a giveaway shelf. There's a reason it was on that shelf.Boiling Point has less action than any other Wesley Snipes movie I've ever seen. A documentary about real boiling points would've had more thrills than this wannabe actioner.Almost nothing about this movie made me want more. Wesley Snipes put on an okay performance, but nothing more than marginal. Dennis Hopper acted weird the whole movie with over-exaggerated hand movements that made his character very off-putting. Except for a few killings, there was literally no action in this movie. The story could've been interesting, but instead it moves slow and lags at many places. The cinematography was nothing interesting, no better than any other average movie. And the script was dull and didn't move the story at all.Overall, this movie was well beyond average, not Snipes best at all. Even The Art of War (and we all want to forget he was in that) wasn't as bad as this movie. This movie has already found its way to giveaway shelves and $.99 bins all over the country. Take that as a warning.HandHStudios Rating 2.5/10 "},{"Title":"Plays out just like To Live and Die in L.A. but with less thrills","Date":"21 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I skimmed through the other reviews about this film and it's unbelievable that none of them made mention to To Live and Die in L.A.. First of all, both films were based on novels written by former Secret Service agent Gerald Petievich, and if you look closer the plots are very similar there's a whole police investigation on a dangerous counterfeiter, then there's the death of an undercover agent and his partner will revenge his death doing whatever it takes to get the bad guy. And once again, it's all criminals doing fake money and spreading all over...Los Angeles!But the thing Boiling Point doesn't imitate from Friedkin's movie is the quality, the surprises, the plot twists. And there's so much life in that movie that it's really difficult to make something so close to it. Not to mention that Warner changed the game and edited down the film in order to generate a bigger hit after their success with another movie with Wesley Snipes, who plays the hero in this one. Maybe this could be a different kind of film with an unusual approach on the villains played by Dennis Hopper (in one of his best efforts I must say) and the then unknown Viggo Mortensen (who plays one of the most deadly and mean guys I've ever seen) as the original project conceived by director/writer James B. Harris was.Most people don't like comparisons but it's hard not to. One must compare to have a full idea of what's going on. The main difference between To Live and Die in L.A. and this in terms of plot is that the bad guy is quite sympathetic despite his frightening looks and his strange yet confident walk. We kind of trust this guy because there's worse guys than him, people of whom he owns a lot of money. We look at him, thinking he might kill someone just to get what he wants but no, he refuses to do so, even when we're sure he's about to do it. Willem Dafoe in To Live... was a real artist who used of his kraft to be a criminal but he was also a unmerciful stone cold killer. What connects both films is one character named Max Waxman (here played by Jonathan Banks), a corrupt lawyer who meets his fate in the other movie. Boiling Point is a fine movie, although a little bit dated, more dramatic than what's not supposed to be. The few action scenes, the engrossing tension built in all the business transactions scenes worth the view just as seeing the good cast giving solid performances. Dan Hedaya, Paul Gleason, Lolita Davidovich, Seymour Cassel, Tobin Bell, James Tolkan made the show very enjoyable. Entertaining but only just another average picture. 7/10 "},{"Title":"This is an Excellent Movie!","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie about ten times. Every time I start to watch it, I finish it. I cannot believe all of the negative reviews. It was intelligent and well acted. Dennis Hopper plays one of his best sleazes ever. Viggo Mortenson is great as Hopper's mindless attack dog. The story deals with a Secret Service sting gone bad. One agent is killed and Wesley Snipes (Agent) goes about finding out who did it. What I liked about this movie was that it was smart. The author did some great research and that was reflected in the movie. You see it in the dialog and you see it in the story. Moreover, the acting was first rate, with many talented performers acting at the top of their trade. Ignore the bogus reviews. What I think happened, is that the movie did poorly at the theaters. There is this misconception that failure at the box office is an indication of a bad movie, wrong! Plenty of good movies bomb and plenty of terrible movies do well, some even win the Academy. Good story, good performances and good movie! "},{"Title":"very good film, wisely directed and very well interpreted","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The good and evil are presented as the two faces of the same coin, just notice the bad guys and the policeman crossing their paths from the very beginning. The sense of justice and comradeship is carried out by the policemen up to the last consecuencies. All the characters are draw with a few but deep brushstrokes. One can't but feel pitiful for the destiny, in same cases dull, that each of the protagonists carve out for themselves. Life in this film is presented in a crude way but also considering the profoundest and better feelings of each of the figures. Of course there is more that is worth to be seen and all of it enveloped by a much appropriate and wonderful song as well as filmed with agility. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I liked this movie, it had a lot of action and even a little comedy.Denis Hopper plays the bad guy of course like usual but the movie focuses on what his character is going through and I sort of worried about what was going to become of him.Wesley Snipes was the good guy but while watching the movie I got so annoyed with his characterone of the many characters hes played that all look exactly the same with the same personality and dull face expressions i wanted to shoot him myself. So il give this movie a 7 out of 10 but without the help of Denis hopper the movie would only get about a 3. Also look for Viggo Mortensenwho played Aragorn in the Lord Of The Rings trilogy as Denis hoppers slightly phycotic partner. "},{"Title":"What a potboiler","Date":"18 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here's another movie that fails to satisfy. When judging by it's bold cover, you'd think this was a sure guarantee for action. You've been mislead again folks. This is basically just a revenge story, with cop, Snipes after an aging scam artist, Hopper, perfect here, who's into money laundering, making his own cash. For those who didn't know, this is sort of a prequel to that 86 hit To Live And Die In L.A. which makes this film look duller than an empty casket. Even a slimy character from that movie is resurrected here. Hopper has good support, not from from Snipes though who's on a revenge driven journey to kill Hopper, who shot down in his partner in an undercover operation. Hopper's protégé, Viggo Morttessen fits the bill of character here. It's great to see him play vulnerable where he hooks up with old ex who assists in his criminal exploits. Watch for Tobin Bell a.k.a Jigsaw as a ex con Snipes questions. He gets information from Bell in return for letting him gets some vitamin C outside in the prison grounds. You don't realize how many films Bell has done before his trademark role in the Saw movies. Boiling Point falls under that Why bother making this movie category There's hardly any action. Hopper is funny though in this, a player sort of character, doubling his sexcapades with Lolita Davidich and Valeerie Perrine, a real veteran of film. He kind of partly makes up for the loss of action and suspense that's minute. The gas explosion with the junkie was a surprise though. Filmed in 93, this was Snipes's year as this was one of four four films that came out of his. Never has music at the start, fitted the title so imperfectly, as in that Jennifer Lopez film, Enough. My long lost friend was late returning this flick where he owed 75 dollars. With this movie, the video store clerk should of just let him off. Don't be duped by this one. May'be just copy the video cover and blow it up, as a poster. "},{"Title":"Dennis Hopper's biggest disgrace","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Chalk this one up with some of Hopper's other GREATEST FILMS EVER MADE like Super Marios Brothers and Waterworld. Wow! is all I can say about this movie, which rivals the excitement of an episode of Mr. Roger's Neighborhood. I have no idea how this movie made it's way into my home but if we should ever have a rolling blackout in America ever again, I have kindling for a fire. I would have rather this movie been about actual boiling points, like a pot of water boiling, then roll credits than have to go through this travesty of bad acting, where lines and movement are isolated. A line is read, then the character makes a movement, stops, reads another line, just awful. "},{"Title":"Above Average Cop Thriller, With Fantastic Performances And A Story That Keeps You Interested","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an above average Cop thriller, with fantastic performances and a story that keeps you interested. All The characters were great, and the story was pretty cool,plus Wesley Snipes is simply amazing in this!. Dennis Hopper is fantastic as the sleaze ball, and i really liked the gritty location, plus it was quite thrilling in some places!. However it does have a couple dull spots, and i felt it could have been a lot better then above average, as it didn't take advantage of it's vast potential however, it's still an above average Cop thriller that's enjoyable to watch and one that will keep you interested. Wesley Snipes is extremely charismatic and, it also had a great supporting cast as well, plus i wish Paul Gleason had more then 1 scene. Wesley and Lolita Davidovich had good chemistry together, and i thought the finale was quite exciting, plus it usually keeps you guessing, with only a few predictable moments here and there. This is an above average cop thriller, with fantastic performances, and a story that keeps you interested, and i say it's well worth the watch!. The Direction is good. James B. Harris does a good job here with good camera work, good angles and keeping the film at a pretty good pace. There is a tiny bit of blood. We get a bloody corpse, blood and quite a few bloody gunshot wounds. The Acting is awesome. Wesley Snipes is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, fantastic in the acting department, is very charismatic, had good chemistry with Lolita Davidovich,was quite intense, an just did an amazing job overall! (Snipes Rules!!). Dennis Hopper is fantastic as always, and is fantastic as the sleaze ball, his character is quite pathetic, but he did such a good job of portraying it, this man can play anything!, i loved him (Hopper Rules!). Lolita Davidovich is very hot and quite sexy, and did a great job here, she had good chemistry with Snipes, and did a good acting job as well, wished she had more screen time though. Viggo Mortensen is excellent as Hopper's partner, his character was very interesting, and he was quite spiffy overall, i liked him lots. Seymour Cassel and Jonathan Banks do well in there small roles. Christine Elise is extremely cute, and did fine with what she had to do, also wished she had more screen time. Paul Gleason is fantastic in his 1 scene, however he should have been used for more then that!. Dan Hedya does what he has to do adequately, and had okay chemistry with Snipes. Rest of the cast do okay. Overall well worth the watch!. *** out of 5 "}{"Title":"Out of Steam","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Boiling Point was too pithy to be a successful thriller; too low profile to be a successful action movie. If the plot had thrown more twists, offered more insight on the characters psyche, or had a much more involving story, the movie could have sufficed even as a decent thriller. Had there been explosives, chase scenes, and other good action ploys, this movie could've made a decent action film. However, it is not much of either category, thus suffering from mediocrity.Police detective, Jimmy Mercer (Wesley Snipes) and his partner, Brady (Dan Hedaya), are investigating the shooting death of an undercover U.S. Treasury agent who investigating a counterfeit ring. The two guys who he was dealing with, gunned him down and fled the scene, before Mercer and Brady could intervene and save their partner. Mercer and Brady don't know who the two men were, but spend the remainder of the movie looking for him.Actually, they are fast-talking Red Diamond (Dennis Hopper), so named because of his red hair. He owes fifty grand to another gangster within seven days. He and his partner, Ronnie (Viggo Mortensen), an eerie kind of guy who is never sure if Red is just handing him a line of garbage with all the schemes he involves him in. Although, for Ronnie, he would have no problem shooting Red. Why Ronnie remains faithful to him at all given Red's consistent failures is beyond me. These two guys need a get rich quick counterfeit scheme.Meanwhile Mercer and Brady are going from one informant to another, trying to get them to give up information about Red and Ronnie, a description, their location, anything. Sometimes they're successful and sometimes not. The movie goes on and on like as the two trail one person after another trying to get close on the trail of Red and Ronnie. It is wholly uninteresting, offering no real suspense and even less action to fill the time. The movie fails to deliver any real substance in between, which is sad when you consider the possibility of your characters, and especially, the potential of the actors.  "},{"Title":"OK  action movie","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was OK way better then i thought it would be but the movie still has some flaws and the movies about 2 men who just got released from jail and kill an undercover cop and his partner has a week to find them before he is transferred.The film has an all star cast full of actors and actress like The great Dennis Hopper from the great movie Rivers Edge,Wesley Snipes from the movie Blade,Lolita Davidovich,Viggo Mortensen,Seymour Cassel and Christine Elise.This film is worth the rental prise but save your money and do not buy this film unless u are a fan of Dennis Hopper or Wesley Snipes and over all this film was entertaining with some boring scenes and my rating is 5 out of ten. "},{"Title":"Boiling Point turned out to be nothing more than a lukewarm action/crime movie.","Date":"6 May 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Riding high from the success of surprise hit Passenger 57 (1992) which established Wesley Snipes as the next big action star, you would expect that from the posters, video covers and trailers that Boiling Point would be a non-stop action packed crime thriller. Halfway through the movie I was questioning as to whether I had missed the point of the movie as why on earth was this so called action movie moving at a slow pace. And with a decent cast featuring the likes of Dennis Hopper (Speed), Lolita Davidovich (Leap of Faith), Viggo Mortensen (The Lord of The Rings trilogy), Dan Hedaya (Commando), Seymour Cassel (Indecent Proposal), Jonathan Banks (Breaking Bad), James Tolkan (Back to the Future), and Paul Gleason (Die Hard) this was a movie that certainly couldn't go wrong. But it did. Boiling Point turned out to be a weak and lukewarm movie lacking any excitement let alone any interest.Treasury Agent Jimmy Mercer (Wesley Snipes) and his partner Brady (Dan Hedaya) are involved in an undercover operation gone awry when Mercer's fellow agent is shot and killed by a young psychopathic thug named Ronnie (Viggo Mortensen) who is partnered with scam artist Red Diamond (Dennis Hopper) who organises fake money sales to rob and kill the buyers. Mercer vows revenge on the killer and swears to take down Red and Ronnie within 1 week before Mercer is transferred out of Los Angeles.On paper the movie looks like a good popcorn action flick right? Wrong. It's more of a character driven movie that moves slower than a snail moving from Point A to Point B. I could not fault the cast whatsoever, they can't be blamed for this. Written and directed by James B. Harris (Cop) based on the novel by Gerald Petievich (To Live and Die in L.A. which is by far an underrated movie which at least had you engaged from start to finish), he has brought out a very weak movie that is a cop out for everyone expecting another Wesley Snipes actioner. Fans and audiences have every right to feel cheated.Boiling Point was an action/crime movie that had potential with Wesley Sniper and Dennis Hopper in the lead roles, but the movie can be described as a situation where somebody forgot to turn the kettle on to boil the water.It's a shame Boiling Point turned out to be nothing more than lukewarm.4/10. "},{"Title":"Standard cop thriller with tension,  thrills, and violence","Date":"9 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The film begins with Red Diamond, an ex-con(Dennis Hooper),recently freed from jail . He along with Ronnie(Viggo Mortensen), his pal from prison, undergo a new business, an operation about money forgery. But the issue go wrong and Ronnie murders an undercover agent. His partner a two-fisted named Jimmy Mercer(Wesley Snipes) together with another policemen(Dan Hedaya) swear discover the killer. Meanwhile, Red Diamond deals with mobster(Tony Lo Bianco) whom he owes some money. The story continues the trail some people after another attempting to get close over tracks of Red and Ronnie and there relationships with girlfriends(Valerie Perrine, Christine Elise) and lovers(Lolita Davidovich).The picture contains action, suspense, several shootouts, bloody killings and lots of violence. It's exciting and tense, at time no too much interesting cop thriller. The story is plenty of firepower, intrigue, action packed and good performances. Wesley Snipes is fine as tough cop and excellent Dennis Hooper as likable delinquent and Viggo Mortensen as cold killer.Magnificent secondary cast with a plethora of known actors, such as Seymour Cassel, Tony Lo Bianco,James Tolkan, Jonathan Banks, Paul Gleason, among others. Atmospheric musical score made by means of synthesizer and fitting to action by John DÁndrea and Cory Lerios. The motion picture is written and directed by James B Harris. He's a notorious producer, he produced Stanley Kubrick's three awesome films(The killing, Paths of glory and Lolita)and occasionally director of thrillers(Cop, Fast walking)and another genres(Bedford incident). Rating  Acceptable and passable. The movie will like to Wesley Snipes fans and thriller buffs. "},{"Title":"Boiling Point","Date":"9 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember that I saw some of the beginning of this film, I must have either fallen asleep or given up on the rest, but watching it in full it is a good thriller. Basically Rudolph 'Red' Diamond (Dennis Hopper) is the ageing scam-artist recently released from prison along with young, not-so-bright and easily manipulated hoodlum Ronnie (The Lord of the Rings' Viggo Mortensen). During the start of a new fake-money sales business and kill the buyer, Ronnie kills an undercover cop, and his partner Jimmy Mercer (Wesley Snipes) is given a week to get his revenge and catch the killers before being transferred. Also starring Lolita Davidovich as Vikki Dunbar, Seymour Cassel as Virgil Leach and Saw's Tobin Bell as Roth. I can agree with the critics that this film does not have much action, and concentrates more on good and bad character relationships, but it is still a good romp. Very good! "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I thought it was a very good movie that was based on a good story with only a few improbable points to it, such as both main characters having a week deadline to find each other.I also thought that the gangster who was owed money would be more likely to give a guy fresh out of prison more time and hence more likelihood of a successful con to get him money. The viciousness of the deadline did not seem to serve the greed that should have been the main motivation of the gangster who was owed 50 thousand. If he had the money and wasn't paying up then the viciousness would have served a purpose.Other than that small plot point I thought Dennis Hopper was brilliant and the relationship between him and the murdering thief kept me on the edge of my seat as I thought that at any moment the hit-man would find out he was being used or conned. But Dennis Hopper laid down a sweet story each time.Leslie Snipes did a fine job as a Cop. And I liked the Duo he had with his partner of ex Cheers Fame. "},{"Title":"uninteresting crime film","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" My View on the narrativeA flat based story with minimal action, annoying plain faced characters an d a central plot which had me falling asleep. Wesley Snipes (Blade) stars as the central copper who wants to avenge the murder of his work colleague and his path is linked with Rudolph Red (Played with little enthusiasm by the star of Speed, Hopper). Its uninteresting and dull throughout where audiences will not become associated with the characters as no actors in this film give their full potential and at the end of the day the technique to make the film a more soap styled crime film by being revolving around the characters becomes too dull as neither has any interest about them whatsoever. I admire the technique used as it is not your everyday guns blazing crime film and the direction is very well used. However there is no device used to stimulate the intelligent mind and frankly there are better crime films out there e.g. In the line of fire. The connection between Snipes and Hopper is often too coincidental to believe and frankly this lack of realism and coincidental meetings allows audiences to become disassociated with the film. It makes it unrealistic in context and therefore will be harder for audiences to accept. Credit to the film there are many scenes which engage the viewer into the lives of the characters to make them feel sympathy for. Snipes does remotely well where as Hopper again plays a character who does not live up to the expectation of a creative and mindful villain as audiences would hope for. Lolita Davidovich performs well as Todorov's Princess character but even her charming presence and superficial connection with the two central characters will not sit well with audiences. Loyalty and trust are a key part of this film and are often well portrayed, but again I believe the film doesn't do true justice to the crime genre. "},{"Title":"A Better Movie Than I Thought It Would Be","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie for the second or third time in a few years.  It was better than I had previously pegged it in my memory.  I give it a 6.  It is a worthwhile action thriller.  It is made more interesting as the characters are juxtaposed in parallel development.  We see them like ships passing in the night, unaware of how they are not so different except in the choices they make at crucial moments. "},{"Title":"Luke Warm","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a decent movie with a good plot but it does move along very slowly so be warned. Strictly for those who have nothing better to watch in the evening. Dennis Hopper steals the show and plays his part to perfection. Wesley Snipes plays a more believable character than usual but he is the weak link in this movie. 6/10. "},{"Title":"BORING point","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Boiling Point never gets past lukewarm.  This film is competently written and directed, but slow-paced.  There seems to be a lot of talk just for the sake of talking, characters seem to talk about stuff forever before doing it. Marketed cleverly as an action vehicle for Wesley Snipes, this film is anything but that. Even Viggo Mortensen can't save it from being a snoozer. "}{"Title":"A slow, touching action movie.","Date":"19 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie might be considered rather slow, but that is also something that makes it special. Some of the scenes are well mixed, and the characters are quite believable, except for some of the cops, perhaps, that are too lenient. Because of the believable characters, this movie is also quite touching, since it is impossible that it will have a happy end for everyone. "},{"Title":"Bland, Run of the Mill Cops and Robbers Flick","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I am going to make this review short for now, with the intention to expand it upon a second viewing if one ever occurs.My understanding of this film is that it was a complete failure during production. They redesigned the film to give Wesley Snipes more screen time, as he was a rising action star. And they changed the name from Money Men to Boiling Pointto imply that it's an action film. Well, quite simply, it's not. There's some twists in the plot, but no real action.Wesley Snipes is a good lead, but more interesting is Dennis Hopper as Red Diamond, a prostitute lover and crook. Hopper has said he considers this his best role, which may be true, but it's embedded in a bad film. And most interesting? Viggo Mortensen in an early role as Hopper's crook friend. Had the film's creators had the foresight, they would have cut down on Snipes and expanding Mortensen. And, you know, with no fan following, we'll never see a director's cut.Not a must-see. "},{"Title":"BOILING POINT (James B. Harris, 1993) **1/2","Date":"5 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Eons ago it seems, Wesley Snipes was a box office commodity. So much so that promising material was refashioned to his action persona to the eventual detriment of the end product and fellow co-stars. This is exactly what happened with BOILING POINT &#x96; which, apart from being a rather meaningless title (Snipes' character never seems all that livid at any point sic during the picture!), is doubly superfluous for being identical to the superior Takeshi Kitano vehicle released three years earlier. On a personal note, I greatly enjoyed the location shooting in the Hollywood streets which effortlessly brought back nostalgic flashbacks to my three-month trip over there between November 2005-January 2006.Writer/director Harris &#x96; formerly Stanley Kubrick's producer on his earlier films and the man behind one of the quintessential Cold War movies, THE BEDFORD INCIDENT (1965) &#x96; supplies some good lines and colorful roles to a fine group of veteran and up-and-coming actors Dennis Hopper (particularly outstanding as the pitiful small-time criminal with delusions-of-grandeur), Viggo Mortensen (as his cold-blooded murdering partner), Tony Lo Bianco (as the big cheese in the L.A. underworld and Hopper's one-time associate), Seymour Cassel (as a hardened crook) and Tobin Bell (as a jailed counterfeiter). The women, represented here by Lolita Davidovich (as a high-class hooker that numbers both Snipes and Hopper among her clients) and Valerie Perrine (as Hopper's world-weary old flame), fare less well as their roles are comparatively underdeveloped.Snipes is a cigar-chomping(!) Treasury agent hot on the heels of Hopper and Mortensen for having caused the death of one of his colleagues in an undercover operation. Apart from the fact that dying at the very beginning allows no time for the all-important friendship between the dead cop and Snipes to be established, I also found it hard to swallow the many would-be ironical run-ins that Snipes and Hopper have throughout the film at a food stand, in a hotel toilet, in the bar where Perrine slings hash, etc. Besides, the relationship between Snipes and Davidovich (which, we are told in the 'faux' Where are they now? end titles, even extends to her moving out with him to the next state he is transferred to!) is never believable as opposed to that of Hopper and Perrine. To the film's credit, the script also takes care to further enhance character development by delving briefly into the troubled relationships that Mortensen and Cassel are having with their current companions. "},{"Title":"Interesting cop thriller.","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Not one for the awards shows, but still an interesting thriller as Wesley Snipes is a good guy this time and he is after the one who killed an undercover cop.Need a sleaseball? Just whistle and here comes Dennis Hopper. Hopper as a con man is the most believable character he can play. For a partner, he has the young Viggo Mortensen.There was a lot of support from some beautiful women like Lolita Davidovich and Valerie Perrine and Christine Elise. Just a little eye candy when the film dragged a bit.Fair Snipes vehicle. "},{"Title":"BO-ring","Date":"17 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When I rented a Snipes film I expected lots of martial-arts type action. This didn't have any action except jaw flapping. Whoever thought just having a dynamic actor in a movie was all it needed was wrong; but it DID gross $10 million...so I guess we're the losers. I should have known between this & Ticker having Dennis Hopper in a movie is the kiss of dearth as far as entertainment value. The lamest part is where Hopper's character promises his (waitress?) girlfriend to take her dancing when it's all over. This was so awfully maudlin that I remember it better than anything else about the movie. What else is there to say? Why do I have to write TEN lines to say why I didn't like the movie??? "},{"Title":"average cop film","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Everything about the movie screams average. i believe that the only reason the film manages to stay average and doesn't dip into sub-par is because of the cast.Snipes isn't intense enough, and you never really feel his emotions that he REALLY wants to get the bad guys. Hopper doesn't seem evil enough to be a bad guy. Hopper's sidekick in the film is the most evil, and even he isn't really THAT much of a bad guy, but is more or less duped into doing Hopper's work for him.The film is a typical revenger flick. Snipe's partner in the force is killed and Snipes of course trys to bring whoever did it down. There's no intensity though, as the film moves slowly and there really isn't much action.The plot twists aren't here...as there aren't any. this is a typical bare bones cop movie, but without any gun play or raw emotions to make it any more exciting than the usual fair. The big name cast saves this flick...saves it from being horrible, and makes it only average and watchable, but nothing more.RATING 4.5/10 "},{"Title":"enjoyable","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I first saw the cover of this movie in video stores I thought it would be just a regular action movie, but then I read a few reviews and of it and they all talked about how it focuses more on talking than action, and that was a good thing to do.  Don't go in to this movie thinking its a regular shoot 'em up action film, even the cover shows it as one.  But even so it's an enjoyable crime thriller and it was never boring, and the few action scene's there were were good.  3.5/5. "},{"Title":"A really good actioner with lots of old time faces.","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My first time seeing Viggo Mortensen.   What a really good supporting actor he is. (And has turned out to be)  Dan Hedaya provides the steady foil for Snipes and Seymour Cassel does his character with panache.   A movie I have seen time and time again and have never tired of. "},{"Title":"Sub zero...","Date":"15 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Jimmy Mercer(Wesley Snipes) is a police officer who is given one week to catch the men (Dennis Hopper and Viggo Mortensen) responsible for the murder of his partner, after a week he will be transferred and the race is on. This is a very weak thriller which was unwisely promoted as an action flick, for one it has hardly any action and it's a would be character driven drama. Problem is though is that the material is so right at home at a police style movie that this becomes extremely tedious. Hopper and Mortensen are disappointing villains and Snipes isn't given much to do. Boiling Point doesn't even get above freezing temperature.* out of 4-(Bad) "},{"Title":"Great Movie, if you're not into excessively violent stories.","Date":"26 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Maddeningly pointless violence is what killed off martial arts movies in the 1980s. Bruce Lee, it cannot be argued, is the singular individual who opened our eyes to the beauty of martial arts with his movies in the early 1970s. Bruce Lee's stories, unlike those in the same genre that followed him, would have a slow build-up to a great fight towards the end of the movie. This is why his movies remain the standard of great martial arts movies to this day. The fate of subsequent generation of martial arts movies lavishly crowded with violence is now threatening Hollywood productions because of gratuitous depiction of violence.Take a step back and consider both the first and second parts of the Godfather trilogy, arguably the best storyline ever put into film! What makes The Godfather so appealing is its depiction of implied, rather than expressed, violence. Truly! The director, Francis Ford Coppola, would later disclose that he and the script writer, Mario Puzo, were under tremendous pressure from the producers of the first movie to add more violence to the script or he, Coppola, risked being fired from completing the directing the movie. Those who have read the original novel by Puzo would agree that the book on which the story was based is much more suspenseful and entertaining than the movie even with less violence.So it is that a great movie is not so much about the amount of TNT, pyrotechnics, blood and gore that are freely depicted but much more about the story of ordinary guys, in this case crooks and law enforcers, whose actions and plots are motivated by the mundane things in life that we can all relate to such as strained interpersonal relationships, debts, deadlines, job insecurity (as in the case of the two police officers in this story),etc. which make up the story - a great story, in my opinion.To me this is a great movie told with measured and tamed violence. Granted that the story it aimed to tell should have been accompanied by other parallel stories criss-crossing the main plot over an added 30 minutes or so because at approximately 90 it came up too short for a good time frame.The cast is great (Dennis Hopper, Seymour Cassel, Lolita Davidovich, Viggo Mortensen and, of course,Wesley Snipes who radically departs from the portrait of the apostle of gore like in the Blade trilogy earlier. The character played by Mr. Snipes is one we can all relate to and, thus, immerse ourselves in the story for maximum entertaining pleasure. Each one of the listed actors gave a better-than-average performance to make this movie one I expect to watch a few more times. The soundtrack is great. "}{"Title":"Wesley Snipes on the trail of Dennis Hopper and Viggo Mortensen","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Boiling Point has more than enough action, but it's not in the action film genre. It's a detective story. Wesley Snipes and his partner (Dan Hedaya) are part of a three-man team doing an undercover drug buy. The third man gets killed by the psychopathic Viggo Mortensen who escapes unseen with money. Mortensen's partner is a con-man, Dennis Hopper. Both are fresh out of prison, and Hopper controls Mortensen. Snipes and Hedaya have almost no clues, but they set out to find who killed their partner. The movie shows how they do this.Boiling Point is above-average and well worth seeing. How so? Its cast is very good. In supporting roles are the interesting Jonathan Banks as a lawyer on the criminal side, Seymour Cassel who sells counterfeit money, Tony Lo Bianco as a mobster who wants Hopper to pay him the money he owes him, and Valerie Perrine as Hopper's girl friend. Lolita Davidovich is a call girl who is Snipes's girl friend, his marriage having gone sour. Hopper dallies with her a bit too. All of these characters are brought out very well psychologically. The story is told with an eye to detail and with substantial suspense. The search is realistic and doesn't feel contrived. Location photography is realistic. Action scenes flow naturally from the story and aren't exaggerated. This is a very good neo-noir. The IMDb rating of 4.9 is much too low.And the song Dream is so beautiful and performed so beautifully, tying in with the dreams of the characters, especially Hopper's. "},{"Title":"As pointed out, it only simmers","Date":"15 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Yes, it only simmers, not boils, but that's actually what I like about the film. I think too many of our reviewers want suspense films that are totally unrealistic. For the most part, I can imagine the events of this film happening. In fact, if you look at Snipes' career, over the long-haul, the more outlandish his films became, the more his career ebbed.I always liked Wesley Snipes, and thought he could have been one of the most popular of the African-American actors that were coming into their own in the 1990s. I see his performance here as being solid. I can't say the same for Dennis Hopper's performance. The term adequate comes to mind. But not a very imaginative performance. He did his job, but does not inspire. Viggo Mortensen was more interesting. I enjoyed seeing Tony LoBionco, although I wondered if he got tired playing mob bosses.The film had some nice touches. Different settings than typical in this type of film (e.g., a ballroom dance floor). And, the sub-story of the woman whose life never quite takes off, and she muddles through being a waitress at a hash house, always waiting for the one man who pays attention to her to become what he says he can be; a rather tragic characterization.My one big criticism of this film is the beginning. Dialog cycling through the different characters, attempting to show...well, what? Clever idea, but not fulfilled. It was at this point that I almost turned the flick off. But, it got better...but not great. But then again, I don't find the vast majority of cops and robbers stories to be great or inspiring.It's a good film. Not a great film. Once was good. Probably won't watch it again. "},{"Title":"All good things come to people who wait.","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Those looking for an action hit look elsewhere, because this Wesley Snipes and Dennis Hopper starring vehicle is a lyrically moody and underplayed crime drama driven by characters and circumstances. And Snipes rarely boils over. This does not make it any less, but it's the complexities and performances that really nail this one down. Watching these characters interact or pass each other by without really knowing just how connected they are, explored some interesting directions (like the personal relationships in these character's lives and the baggage that came from it) and this is where the tension arose from. Not the action, although it did probably lack the thrills. But those moments when they occur did hit hard and that possibly can be attributed to the taut, multi-facet script exploring the protagonists. But you could say it relied heavily on these ironic encounters and the plot's knotty arrangement when these character's worlds collide. But it sure does make them open up their eyes to what's going on around them.Undercover cop Jimmy Mercer goes after the killer of his detective partner and is given a week to track down those who were responsible. Red Diamond is a conman who has just been released from prison along with his former cell-mate Ronnie Royce who planned the hit on the undercover detective. Diamond did it to pay off a $50,000 debt, but that was only part of it and he has got one week to come up with the rest of it. Boiling Point was a nicely atypical surprise by writer / director James B. Harris. It's a slick-looking production with some silky camera-work and a jazzy soundtrack. There's a real humid atmosphere and the Los Angeles' locations are brought to life. The performances are all quite varied with Snipes in dogged mode, Hooper smooth talking his way around and Viggo Mortensen quietly going about his business with brutal intent. Then the extra support sees the likes of Dan Hedaya, Seymour Cassel, Jonathan Banks, Tony Lo Bianco, Lolita Davidovich and Valerie Perrine adding to the fascinating rapport. Showing up in minor parts are James Tolkan, Paul Gleason and Tobin Bell. Who am I to tell you how to run your business.  "},{"Title":"Boiling Point Heats Up ***","Date":"16 February 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Dennis Hopper with that red hair and swagger is totally memorable in this film. He portrays an older scam artist who hooks up with Viggo Mortensen, quick on the trigger. The two of them are into counterfeit money.Wesley Snipes plays an FBI agent out for revenge when his friend and colleague is killed by the Mortensen character.The beginning is particularly interesting as both the lives of Snipes and Hopper seem to be running parallel. They have the same ups and downs with women.I love that the beginning and end of the film plays the song Dream being sung. ...And when Hopper swaggers along the boulevard, that was entertainment. "},{"Title":"OK crime thriller","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is alright I suppose, Snipes and Hopper are a bit typecast as hardnosed cop with broken down marriage and flaky, manipulative conman disliked by all but play the roles as only they can, the story is reasonably interesting in a formulaic kind of way, it builds up a bit of atmosphere and tension towards the end but is a bit of a let-down really. Having set a time limit to the story (they both have a week to do what they gotta do) we're all set up for some top tension, but the seven-days device is underused and what tension is built up by the end of the movie seeps away in the rather flat climax. Not too bad though. "},{"Title":"Boiling Point","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A U.S. Treasury agent is given one week to find his partner's killer or be reassigned to a new position. An even  film that generates more laughter than thrills, Snipes is laughable as the Treasury agent, but it's Hopper (sporting red hair that makes him look like Archie) that get the laughs as a greedy, scheming windbag of a con man, looking for easy scores and easy money.  "},{"Title":"Slightly simmered and pretty entertaining","Date":"5 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Unlike some of the other reviewers, I found this to be a nicely paced semi-action, semi-fantasy nostalgia movie that proved to be quite entertaining. If you're looking for a mind-blowing thriller or a rowdy shoot-'em-up, you'll be disappointed. However if you're looking for some lower key but interesting character development juxtaposed with a cops vs. hoods scenario with a fairly linear plot line, then you may like this.The character development is done in a somewhat parallel fashion where each of the principals is shown in the light of his dysfunctional relationship with his significant other. It is in this light that we see the cops and the hoods looking not at all dissimilar with respect to their personal lives. This adjunct to the melodrama in the story, although not entirely original, embellishes the overall plot and entertains as well, as some good lines flow freely in these scenes.All the actors render justice to their roles, especially the swaggering, high-stepping, red-headed Dennis Hopper, whose nostalgia-laced alter ego to his criminal self finds solace and peace on the Palace Ballroom dance floor. Also, I found Wesley Snipes to be in good form here, as he displays a nicely rounded range of emotions and the acting maturity to give credence to his character. He is mellower, yet still very cunning and direct, in this role than in many of his prior melodramatic offerings.Lastly, I would be remiss not to include the Danny May Orchestra and singers for the lush harmonies and melodies and the overall mood that act as a fitting counterpoint to the criminal goings-on, perfectly set up in the opening sequences, where the tune Dream was played behind the night-time L.A. skyline. After all, we all need a little dreaming to help us escape from time to time! "},{"Title":"The character focus doesn't work and the film lacks any real tension or interest","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Red is an aging criminal who gets released from prison before getting right back into his scams and crimes, getting tied up in a murder involving a cop working with Federal Officer Jimmy Mercer. Red also owes $50k to a mobster and has been given a week to come up with the money he owes, thus sets off to come up with the cash as quickly as he can. Meanwhile Jimmy is blamed for the death of his partner and is taken off the case and transferred to Newark; but appealing to his boss gets him a weeks respite to bring in the people involved in the job. The two men follow their seven days with time running out for both and neither happy ending assured.At points this is an enjoyable cop thriller but for the majority it is a misjudged affair that lacks either an emotionally involving depth or a fast paced tension that holds you. The problem is that it cannot decide which of these it wants to do and it is not good enough to manage to both in the way, for example, Heat did. Like that film I think we were meant to draw on the lives of these two men, seeing them on opposite sides of the same coin (hence overlapping them early on). By getting into their messy relationships I think we were also meant to be drawn to care for both of them and use this as the hook that keeps us watching the movie; so when the relationship just comes off as poorly developed and bland it just means that there is nothing else to really hook us into the film.At times it is exciting but this is the rare exception as mostly the race against time is a plodding affair with a simple and unsatisfying conclusion. It is a real shame because the cast must have hoped this was a cop thriller with a character edge and, with time, the cast has only become more impressive on paper. Snipes does try hard but he can't get a human face that we buy into &#150; specifically his running away with hooker thing is just laughably unconvincing. Hopper seems to be in another film and enjoys just wining and dining women but he only serves to slow the film down and distract from the main thread. Mortensen plays a standard role but does it pretty well, likewise Davidovich does well with what little she has. Support from familiar faces such as Cassel, Banks and Gleason all give the impression of a film deep in quality but sadly this is only an impression.Overall this is a fairly poor film that tried to be better than the genre but failed to achieve its goals. In a plot that resembles the later Heat, the threads don't work, with no emotional involvement in the characters and no thrills or tension to really speak of. The cast deserved better and so do the audience &#150; there are several cop thrillers that try the same thing as Boiling Point, my advice would be to watch one of the ones that actually does it well. "},{"Title":"Boiling Point!","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This film Boiling Point is a very good and interesting film! In this film are Wesley Snipes, Dennis Hopper, Dan Hedaya, James Tolkan, Lolita Davidovich, Viggo Mortensen, and Seymour Cassel! The actors play their characters very good. Snipes and Hedaya make two great cop partners and in My opinion Hedaya was the highlight character in this film. Hopper and Mortensen are good as the villains. The action is very good though rough and the dialog scenes in the movie are smart and clever. The music is good and the classic song titled Dream that is played often was a wise choice. If you like the cast mentioned above and want to see a great thrilling film that is entertaining then I strongly recommend this film! "},{"Title":"Wesley Snipes and Dennis Hopper","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In this 'buddy' movie, Snipes engages even further back in Hollywood by acting alongside Dennie Hopper who plays the antagonist and has credits under his belt such as 'Giant' with James Dean and 'The Twilight Zone'. Because of this, Hollywood is saying that Snipes is a classical actor that is being received into the Hollywood community from his urban roots in 'New Jack City'. "}{"Title":"Antiquated and Dull Procedural Thriller","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What I learned from Boiling Point There seems to be a pretty set investigative routine if you're a federal officer You find a shady perp. You try to get information. They tell you they won't squeal. You offer them a deal. They say it's not good enough. You finally dig in and threaten to do something illegal or unethical. They get scared and give you enough information to find another, slightly more involved, shady perp. You find that perp and repeat. And repeat. And repeat. It takes four different variations on this theme before I realized that nothing was actually happening in Boiling Point.Boiling Point begins with a nice premise. Jimmy Mercer (Wesley Snipes) is a federal officer whose partner is killed in a poorly executed bust. He's given seven days to kill the killer before he gets demoted from the Los Angeles office to, horror of horrors, Newark. At the same time, life-long crook Red Diamond (Dennis Hopper) is given seven days to pay off his debt to a mobster. He tries to work up a scheme with his old prison buddy Runnie (Viggo Mortensen). Red and Jimmy have intersecting lives, you see. They pass each other at a luncheonette. The use adjoining urinals. They're unlucky in love. They frequent the same high class hooker (Lolita Davidovich). And, well, it was Red and Ronnie who killed Jimmy's partner. So we know that they're bound to meet in the end.In some ways, despite the settings, Boiling Point is a surprisingly down-to-earth old fashioned film. There's no sex. The violence is muted. The language is only slight. The debt Red owes the mobster is only $50,000. The peripheral crimes are only counterfeiting. It's all so very small and restrained. This movie could have been made in the 40s or 50s, a period conjured up by the nostalgic scenes dancing at The Palace.It's fitting, then, that Boiling Point was directed by James B. Harris, who's something of an old-timer himself. Harris produced several of the old classic Kubrick films including Lolita and the similarly themed masterpiece The Killing. Harris has only directed periodically, helming James Woods in 1987's Cop and 1982's Fast Walking as well as two other films in thirty years. He clearly intended for Boiling Point to been seen as a slow and involving character study of two men approaching an important deadline. There's not even a pretense of action. Basically Snipes and his partner (criminally underused Dan Hedaya) wander from one underworld functionary to another getting one tiny piece of information at a time. One guy tells them there's a guy. The next guy says he has red hair. The next guy says his name is Red Diamond. Etc. Meanwhile Snipes as two cryptic conversations with his ex-wife. Hopper goes out dancing twice with the prostitute. And somehow seven days pass. There's one very slow car chase. The Breakfast Club's Paul Gleason makes a brief appearance. And the film's only explosion is done in such clumsy slo-mo that you wonder why they bothered.And the point, I guess, is that cops and detectives and officers don't necessarily live sexy exciting lives. And that criminals are sometimes boring and innocuous as well. So what Harris does is take a normally wacky villain in Hopper and make him quiet and slow. And he takes an exceptionally vital physical actor in Snipes and makes him quiet and slow. And he takes a quirky dark actor in Mortensen and doesn't bother to give him a character. And the result is predictable. You can't get involved with any character for even a second. There's no sympathy and no and very little understanding. Nobody gives a bad performance, but the actors all seem handcuffed. I suspect this was intentional, but that doesn't make it compelling. The writing occasionally has an appealing grasp of the criminal jargon, but nobody seems to enjoy saying it.The lives of our characters keep weaving back and forth as they pass through the same spaces initially unaware of each other. For such a conceit to work, though, the film would have to be amazingly edited. The fact that the editing is just horrible is what finally deadens the movie. Never for a second does the film gain any kind of rhythm or pace. It just goes from scene to scene, building nothing.Boiling Point is an amazing example of how to mute a cast full of charismatic actors. It's flat, gray, and antiquated and hardly even worth 3/10.  "},{"Title":"Gritty NYPD Blue-style action thriller","Date":"8 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Boiling Point is a nifty, serious action film with good,brooding performances by the leads, and a slick screenplay.However, with the lack of violent action and suspense, thismovie can get pretty dull if you don't have the patience to sitthrough all the conversations this flick contains. Wesley Snipes plays Jimmy Mercer, a tough L.A. treasury agentlooking to nab the scum who killed his partner during a bust.Dennis Hopper is Red, the dirtbag who was behind the murder,along with his sneaky accomplice Ronnie (Viggo Mortensen). Alongwith his other partner Sam (Dan Hedaya), Jimmy scours thestreets to find the crooks, who are ripping off other criminalsfor their fortunes.In this film, Snipes shows a more tense, believable  characterization unlike his other past roles. He uses no martialarts, and he mostly talks to his enemies to intimidate them.Hopper plays his usual slimebag, and with  "},{"Title":"Terrible, just terrible!","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  There is not one single good thing that I can say about Boiling Point.  It is slow, and confuses you with an unnecessary complex plot that is more tiresome than entertaining.  The problem with most movies is that there's no story, the problem with Boiling Point is that there's too much!  It doesn't even try to be an action movie, which would have saved it from the never-ending, always-growing pile of over-complicated movies.The plot mostly circles around a cop (Wesley Snipes) who is after the man who his partner was killed by, a newly free con man (Dennis Hopper).  Both actors act so overdramatic and conceited that you'd think they signed on because it was going to be their Oscar Movie.  The dialogue doesn't help much though, at times when Hopper is trying to be romantic with his ex-wife he drags on every word that you can almost see Give me an Oscar written on his forehead.The supporting players, Dan Hedaya and Viggo Mortensen, do an equally bad job.  Of course, that is understandable because they were at the beginning points of their careers, where as Hopper started decades earlier and Snipes established himself as an '80s Action Star' (the worst kind).Boiling Point tries everything to be a classic, but, in the end, disappoints, 3/10. "},{"Title":"typical crime drama with nothing memorable","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" this movie is a so so crime drama.i mean it's not really awful,but it is awfully slow and not really memorable.this movie has been done before,it just had a different title with(maybe)different actors,and the same characters but with different names.Wesley Snipes is Jimmy Mercer, an undercover treasury agent who's good friend/work colleague has been killed during an undercover operation.naturally Mercer vows to catch the bad guys.Dan Hedaya is Brady,Mercer's partner.also in the movie are Dennis Hopper,(you can probably guess what role he plays),Viggo Mortensen,Tobin Bell,Paul Gleason,Christine Elise,Johnathon Banks,Lolita Davidovich and Valerie Perrine and Tony Lo Bianco.the people who really impressed me were Valerie Perrine and Dan Hedaya and Paul Gleason.the rest of the cast is all okay,but doesn't really stand out.the movie is just only 92 minutes,but it feels way longer.i just thought it took too long for things to get rolling.and like i mentioned,the movie is not original.the only thing i really like about was is the music,especially the big band stuff.otherwise,it's your stand crime drama,better than some,not as good as others.for me,Boiling point is a 5/10 "},{"Title":"Boiling Point only simmers","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In Boiling Point, a Treasury Agent (Snipes) has one week to find a killer while a scam artist (Hopper) has the same one week to pay off an underworld debt. The pair are on a collision course in this flick with a bunch of heavies, some T-men, and a beautiful prostitute (Davidovich) who knows both men biblically. The film tries unsuccessfully to build human elements into the characters. Hopper is a sentimentalist with panache who likes ballroom dancing while Snipes longs for his divorced wife and son. Unfortunately, Boiling Point hasn't the intensity the title would suggest and just slogs it way through a more-of-the-same cops vs bad guys plot with poor quality drama and almost no sensationalistic action...no chases, crashes, stunts, pyro, sex, nudity, etc. A lukewarm tv watch at best. (C-) "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good, Although No Passenger 57","Date":"26 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I finally got around to renting this (some 18 years after it was released). I assumed it would be like Passenger 57--basically a Die Hard-type film in which the body count was high. There were certainly plenty of those films around this time period.I was pleasantly surprised. The film is a police procedural that interweaves the story of the thieves and the cops. Honestly, I could imagine Michael Mann being interested in this subject matter. Now the film is no masterpiece, by any stretch of the imagination, but I enjoyed the fact that it took its time, invested in the characters, and told a story. "}]