[{"Title":"The best that could have been done.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"78 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Critics often fault Alive with petty complaints Gee, wasn't the avalanche a convenient plot device? Why didn't the plane have signal flares? How come the survivors were all those pretty boys? Why don't we see the dramatic search? In doing so, they're faulting reality The avalanche really did happen when and how it was portrayed. The wreckage really did lack signal flares. The plane really was chartered by a bunch of ruggedly handsome young men -- what else do you expect from a rugby team? And yes, the search was dramatic (the moment when Roberta Cannessa's father learned that his son is alive is one of those stranger-than-fiction moments), but it was enough of a task to compress the survivors' story into a feature film. The search would have comprised another film entirely on its own.How do you compress nearly three months of terror and tedium into less than two hours while still holding the attention of the audience? It's a daunting task, and Alive manages quite nicely. With technical consulting provided by crash survivor Nando Parrado, Alive captures the look and mood of the crash site, and sketches in the relationships among the passengers of the ill-fated flight.It leaves many strange questions hanging (Where, in this plane full of mostly unmarried adults, does Nando come up with two tiny red sneakers?) and those questions are best answered by reading the book. And watch Alive again. Things become clearer with multiple viewings.  "},{"Title":"Not like everyone else sees it","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"73 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I first saw the film Alive on video. I really wish I had seen it in the theater as it was probably one of the better films to come out around that time. I thought it was well shot, well acted and the fact that the real survivors were on hand as technical advisors showed me that the film was as accurate as it could be. One of the frustrations Ive come across in discussing this film is when you mention it to someone, and their immediate response is isn't that the movie where they all eat each other?...obviously, these people latched on to one small part of the story, and feel it is the basis for the entire movie. I found Alive to be more of an uplifting story. Sure, there's cannibalism involved, but in the 2 hours the film takes, cannibalism is focused on for approximately 10-15 minutes. I, instead, found myself moved by the determination of these young boys to survive. The plane crash, the avalanche, starvation, illness...all insurmountable odds stacking themselves against them, and they STILL found the strength to preserve their own lives. Alive as a movie about cannibalism? No. It is an example of the human spirit, and (I use the term again) an uplifting film with many touching moments. In closing, I borrow a line from the film...If I die, you can eat me. -) "},{"Title":"Gut-Wrenching Story Of Surviving The Impossible","Date":"31 July 2003","Score":"61 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I can remember reading the book on which this story was based many years ago when I was in High School and being engrossed by the story. The movie version is no less engrossing, the entire story being made absolutely gut-wrenching by the fact that it's true. A South American rugby team is stranded in the remote heights of the Andes after a plane crash and has to find a way to survive the freezing temperatures, their injuries and a variety of other challenges (not the least of which is a lack of food.) The acting in it is good, but the situation itself becomes the focus rather than the actors, and so I can't really say that anyone in particular stood out to me, but that doesn't come across as a weakness here. After all, the story of survival was a story of teamwork; a star to the movie would have detracted from that.This is literally gut-wrenching stuff, and I'm surprised it doesn't have a higher rating. It is not an easy movie to watch at times. The injuries are graphically portrayed, the suffering of the injured very realistic and the ultimate solution to the food problem will upset some people (but, in spite of what I've heard some say about this movie, it isn't the focus of the story. It's just an example of what had to be done to survive in an impossible situation.) It also has a surprisingly strong spiritual component to it.Truly excellent.10/10 "},{"Title":"Remarkable","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The very concept that this film is based on a true story makes it great. When you watch it you can't help but wonder what you would do in their situation. You want to think that you wouldn't, but then you think of their situation. After watching this movie the whole cannibalism thing sticks in your head, but you really should look at the whole movie. It really is a great story and is uplifting. I know Roger Ebert doesn't think that this movie really shows, what it would be like to be stranded there for 70+ days, but I don't think any movie truly could. But Alive gets really close at doing that, they just keep getting in one bad situation after the other. It really shows how strong the human spirit is. I give it a 10/10! "},{"Title":"Very believable","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Alive is the kind of movie that you wouldn't believe if you didn't know in advance that it was based on true events. If you didn't know better, you would say it was all made up by some scenarist with too much of inspiration, looking for a spectacular and sometimes shocking script. But unfortunately enough it all really happened, which makes the movie interesting to watch.For those who don't know the story yet, it is based on what happened to the Uruguayan rugby team during and after their plane crash in the middle of the Andes mountains in 1972. Some of them survive the initial crash, some wounded, others only with some minor scratches. They pray that they will soon be found, but no search team is coming to rescue them. At first they keep themselves alive by eating what they find in the luggage of the passengers, but soon that food is also gone. If they don't eat, they will all die. And they need to gain strength, because they need to try to get help themselves. There is only one horrible solution they will have to eat the dead people...Despite the fact that this may sound horrible to many, I must say that it isn't as bad as you may think. Of course you'll see them cut a piece out of the bodies and eat it, but it is done in a watchable way. I'm sure that only the very faint of heart will not be able to watch it. It's a part of the story, but it is never shown in a too spectacular or sensational way.All in all this is a very interesting movie. I asked myself several times 'What would you do if you were in that situation? Would you eat it or not?' I'm not sure, but I guess I would, but that's not why I tell you this. Just the fact that I was able to think about it in this way shows that it wasn't too bloody or with too much gore (I really don't like that). That's why I reward this movie with a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Truly stunning tale of courage and human ingenuity","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"28 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Frank Marshall's Alive is one of the most beautiful films I have ever seen, a tale of great courage and human ingenuity.Although the story was filmed previously (and cheaply) by Rene Cardona as Survive, this retelling is superior in every department and resonates with me years after I first saw it at the cinema.James Newton Howard's score is truly beautiful and incredibly powerful for its ability to convey both the hopelessness of the situation (trying to survive in the Andes) and the awesome wonder of such a savage land. In fact, the score takes the film from very good to great.The rendering of Schubert's Ave Maria over the rousing climax, with its superbly lensed images by Peter Levy, is one of cinema's most emotional, transporting moments.Stunning! "},{"Title":"what would you do?","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"30 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Given the knowledge from the onset of the movie that the story and characters are real, we are plunged into a world where man must choose whether or not he wants to survive and live to see the world as he knows it once more. The reality i felt when watching this movie was how easily we take for granted things like food to eat, clean clothes to wear, and warmth that comes from blankets and heaters. By the middle of the movie (when watching it last night after nearly 10 years) i was aghast at the sheer strength of some of all of the people that survived the initial crash of the actual plane. And when the deciding moment arrives where they must choose whether they are willing to eat human flesh to survive and find a way beyond the Andes, I found i asked myself 'what would you do?'. The answer is, i don't know. i truly don't. This movie makes you realise how precious life is, and how we should never take anything for granted. How we should be thankful of all that we have, and yet how easy it is to lose all that just by a bad twist of fate. Call this movie what you will, I think it's a must-see for everyone because it really happened. There are lessons to be learned, morals to be recognised, and questions to be asked and somehow solved. Each person/character you will encounter in this movie is unique which makes it all the more worthwhile to watch. Because you find yourself sympathetic with the viewpoints of all the men and women in the movie yet at the same time questioning what decision you would make if you were in their place. Maybe we never will know or understand what they went through. But by watching this movie and reading the book, it will help us become wiser people and possibly open our minds to the endless enigma that is life, God, and the vastness and emptiness of the world that lies not so beyond our reach. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film!!!","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"30 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Alive is a great movie experience.  It is based on a true event in 1972 and on the narrative book by Piers Paul Read.  It's about a Uraguayan college rugby team whose chartered airplane crashed deep in the icy Andes Mountains while on its way to a game in Santiago, Chile.  Reeling with disbelief and shock and bleeding from dozens of wounds,  the passengers who lived through the crash are faced with the brutal elements,  starvation and the horror that they may never be found alive.  The cast is terrific  Ethan Hawke as Nando,  the levelheaded,  determined leader;  Vincent Spano as desperate Antonio,  whose optimism slowly crumbles under the weight of hopelessness; Josh Hamilton as medical student Roberto,  who tirelessly treats gangrenous wounds knowing his ministrations are useless;  and especially Bruce Ramsay as Carlitos,  whose unwavering faith in God and his sense of dark humor (If you eat me,  will you promise to clean your plates?) acts as the glue that holds this wet,  shivering clump of survivors together.  You indeed can feel the cold and the misery as you watch these poor people wade through waist deep snow,  endure a nightmarish avalanche,  spend days at a time soaked to their skins in minus forty degree winds,  and face the ultimate decision that will make or break them physically,  emotionally and spiritually whether or not they can bring themselves to eat the bodies of friends and relatives who did not survive the crash.  Everything in this movie,  from James Newton Howard's touching music score to the unbeatable cinematography showing the majesty and severity of the Andes, is beautiful and flawless. This movie is one I'd recommend to anyone who wants an exciting, touching, unforgettable movie to chew on for years to come. "},{"Title":"The greatest true story of human survival","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  If you want a movie which demonstrates the determination of humankind and fight for survival, Alive is the movie for you. I have seen this movie many times and even though they do eat flesh from their dead team mates the sight isn't repulsive. You want them to do what they can to survive and you admire their great courage to perform such a discouraged act. What they do is considered uncivilized, but in this movie I feel that it isn't. It took great courage for the men to do what they had to do and pushed to a similar extreme, any of us is likely to do the same. No one can say they wouldn't for sure, you wouldn't know unless you face a similar situation. The scenery is terrific, the special effects are good and worth seeing. The actors went to extrodinary lengths to look the part and they all played their parts extremely well and handled the roles sympathetically. Top grade movie all round!    "},{"Title":"Triumph of the human spirit","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I would like to say how powerful the movie is. Being forced into a circumstance where you are being tested constantly in order to survive for 72 days. I thought that the acting in such a disaster film was expressed decently. Although critics and viewers(why then did you waste your money?)  nitpick the dialogue, it ran smoothly in the compressed time given. Exactly how would you pass the time in conversation if you survived the plane crash, freezing temperatures, hunger and watching other people die in front you for 72 days? I don't think the dialogue was that bad, considering the time slot and trying to keep the story interesting for its two hours. When I first saw it, I was shocked by the plane crash sequence. I first thought it was all about cannibalism-like the Donner party- but it wasn't. It was more about keeping hope alive and working together even when despair and dying seems easier to give in to. What the rugby teammates did under the circumstances was incredible until they made the solution to hike out and get help. I haven't read the book its based on, yet I read a little about the actual people who went through the ordeal. There are similarities and contrasts with the real-life story and the movie. I appreciate the movie after seeing several times and the actual story behind it.  I think it's one of the most fantastic films that I have seen.  "}{"Title":"Fight for Survival","Date":"4 November 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" In 1972, the Uruguayan rugby team is flying to Chile to play a game. However, the plane from the Uruguayan Air Force with 45 persons crashes on the Andes Mountains and after the search party, they are considered dead. Two months after the crash, the sixteen survivors are finally rescued. Along the days, the starved survivors decide to eat flesh from the bodies of their comrades to survive. Alive is an impressive and timeless film based on a true event &#x96; the crash of a plane on the Andes in 1972. The screenplay is very well written, considering the dramatic and sensitive theme, and is respectful with the survivors. The performances are top-notch and the special effects seem to be ahead of time. The fight for survival of this group is amazing and shows what the man is capable to do in extreme situations. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Vivos (Alive) "},{"Title":"Not bad after all...","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I live in Uruguay and i have been hearing about the The tragedy of the Andes ever since I was born. One day I decided to read the book and short after that this movie was released. I couldn't wait to see it, and when I did I was a little disappointed (as you always are when you've already read the book). If you really want to know everything about the accident, read the book.Some thoughts and facts- The movie is faithfull to the book (of course, the book has much more information).- The survivors had plenty of offers for a book deal, and they took the one that gave them almost not money at all because they didn't want their tragedy to become a shocking Stephen King-like novel with gore, etc. The book documents facts, it has no tear-dropping dialogue or 20/20-like lines.Some points about other comments and critics- Yes, they were nice boys. They were the rugby team of the Old Christians School (I'm not translating the name of the school, that's the actual one), an English catholic school for boys only (at that time at least), private and expensive, where only high-class boys attended.-Also to the previous point Maybe none of the survivors looks exactly like Ethan Hawke, but, YES... some of them WERE blonde with blue eyes. Most people, especially in the US and Europe, tend to think that in Uruguay (a country with a weird name, i give you that)we all look like native-americans. PLAIN WRONG. Almost all of us are European-americans... the 95% of the population is white and the rest is black or else. As a matter of fact, this is the ONLY American (i mean, North, Central and Southamerica) country that has no native-american population at all. This territory had a very small population when it was conquered by Spain, and they were later killed by our government about 150 years ago (we are not proud of that, but that's the awful truth).- Yes, it was a charter flight, not an airline flight, in an Air Force rented plane to carry the players and some relatives and acquaintances to Chile. (Remember this was people with money and good social positions, therefore connections... and this is a small country).- Yes, the avalanche DID take place.- Yes, the Andes are nice (I myself flew over them twice, breathtaking sights, TRULY beautiful), but this movie was shot in the Canadian Rockies (hehe )Bottom line you can't compress 72 days into two hours and give each one of the people involved enough screen time to understand the part they played in that complex society they constructed in order to survive. Some of the most interesting characters are barely mentioned in the movie. If you are really interested in knowing what happened in that ordeal, again, READ THE BOOK. "},{"Title":"This extraordinary story of survival is powerful and uplifting.","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies where you say to yourself, that could never really happen, and yet it did. The story of how these boys, some who had never even seen snow, were able to survive for 72 days on the side of a mountain is truly uplifting. It is a spiritual experience to see this film, as it puts you in the survivors point of view and you say to yourself, what would I do? The plane crash is incredible and terrifying, with the tail ripping off and people flying out the back, and the shuddering of the vibration as the pilots struggle to get over the mountain. Then, the eerie silence as the wings get torn off and the plane flies like missile down the mountain. All this before CG, so it's even more amazing. Watching the movie is a spiritual experience that illustrates that if you don't give up, you can overcome almost anything. It's a wonderful movie about the power of the human spirit... "},{"Title":"Respectable attempt at telling a difficult story...","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Frank Marshall's account of the plight of the survivors of a Uruguayan rugby team stranded in the Andes after a horrific plane crash, features a startling and impressive crash sequence in which the fuselage is ripped apart and passengers, still buckled to their seats, are flung from the gaping hole like flies from the windscreen of a moving car.   It is a superlative sequence that skilfully encapsulates the helplessness and horror of those trapped in such a situation.After such an explosive start the movie quickly settles down to depict the struggles of the survivors of the crash to survive the bleak and freezing conditions.   The first night is a sub-zero nightmare, filled with the groans and cries of the fatally injured as they gradually die.   Ominously, perhaps, the bodies of the dead are not buried beneath the snow, but laid on top of it.That the writer chooses not to focus entirely on the cannibalism in which the handful of survivors partake strengthens the film, and prevents it from becoming a sensationalist gore-fest.   Instead, their decision to eat the dead is just one aspect of a multi-faceted tale of the will to survive against seemingly impossible odds.One problem I had with this movie is that the makers fail to cast actors who look dissimilar enough for the viewer to be able to differentiate one from another.   At times it is difficult to follow the narrative thread because of this, making it hard to be sure what is going on, and what frictions exist within the gradually dwindling group.   The impact on the group of the deaths of individuals as the film progresses is also weakened because the viewer is left unsure of who has actually died.   While the movie does occasionally focus on the psychological effects their dilemma imposes on individuals and the group as a whole, it does so only fitfully, as if the task is too daunting.The movie is very gripping, however, and never drags throughout its 2 hour-plus running time, and the makers can, perhaps, be forgiven for an ending that seems just a little too sentimental.   "},{"Title":"The Grey Rating Alive","Date":"2 January 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The Grey Rating Alive A flexible rating system used to determine the quality of a movie based on a methodical comparison with the film masterpiece, The Grey.+ A plane crash + A group of rugged men are stranded in a hostile environment + The pilots die and are eaten + A very cold setting + Themes dealing with the survival of the individual and the group + Exploration of the survival instinct and lengths a person will go to in order to survive - Lack of wolves - Lack of Sir Liam Neeson - This film is basically what The Grey would have been without wolves and Sir Liam Neeson. "},{"Title":"Good movie","Date":"4 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I read some of the reviews by the people who didn't like this movie. Some people think they know everything and one reviewer actually stated he wished the all died. I just shake my head. I could never imagine the pain and suffering these people went through. How traumatic it must have been to just survive the crash but then survive in those conditions. This movie tries to tie in a lot into 2 hours. Most people just associate the crash because of what occurred after it being the eating of human flesh. What would any of us have done to survive? Had this movie been made now it probably would be more graphic and intense which is what people are looking for. To me, this was fine the way it was done. Just remember, when you watch this, you have understand this movie is telling a big story in a short time. I'm sure there were a lot of other things that could have been told. "},{"Title":"Easily misunderstood","Date":"2 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Alive is not an easy film to watch or to understand. This is not a cheap Armageddon-like disaster flick everything in the movie really happened and with the same timing that it happens on screen. One might imagine, though, that BECAUSE it is so true-to-life, it would be difficult to tie it together with any sort of unifying underlying theme.Yet the film is extremely coherent both thematically and plot-wise. I would argue it is coherent because of the coherence of the society from which the survivors sprang most of them had gone to the same school, all of them had grown up in the same small country and, perhaps most importantly, all of them were Roman Catholics. Would a more cosmopolitan and less tight-knit mix have been able to feel each other out and understand one another enough to form such a coherent survival group?But this is only the most existential of the many fascinating lines of thought provoked by this beautiful film. What would you do to survive? is another, but it is not a particularly deep question. (You do what you have to, that's what.)Perhaps other questions might be what does it mean to be alive? What is it like to be confronted with barbaric conditions and maintain a civilized composure? What strength of character does it take? Or what strength of character does it confer?And in particular how can one permit onesself to love one's neighbors so deeply knowing that many of them may soon be taken away by death? Or is that the point? Are the bonds of friendship and kinship just all the more precious for the constant threat of loss?A truly fascinating piece of art. "},{"Title":"Not as good as it could be but well worth a watch","Date":"12 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This real life story of human spirit is so amazing I don't think any film made about it could ever be that bad. That said it does have a 'tv film' feel about it and in parts the dialogue and acting seems quite cheesy and cringing! I don't think their suffering was portrayed as terrible as it would have been or what a total desperation and last resort the cannibalism was. Apparently in real life they were so desperate before they got to that point that they tried eating the leather and looking for straw in the chairs. This wasn't shown in the film. They all run outside cheering when they are rescued, not looking as ill as they actually were at that stage in real life.I would love this film to be remade now- I think it would be brilliant and a huge blockbuster with the special effects for the plane crash, avalanches, etc.It is still as I said an amazing story so well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"A harrowing testament to the power of the human spirit - 82%","Date":"13 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Fact - all movies based on a true story are rubbish. Despite having the extra money and time not wasted on producing a killer screenplay, they'll all have tiny budgets and gaps in the story where the commercials go. And oh yes, they will be made-for-TV - the kiss of death for any movie project as far as I'm concerned. This was the kind of prejudice that almost made me avoid watching this movie when my Better Half threw in the DVD. So it says something when I found my attention diverted to this harrowing and beautifully shot drama based on a horrifying true story.In 1972, a plane carrying a Uruguayan rugby team was crossing the Andes when their plane crashed in bad weather in the mountains. A number were killed and the survivors quickly began to realise that the unforgiving weather, lack of supplies and a called-off rescue mission would mean certain death. But some weren't ready to give up without a fight, meaning that they would have to overcome impossible odds just to survive. Faced into an unimaginable situation, what lengths would they go to in order not just to survive but to escape the icy grip of the Andes? Looking and feeling the business, Alive is a genuine triumph of film-making. Filmed high up in the mountains with little else to see besides snow and rocks, it forces home the hopelessness of the unfortunate souls trapped up there. Featuring a largely unknown cast, the horror of their predicament is all the more real. Ironically, the person who dispels the illusion that this is drama and not documentary is the biggest star on screen - Ethan Hawke, though his performance is as faultless as the rest. So with a truly inspiring story of how difficult the human spirit is to defeat, an jaw-dropping vision of brutal isolation and hardship and a cast who give it their everything, why doesn't Alive score higher than it does? The simple reason is that despite the story and everything going for it, Alive is the sort of film that you can only watch once. It reminded me of The Shawshank Redemption, another great film with a rousing finale and a touching tale of spirit but a film that I have little or no resolve to watch again. Watch them once, certainly, but after the magic has gone, what's left? The other thing that works against this film is it's sheer unrelenting sense of disaster. At times, you can't help but feel that it is just too much, even for a film like this. It's just one thing after another but of course, it did happen exactly as you see - the survivors who worked as technical advisers made sure of that. In short, this film is a stunning testament to those who survived the most traumatic of experiences and a solemn memorial to those who lost their lives. Alive is a real achievement, both in its making and its watching. "},{"Title":"On of the best films I know","Date":"9 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I zapped in this movie when I watched TV some night, and it gripped me so much I had to watch it till the end. After it, I sat there thinking about it because it fascinated me. So I went on the Internet and looked up some informations and I found out that it is based on real facts. I came across a Spanish homepage about the real crash as well as the film and read through it. All of it gave me some time thinking, I was so fascinated about it I couldn't get it off my mind. I bought the DVD and watched the film from the beginning and it impressed me so much I can't even put it into words... All the feelings are so well transferred, and the actors do a really good job. One absolutely has to have watched that movie! "}{"Title":"An endurance test for the audience as well.","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Frank Marshall's film adaptation of the book recounting the 1972 plane crash in the Andes of a Uruguayan soccer team is a long(try about 2 and 3/4 hours)film that spares little in the grueling endurance test that the surviving members of the crash face. It was(in 1993)populated by a mostly nameless cast in a deft move by producers to keep the characters involved central to the story. Ethan Hawke is about the biggest name in this film,and even though his character(with whom I was not entirely liking)carries much of the weight of the movie's storyline,the group effort to endure and ultimately survive this trial is still the true focus here.To me,this film was very difficult to watch,and the cannibalism storyline(which is dealt with very tastefully and soberly) is not my primary reason for that. As mentioned before,it is a long and detailed recount,where you the audience feel the shock,pain,expectations,dashed hopes,fears,tragedies,soul-searching,grief and(finally)joy of everyone involved. It is a gut-wrenching experience all around and I dare anyone who sees this film and pays any attention to it to say otherwise.NOt a great film,but a strong movie. Worth a look IF you're up to it. "},{"Title":"A True Survival Film...and Very Accurate.","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I've seen the movie and I've read the book, and I must say that thefilm does portray the events as they really happened, ofcourse thetime frame is utterly shortened to a mere two hours, when in realitythese people left on that plane for a rugby game in early Octoberand weren't found until two days before Christmas.  I think that theactors who portrayed the people did them justice. Ethan Hawke,Josh Hamiltion, Illeana Douglas, Vincent Spano, and thecountless other actors portrayed their true life characters extremelyaccurately. The plane crash, as has been mentioned previously, is extremelyfrightening and gruesome, and it all really happened, every lastterrifying second.  People can mock this film all they want, butthat's only because they haven't read the book from cover to cover.You MUST read the book in order to understand why all of thesepeople are the way they are and each of their individualcircumstances.  Believe me, the movie will come across muchmore clearly.  The cannibalism in this movie was done on thelighter aspect, believe me, because in reality they were forced todevour everything from the genitals to the bone marrow.  This isreal survival people, and if you can't handle it, then I wouldn'tsuggest this movie. If you are intrigued by the human dynamicsand personal struggles that come with the onthrust of survival,than this is definitely a movie to watch.The book does provide a much more detailed description of theentire 72 day ordeal, particularly parts that the movie skips over buteludes to.  It's EXTREMELY sad and even more disheartening tolearn that their own families back home couldn't handle the factthat the survivors were forced to eat their beloved friends andcome just short of eating their own family members who perished,in order to survive.  The movie did the situation justice, and it alsoreally makes you think about taking a flight over a mountain rangeor the ocean.  It does even more than that though, it makes youthink about what you would do yourself if you were in their shoes,and how would your family members and friends act.  This is avery good movie for those who can handle it....and I'm telling you,READ the book--and you won't be bored with the film. "},{"Title":"One of my favourite movies!!!!!","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I read the Piers Paul Read book in the early 80's and was fascinated with the story.  Of course when the movie came out I was very interested to compare the two.  The movie lives up to the book in almost every way.  The only disappointment was the fact that the actual rescue of Nando and Cannessa was not in the film.  Ethan Hawke and in fact all the cast are fantastic and resemble the actual survivors which made the movie all the more realistic.  I would recommend both the book and the movie to anyone with enough imagination to appreciate them. "},{"Title":"Simply Terrific! Don't miss this truly different and well told tale.","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I happened to catch the first few minutes on cable, not planning to watch a movie, and was hooked! As you might expect, this is a film about survival. But it's just as much a film about a faith in God and how much that faith can be tested and still survive. Thankfully, we're not treated to much gore, considering the subject matter, and much of the suffering is left to the imagination (though still painful to watch). Also interesting is the change of leadership among the survivors and how the leaders are able to rise to the changing challenges (which don't let up just because the food is gone!). Photography, editing, and music (Howard's score is grand in the traditional studio sense and this helps humanize the drama) are all excellent. One quibble, the opening shots of the plane look rather fake, especially considering this was ILM, but the crash itself is awesome.  "},{"Title":"Uplifitng","Date":"8 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I initially read the book prior to seeing the film and was absorbed into it. It was uplifting and a poignant story. I remember seeing the film the first time in the theaters and was inspired. It is a story of faith and compassion beyond all boundaries. I recently bought it on DVD and was again thrilled by the special effects, brought into the story by the characters and, uplifted by the simple message of faith and perseverance. I have read some of the negative comments and, yes, the story is a bit melodramatic, but that does not take away from its simple message. Anyone who says this movie is trash, has no concept of faith and the love of life beyond all measures. I would recommend this film to anyone who has a love for life. "},{"Title":"Casual Cannibalism","Date":"13 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Alive is an immensely horrific true story that had the potential to become an amazing film. This film is not that amazing film. It does alright, its good but could have been told in a different, and in my opinion, a much better way.The acting was a balance, it was good at times but terrible at other points, lines were delivered rather unenthusiastically or annoyingly overly dramatic by many, but there is also some good acting thrown in, most notably from Ethan Hawke who luckily becomes stronger and more involved as the film proceeds.The way in which the cannibalism issue was handled was impressive, and I would suspect was also realistic. The first time is obviously the worst, morals are questioned as the team make what is a very, very difficult choice to make that was conveyed extremely well in this film. But after the first time it becomes much easier and even casual to some characters which I would believe to be true.My problem with this film was it's tone. The story is about a group of friends and relatives whose plane crashes, killing some while the extreme weather conditions of the Andes slowly kills the others, and how the survivors had to resort to eating their loved ones to stay alive. This is a very dark, disturbing and traumatic true event and I was hoping would spawn a similarly gritty drama that I feel would have more accurately reflected the experience of the rugby team. I found this film to contain a large amount of 90's cheese and to find Disney in the credits probably explains that. The tone and story didn't go together at all, the cheesy film of a nightmarish event is the on screen equivalent of mixing oil with water in my opinion.Overall Alive is an alright film, it tells the story quite well it just has the wrong tone and feel for the most part. I would be very interested to see this film remade, as it is a tremendous event and I believe given a much darker tone, could give life to the film that I believe this true story deserves. "},{"Title":"riveting tale of survival","Date":"5 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" It's 1972. A plane chartered by a South American rugby team with family and friends crashes in the snow bound Andes on their way to a game in Chile. The survivors struggle to live and forced to do the unthinking to survive. It's based on the biographical book of the Uruguayan rugby team that crashed in the Andes. It has a couple of recognizable faces like Ethan Hawke but they are mostly lesser known actors. It's a harrowing story that is tactfully told. There are a few noticeably white actors but the elite of the society sometimes tend towards being white. This is a riveting tale of survival with compelling performances. "},{"Title":"It's not as ghoulish as it sounds; it's a strong drama about survival","Date":"7 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" You will be hard-pressed to find a more intense survival story than the one found in Alive, which is even more impressive because it's all based on true events. I had heard a lot about this film, mostly about some of the more grisly details, but I was surprised to find how emotional and thrilling it was to watch nonetheless. The plot concerns a Uruguayan plane flying over the Andes. The passengers are rugby players in their early 20s and their coaches on their way to Chile. Suddenly, the plane crashes. The pilots are dead, the radio is useless, the supplies are scarce and it is very very cold. The survivors must find a way to survive against all odds, hoping that someone will find them in this frozen wasteland.If you've heard of this film, it's probably because of the cannibalism involved so I'm going to address that part first. Your instinct is probably to think that either the survivor situation turned into a Lord of the Flies type of thing where people started going crazy and eating each other, or that this is going to be something that borders on a horror film, with people's intestines being strung up over a fire like sausages. That isn't the case.Let me break down the scenario for you The plane has crashed and there is very little food. People are eating a square of chocolate and a thimble of wine daily to make supplies last. Our heroes are scrambling to keep warm. People are dying from their injuries or from disease. Morale is way down and hope seems completely lost. Eventually, someone comes up with the idea of eating the bodies of those who have died. There's a big theme of religion in this film so some argue that once the soul leaves the body, there's nothing left but meat. Others argue (pretty sensibly) that it's an offense to the human body to even think of this. After some thought being put into it, some begin to relate the idea of giving up your flesh to save your friends as something akin to Jesus Christ telling his apostles that the bread they are eating at the last supper is his flesh, given up to save humanity. It's the most shocking part of the story, but it's not just a gimmick, it's a testament to the human will to survive.There's a lot more to this film than just the cannibalism, it really is a story about a group of being that refuse to give up hope. These are not soldiers on a mission that went wrong, or wildlife trackers used to doing whatever it takes to get back home, they're ordinary people. Surviving is about more than just finding food and shelter, it's about getting organized, keeping busy, finding ways to cope with the stress they're under. I liked seeing characters that were just as smart as me. Between the group of people there, you have some ingenious and creative minds that simply refuse to give up. Just on the level of ingenuity you have to applaud these people because you know a lot of people would have just given up.What's so exciting about the film is that these feel like real people. Usually in bad survival movies you always have one random lunatic thrown in the mix. A guy that wants to seize all the power for himself, that will go on a rampage and kill people he feels are slowing down the group or goes all rapist on the one female character because so many screenwriters feel the need to have a villain in the film. It isn't the case here. The enemy is despair and the mountain. The heroes are the survivors. It's a test of endurance, a battle of wits and a tremendous underdog story. The film juggles a lot of characters but you do feel like you get to know the key ones and you get a feel for the group as well. As the number of survivors dwindles I did get emotional about it. I sort of knew where the movie was going, but that didn't make it any less powerful to me.Initially I didn't have any problems with the film at all, but in retrospect I do have to surrender to the fact that despite the film being consistently exciting and kind of awe-inspiring. Alive doesn't really capture the full effect of the story. One might argue that it would be impossible to transfer the gravity of such an event into a 2-hour film, but if there's a flaw, that's it. Because these are actors that the director chose not to starve and because you can't really convey the utter despair you would feel after weeks of being stuck in the wreckage of a plane, surrounded by dead bodies it does feel like there is something missing. That said, it's as good as it's going to get The performances are solid, the special effects are terrific, there's real gravity in the situations. I found it to be thrilling, moving and fascinating to watch. The premise of Alive sounds ghoulish, but this is not a gimmicky exploitation movie, it's a stirring adventure and a drama whose story will stick with you. (On DVD, May 18, 2014) "},{"Title":"Alive","Date":"11 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Phew, what a powerhouse example of the courage and bravery that comes in surviving the roughest of elements. Watching those around you die to avalanche, the loss of the human spirit, health deterioration, gangrene, and hunger, trying to maintain your resolve and hold onto faith, and eventually summoning the guts to brave the great white unknown of the mountains and snowy terrain in the hopes of finding rescue, all could make or break the best of us. Alive made some notoriety in its cannibal scenes where those still alive needed to eat from those that died during the crash (and afterward), but to simply identify that to the film alone doesn't do it justice. This film pulls no punches in showing that surviving isn't easy, and the arduous journey to a rescue comes with great sacrifice, a strong will to live, and making difficult decisions that few would ever wish to be burdened with. The desperate times call for desperate measures phrase certainly applies to the harrowing travail that all the survivors are up against. Ethan Hawke, Vincent Spano, and Josh Hamilton lead a strong cast of relative unknowns who all lend gravitas to their roles as struggling members of the rugby team praying to God at night and holding on to what little hope still exists after 60 + days out in the cold, enduring a blizzard, no food besides the dead they have to feed from, and dwindling morale (not to mention, the cold's physical effects on their bodies). Hawke's young man stepping up as a leader when few still have the ability to do so is a great part for him considering his age at the time (really consider what kind of career this man has had; he is a fine actor with a nice resume under his belt), while Hamilton's unsure but vocal character see-sawing about leaving to find that green valley of Chili somewhere over the mountains is another solid character within the film. What I think this film does well is establishing strong characterizations, allowing us to get to know these innocent people fated within an unfortunate situation, who had plans for the future, enduring and often losing to the tragic nature of the unavoidable harshness of inclement weather and freezing environment that befalls them. A riveting, frighteningly realistic and quite incredible true story that is at times really hard to watch and all the while always gripping. "},{"Title":"Prepare To Be Emotionally Charged!","Date":"23 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Alive is an emotional harrowing film based off the real-life event of the fatal plane crash in the Andes Mountains which stranded sixteen survivors for 72 days. This film may have some issues (mainly involving editing and a little script issue), but there is no denying the personal affection we feel for the characters as they struggle to survive. For a 1993 film, this film has some good special effects as the plane crash was very convincing.Frank Marshall's film is about the fore-mentioned crash in the Andes and it talks about how these men survived in the harsh winter environment with nothing but chocolate and wine. Later on, the film goes on to mention the last resort effort in cannibalism to stay alive, which is really hard to watch even though this is what saved their lives.For a film that doesn't have a big-name cast, the acting was really good and they all added depth to their characters. The only familiar names are Ethan Hawke and Vincent Spano. I really valued Hawke's character, Nando because of his bravery as he went out to find civilization.Overall, Alive is a movie that does the unthinkable and effectively tells an unfilmable event into a harrowing, emotional story. This film has one of the best endings you'll ever see in film, and it will be difficult to hold back the tears while Aaron Neville's Ave Maria, is performing. This film has great characterization and it's as if we went through the terrible ordeal with them. I rate this film 9/10. "}{"Title":"Superb","Date":"21 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is the true story of a plane crash in the Andes and tells of the fate of the survivors.From the outset this film never fails to hold the attention. The plane crash is remarkably filmed and genuinely disturbing. The rest of the film concentrates on how the survivors cope with their predicament.The film successfully captures the fear felt by the survivors and the sense of dread that they would die on the mountain. The acting is pitch perfect and realistic. Although the film covers disturbing material it is dealt with sensitively and there a moments of humour throughout to lighten the mood a touch.In conclusion this is a wonderfully filmed and enjoyable film and comes highly recommended. "},{"Title":"A compelling true story","Date":"17 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I'll start by saying that this movie is worth watching only because it is based on a true story, which describes a grueling fight for survival!Now, about the movie itself, IT HAS ITS UPS AND DOWNS The movie starts out really bad. The first 15 minutes didn't sold me AT ALL the proportions of the catastrophe. Not because of the special effects,since you have to keep in mind that this movie was made in the early 90's. But only due to the bad acting from a great part of the cast. Disappointing to say the least, considering the conditions the characters were in were so extreme you would think that the whole cast would commit to it. Unfortunately no. The performances were either under and overacted. Nonetheless I kept watching it, and I have to say that there is a significant evolution throughout the film. The acting gets MUCH BETTER (thanks to Vincent Spano and Ethan Hawke's performance if you ask me) So much that it makes it a good movie, because otherwise it would only be a great argument poorly represented.Conclusion, after the first bump I was hoked till the end, and even shed a tear with the memorial reference narrated by (the great) John Malkovich.Definitely a story to bear in mind!!! "},{"Title":"Nice effort by Hollywood to create a real disaster movie","Date":"20 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" No Poseidon Adventure here! Just a gritty real-life disaster. How realistic CAN one make something as horrific as this, or, if one COULD make this as graphic and real as it was, who could bear seeing it? The Hollywood slightly glossed-over version is nasty enough. I cannot get the image out of my head of people getting sucked out of the back of the plane screaming during the crash. This was truly 50 days of hell for all involved, living with dead bodies of former friends, eating them, etc. The Hollywood version is far graphic enough. I could barely watch it as it was, as much for, if not more for, the reality and pain behind such events. I could easily see this as a great vehicle for someone like Hitchcock, who liked to play survivor egos against each other for great drama, ala Liveboat. This director kept it more peaceful and amicable, though I can imagine there was far worse infighting during the actual event. Keep in mind these are not special forces landing on the Andes, but relatively pampered rich kids playing for a rugby team. All the more amazing they were able to survive this. This is def not a Popcorn movie, so leave your tub of buttered popcorn/nachos in the fridge and cabinet. One hell of a movie....and finally a unique plot and scenario...no superheros or explosions, just one crash....and a whole lot of aftermath.. "},{"Title":"Classic Plane Flick","Date":"18 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Director Frank Marshall who also created the classic flick, Arachnophobia 1990 has created another gem in Alive.Starring Ethan Hawke who has been in other classic flicks, Daybreakers 2009, Training Day 2001 and A Midnight Clear 1992.Also starring Vincent Spano who has also been in another classic flick, Rumblefish 1983.Also starring Bruce Ramsay who has also been in other classic flicks, Killing Zoe 1993 and Pin 1998.Also starring John Malkovich who has also been in another classic plane flick, Con Air 1997.I enjoyed the plane crash scene and the landscapes.If you enjoyed this as much as I did then check out other classic plane flicks, Air Force One 1997, Snakes on a Plane 2006, Quarantine 2 Terminal 2011, The Assault 2010 and United 93 2006. "},{"Title":"An accurate portrait of a terrible disaster that doesn't bit on cheap baits","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Real-life disaster movies usually offer three basic approaches the recollection, quasi-documentary shot that focus on technical aspects and personal stories (usually with plenty of survivors and real people interviewed), the over-dramatic redemption or overcoming story plotted around a disaster (think of Titanic) full of bad guy/good guy/unrequited love stuff or the exploration of the uneasiness and unfairness of life and death around a catastrophe. Alive belongs to the last category.The movie became famous for its cannibalism scenes. Being a shock theme that is usually only portrayed on extreme horror movies or fiction settings (the cannibal being always an alien/werewolf/zombie), it is shown on this movie under a very different light. Some people get uneasy and appalled by the scenes, but they are not appellative and not even a central part of the plot at all. Somber as they are, they push the movie into a more serious territory than the average survival stories around there where positive attitude, faith and altruism, alone, are enough to save your life. In this light, to not ignore the most gruesome aspects of what really happened on the accident is a big plus to Alive.Other positive aspect of this movie is how the social roles among the survivals keep changing progressively in very interesting ways. Immediately after the crash some leaders emerge, keeping control of the imminent dangers and preparing the rest of survivors, and the audience, for what seems to be a quick rendezvous in the snow while some helicopter will come to rescue them. However, as they realize no one is coming for them, the whole social order dismantles, new connections and new power struggles emerge.Those power struggles, however, are portrayed in a very ingenious way. The whole situation is uncommon it is not about limited food rations only, it is not the 10 people on-board and shrinking but 6 people lifeboat only scenario. Emotional breakdowns pose a threat to everyone, and as the movie progress towards its final third, you can see how the prolonged stay in the mountain has changed some characters, not as a matter of redemption or enlightenment usual in such movies (e.g., the drunk father and the careless mother who'd die to save a daughter), but as a result of the completely different life assumptions you have in a mountain, during the winter, after an air crash. Finally, the plot nails it right in not dedicating too much time to the rescue and aftermath. There are no accounts of countless changed lives and how everybody became better people. This might well disappoint those who cannot cope with the realities of the accident. I have watched the movie three times with different crowds of friends and acquaintances, and I remember to have heard some of them complaining that nothing happened in more than 2 hours but the accident and the cannibalism, because they missed the whole picture (pun intended) of the movie. "},{"Title":"To live, would you accept eating the dead?","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" If you have seen Alive or not yet, you will love all the characters but definitely you will focus on the two main characters  Nando Parrado and Roberto Cannessa. Two opposite views, the prior very optimist and irrational while the latter is pessimist and very calculative. Which one do you think will get them out of trouble? The debate at the end between Parrado and Cannessa is the most brilliant on all levels; acting, directing and lines.I have enjoyed every single part of this movie. When they first crashed and didn't take it seriously. When they start realizing what deep sh....t they are in. When Nando loses his mother and then his sister. When they have the discussion about whether they should eat their dead friends to live and all views are exhibited the religious, the scientific, the emotional. When they discuss if God exists and the atheist starts praying when the avalanche happens. When they start planning to get out of the whole thing. God ... this an amazing true story movie! I found it strange Josh Hamilton (Cannessa) didn't make it in Hollywood and the director Frank Marshall didn't direct but few movies although he produced some few well known. "},{"Title":"Top of the World.","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" At first I expected -- knowing what it is that makes this story stand out from so many of its ilk -- that there would be a good deal of grisly pandering, as in a common slasher flick. Some bearded castaways hacking away at corpses with axes and rip saws.But, no. It's actually quite a bit better than that. The airplane crash is fairly well handled by means of special effects and director Frank Marshall's talent. It's pretty horrifying, in fact, almost as good as the disintegration of the Fed Ex airplane in Castaway. About half the passengers die and roughly half survive, mostly members of the world-famous Uruguayan rugby team. They have virtually nothing in the way of food or supplies, and they are in the oxygen-thin air of the crest of the Andes, with nothing in sight but snowy mountain tops from one horizon to the other. The rescue effort was abandoned and yet they managed to survive for more than two months on melted snow and the flesh of their dead comrades.The locations (in British Columbia) are stunning. The snow glistens in the sunlight and you can almost feel your respiratory system shrivel in the icy air.It's hard, though, to tell some of the survivors apart although their names are used repeatedly, as if the writer, John Patrick Shanley, had foreseen the problem. I even lost track of Illeana Douglas, which is difficult. And towards the end, as often as not, the men have slight beards instead of unkempt House of David ornaments on their chins.The dialog, too, is functional but sounds as if it were a translation of the original Spanish or Guarani or whatever it was. It sounds stilted. Hernandez, you must not give up hope. That sort of thing.I was gratified that they didn't dwell on the tabloid aspects of cannibalism. Not that it's very alien in cultures. It is, after all, symbolically represented in many Christian ceremonies -- the body and blood, etc. And it made sense in the circumstances. A 50 kilogram man will yield about 30 kilograms of edible muscle mass if skillfully butchered, and that comes out to about 4000 grams of protein, assuming 90% digestibility, and disregarding inner organs. If they hadn't done it, they most likely would all have died. I'd have had a little trouble with it though.What's missing is the kind of dramatic interplay that one finds in a castaway movie like the original Flight of the Phoenix, the craft involved in illustrating dynamics internal to the group. It's a shame that so many of the survivors look and act alike, because none of them gives an outstanding performance.Worth catching, though. That magnificent cordillera, the awesome avalanche, the sense that the performers AND crew are chilled through and through. "},{"Title":"Alive","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The movie is the best movie I've ever seen.I like adventure movies anyway although this movie was based on true events. It's about the love of sports something they loved to do, and had the courage to fight for their lives to get back to their loved ones, and all the hardships to survive, like eating the dead to keep alive although some died anyway but that was because they were injured in the crash. They pulled together like their rugby team would have. I believe they did the best they could under the circumstances, you don't know what you would do, if you were in their shoes. It's about hope and courage to not give up, and be together as one. "},{"Title":"Anything is possible . . .","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" While I agree that this movie deserves a better rating, any movie of this sort, however moving or well-crafted, is still limited by its roots in reality, and in my opinion great works of art use reality as only a touchstone.Having said that, and having read the book and watched the film, Alive is one of the most remarkable movies of any generation. The script is lucid and intelligent; the cinematography is both beautiful and horrendous in its detail; and it addresses one of the oldest taboos in Western culture.From the breath-taking crash sequence until the final scenes (made even more poignant by the fact that they did go the wrong way) where the expedition finally reaches a green, warm valley, this is a gripping cinematic experience. "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I saw this in a film class I took and it haunted me for a while. Nando Parrando (Ethan Hawke) is the coach of a successful Uruguayan rugby team and is flying the team across the Andes from a match. But their good luck is about to change when the plane crashes in the deep Andes. Nando takes control and regulates food but can't ignore that a few of his players, his friends have been killed. But soon the food is gone and people are dying and starving. Soon the only option is something considered inhumane, the eating of humans, cannibalism. Soon the people, driven by the will to survive, are eating their dead friends and relatives.The film is based on a true story and is truly haunting in witnessing what these people suffered and what extreme measure they do to survive. The plot is good, the characters are lovable yet emotional when witnessing them in their environment, and the lessons of what people will do to survive is unbelievable. The film sort of reminded me of Cast Away (2000) which I had seen first.Alive. Starring Ethan Hawke, Vincent Spano, Josh Hamilton, Bruce Ramsay, and John Haymes Newton. 5 out of 5 Stars. "}{"Title":"Very good, but could have been better","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  There are some films you watch where when they finish you think I really enjoyed that....but and Alive is one of those movies. This film should be about how a group of humans overcome the severe cold, hunger, sadness of losing their loved ones and live to fight another day...and by most accounts it is. But what this is lacking from this film is a feeling that these people were pushed to the very limit of human endurance. What we do see on screen for pretty much the entire time is a group of handsome young men, who never lose weight, never seem colder than someone waiting for a bus in winter, never state that they're hungry much, teeth never chatter, do not get frost bite (which must have been rife). Even the two severely injured lads at the back of the plane on stretchers are alert and seemingly healthy for most of the film when they must have been in agony. Also, why do we not see how they reached civilization? Where is the man on horseback that they made contact with? Surely that is one of the most important points of the tale?!! But on the plus side I thought the acting was good, the bits of humour were quite well done, direction and cinematography were some of the best I've ever seen and the special effects were amazing, worthy of an Oscar nomination. I'll give it 8/10, cos all in all it still carries a very important lesson that the human instinct of survival is the strongest of all. The documentary after the film is also very powerful and if not more moving than the actual film itself.  "},{"Title":"A movie about faith, leadership and endurance","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The 1993 film version of the book Alive captured important spiritual aspects of the Andes survival epic that were lacking in the book by P.P. Ried.  The shift of leadership from Antonio to Nando is especially instructive for leaders.  Taking only small liberalities with the actual events, the movie brilliantly portrays a true story that stands as one of the great inspirational tales of the 20th century. "},{"Title":"Great Story","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This was a great story of people overcoming odds.  After surviving a plane crash in the Andes, a soccer team's story is just starting.  They must survive the harsh elements of the Andes, lack of food, avalanches, and the fact that they're hundreds of miles from civilization.The characters are well-written and well-acted especially by Hawke and Spano.  It was very easy to tell who was going to be the leaders, and who were the followers, and sadly those who weren't going to make it.  Story aside the film has some beautiful backdrops with the snow-capped Andes. It also has one of the scariest plane crashes you'll ever see in a movie.The only gripe I've ever had with this movie is that it runs a little long. It seems like the group is trying to escape from the Andes forever by having a small group just hike out.  While it's based on a true story, I just got tired at the end watching the team climb out of the Andes "},{"Title":"Harrowing, horrifying, but excellent","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Apparently a very accurate recreation of the true plane crash and consequent struggle for survival of a Uruguayan rugby team in the Andes. It is relentlessly tragic, and never lets you forget the true horror of the situation.The opening plane crash is one of the most terrifying sequences I've ever seen in a movie. If Alive was presented as an in-flight movie I think I'd pass out...  "},{"Title":"Death = Reality","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A true story of a Uruguayan rugby team stranded in the Andes after an airplane crash.  This is a really good movie to see after viewing Into Thin Air. The latter, is the true story by John Krakauer, a writer for Outside magazine, who just happened to pick the (up to that time) most deadly day on Mt. Everest, to ascend the aforementioned mountain. Once viewing Into Thin Air one can truly understand the struggle that one can have at such altitudes just to take a step. Alive is more than just a struggle for air, however, it is a struggle for food. Some gut-hurdling effects really bring this movie home.  One really gets to feel (well, not REALLY) what these men experienced. "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"9 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a movie that brings to you a never seen before real life situation that you might not have even imagined about.Awesome acting, great storyline and amazing editing outline the movie. And the fact that its based on a true story just adds to the charm.The acting is great and the story is strong enough to link the viewer to the characters. The director has done a commendable job. Specially some of the scenes are truly touching. Neither the movie has been stretched beyond repair nor it has been shortened enough to pull the charm out of it. Its just perfect. Watch and u will never forget.Strongly recommended for all movie lovers. "},{"Title":"Gut-wrenching story, poetic, somewhat weak acting. Worth a remake","Date":"20 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Being a wilderness hiker, and fan of wilderness biographies and true stories, like Into The Wild and Alone In The Wilderness, IMDb thought this would be a good fit for me. It was absolutely right.One of the must brutal and gut-wrenching drama documentaries I have seen, ALIVE delivers on most points. If the boys have told the truth about their deal with the Andes, this film is about 95% consistent with what actually occurred for real (just a couple of petty details dramatized; I have read the book as well).However, the acting is a bit weak. This story seriously deserved better. Ethan Hawke, who plays the important figure Parrado, does a good job, as well as Josh Hamilton (Canessa), but those two are exceptions. I'd actually go as far as saying that in some scenes, the dead people are the best actors. Also, the narrator who opens up the film does not fit in, feels emotionless and not at all believable.But all in all, it's a story worth to catch up on, fairly well told in its film format. Beautiful scenery, unbelievable courage, poetic, absolutely excellent soundtrack by James N. Howard. Simply put, see it. You might become very tempted to read the book afterwards. I am looking forward to a remake in HD with even better actors and graphics. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Poor movie about a great story","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" In reading some of the previous comments I see a couple patterns -- most of those who have read the book don't like the movie, and most of those who haven't read the book talk about what a great story the movie tells.Recommendation skip the movie, read the book.As a big fan of the book, I was excited when the movie came out, and was incredibly disappointed. The Wikipedia site quotes a reviewer who called it, Hungry Valley boys in the Andes -- I was glad to see that, because it reflected exactly my thoughts at the time, that the actors looked, acted, and spoke like a bunch of Valley boys.The movie also takes the deeply spiritual nature of the book and transforms it into sappy religiosity. The survivors' deep Catholic faith is an important part of the story, and I was disappointed to see it cheapened.The story is wonderful, and deserves a decent movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Although the ending could have been a little stronger, this is a fantastic movie about the human spirit. It doesn't come across to the audience as though the actors are acting out a script, it is as though they are experiencing this situation for the first time with no knowledge of the final outcome.Frank Marshall has obviously gone to much effort to gain as much information as possible in order for this film to be believable that it is a true story and a historical record as to what happened in the Andes in 1973.Overall, this is my favourite movie of all time as it captures the true story of the tragic event in 1973 whilst incorporating the entertaining aspects of action, fear and humour. "},{"Title":"Survival of the harshest kind imaginable","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This engrossing 1993 movie is based on the true story of the survivors of a Uruguayan plane crash in the Andes in late 1972.On October 13, 1972, a Uruguayan air force plane carrying forty passengers (most of them members of a national rugby squad) and a crew of five crashed 11,000 feet high in the Andes.  Twenty-one died, either instantly in the crash or from injuries they suffered from it.  Eight more died when what remained of the fuselage was almost buried by an avalanche.  Sixteen of them survived when two of their own breached the Andes and found help.  The ordeal came to an end on December 22, 1972, after seventy days of despair and tragedy.  But part of the survivors' ability to stay alive lay in coming to a harsh realization to eat the bodies of those who had died.ALIVE, directed by former Spielberg assistant Frank Marshall and scripted by John Patrick Shanley (MOONSTRUCK) from Piers Paul Read's great 1974 book about the ordeal, focuses on each and every aspect of this story--the pain, despair, hope, fear, and the bravery, etc.  It also tackles the cannibalistic angle as well, something it could not avoid if it wanted to tell it all.  But unlike the gory 1976 Mexican exploitation flick SURVIVE!, which was based on a totally different account, ALIVE does not dwell on the extraneously gruesome details.  The mostly-young cast gives efficient performances, and the on-location photography (done mostly in the mountains of southwestern Canada) accurately replicates the snowbound Andes.For people who like such true-story movies such as IN COLD BLOOD and ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN, ALIVE is a welcome recommendation to add to such a collection. "}{"Title":"Greatest Movie","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I thinik this film is simply great because it is all about something important, the plane crash in 1972 of a Fuerza Aerea Uruguaya (Uruguay Air Force), plane number 571, I liked it because you get to see how they lived in those 2 months, I liked this movie a lot, I didnt see it when it first came out in theaters, but I watched it with my cousins, and I recommend it a lot, if you like movies about survival,  this is your movie.I havent read the book but I'll read it someday, but I think the movie will be better. I liked the special effects they used to make the plane crash in the Andes Mountains, when the tail and the wing fly away from the plane because of the pilots. Since I watched this movie I would like to go to Chile, or Argentina, to see and listen more about the history of this guys. I guess the movie, had mistakes, but every movie have mistakes, no matter how new the movie is, but those are minor movies, you need to see that movie more than once to watch the little mistakes, but in my opinion, is one of the greatest movies I ever watched, I first saw one movie made in Spanish and I didnt like, and when I saw this one, and Im watching it right now, I changed my mind about the mexican movie. This is very important thing that really happened in 1972. But if your reading this comments and you didnt see the movie, I recommend you to go and look for the movie, or rent it or whatever. But watch it is a great movie.  "},{"Title":"Just OK...","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A film of this nature depends on many things, but most of all on the quality of acting.  Unfortunately, this film is inhabited by many poor actors, none of which I found convincing.  The survivors looked extraordinary good after 70 days in the Andes, right down to their neatly styled hair and perfect skin.  In fact, by the time they were rescued they looked to have been on a skiing trip and merely forgotten to shower for a day or two.If you want the real experience, read the book -- there, you will come to feel for the characters, and will feel their pain and suffering, trials, tribulations and triumphs and will sympathize when they die.  In the movie, most of the characters are utterly one-dimensional, and I didn't really give a damn whether they lived or died.  A very poor film rendition of a classic book that takes few risks and barely scratches the surface of the real human story behind the Andes survivors.5/10 "},{"Title":"Well done","Date":"12 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Awesome is the word.You could feel what those survivors would have gone through when all of this happened to them.I read few reviews from critics where all they talk about are the flaws of signal failures and what not.Well- this is what happened and these people survived for so long.Great screenplay ,awesome direction ,even the music of the movie gives you hope.Alive leaves a lot to imagination but there is only so much you can do with the run time you get for a movie to be released in theaters.Alive might now work in today's day and age and some would rate it as slow and dull but not for me.I wont say its a master piece but its not kill your time movies. When you watch it you can't help but wonder what you would do in their situation? "},{"Title":"Good, but some confusion with the book?","Date":"21 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I really enjoyed this film and the whole story is an amazing one of courage and hardship. However i do have some misgivings which is why i only gave it a 7. I have been studying the book 'Alive' by Piers Paul Read at school and unfortunately there seems to be a bit of fabrication in the movie version. For those others who have read it the one they appoint as leader in the film 'Antonio' in the book the only person who has the name Antonio is Viztintin and he is portrayed by another actor. Also in the book the captain of the team is called Marcelo Perez. Another confusion i have is with the supposedly mad engineer. Who is he? And was that just for dramatisation purposes? Surely this book does not need anything added to it!Lastly i was a bit disappointed they did not show the point when Parrado and Canessa meet with the first people and also their first meal. Another amazing part of the book was when they meet their families again. Also a disappointment. Also, understandably, the search effort by their parents was left out as a two hour film can only be so long, i understand why it was not included. Overall i think this is a fantastic true story that will be told again and again. If you thought this was good read the book. "},{"Title":"a real story of race against time","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Alive is a real life adaptation of south American rugby team who had to go through such a catastrophic situation one couldn't like to imagine. This real life story has also met its re-enactment in national geographic reality series alive against all odds. I have seen it twice completely and i cannot believe how they all managed to keep themselves together in such an extreme bizarre desperate situation in which losing your hope and will is just easily common. I even cant think that if i am under the same4 circumstances i will have to eat dead human flesh, how i could do it, but when you are caught in such condition you must do whatever possible if you want to live. Some of the few died gradually not able to cope with harsh winter and some succumb to their injuries. But others decide to take measures to find a way out even in that remote high snow capped mountains and they really found their mark which led them out with remaining survivors. What i also observe that they turned to one person only,, THE GOD. God itself is some one who gives you power courage and will to fight , to live. What happened to them was the will of god and god itself brought them out of it. We are told when god considers some one his dearest one then it puts him under a test but one should pray to him not to test me because god ' s test is never easy one. every man/woman is not strong enough to pass it. But if you are really facing such circumstances believe in your heart that it is god ' will , he is always with me , he will be there for me even after my demise, he has put me in it and he will put me out of it , he never forsaken his people even they forget him. Somehow i tank god that i never in my life had to face this kind of dilemma. Also somebody must learn a lesson never to take life for granted as quite a few people in this world do. I some how salute to the bravery and will of those men who ran for a difficult race against the time and survived the impossible by doing the unthinkable. "},{"Title":"An Amazing Movie","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I saw the movie before I read the book, I read the book just this year, it is a book I will not soon forget. After reading these comments/reviews, (many of them mixed) I have to say the book was better than the movie, (I own the movie on DVD) that is not meant to say the movie was bad, indeed it was quite good. What people have to remember is a movie based on a book is NEVER going to be as good as the book itself, if the movie included everything in the book, the movie would have been endless. Look beyond the 'flaws in the movie and see what it really is conveying...a group of young men who were thrust into a horrible situation, stuck together,and did what they had to do in order to survive. "},{"Title":"Survival instinct tale","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Dramatised account of a South American rugby team whose plain crashes over the Andes. The survivors are a mixed bunch, some natural leaders, some natural followers, but all are very, very afraid. Perched on a mountainside, cut off from the rest of the world, they have to learn to cope with surviving in extreme conditions, eventually having to make the ultimate decision to start to eat their dead team mates just to stay alive. Yummy. An extreme tale, told well and with subtlety, never really glorifying the revulsion of the act the survivors had to commit. Well acted and well scripted, though at times stretching credulity a little, this is a good movie. "},{"Title":"Great movie that shows the best of humanity","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Having read critiques about the movie before I watched it I did not expect much. But I loved this movie, and found the critiques of this movie ridiculous after viewing it.To me this is a beautiful story that shows some of the best sides of the human spirit/humanity. I was very moved throughout it and it inspired me to appreciate life more.The movie had a plot that kept you interested throughout, it was emotional with motives that made sense. The scenery and music score was spectacular. The acting I though was good as well.This is among my favorite movies and in my opinion grossly underrated. "},{"Title":"One of Top 10  BEST Stories of  Pathos,  more sweet than sour","Date":"23 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Unlike the gratuitously disgusting and in a sense pornographic film Hannibal which caused me to loose respect for A. Hopkins choice of scripts, Cannibalism is more of an adjunct than the theme to this one. Tastefully, ethically, and spiritually argued for only a few minutes and invites the viewer to consider what you would do in their shoes. The real story is about a diverse group of personality types interactions while finding themselves in horrific circumstances and forced to make difficult choices in order to survive. The over all tone is sensitive and moving, with a large but balanced focus on spiritual values. The soundtrack is perfection for the scenes, the end tune will move you to the edge of joyful tears if you are a person of faith. The cinematography in difficult low contrast exterior and low lux interior scenes is literally award winning and to be studied by any Video/Cine aspirant. To the viewer, completely non distracting, unlike other limited budget productions. There is a distracting amount of lack of annunciation in the dialogue which makes some phrases though naturally delivered emotionally, sound mumbled or slurred almost to the point of unintelligibility. Turn up the volume to solve this. There is a liberal sprinkling of humor (sometimes macabre) to counterpose the severity of their plight. As well as a couple of cliffhanger incidents not mentioned in the book. Conversational profanity is also liberal. The location set is awesome, and the special effects are superb, though NOT RECOMMENDED if you fear flying. Mostly true to the book other than a few name changes, and misappropriations of events to different persons than those stated in the book. The book is far more detailed on all aspects of the story, and if first read, better illuminates a few scenes where the viewer otherwise is scratching their head wondering what's that about? The film makes better sense and continuity immediately after reading the book. On whole an uplifting heroic film that I enjoy viewing at least once a year. The casting is good with many attractive unknowns and where are they nows. The acting with only a brief exception or two is excellent. Not for children under thinking teens, squeamish, or aerophobics. A true Classic that will encourage lazy readers to learn what sitting down with a good book is all about. The book, while more comprehensive is more of a documentary tone. Whereas the film captures the drama well and does not come across as a documentary. A must have for the DVD collection, as well as bookshelf. If you get the DVD version watch the Bonus Material. In the included documentary story ALIVE 20 YEARS LATER there is a brief moment where the real life Nando comforts the real life Carlitos, in front of the actor portraying Carlitos (Bruce Ramsay). It says everything in an instant about their ordeal and bonding, and how possibly the others also unspokenly felt about Nando, and literally looked to him for courage. No acting there at all. Pure reality. A very touching moment. If you want to see the awesome starkness of the afterwards named Glacier of Tears on the flanks of the Tinguiririca Volcano where they actually crashed in the Andes watch the RETURN TO THE ANDES bonus.All in all a highly entertaining and masterfully scored and cine'd 2 hour trailer that will induce you to go out and buy the book. That's when the entire story falls into place. Not a criticism of the film really, as it is impossible to squeeze the vast anecdotes, character backgrounds, family search efforts, and after rescue decompression found in the book into just two hours. The film does an excellent job of getting the pathos of the actual on mountain experience across.<><><><><><><><><> POSSIBLE SPOILER FOLLOWS <><><><><><><><><><><><><Splitting Hairs FYI on the Goofs portion of the film outline page here at IMDb, whoever posted that goofed in saying the altimeter reads 2000 feet. Any pilot can confirm that the Altimeter is the gauge in the top left of the last scene showing gauges. It reads 12,500 feet. The short hand points to the 1 for 10,000 ft., the middle length hand points between the 2 and 3 (like a clock moves) for an additional 2,000 ft., and the long hand points to the 5 for 500 ft., add all together for 12,500 feet. The height of the ridge they first impacted on in reality. If you single frame you see that the altimeter actually climbs about 20 feet right before they had impact, as would be expected and is accurately portrayed in the final pitching up of the plane trying to clear the ridge. This is exactly as Nando Parrado has said it happened. The top right gauge is an analog multi-revolution airspeed indicator with a digital Mach meter only found on military aircraft, It is able to be calibrated for local barometric pressure by the knob in its lower left which may lead the unwary to think it was an altimeter. As the actual Fairchild that crashed in the saga was also a military variant, that is real internal continuity, even though there are many other errors between the screenplay and the book. HOWEVER, there is a genuine Goof in the opening John Malkovich as older Carlitos narrative. In the pause after he says . . . how you'll behave, a highlight plays across his face and stops on his nose, then continues, only to whip across again a second later. Maybe they had a bet as to how many takes it would take, and someone was trying to get John to break form. Didn't work, not even the slightest squint or flinch from him there. That's stoic discipline! Why they didn't retake??? Maybe John's cameo was billed by the minute and they couldn't afford another $5,000 to retake. That's Hollywood!!! LOL just kidding John. Luv ya "},{"Title":"This is the type of movie that can change your outlook on life....","Date":"6 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie is one of the most inspirational movies I have ever seen. I have been through some hard times in my life and still when I watch this, everything I have to deal with gets put into perspective. The book Alive is even better than the movie.I don't know how I'd react if I were in that plane crash stuck in the Andes for 72 days, but I know for sure that I am a survivor and would do anything to help my friends in such a situation.I have the DVD for this movie and the extra content Making of Alive is amazing. What many people don't know that the shivering actors were not acting. They actually filmed this on a mountainside high up in the Canadian Rockies at around 10,500 feet on a glacier. The weather there on set was all too real and so was the snow. I have done quite a few alpine mountaineering trips in my life and even with modern warm gear, the weather up that high can get ridiculously nasty and cold in the blink of an eye.With that in mind, I take my hat off the actors and crew who made this. The actors were not spoiled with warm hotel rooms and room service. They all had tents and sometimes filming stopped due to bad weather. I especially admire the original survivors who helped consult with the making of the movie. Looking at an exact replica of the crash site, must have brought back some hard memories for them.If you like encouraging movies, also consider watching National Geographic's The Height of Courage A Norman Vaughn Story.On an interesting side note, the search plane they show in the movie is a Cessna 310T (twin prop). I know because I used to fly them in Alaska.-) "}{"Title":"Somewhat Disappointing","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Alive is one of my favorite books, so the movie was somewhat of a disappointment but is still a very strong movie. My biggest problem is that the screenplay tends to play fast and loose with some of the facts of the book. First of all, nearly every name of every person lost on the mountain is changed. I do not know if this was done for legal reasons, but it seemed unnecessary and disingenuous. A bigger problem is the way in which events and facts are re-arranged to be attributed to Ethan Hawke's character, Nando Parrado. While I accept that this may have needed to be done in order to create a lone hero scenario, it downplays the contributions of others. Which brings me to my biggest problem, the complete disregard for the society which evolves among the survivors. The movie is written to attribute sole leadership to Parrado after the Vincent Spano character (Antonio Balbi, real name Marcelo Perez) is broken by the desperation of the situation. Nearly every other major character other than Parrado, Roberto Canessa, and Carlios Paez is ignored. While the book emphasizes the roles of Fito Strauch, Eduardo Strauch and Daniel Fernandez, their characters are reduced to mere side notes with Eduardo Strauch portrayed as frightened and nearly broken. Overall, I found the movie to be overly sterilized and clich in certain parts. The movie does save itself by staying true to the major events. The plane crash is exactly how it was described in the book, as well as the avalanche. The depiction of Parrado's mania to escape is excellent. Still, the escape of Parrado and Canessa should have been given more time. The film moves very quickly and an additional fifteen minutes devoted to the trek through the Andes would have served the story much better. The cinematography is excellent. Overall, the film has its shortcomings, but is a decent adaptation though slightly lacking. "},{"Title":"The Rugby team struggle","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I wanted to make a note about Chrissie's comment that critics complained about not showing the search. I think this would have detracted from the experience the Rugby team had, the total isolation they felt, wondering if they would ever be found or would ever get out of the Andes. Showing the search for the Fairchild would lead viewers, especially those unfamiliar with the story, to believe that those who survived did so because they were found. Since, Nando and Roberto were ultimately the ones who got helped and saved the rest, showing efforts made by parents and rescue teams would be a bit unnecessary. It is inspiring to read the book Alive and to see the lengths the parents of Carlitos and Roberto, and other friends and relatives went through to find their children. Their hope even through hopelessness was inspiring. Talking more about the film, the crash scene was realistic, some but not all of the acting shoddy, but that didn't matter. What a great ending scene with Aaron Neville singing Ave Maria as the camera pans over a cross set in the rocks of the Andes. Miracle in the Andes by Nando Parrado is a good read as well, gives you the perspective on the survivor who, along with Canessa made it out of the mountains and saved his friends. "},{"Title":"an inspiration to the human spirit","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This film is absolutely fantastic and one of my favourites. It never fails to inspire me how the survivors find the strength to cross and climb several mountains in sub-zero temperatures with nothing but a few chunks of raw flesh to eat. It is an absolute inspiration and credit to the strength of the human spirit. The closing scenes bring tears to my eyes every time. I wanted to ask whether anybody knows who sings the version of Ave Maria that plays at the end as the credits come up. I have searched everywhere but can't find any information on it. It is a lovely soulful version of the hymn, very fitting for the end of this very inspiring film. Can anyone give me the name of the singer? "},{"Title":"Grim but inspiring tale of survival","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" The content of this movie has been expressed better elsewhere so I will not reiterate. There are a few points I would like to make howeverThis is a REAL disaster movie and contrasts sharply with the fantasy/Clayton's LOST disaster (IMHO it was but for different reasons). In LOST, the plane is shredded (actual crash not seen) but the survivors come out with the odd scratch. In Alive, the crash is graphically depicted, and even though the plane's hull remained largely intact, there were numerous very serious injuries amongst the survivors, in several cases directly leading to death.The current IMDb tagline They were ordinary young men driven to the very limits of human endurance is putting it mildly. I thought a better (though no doubt tasteless) tagline would have been, If I die, you can eat me. There is a marked reluctance to focus on this unsavoury aspect of the event (DVD covers do not mention it) though clearly it was key to the survival of the some half who did ultimately make it through those terrible 72 days. The film makes no bones about this, it is not hidden or dumbed-down in any way and occupies a significant part of the story. Never was a choice so plain or stark Eat or Die.Genuinely inspiring. "},{"Title":"Real life pertaining movie, showing everything that is real when surviving for your life on a deserted mountain range.","Date":"30 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Today, I watched this film, and I was almost in tears. I have pneumonia, and i didn't have anything better to do, than watch to t.V. I felt really sick, and I felt like I wanted to die. But after seeing this movie, I had no pity for myself whatsoever. I could just picture myself in the same situation, and having to decide what I would do to survive. Would I just let myself die because I was in so much pain? Would I have the will to survive off of dead human flesh and bones? This story struck me deeply, and I think its amazing how they held on to their lives and sanity.The film was so real, and it seemed that everything they did in it looked actual and was pertaining to real blood, gangrene, frostbite, etc. The film and storyline itself I think deserve a ten out of ten, but the acting is what struck me dumb. Ethan Hawke did a marvelous performance portraying his character, as I think that Josh Hamilton did as well too. As to say for the others, it was horrible. Some of the rugby players looked like they were reciting their lines and not showing enough emotion. They just said they're lines as opposed to acting them, making you believe that they were in actual pain. The emotional level was so low, that I could actually see that it was just a movie. The job of a good movie, is to make it seem its NOT a movie. So overall, this movie gets a 9/10. Very great and inspirational movie! "},{"Title":"Amazing Story","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A good film made brilliant by the fact its a true story. Great effects, beautiful scenery and a very inspirational story told in a sympathetic way.The film is true to the book although is a little short on some of the details in some places, however it is one of those types of films that once you have watched it, it makes you want to read the book.If actually buying the video it comes with interviews with the real survivors at the end of the film which is very moving.However, it is very dark in places and unless your watching it in a blackened room you can sometimes be left wondering what on earth is happening!!  "},{"Title":"When you have no other choice but to stay alive- you eat, or you die","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is the true story which took place in the 1970s. A Uraguayan rugby team, with their families and friends, had a plane crash in the snow-covered Andes. The pilots were dead, the radio didn't work, the rescue team stopped searching, the food ran out. Now they were on their own. Some of them had already been dead. One by one, more of them were dying. The only way to survive was to eat the flesh of the corpses.In the last attempt, two of them crossed the Andes, walked to Chile, brought back a rescue team and the survivors were saved.'Alive' is not a boring film. Ethan Hawke was triumphant as Nando, the bravest among them. This is thought-provoking- what would you do if you were one of them? I am asking myself what I would do if I were one of them. I mean, I don't even eat meat. It's difficult to imagine. But under such circumstances, NOTHING IS IMPOSSIBLE.It takes courage to choose to survive.You might like to see 'Snowbound' (TV), which is also a true story, about a young couple being stranded in the snow-capped mountain with their new-born baby for about a week.   "},{"Title":"Harrowing, but heartfelt.","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Considering the fact that this movie never really made a mark at the box office and certainly didn't gather much critical attention, it's surprisingly well known. There are many true life stories of survival that have been put on the big screen, but this has to be one of the most harrowing & disturbing. The film tells the story of an American rugby team becoming stranded in the Andes. At first it seems to be a straight forward matter of waiting to be rescued, but when supplies run out the survivors resort to eating their dead. This is indeed the major shock value of the movie, but the viewer soon finds themself accepting the situation.There are two major flaws to this movie. Firstly, for first half of the film the people simply await a rescue, thus there is an extremely sombre atmosphere to the story, with nothing to lighten it. Secondly, there is little character development, and no identifiable bonds between any of the characters, something essential to making a story like this become more than just true. Later on, the mood is lifted somewhat, and by the end of the film there is an enormous sense of hope and expectance that is truly exhilarating.If you can sit through the first half of Alive, then you will be rewarded somewhat. The majority of the film is far too down beat to be entertaining, but if you want to see what is probably the most harrowing survival story put on the big screen.**** "},{"Title":"An Inspiring True-Life Story","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Reader's Digest used to have these rather gripping Dramas In Real Life articles in the back of their magazine.  School-bus accident at a railroad crossing or the sole survivor of a California plane crash, that sort of thing.  The latter story was filmed for TV & starred Blair Brown.  It was good but it doesn't hold a candle to 1993's Alive, directed with gusto by Frank Marshall.  Led by Ethan Hawke as Nando Parrado, this is not only a great tale of real-life survival, but one of great religious faith and courage.  It's based on Piers Paul Read's bestseller of the same name and digests the day-by-day happenings of these young South American survivors beautifully.  Unlike the Mexican exploitation flick Survive!, nor even the book itself, it does not dwell on the cannibalism which kept these people, mostly men in their early 20's, alive and kicking, in spirit if not physical strength.  True to form, most of the 16 survivors (out of an original 45) went on to respectable and successful lives with wives and children to extend themselves.  I really admire Nando Parrado; I think he's one of the great civillian leaders of our generation and Hawke plays him same.  Adversity (including a concussion & the deaths of his mother and sister in the crash) does not hold this boy back. "},{"Title":"A movie on how far men can go to fight for life","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A very happy rugby team is going back from a good game when tragedy crosses them. Their plane falls on the Andes and bad weather makes the search efforts vain. The survivors fight for life in the middle of snow storms, avalanches and scarce food. The relations of this group and how they cope with life and death. How far are those people willing to go to stay alive? Nando (Ethan Hawke) decides he has to do something and takes the journey of his life. "}{"Title":"Very well done.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  While most people criticize this film saying that it was missing a certain something to bring the true story to life, I enjoyed it very much.I think that the studio was smart in developing a film based on real stories from survivors and on a bizarre tale by itself. It seems impossible that anyone survived the crash through what is depicted in the film, but it shows how the Rugby team made it out of the Andes alive. I really loved how the film jumped right into the story and didn't delay the movie by including unnecessary information. We get a look at what kind of people the members of the team were in about the first four minutes. That is enough time to understand what is going to happen to them and to build up a little sympathy for them. I hate how movies have those huge intros with the credits and loud music working up to the first scene and that is probably why I liked this film, especially during the first ten minutes. The plane goes down and we have the remaining two hours or some to focus on who dies, how the survivors made it to Chile and what the emotions and feelings were inside the doomed airplane. The run time was good. In some parts the film seemed to drag with nothing going on but that was how it actually was. Making it shorter wouldn't have covered all of the information that was needed to be covered but making it longer would just have been too much. Most viewers comment on how the acting was so poorly done, but again I enjoyed almost everybody in 'Alive.' I absolutely love Ethan Hawke and Josh Hamilton. Hawke does an excellent job of portraying Nando Parrado. Hamilton is also terrific as Roberto Canessa. With these two in the lead roles, the film can't be bad. But hey, that's just my opinion. All of the actors were good in their own way. They all developed an atmosphere for the audience that really makes you feel sorry for them. Even the actors who didn't deliver a whole lot of lines added something special with what they had to work with. Re-creating the plane crash was nicely done. The special effects department didn't go overboard and ruin the film by throwing in all of those expensive, computerized animations that made it look like some kind of a space movie. I can't really comment on any certain part of the recreation of the plane crash because it was all terrific. The setting that was used to make it look like the freezing yet peaceful and calm Andes mountains was nicely designed. I think that another writer said that the film was in some way botched because the actors didn't act too well in the 'cold' scenes. An area where the temperature dropped so low didn't even leave these guys shivering or acting like they were in discomfort. Alright, I'll give you that much. While these scenes may need a little work on, I thought that they were minor. They were hardly noticeable and I don't think that they ruined the film in any way.Now you have those people who are going to turn their heads when the team finally settles on cannibalism. The film didn't show a whole lot and they didn't need to. I thought that the movie handled this subject decently.All in all, 'Alive' is an excellent movie that tells the story of a doomed airliner and how the passengers deal with the problems and eventually survive the awful crash. I haven't read the book and I really don't see the need. I understand what happened to the team members because the film described it in a certain way that most stories can't be told.  "},{"Title":"Honest, unsensationalized treatment of a true story.","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Based on the true story of a rugby team that crashed in the Andes and had to resort to cannibalism in order to survive, having gotten that subject out of the way they chose to show the cutting up of the corpses in a most tasteful and respectful manner as to not sensationalize the potential gore factor, just as was done in Survive!.Well done, even if sometimes the acting is a little wooden, of interest to see a young, Danny Nucci, Illeana Douglas, Ethan Hawke and others.A little slow paced at times, but they were stranded for over a month, and the director has to convey that, not a flawless masterpiece, but a good film nonetheless.Previously made in Mxico as Survive! (1976), but on a shoestring budget and it showed, needless to say it hasn't aged well.   "},{"Title":"In response to other comments...","Date":"10 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw Alive the first time only a few months before flying to Ireland and thought I think I'll swim to Ireland, instead! I want to say 'Kudos' to Piedra of Uruguay for relaying some facts from the book and setting a few things straight for us. It's true that there wasn't enough time to go into more depth about each character and let's face it, it would have bored us anyway. I couldn't watch all of the crash scene, it was too scary. Who said it didn't even look realistic enough?!!  Not too long ago I rented Alive-20 years later and found out some more facts about the story. The men who left the crash site to get help (and to tell the world that they shouldn't have called off the search) would lie on top of each other to try to keep warm and their hands were so frozen that they would urinate on them because their urine was warm and it was such a relief on their hands. Imagine having to do that yourself, and you might, you just might find yourself grateful that you never have had to go through what they had to go through. It was also sad to see, in the '20 years later' documentary, that when they were rescued and brought back to civilization, they were criticized for eating their friends. You'd think that the people they were returning to would be happy and grateful to see them come back and admire them for having the courage (it took a lot of courage-think of how long they debated over whether to do it or not and the arguments that it caused)...the courage to do whatever it took to stay ALIVE. "},{"Title":"Beautifully shot, yet slightly inaccurate","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The filming of the story of the rugby team was a gallant undertaking. The movie achieved a stunning visual ambiance, and one did feel as though they were there. However, there were glaring omissions. The men remained remarkably fit and clean throughout the whole ordeal. There was a cleanliness and dignity about the whole situation that made it seem a little odd. This opinion comes from having read the book first, which addresses this disaster from the perspectives of both the survivors and their families. As always though, it is impossible to include the entirety of a book into a feature-length film, which explains the lack of an investigation in the movie (as well as the Hollywood style oversimplification of characters into heroes and followers). Regardless, I am still touched by the film. "},{"Title":"The amazing story of  Andes Mountain survivors.","Date":"13 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" ALIVE is based on a true story, directed by Frank Marshall and based upon the book by Piers Paul Read. In October 1972 an aircraft carrying the Uruguayan rugby team and a few of their friends and relatives crashed into the Andes Mountains. Pilot error caused Uruguayan Air Force Flight 571 to crash into a mountain peak; after the wings and tail come off the fuselage sails over a ridge and slides down a mountain slope. In all 29 died and 16 survived. Stranded on a barren glacier, with very little sustaining supplies, survivors fight desperation and frostbite. To stay alive they are forced to feed on the dead they buried in the frigid mountain slope.Three men do eventually set out on a do-or-die trek to find a means of rescue. The powerful screenplay by John Patrick Shanley is filmed in British Columbia, Canada. The cast features Ethan Hawke, Josh Hamilton, Vincent Spano, Jake Carpenter, Bruce Ramsay, Kevin Breznahan, John Newton and David Kriegel. "},{"Title":"Solid, but far from perfect","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" When I read the book ALIVE, by Piers Paul Read, I had to see the movie. I picked up a copy after much searching and relished the chance to see the amazing events (especially the crash itself) portrayed on screen.I have to say that I was mildly impressed. The movie stays fairly true to real life and is well made. Considering that they had a few of the actual survivors assist with the production, I trust the integrity of how the characters, crash, and other details were presented. The crash scene in the beginning is pretty well done (especially for 1992) and the story can't help but be pretty gripping, which means that a lot of complaints like an unrealistic plot can be thrown out the window, because the plot already happened. The circumstances alone keep you on the edge of your seat during this movie. Heck, I even knew who was going to die and when, but I still found it exciting to see how these things were portrayed. There were a few parts that I found fault with in the movie. A couple characters were altered and some combined with others to form a new, fake character. I just have to assume that this was done to make the story more compatible for a film version. Also, there were a couple characters who died in real life that are portrayed as having survived in the movie, and some of the deaths in the movie seemed kind of unfitting, and undignified, especially for a movie based on REAL EVENTS with REAL PEOPLE. I like to think that the survivors who were assisting gave their consent that the representations were accurate. However, on top of all this, portions of the movie were left out. There is no reference to the mini-government that was formed by the survivors. Also, the search made by the parents, and a large portion of the final expedition are left out. Once again, I have to assume that the producers had their reasons. Overall, this is a solid, thrilling, and well made account of the Andes Miracle. Some things were changed here and there, and substantial parts of the actual events were left out, but its still a decent movie all the same. 7/10 stars "},{"Title":"Amazing true story emphasizes spiritual aspects","Date":"1 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" ALIVE Aspect ratio 1.851Sound format Dolby DigitalIn 1972, members of a Uruguayan rugby team are trapped in the Andes when their charter plane crashes in the mountains, killing many of those on board. Unable to overcome their situation any other way, the survivors are forced to contemplate the unthinkable - to eat the dead...Though the cannibalism aspect of this extraordinary true story had formed the backbone of an earlier exploitation movie (Ren Cardona's opportunistic 1976 Mexican thriller SURVIVE!), Frank Marshall's dignified Hollywood version - based on Piers Paul Read's bestselling book - places a deliberate emphasis on the survivors' spiritual response to their ordeal. Opening with a horrific plane crash (an effects tour de force) which places viewers at the heart of an appalling catastrophe, the film quickly settles into a matter-of-fact account of the protagonists' daily struggle to stay alive, though some of the dialogue sounds a little forced and unrealistic.Handsomely mounted on location in the Canadian Rockies, the movie is toplined by some of Hollywood's brightest (and most photogenic) young talents, including Ethan Hawke (DEAD POETS SOCIETY), Josh Hamilton (THE HOUSE OF YES) and Vincent Spano (CITY OF HOPE), with capable support from Jack Noseworthy (CECIL B. DEMENTED), John Haymes Newton (TV's Superboy), and Illeana Douglas (GRACE OF MY HEART) as one of the few female survivors of the initial disaster. Though pretentious at times, and perhaps a little too leisurely for its own good, the movie pays tribute to the power of the human spirit and is often deeply moving. Beautiful score by James Newton Howard, with a haunting interpretation of 'Ave Maria' - sung by Aaron Neville - during the final credits. "},{"Title":"A good story","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" First of all I am from Uruguay so i know what's the story about.I know some of the survivals and truly the experience of doing the movie was not the best,because it was not necessary to repeat all the suffer that they passed and also their families.It was a good movie,and it's a true story and here they came as heroes,because surviving 72 days in the Andes with that conditions it's something that few people are capable of doing.The repercussion of the movie here,in Uruguay was pretty good,and the critics of the movie were very good and in these case a known story.In my personal opinion it's a story of faith and hope,and fight against everything but most important death. "},{"Title":"I'm Ashamed","Date":"7 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I am mortally ashamed of myself. I watched this movie in my high school geography class, and i hated that class for a week while we watched it. This movie made me want to cry. even now, over a year later, just seeing the title makes me want to cry. and i don't cry unless i'm in a lot of pain. this movie was fantastic. but i still can't watch it. every time one of them was upset, it hurt me, and i wished i could have been there to make them less upset. maybe i'm just super-sensitive and my mothering instinct is way too strong. but really, if you haven't seen this movie, GO WATCH IT NOW. i could not stop watching it, even though i nearly cried the whole time. why is it good? the characters are compelling, their plight all too frightening, and you can't leave the movie halfway, wondering if they ever do escape, or if they all freeze to death or die of malnutrition. "},{"Title":"Now hold on there. It's not THAT bad, okay!?","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" It's gonna be a Donner Party Weekend I told myself that Friday. And know what? Alive not only gratified my most morbidly goth craving, it hit the spot as a minor cinematic appetizer, too. Ethan Hawke and Illena Douglas always give you something to sink your teeth into, correct? And I would be remiss if I failed to point out that at least none of the other actors can chew the scenery in this Arctic drama. --Sucking on some ice chips pretty much has to tide them over until some script doctors show and write them all out of their dilemma. Throw another script on the fire, dear, t'ain't a fit night out for man nor beast. Granted it takes a bit of sticking power to hang in there through the inevitable winding down of the film from that stunningly propulsive beginning. What COULD live up to that harrowing, slam-bang start? I remain convinced, over a week after seeing Alive, that that beginning alone makes it worth a watch. I am not sure what anyone expected from this film. They are crashed, stranded, injured, hungry, in trouble. --And cold. DAMNED cold. Now, just what part of this scenario did we not understand?The framework-- with John Malkovich as one of the middle aged survivors of the ordeal talking about meeting the real God on the mountain, not the one he discussed politely and abstractly in school-- rings true enough for me, and ups the unbearably moving quotient a notch or two. Come to think of it, actually seeing Malkovich in something other than his usual revolting jerk mode is rather unbearably moving in itself. 8 of of 10 stars. "}{"Title":"Simple comment on the film","Date":"12 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I was not expecting to enjoy this film much. I thought it would be another one of those run of the mill disaster films that there are so much of. But this film is something else! I wont tell you what happens but let me assure you that once you have finished watching it, it will make you feel good to be alive. I ask anybody who thinks that it isnt the best film ever to email me and give me one reason why it is not! "},{"Title":"Good but too long","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed the film. At the end of this true story i felt curiously myself. lm still wondering how the rugby players could survive so long time in the freeze. They were very courageous. The movie scenes  were sometimes too extended but the special effects were well done and there were many emotional moments. I gave 6/10. "},{"Title":"Tense but Left Much To Be Desired","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The fact that this movie is based on a true story makes it more interesting. It starts out with John Malkovich remembering the people that were lost in the plane crash. (42 were on the flight, 26 died, 16 lived.) In the beginning, the rugby team just seems like a bunch of jerks ignoring the directions given by the steward. Simple things like stop throwing the ball across the plane, put that cigarette out (as he lights up another) may have participated in the crashing of the plane. The acting left much to be desired. (As the plane crashes the people are orderly and completely calm, and later they exit the demolished plane in an orderly fashion. One guy actually gets out of the plane, sits down, and smokes and cigarette without saying a word except, We're f***ed. The movie doesn't get you close enough to the characters to make you care enough when they die. The fact that this actually happened keeps the viewers attention and certainly makes them pity the people that actually had to go through this unimaginable terror of choosing whether to eat the dead or die. (Those scenes can make you a bit uneasy.) All in all this was a well made movie, but moved too slow and much of the acting was second rate. "},{"Title":"READ THE BOOK NOW!!","Date":"22 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie doesn't even come close to capturing the true horror and torture that these men endured.  This movie at times makes it look more like a fun little camping trip and glosses over or skips some of the more horrific things that happen.  If you've seen this movie I highly HIGHLY popping over to Amazon.com and getting the book.  Or check your local used bookstore I'm sure there is a dog-eared paperback of it.  If you liked Into thin Air you will like this book also.  If your wondering if you should see this movie just read the book.  You'll be much happier. "},{"Title":"Some good dramatic moments, but mostly a shallow treatment.","Date":"24 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I have seen this film after having read Alive,by Piers Paul Read. I found the scene portraying the crash quite dramatic. However, I found the portrayal of the solidarity among the survivors to be rather shallow. In fact, some of the portrayals of individual characters were lacking depth or understanding. A notable example is the depiction of Roberto Canessa,who,in the book Alive is a complex and slightly volatile character. The very duality of Canessa who is both aggressive and bullying and at the same time frightened and vulnerable,physically and emotionally, makes him compelling and memorable. I also felt the film trivialized the bravery and heroics of Parrado and Canessa's astonishing trek out of the mountains. The film shows us nothing of the ten day journey which made the rescue occur. Face it, the film is a rather flimsy vehicle for Ethan Hawke. The depth of emotion so lyrically described in the book is absent in this film. If you want a film version of this story, watch Alive,20 Years Later.This documentary makes a much better attempt to portray the survivors as unique and interesting people. "},{"Title":"a really boring movie","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  It looks like this movie is made for TV movie buffs or elementary students, senior people that have not seen much of movies.It's unbelievable that this movie was made for movie theaters!!!Thanks... "},{"Title":"Ruined by bad acting and technical flaws","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Despite having a story that you couldn't make up, this film fails on number of levels.The acting is duff.  Terrible.  You need to see it to believe it.  No-one comes out of this with any credit to my mind.There are so many technical flaws, mainly centring around the breathing.  Now, it's cold on dem mountains.  Yet only occasionally do we see 'white breath'.  Mostly its in the same scene when one person has cold breath, yet the guy next to him doesn't!  Sometimes, the same guy can have white breath in one line, the camera pans away, then when it comes back the breath has gone!!!  How lame is this?  Half the time during the night they didn't act like they were cold when they were speaking.  When they were just huddled they were fine, but when it was their turn to say something, out it came without a chatter of teeth or anything.  I don't know if they used a refrigeration unit on this film, but it's a failure.  The Exorcist (made 20 years earlier) did a better job than this on old technology.The use of crappy metaphors didn't help either.  Especially the agnostic.  Oh god, save me!  Arrgghhhh!The crash itself is very well done.  In parts this film is pretty good, but in others it's just plain rubbish.  A far better job could have been done with, what is essentially one of the best stories a director is likely to find.Unlike some others I refuse to give this sympathy votes because it's based on true story.  It only gets a five because the actual event is riveting and even duff film-making can't detract from it.  But the rest is a film, a dramatization of events, and not a very good one.  Simple.5/10 "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie when it was released to theaters, and once again recently. In the fewest words, this movie is horrible. Not just for the paper-thin characterizations and stilted and hammy dialogue, but also for the general tone of the movie. If you've seen it, you know what I'm talking about - 20+ people are killed in the plane crash, and the survivors forced to watch their loved ones die, then consume their dead flesh. Yet every other minute some character is ticking off some lengthy speech about how wonderful life is and how god has blessed them. An avalanche buries them, and five seconds later they're talking about how great god is again. It's tiresome. I understand that the people in the crash were very religious, but that doesn't mean they were always happy with their lot in life. It would have been nice to see some real reactions to the tragedies, rather than Hollywood feel-good-ism.The screenwriter (John Patrick Shanley) insults his viewers with the characters. Most egregious is the agnostic character, who repeatedly is asked to pray with the group and is laughed at when he states his beliefs - and then we have the hilarious scene after the avalanche where he declares he won't pray. Of course, there is a distant rumble, and he immediately looks scared and starts to pray to that merciful god. Oh, comedy!The only thing worth seeing in this movie is the spectacular plane crash effect. The rest is terrible. Skip it.  "},{"Title":"Routine plane crash drama never lives up to expectations","Date":"3 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie gets off to a cracking start with, arguably, the most harrowing plane crash put on celluloid.   From this point on, however, it all gets a bit disappointing.  The characters are very poorly observed with thinly sketched profiles and considerable confusion as to their various motivations although there is a tiresome and droll repetetive mystical theme which seems to pop up every time the logical plot falls down.  Quite what John Malkovich is doing eulogising at the start about finding God on the mountain is anybody's guess. What these poor lads did find however was a taste for human flesh, but even here the cannibal theme is not fully explored nor examined apart from during one scene where key protagonists waffle briefly about the soul not being the same thing as the body. The logical flaws are more inexcusable. The climate seems to vary from the depths of the Arctic to a warm summers day and why, oh why, do none of the men develop any real beards in over 90 days in the wilderness? A trite point maybe, but one that echoes the flaws in the film.  The visuals however are superb and somehow the film manages to become greater than the sum total of its parts.  Strangely haunting but with mystical pretensions way beyond its intellectual scope.   "},{"Title":"Stranded in a Strange Land","Date":"22 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" In 1972, A South American rugby team, together with some friends and relatives crosses the Andes to play a game in neighboring Chile. Their plane loses both wings and its tail, then crashes into the snowy mountains. In order to survive, the living must eat the dead. This was based on a actual tragedy, and tells an unsavory story; for these reasons, it seems much more realistic than your average plane crash story. Also helping is the decision to not insert the usual stereotypes; there is no added romance, no movie star on board, and so on... There are some things to lower your suspension of disbelief, however. We could have done without the opening visual of moody John Malkovich in a dark room pumped with blue smoke, although his narration is fine. The large cast is sometimes confusing. They always appear too hale and hearty during this ordeal, but otherwise act appropriately. Best of all, director Frank Marshall and his production team give you a real sense of being in the Andes, at the mercy of a majestic and terrifying Earth God.****** Alive (1/15/93) Frank Marshall ~ Ethan Hawke, Vincent Spano, Josh Hamilton, John Haymes Newton "}{"Title":"Good Drama","Date":"29 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" Alive (1993) *** (out of 4) True story of a rugby team whose plan crashes in the Andes Mountains and they are forced into cannibalism in order to survive. If you didn't know this was based on a true story then it would be the type of story that would make you roll your eyes but since we know these events really happened it makes the film all the more powerful. The tale of overcoming great odds makes for a highly entertaining film even though director Frank Marshall could have delivered something even stronger. The biggest problem with the film is that it's a tad bit too pretty and the screenplay could have pulled the story together a little bit better. Performances are good by all and there's no denying the power within the story and message. "},{"Title":"decent job","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Alive is about an Uruguayan rugby team whose plane crashed in the Andes Mountains in 1972 and who were forced to resort to cannibalism to survive more than two months of isolation. I liked how the cannibalism wasn't taken to extremes by the directors in this movie, but still the overall movie was a pretty good story. Alive makes you think if you were in that situation if you would eat flesh to survive, if you like those disaster survival type movie this is for you. "},{"Title":"Tactful dealing of difficult subject manner","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Dealing with the difficult issue of cannibalism, the filmmakers dealt with this in a tactful manner.  It really makes you think how you would cope if you were in the same situation.  At times the film can drag on a little bit but seems to come to an abrupt conclusion.  That said it would have been difficult to tell this true better than this film did. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Starts off well but runs out of steam","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie is based on the alleged true story of a plane that crash-landed high in the Andes, and the crew of passengers who began to starve to death - until they realized that, in order to stay alive, they'd have to begin to eat their buried.The summary may sound gruesome but the main problem with this movie is that it ISN'T gruesome - at all. It should be a nerve-tingling What if? and instead it's just a watered-down cannibal movie.I like the build-up. It takes well over an hour before they even begin to contemplate eating each other. It doesn't launch right into the action.The acting is OK, but far from Oscar-worthy performances. Ditto for the direction - capable, but not extraordinary in any way.Overall I do admire that this is a rather low-key, slow-moving movie but it could have been much better - with a better-developed script and a more talented cast (including actors and director), perhaps someone daring enough to provide a necessary edge to the material, it could have been brilliant.Instead it's just kind of OK. "},{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" There's no way they can put in enough of any of the details to make it a decent movie. But it still seems like they could have done better than they did. The book is absolutely riveting, goes into each person's character in depth and gives lots of amazing details. I have read the book several times, and each time I find it fascinating all over again. The movie is just purely superficial. And, after reading the book, the movie seems stupid. I haven't seen the movie in several years, so I can't get much more specific than that, but I saw it after having read the book and was terribly disappointed. I read the book again just recently, and it is a masterpiece. But the movie has rightfully become largely forgotten. "},{"Title":"The Andes are nice.","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Nice shooting of mountain tops, but action dragging along. Actors performing like a summer camp. Passengers very fresh after many days of malnutrition. Where's all the frostbites? Where's the investigation of the missing search? Why did the plane crash? Why was the technician/mechanic insane? Are there really no flares and emergency kit in a plane crossing the Andes? "},{"Title":"Gruesome flick but true to history","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Not bad film, Acting was weak, especially by the so called stars.At least it stuck mainly to the history and was not americanized and filled with romance and guns. The Crash effects were good as were the sounds etc. and the filming must have been tough on the crew and stars at times in that environment (assuming it wasn't done in studio...).Anyone want to fly South American Airways??Not many other movies to compare this one too.People probably don't taste nice so I cannot imagine what these young people went through.  "},{"Title":"funniest movie about cannabalism since Yentl","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie is hilarious. Morbid and dark it's almost too horrible to seem like reality. Yet it is. Cannabalism scenes are short and decently graphic. Well acted, and decent directing make this a real feel good movie. Get a date and a bucket of chicken when renting this baby. And if you should fell the need to knaw on your date's forehead or shoulder, go with it. "},{"Title":"Alive and Oblivious","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I am approximately the same age as these men. I remember when this happened in 1972 thinking how awful it all was UNTIL I read the book and saw this film!! These were privileged yuppie kids with attitude who were on a winter jaunt while the rest of us were toiling at our 3 jobs to put ourselves through college! The great thing about the film is it doesn't smooth over their idiocy. Everyone in it is selfish. Everyone is egotistical. The pleasure is in watching them one by one bite it! So, if you like movies where horrible teenagers get torn apart by monsters (Jaws, Halloween, House) you'll enjoy this film! I can't think of a better group of selfish individuals to have something like this happen to!! Too bad any survived. "},{"Title":"Christian Propaganda","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a grueling film to watch. Death stalks and kills repeatedly. It is not clear what should be done to effect rescue, and the characters are all rather silly, incompetent, spoiled, rowdy, young men who have not even the sense to cover their heads in the cold, or set out markers to make them easy to spot. It is so frustrating mentally shouting instructions to these young twits telling them what to do. Of course they pay no attention. You feel the terror, the boredom, the indecision, the despair and the frustration. Of course there is the famous revulsion and acceptance at eating raw human corpses. After an initial freak out, it becomes no big deal.Different characters react in quite different ways to their predicament. Some go into a rapture about what a wonderful religious experience it is. Their fellows want to box them. Others go plain crazy. Others become extremely selfish. Others just want to die.What infuriated me was the flat-footed Christian propaganda behind this supposedly true-life film suggesting a beneficent God was behind all this pulling the strings. It was almost as manipulative as an episode of Touched By Angel with the back light and harp music.I'm fine with showing pious characters, but please don't force feed me Catholic Christian cant. That heavy handedness ruined an otherwise great and touching film. "}{"Title":"I hate planes !","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I liked the crash scene at the beggining.The rest is ok, but never really creates anything extraordinary to the spectator. To me.So, ordinary movie, but it will not harm you watching it. "},{"Title":"Average.  Spectacularly so in fact.","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  As average films go, this is up there.  A tale of a plane crash, human survival, 2 survivors scaling the Andes to save their colleagues and cannibalism has a lot of scope for a good film, but this does not deliver.A decidedly poor performance from Ethan Hawke in which he is often particularly cheesey is only saved by in what some cases are very good special effects. "},{"Title":"Rock bottom production values highlight of tedious actioner","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Alive is one of those movies that you try so hard to finish watching, but you never can, solely because of it's sheer badness. It's obvious that the movie was trying to get across an important message, and inform us of a little known event, but the actual movie is unbearable and nearly impossible to watch.		The acting is relatively mediocre. It's nothing more than passable, boring, with little interest on the part of the actors. It's not all their fault, however, as the script and weak direction likely were the determining factors on whether the performances would sustain our interest, or not.	The only bright spot is the relatively standard scenery which stands out and looks magnificent because of the other aspects. When put up against the cinematography in a film like 'Titanic', the scenery in 'Alive' would look horrendous, but here it works on at least one level, attempting to fix the movie, but it never quite reaches that.	The special effects (during the crash) are also simple, not at all remarkable and at times almost laughable. It's as if whoever was in charge of the fx department didn't care enough to put much time into the project.	Save yourself two hours of wasted time and skip out on this stinker, rent 'The Edge' or even 'Cliffhanger' instead. Even if you were paid to watch it, it might not be worth the effort.0.5/10  "},{"Title":"Has Its Moments But I Wish I Fast Forwarded Through A lot Of It","Date":"5 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" From the time i heard comedian Carlos Mencia do a short sketch on this movie i had the incentive to one day watch it, that day was today. You cant help but feel a compassion for humanity when watching this film. It grips your inner core of what it means to take care of your fellow man/woman. However, i disliked the emphasis on praying god save us, help us oh divine invisible man throughout the movie. Took the fun away. Then again i could be dubbed biased since I'm an atheist. Whats funny about the cast is a few of the male actors sounded female in their voice which was odd, i dunno if that was intentional. Back to the film the ever growing paranoia, using religious faith as a scapegoat, coming face to face with nature's cold mannerisms, resorting to emotional last resorts, and descending slowly into madness all paints a pretty descent 2 hours.Conclusion OK film, has its moments but i kinda wish i fast forwarded through a lot of it. The story telling seemed very slow paced for me to really get into. Also, the main plot seems to have been executed too lightheartedly and not given full justice to become more memorable as the real event probably was. More of a documentary style of filming, i guess its up to each of us to make of it what we will under our own interpretation. Hence why i give this a mere 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"The best that could have been done? By apes, maybe...MAYBE","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I settled in to watch this recently on HBO because I always found the Andes crash story ghoulishly interesting and was really surprised I hadn't seen it upon initial release.My first red flag was the Touchstone (Disney) logo. The Touchstone imprint was responsible for some truly maudlin goo in the '80s and '90s. Still, not all their movies stunk. Remember Splash and Never Cry Wolf? Then the plane crash...not bad, actually. Maybe there's hope yet, despite the fact that most of the cast doesn't look SA in the least. It's not a documentary or foreign art house film...it's a big budget commercial release.Then the GQ party-boy models-cum-actors open their mouths post crash and attempt some serious acting. Red alert opening your eyes really wide and walking around stiffly is not sufficient to constitute playing someone in shock. When the kid with the metal sticking out of his chest nonchalantly jokes about his severe trauma wound the movie enters a surreal, almost Mystery Science Theatre level of self-parody. Unfortunately, it never returns from that dubious pinnacle.The only credible actors here (aside from John Malkovich's brief cameo) are Illeana Douglas and Ethan Hawke, and both have far little relative screen time to save this picture.See, the problem with Alive is not the niggling picky details like the holes and implausibilities of the script. If only it were that minor! This is a movie with horrible, horrible acting, stiff line readings, and manufactured histrionics that would put most prime-time soaps to shame. It's got overstated music and Frank Marshall's leaden career-producer-hand at the till to drive it further into the ground.At a 135 minute running time, the cannibalism becomes one of the most palatable things on the menu. "},{"Title":"Difficult to relate to","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  ALIVE opens with a spectacular plane crash but ( No pun intended ) goes quickly downhill from there. ALIVE is based on actual events but is never as good as it should have been , though it`s never as bad as it  could have been either.The problem I had with the film was that I found it very difficult to relate to the survivors , not because they eat the flesh of the dead - Thankfully this aspect of the film is treated with dignity - but because their characters are so sketchily written. The other problem is that the production team seem to have forgot that it`s set thousands of feet up the Andes! The night after the crash the survivors nearly freeze to death but by the end of the film some of them are sitting around without their jackets on ! Just how warm does it get up there ?All in all ALIVE  is adequate but doesn`t make us share the feelings of the survivors triumph. For that to happen we must feel we`re there with the survivors freezing and starving. I didn`t , I felt more like an observer  "},{"Title":"Just a  case of bad acting?","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" No..that's being too kind, the acting was dreadfully hopeless, only to meet its kind in 10 dollar budget horror-flicks. You really have to see it to believe it. And what's up with the total lack of realism in this near-7-rated meagre excuse for a movie? Is it normal for plane passengers to resemble a bunch of people watching a re-run of Bonanza while the plane is being ripped apart mid-air? Is it normal for someones breath to be visible at minus whatever degrees from the right camera-angle but not from the left? Is it normal for a bunch of people who just crashed with a plane to be mostly completely calm and lucid? Is it normal for a guy with agonizingly painful wounds to only scream when the camera is there?I had a good laugh throughout the first 20 minutes of this movie but I hadn't planned on watching a comedy, making it sheer ejectbutton-material.If you liked this one, I suggest you go see 'Airplane' as well. It's got better jokes in it.This film getting a rating of 6.8 is insulting to movies that actually deserve that. Shame on u voters! "},{"Title":"Warning Will Robinson, Warning.","Date":"27 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I accidentally stumbled across this movie the other night, needless to say it wasn't long before I turned it over to The Mask. If you were ever tempted to go down to your local Blockbuster and rent Alive, do your self a favour and place a peg on you nose, because it seriously stinks.I am actually surprised that the Argentinian rugby team, can speak English. They are that good, they actually pull off a fine American accent.I usually try to find something positive in a movie, unfortunately Alive is not one of them. If I could ever watch the movie for more than five minutes, I will become brain dead.On a scale of 10, I will give it a 10. Whoops I was meant to place a minus sign in front of it.  "},{"Title":"Alive","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":" I saw the spoof of this film in the episode of South Park when Cartman finds out who his Dad is, it was hilarious. But the real film is actually a pretty good film with an unthinkable idea, but if it keeps you alive, then I suppose it's okay. Basically students travelling in a plane go over the Andes mountains, and they crash. There are 27 survivors, and they are trying everything they can to survive and get help. When they get really hungry and the rescuers presume their dead, they decide that they have to eat the (frozen) skin of the dead to stay alive. Starring Ethan Hawke as Nando Parrado, Vincent Spano as Antonio Balbi, Josh Hamilton as Roberto Canessa, Bruce Ramsay as Carlitos Pez, John Haymes Newton as Antonio 'Tintn' Vizintn, David Kriegel as Gustavo Zerbino, Kevin Breznahan as Roy Harley, Sam Behrens as Javier Methol, Illeana Douglas as Lilliana Methol, Jack Noseworthy as Bobby Franois, Christian J. Meoli as Federico Aranda, Jake Carpenter as Alberto Artuna, Michael DeLorenzo as Rafael Cano, and a brief John Malkovich appears. It's a good question, would you eat the dead to stay alive? Good! "},{"Title":"A mind-numbingly boring antithesis of Fargo","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie painfully stretches into two yawn-filled hours a story that wouldn't be out of place of the back pages of a tabloid (or a segment on Dateline NBC, which it has been).  Imagine the thrill of being trapped in a claustrophobic, monotonous, icy environment!  Of hearing the condescending platitudes of colleagues!  Of freezing or starving to death!  The excitement of cannibalism!Aside from the movie's just plain awfulness, the story isn't exactly timely -- much less in need of re-telling, and it completely overlooks the fact that the victims weren't commiserating in English.  It is an irredeemably huge waste of time. "}]