[{"Title":"Not the truth, but still inspiring.","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"95 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Make no mistake, Cool Runnings is not the true story of the Jamaican Bobsled team.  It is inspired by it, but this is not a documentary.  Still, despite that, it does capture the spirit of the team and the derision they faced.  In a fun and entertaining way, the filmmakers displayed the true lesson of the team  if you have a dream, go after it, no matter what anyone else says.This isn't the greatest film ever and it's full of cliches; but, they work.  If you can't get caught up in the emotion and excitement of the film, it's because your heart is frozen.  There are plenty of laughs and general silliness, but there is also good drama and fine performances.  John Candy showed he could deliver an emotional performance instead of just schtick.  During the bobsled runs, you can't help but find yourself cheering for the team.This film is a pleasure to watch and will bring a smile to your face.  Is it good?  Yeah, mon!  "},{"Title":"Feel the rhythm, feel the rhyme, get on up, it's bobsled time.","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"76 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Just saw this movie again on HBO, haven't seen it in almost a decade, and was surprised at how much slipped by me the first time. It's only sad point is to be reminded of what a loss we movie lovers suffered with the death of John Candy. Imagine what he could have done with a little more time on this mortal coil. This movie is uplifting; it's about the human spirit, its strengths and weaknesses. It explores the parent-child conflict, superstition, ambition, love, hate, patriotism and a gamut of other themes. The story telling is good, the camaraderie authentic, and the celebration of life inspiring. Follow your dreams, wherever they may lead you. When things seem impossible, just remember that there's a Jamaican bobsled team. "},{"Title":"Sweet, disarming film","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"61 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Hands up all Jamaicans.  (There are only 2.6 million people in Jamaica - so I know you don't account for a large percentage of the English-speaking world.)  Hands up all those people with any interest at all in bobsledding.  Hah!  I knew it!  No-one.That's why `Cool Runnings' succeeds.  It depends not at all on aggressive nationalism (it couldn't afford to, with a constituency of 2.6 million), and people of all countries are free to participate in the Jamaicans' perfectly reasonable patriotism.  (Probably even the Swiss, whose bobsled team comes across as more than a trifle arrogant.)  Nor is there any of that worship of a particular sport that makes baseball movies so unendurable for people outside of North America, Cuba and Japan.  (Not that I have any evidence that baseball movies are popular in Cuba or Japan.)There isn't any power-of-positive-thinking psychobabble, either - at least, it doesn't dominate.  The four Jamaican bobsledders are separate people with different goals and ways of thinking.  The coach (played beautifully by John Candy, who proves that he can act without playing the clown) doesn't ram a particular ideology down his players' throats.  I doubt that any sports film has a more civilised and reasonable coach.It comes down to this we are given a reason to care about the characters, unrelated to nationality; and we are given a story that's worth following, even if we would never follow the sport itself.  The clichés are fewer than usual and never offensive.  It's a sweet film, and I doubt there's more than a handfull of people who could resist its charm. "},{"Title":"Cool running has to be the funniest ever made by the late John Candy","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"48 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have seen this movie at least 7 times and still get the greatest laugh from it. It has humor, sense of competition to win the big event with all their hearts. Just good clean overall fun and great story line which I understand was derived from a true story. "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Films Ever Made","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"35 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It might not be historically accurate - and you know what, some of the best films aren't - but I believe, hand on heart, that Cool Runnings is one of greatest films ever made.Cool Runnings is absolutely hilarious with a wonderful blend of slapstick comedy, one liners, colourful characters and absurdity, however its comic achievements are well documented, and for this reason I will take them as read.Cool Runnings is an exploration of a number of the weightiest themes a film can deal with, such as racism, poverty, pride, passion, forgiveness and self-belief. Cool Runnings tackles all of these themes head-on without losing an ounce of its charm, humour, or family-fun.A superbly played Joseph Gruel is the prime embodiment of the racism the Jamaicans face on the hill, and his story is very moving. So too is the voyage of self-discovery and forgiveness embarked on by disgraced coach Erv Blitzer (John Candy). The team themselves are a wonderful advert for teamwork and the little island of Jamaica. Each one is wise, bold in the face of their respective adversity, and has an intriguing story to tell.The ending of Cool Runnings also ranks as one of the greatest. It masterfully avoids the back-slapping, one-dimensional and predictable ending it looks to be approaching, a trap that so many other similar 'feel-good' films fall into. Instead Cool Runnings brings together all of the themes that have been explored, in one emotionally charged final scene.99% will disagree with something I have written above. But I first watched the film 15 years ago and it has stayed with me ever since. I have watched it around 100 times now, and I still shed a tear at the end...no other film has ever brought me even close to that.If you take nothing else from this review. Watch Cool Runnings. It is so much better than the clever-arsed, blockbuster-biased critics will have you believe. Forget the highly forgettable cheese like Remember the Titans, The Mighty Ducks and all the rest. Pull up a chair, get the phone on divert, and sit back and enjoy the only 'feel good' film worth watching. "},{"Title":"A little gem","Date":"9 March 2004","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  'Cool Runnings' is one of those prized and rare animals - a genuinely feel-good family movie that doesn't also make you feel stupid.Based (rather loosely, I suspect) on the true story of the Jamaican bobsled team who competed in the Winter Olympics, against outrageous odds, ridicule, complete lack of snow in Jamaica, etc, etc - 'Cool Runnings' hardly puts a foot wrong as it moves towards its rousing ending. That ending is genuinely inspirational, lump-in-the-throat stuff, which so many serious sports movies have aimed at, and fallen short of.Most miraculously, from my point of view, I actually found myself _liking_ John Candy, in this movie. I'm giving this one 8 out of 10. It achieves its goals splendidly. Be sure to give it a look if you've not seen it before. "},{"Title":"Funny, strong and endearing characters","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I remember watching this movie when I was a kid and loving it. It is one of those feel good movies that you think is corny but somehow avoids that label. The characters are funny and endearing. John Candy balances the broken side of his character along with the inspirational side of his character very believably. Doug E Doug has some hilarious dialogs. You feel yourself rooting for the team with more feeling than you expect. The director does well by not focusing on the racial aspect of the movie and converting it to just another movie of black vs. white. Obviously you cannot expect any brilliant acting or movie making but all in all this movie is a must see for families. Four Jamaicans in a bob sled is more entertaining than it looks. "},{"Title":"Pretty fun sports movie","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"26 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This one of those family-oriented sports movies that I have fond memories of from my elementary school days. Off the top of my head, I can name The Air Up There, Iron Will, and the Mighty Ducks in this category as well. They weren't masterpieces, per se, but they were pleasant, fun, and sometimes inspirational. The thing about a sports movie is that the passion that a dedicated athlete feels is usually something that can translate itself visually on screen. For instance, if you were to make a movie about a passionate chess player, it's not as exciting to watch the final climactic moment when the hero checkmates his opponent, as it is to watch a game winning shot. What I'm getting to is that one of the draws of a sports movie is being exposed to that passion and desire in our hero. In this case, the hero is Jamaican sprinter Derice Bannock who was accidentally tripped during the Olympic trials, but is determined to make the Olympics anyway. Since track's no longer an option for him, he figures why not start the nation's first bobsledding team, since a bobsled team hasn't been fielded yet. He also is encouraged in the sport by the fact that a friend of his dad happens to be a bobsled coach and he might be able to help. The bobsled coach declines citing as his reasons that there's no ice in Jamaica, that there's not enough time to train, that Derice doesn't have 3 other people which is needed to form a team, that he doesn't even think Derice was a good runner, and that he doesn't even like coaching anymore.Nevertheless, Derice manages to convince the coach, and get three teammates consisting of his best friend, the guy who tripped him in the trials, and another sprinter who got tripped in the trials along with him. This is one of the better sources of entertainment in the film because the dynamics of this team are formed under such unusual circumstance. For instance, Yul, one of the two who got tripped during the trials, still hasn't forgiven Junior, the tripper.The film very cleverly finds a balance between the inspirational element of this story and the humor. Essentially, Derice the most determined member of the group, is a person who we come to admire for his persistence, and maybe that's why it's a good family film, someone kids can look up to. The humor comes from Derice's friend, Sanka, who says a lot of funny stuff. This really is the only way the movie could work because if Derice was funny and told jokes, you wouldn't take him seriously, and if Sanka was more determined about winning, his jokes would sound out of context. The two guys in the middle of the bobsled, both metaphorically and literally, add to the film in their own ways but on a smaller scale. The late John Candy plays the coach and fills the part well. The other notable thing about the film is it's ending. Provided, this is your first viewing, it really does a lot for the movie. I won't give it away, but the ending is unpredictable yet equally satisfying, something I don't often see. However, I wonder, since this was filmed only five years after the Calgary Olympics, how familiar would viewers have been with the actual event that inspired the film. If they knew the story of the '88 Jamaican bobsled team in its entirety, than the impact of that ending would have been lost. "},{"Title":"A scene from the 1988 Olympics","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"24 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  One of John Candy's best movies.  An excellent cast makes this a real feel good film telling the story of the first Jamaican bobsled team and their efforts to overcome the prejudices of a previous all white sport.  You'll enjoy every minute of this flick and have a better understanding of what it takes to join the Olympic movement.  For the entire family. "},{"Title":"A very cool comedy","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It's probably a word game that has been used many times before, but Cool Runnings is a very 'cool' movie that offered me a lot of fun and laughter. And since this is a comedy and not a documentary, that's all I'm asking of this movie.If you hope to see a documentary on how the first Jamaican bobsled team was created and how they got to the Olympics than you'll have to look for something else. This movie has been inspired on the true events, but never pretends to be faithful to the truth. Does that mean that this movie isn't any good? No, certainly not. I loved to see how these four guys were transfered from sprinters to bobsledders and I couldn't help laughing all the time when seeing their reactions on, for instance, the cold and the snow.This isn't the greatest movie ever and yes it is full of clichés, but they all work and it never bothered me once. However, don't expect to see a ridiculous comedy with no content either, because it still has a good story and plenty of emotions and excitement to offer. I reward this movie with an 8/10. "}{"Title":"cool movie","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This entertaining movie, based on the true story of the Jamaican Bob Sled Team's (yes, you heard right - Jamaican Bob Sled Team) participation in the 1985 Winter Olympics is a funny film with a warm heart that moves to an inspiring ending. The story, about a group of Jamaican athletes who were prevented from competing as runners and so sought a different (!) venue in order to participate, has many funny moments. The late John Candy, of whom I am no fan, is very good here; his role as the coach with a checkered past calls for some real dramatic work as well as comedy. The team is a very likeable bunch (with varying acting abilities) and the viewer is rooting for them all the way as they demonstrate great courage in snatching their own kind of victory from the jaws of defeat; the ending is a real lump-in-the-throater.Good flick, but a caveat for viewing with the kiddos - the language is a tad rough in a couple of spots. "},{"Title":"Plea to recognize this film, man!","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is a very underappreciated and little known movie. I give it a ten or a 9.5 though. It is great. It's a true story about the Jamaican bobsled team (how ironic). But unlike all the other sports stories where the team always kicks but in a glorious win, this is different. It also is fun to watch because of the Jamaican dudes speaking like surfers and saying man all the time. So, see this movie. Vote for it and try to get it onto the top 250.Peace Man! "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I think cool runnings is a fantastic movie, since this movie was made in 1993, i have grown up with this movie because i enjoyed what i saw that was put into the movie and i thought it was fantastic, the way the actors were with the characters, playing them perfect. My heart goes to John Candy as i heard years ago that he passed away and died froma heart attack. He was such a great actor and had so many fans, besides him doing a great performance in cool runnings, my other favourite movies with him in it have got to be Splash, Home Alone, Uncle Buck, i think those movies are fanastic, the great movies of the 1980's and 1990's i feel as though that these are the favourites for those who liked this movies. I give cool runnings 10 out of 10 because i think it is fantastic. God bless you John and thank you for the great performances you made in the movies you starred in.  "},{"Title":"A funny movie that knows exactly when to be serious","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cool Runnings is one of my favorite movies. I watch this movie a lot. It makes me laugh. I think it is one of John Candy's best performances. The story is amazing and unthinkable. Some true story movies can end up being really bad, but Cool Runnings is a great success. During the final run down the track, a moment is displayed where the director knows to turn off the funny, and let the movie become serious. That is an awesome moment. I will continue to enjoy this movie for many years to come. "},{"Title":"Great feel good movie....","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie has been one of my favorites for many years. Superb acting by John Candy. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A superb atmosphere as it's set in the paradise of Jamaica as the four bob-sledders prepare for the winter Olympics. This is such a funny yet at times sad film as the Jamaican's battle against all the odds to become equals or Olympians. I watch this fairly often and I keep willing them to make it to the finish line but obviously this never happens. Great stuff! "},{"Title":"The Importance of Teamwork and Objective to Make Winners","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When the Jamaican sprinter Derice Bannock (Leon) is disqualified to the Olympic Games due to a silly accident, he envision the chance to participate in bobsleigh modality. He meets the dishonored couch Irving Blitzer (John Candy), who is living in the tropical country after two gold medals and elimination due to cheating, and convinces him to couch the first Jamaican Bobsled Team. They form a group with the push-cart driver Sanka Coffie (Doug E. Doug), the sprinter Yul Brenner (Malik Yoba) and the rich Junior Bevil (Rawle D. Lewis) and without any sponsor, fly to Calgary, Alberta, Canada to participate of the XV Olympic Winter Games at -25o C. In the end, they become winners without winning the game.Based on the true surprising participation of Jamaica in the 1988 Olympic Winter Games in the winter sport known as bobsleigh, or bobsled, in which teams make timed runs down narrow, twisting, banked, iced tracks in a gravity-powered sled, this comedy gives a very important message the importance of teamwork and objective to make winners. Therefore, Cool Runnings is a great entertainment for audiences of any age. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Jamaica Abaixo de Zero (Jamaica below Zero) "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Feel Good Movie!","Date":"30 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I haven't cried once since I was 12 years old. Now aged 23 I found myself weeping at the end of this film recently (odd as I've seen it about 15 times over the years). An utterly wonderful little family film and deserving of every superlative there is. It sits in my Top 10 films because it is a film pretending to be nothing other than uplifting and enjoyable fun and, for this reason, it excels! Forget all the arguments about historical inaccuracy, especially if you enjoyed the more serious factual films. Those four Jamaican chaps could teach all the snobbish, fun-phobe, cynical film critics a thing or two about entertainment. Sit back and enjoy the hilarity of 4 Jamaican guys hilariously trying to compete as an Olympic bobsled team whilst still maintaining a certain dignity and heart! Let yourself feel warmed by the relationships between the two best friends, the dreamer and his coach and, my favourite, the newfound friendship of the mismatched shy rich-kid and hard poor-man. Buy it on DVD at once! "},{"Title":"An Absolutely Terrific Film","Date":"26 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" There are certain movies over the past decades that achieve a sort of raw emotion inside of us that can't be captured on purpose. This is a movie that is so simple, yet so unbelievably poetic that it is hard to to believe Disney made it. I saw this movie the first time when I was 5 years old, and I never forgot how inspired it made me feel. I remember my dad saying how great of a story he thought it was because of the kind of adversity these guys overcame. The end of the movie is so unbelievably powerful when the sled breaks and they hold their heads up high as they finish the race, carrying the bobsled. This is a movie that never loses its power, even 12 years later. "},{"Title":"best movie of all time","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" i'v seen it over 200 times and it is still my favourite movie of all time. a laugh out loud movie. packed with a lot of great one-liners. each character shows a strong persona. although its hilarious it still brings a tear to your eye, even after the 200th time. great movie for watching with the family. this movie contains everything to make a good movie- comedy, romance(not necessarily between people), touching and there's even a punch up for the lads. it is an all rounder in the world of movies, ideal for when you need cheering up, something to put on for the kids to keep them occupied, or if you just wanna see a few hot bodies. If you have not yet seen this movie what are you waiting for, go out and get it now, you'll wonder how you ever lived without it. "}{"Title":"way cool movie","Date":"7 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I just got through watching this movie for the second time- the first time was when it first came out a few years back. ) I think this movie is such an inspiring story, a good one to watch for those who have a dream but are having trouble getting there. I highly recomend this movie!  "},{"Title":"The ultimate feel-good film","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Although recently pipped by The Truman Show for the much-heralded title of my favourite film, this is, without a doubt, my favourite feel-good film. Sure, it's not perfect, but who can resist the witty wisecracks of Sanka How 'bout I draw a line down the middle of your head so it looks like a butt Coffey, the determination of Junior Bad Ass Mother Bevil to break free from the shackles of his father, or the absolutely wonderful ending with the team carrying the sled up the track with everyone cheering? If you want to watch a film that will warm your heart, look no further than Cool Runnings. "},{"Title":"May not be the entire truth, but a great movie nonetheless","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Sure it mightn't be full truth, but who doesn't enjoy this great movie? I loved it, II have a serious soft-spot when it comes to comedy but this movie is up there with some of the best e.g. Zoolander ) I liked it so much because of the great range of comedy in it, slapstick, visual and audio comedy. The bright colours of Jamaica keeps the watchers attention right the way through in the teams' clothes. There is some great acting. John Candy does exceptionally well in my view as well as Doug E. Doug. The music chosen is great, fits in to the story nicely e.g. the song during the training session called Rise Above It So all in all it's a great watch for all ages. "},{"Title":"One of John Candy's Best","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It seems to me there are two types of fat white guys.  Those that are famous (i.e. weathermen) and those that aren't.  Guys like me who sit on the Internet and ponder just how in the hell John Candy did it.  For the answer to this question, I look to the movie Cool Runnings, where Candy is nothing short of a comic genius.  Pair him up with four skinny Jamaican guys, and you're just asking to pee your pants.  And the ending?  Let's just say a fat white guy cried, and it wasn't Candy.  Jamaican Bobsled?  Now that's a movie. "},{"Title":"This movie's got comedy,story and is just awesome","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When I first saw cool runnings I was disappointed by the sad ending but now six years later the movie still makes me laugh and the ending is somehow better.  It's funny it's got story because it is based on a true one and has sentimental bits that aren't boring like other movies.This film is pleasure to watch from beginning to end and over and over again.A must see! "},{"Title":"Jamicain Splendor!","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" this film I find, is pure comedy, and who ever heard of a Jamaican bob sled team? well I now have, I also liked the Yul Bremmer character he is a bit like my cat!  do not touch me! but i still can touch her mind. Anyway this film is warm and sunny,until you get to that freezing cold airport! I also liked that coach Irving Winkler who had to be pestered into coaching that team of Jamacains. Also the music is good I also liked that Swede chap who called one of the Jamaicans, Jamaica! I think he did not want them in the team. I also think that the Jamaicans should of checked the sled before they raced, that loose nut should of been tightened or welded to the frame. It was a shame that they did not come 1st! I am always shouting GET IN GET IN At the television each time I see them at the top of the hill about to get into their sled! all in all, it is one cool film, my first Disney made DVD in my collection. The first of many!!! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"12 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is one of the most touching stories I have seen in a long time. You rally behind the Jamacians and pull for them every bit of the way. Everyone should watch this movie, I know multiple Jamacians that enjoy this movie, and even believe that they have done a very good job at not distorting the truth.Except for one slightly violent part this is even a great movie for children to watch. They will enjoy the excellent music and be introduce to the Jamacian culture. When the Olympics come on the next time, they will be anxious to watch the bobsled.Trust me! "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a great film where you can see how friends are pride when they reach the finish line, also when they don't win.I think everyone will be proud of himself if they give everything of himself and the public appreciate that. That must be in real life a great feeling.I've seen many movies with a lot of special effects, but for a good movie there must be a good hidden message in the film, like in this one.For everyone that doesn't saw this movie yet, go and see it!  "},{"Title":"a cinematic triumph","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I had anticipated the release of Cool Runnings for years leading up to its arrival.  After all, here was the 100% true story of Doug E. Doug and John Candy going for Olympic gold in the bobsled.  I must admit, I didn't know previous to seeing the movie that Candy was an expert on bobsleding, although I can easily see why his severe obesity would allow him to be good at sitting on a sled and traveling down an ice covered path at an incredible speed.  Candy should have just had Doug E. Doug hang out with him for a year and put him on the same diet.  Plus, you got to figure with all the pot Mr. Doug was smoking he would have the munchies constantly. Now, Cool Runnings had all the makings of the greatest movie of all time.  It had an Oscar winning cast, Jack Nicholson, DeNio, Pacino, Helen Hunt, Vin Diesel etc., it had beautiful settings and costume design, a great musical score with such hits as here is something you can't believe, Jamaica, we have a bobsled team... and a great director in someone who I don't know.  Actually, I really don't remember much of this movie.  I know I saw it though, maybe even two or three times.  I also remember that Freshman year in college Siegel refused to study for an Econ exam because Fox was showing Cool Runnings.  Why Fox was showing this, I have no idea.  Perhaps as a joke?Anyway, I highly recommend that everyone see 'Cool Runnings' if you haven't already done so.  It is one of the last times one can see John Candy.  Well, unless of course you want to dig up his grave.  But, that's kind of gross, plus I assume he's all decomposed, and he is much funnier as a fat guy.  Actually, while you're at it, rent 'Who's harry Crumb.'  That movie is awesome.  Altieri also really likes it, and he looks like a female American Indian. "},{"Title":"very cool","Date":"11 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is just so likable that it's hard to criticize anything about it. It's a fun family film about the creation of the first Jamaican bobsled team and how they struggle to gain respect at the Winter Olympics. The late John Candy shines in what was definitely one of his best films. Leon, Doug E. Doug, Rawle D. Lewis, and Malik Yoba make a fun, energetic team whose performances make this a pleasant and enjoyable experience. 3/4 "}{"Title":"Good cheesy family fun","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" In one of John Candy last films and one I somehow missed to watch when released in 1993/94 (there was great hype surrounding it) it is certainly not one to be taken seriously but I can't recall a Candy movie that does.It is very loosely based on the Jamaican bobsleigh team at the Winter Olympics in 1988 and nowhere near a biography. In fact almost everything is fictional. And that's what makes it more fun.Candy stars a disgraced former bobsleigh gold medalist (now a bookie) tasked to coach a top 100m sprinter (Leon Robinson) and his motley crew to become the Jamaican representatives at the bobsleigh races at the Winter Olympics in Canada despite having inexperience in snowy weather.Hence all daft. childish and sometimes predictable mishaps on the way but never failing to raise a smile. All characters are likable and all the stereotypes are there the intelligent one, the hard man, the wimp and the fool.Good cheesy family fun and that it is intended to be. "},{"Title":"Easy-going and enjoyable - 68%","Date":"21 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" There are a select few films that seem to resonate with everybody. I cannot remember anyone who had seen this that didn't enjoy it but somehow, it had escaped my attention until now. So forgive me if I'm a little late to the party but at least I now understand where you are all coming from. Yes, it's a Disney sport-based movie and yes, it hasn't dated that well in terms of effects (or fashions!). But there is a real charm, chemistry between the leads and genuine humour to it that lifts this above most other movies of this type. It's not quite Rocky but given a Jamaican twist and you're halfway there.Aspiring sprinter Derice (Leon) dreams of competing in the Olympics but at the trials, he is unfortunately tripped up by fellow competitor Junior (Rawle D. Lewis) and blows his chance. Initially distraught, he soon discovers that a legendary bobsleigh coach (John Candy) lives on Jamaica and decides to start competing in the Winter Olympics as part of Jamaica's first bobsled team. Recruiting his best friend Sanka (Doug E. Doug) and fellow sprinter Yul Brenner (Malik Yoba), the five of them jet off to Calgary to compete despite the fact that they have no sled, no real exposure to the cold and the lack of acceptance from the other competitors. But bobsledding is about more than technique - it's about belief, friendship and not taking things too seriously.Anybody expecting a serious sports drama had better look elsewhere because Cool Runnings never takes itself seriously. In fact, the greatest compliment I can pay it is that for the most part, it never actually feels like a sports movie - mainly due to the comedy which is both funny and well-performed. With Candy being the only actor I recognise, the four leads acquit themselves very well alongside their heavyweight co-star, who seems to be lacking some of the spark that made him so watchable in the likes of Planes, Trains and Automobiles. The story, based on fact, doesn't offer any real surprises as the usual obstacles and hiccups along the way emerge. What this film does have, aside from commendable humour, is a heart to it and a sense that (for once) winning isn't everything.It does look its age in places - the bobsledding scenes are understandably rough around the edges and the day-glo fashions are extremely reminiscent of the early Nineties - but Cool Runnings remains a very watchable effort. It doesn't have any pretences of greatness about it, unlike most other sports films where the big game at the end is literally the biggest thing in the world. Here, they just want to compete and this sits well with the easy-going Jamaican vibe to the film which is undeniably infectious. Despite the snow and ice, the film has a warm, sunny glow to it and while I detest describing anything as heartwarming, Cool Runnings would certainly qualify. Champion! "},{"Title":"Pure entertainment","Date":"5 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Perhaps I may be slightly biased, as I can honestly say I do love this film, however I think my feelings are justified. You don't watch Cool Runnings to find some deep, intellectual meaning, or to grow and develop as a person. If you do, well, you're an idiot.Cool Runnings is aimed purely at giving you a fun ride, and it excels at that. There are plenty of clichés, the characters are obvious yet lovable, and the general message is the old-fashioned, much used one of overcoming opposition. However, since when are those things a crime? Cool Runnings may not break new ground in the film world, but what it does it does very well, and if you don't find yourself caught up cheering along the team then I mourn for the death of the child in you. "},{"Title":"Great John Candy Film.","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cool Runnings is phenomenal and John Candy is always brilliant.What I love about this film is its heart. Not too many films have heart these days, but this one definitely does.I also love the fish out of water context made funny and fresh.I think john Candy's character is wonderful. I have seen just about everything that he has done, and i have never been disappointed. I would love to see someone do a biography movie on his life, I would be interested in finding out what others think as to who should play him in a movie, I can not think of anyone off hand that would do him justice "},{"Title":"great film!","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I hadn't seen this movie in many years, but I stumbled upon it on television, and I remembered why it is so great. The story is compelling; it warms the heart. The cast is amazing and hilarious. There is some sweet rap and also there is a lucky egg. How can you go wrong with such a fun filled movie. The plot follows the the story of the Jamaican bob sled team. When you can't make the Olympic track team why not try out the bob sled. John Candy, R.I.P., plays the role of their tormented coach and he does a swell job. The rest of the characters are great each with there own endearing idiosyncrasies. I love this movie and could watch it over and over again. It is great for all age groups, a truly classic film. I recommend it to anyone who enjoys comic movies. "},{"Title":"Exciting, as usual!!!!!","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is such a great sports movie; it was extremely fun!!!!! The story was great and it ruled big time!!!!! It was fun like The Mighty Ducks not Miracle because the story was happy and it was just pure old Disney fun!!!!! Some humorous moments have come up in this movie as well!!!!! This golden age Disney movie aired on the Disney Channel in spring 2005; I remember finishing my Physics project just in time to see this classic again!!!!! I've also seen this constantly in the drive in theater and on video too!!!!! This is a great movie because it shows how a country that would NEVER have a winter sports team, actually made it possible!!!!! Switzerland (or Schweiz like on the bobsled) can't have a Navy, but Jamaica can have a bobsled team!!!!! Yeah!!!!! So, this classic gets a 10 in my book; and you should do the same after seeing this as well!!!!! In fact, I give this a 23 out of 10 to put this film on top!!!!! LOL "},{"Title":"Pure Brilliance","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I love this film so much, it always gets me in the mood for a good week of snow sports. I saw it for the first time when I went on a skiing holiday with my family on a twenty four hour coach ride to the Austrian Tirol mountains. This was truly a huge film that had just came into my life. The whole story is just brilliant, the thought of a group of five people overcoming all odds and competing for their country in one of the biggest events in the world, The Winter Olympics.Pure class, excellent actors as well! It's a shame that we haven't seen much from some of the other actors who play Yul Brenner and Junior Beville. Leon, Doug E Doug and John Candy are amazing. "},{"Title":"A little patronising and sentimental but still quite fun","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Having missed out on his shot at representing Jamaica at the Olympics as a sprinter, Derice Bannock decides that his only chance lies in the bobsleigh &#150; an event that nobody else is going for. Pulling together a broken down former medal winner for the US as his coach, two other failed sprinters and a driver in local soapbox derbies, Derice pins his hopes to making it to the Winter Olympics despite the fact he has never seen snow, far less driven a bobsleigh.If you buy the facts of this film as being true rather than based very loosely on truth then you probably will want to buy shares in the moon that I can get you cheap if you drop me an email, however even if you ignore these claims, this is still quite a fun family film from Disney. As such though, it doesn't have a great deal of depth to it and everything is presented in very simple, sentimental terms, from characters down to the plot itself. The story is a simple matter of the underdog coming good (although the manner of them coming good is at least slightly different from the genre cliché) and along the way people bond, learn lessons and warm the hearts of a nation &#150; it is typical Disney fare and will hold no surprises for anyone. However it is presented with a general good humour and by the end of it I was willing on the team despite myself.The presentation of the Jamaicans is a bit simplistic and patronising as the characters are more cardboard cut outs than people &#150; they play their nationality to the fore while doing very little with the simple characters they have been given other than learning lessons etc along the way. Leon is solid enough in the lead without having a lot of charisma. Lewis is amusing enough and obviously had been studying Charlton from Fresh Prince. Yoba is simple but fun while Doug plays up the ethnic clown in a way that will please some but annoy others. Candy looks a little bored at times but generally buys into the spirit of the film without ever trying too hard.Overall this is an amusing film that is distracting without ever having too much about it to risk becoming good. The lack of characters and interesting narrative was a problem for me but it was mostly covered by the genre standards doing their usual thing to reasonable good effect. A good family sports movie that is amusing but nothing more than that. "},{"Title":"Cool Runnings = Beautiful, one of Candy's best.","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cool Runnings (1993) is a wonderful movie based on the true story of the 1st ever Jamaican bobsleigh team and how they qualified for the Olympics!!! I have always loved this film, it's very funny in places, and very touching and moving in other places, the characters are all fantastic and John Candy is superb as Irv Blitzer, the Jamaicans coach!! It tells the story beautifully of how the Jamaicans not only qualified for a sport which they never had any dealings with, but they also competed well against the worlds best and made a lot of friends along doing so!! The film is highly entertaining from start to finish and i've had the movie in my collection ever since it 1st come out, 9/10. "},{"Title":"great film for the entire family.","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is an excellent one to rent when you are looking for something that both the older and younger generations will enjoy. It is the feel good story of the Jamaican bobsled team. 4 Jamaicans, 3 of them sprinters who missed the Olympics, and are willing to do anything to get their shot to represent their country. John Candy plays a man who was disgraced and retired from bobsledding and agrees to give it one last chance as their coach. A hysterical screen play that has several jokes for the older crowd added in with the slapstick humor for the kids, combined with director John Turteltaub gives this movie an easy going feel. It is very funny and manages to come across as inspirational without being preachy at all.Another great reason to rent it is it is one of the last performances of one of the greats. John Candy takes a break from his usual role as the goofball and plays this one straight while allowing the 4 Jamaicans to play off him. Especially the wise cracking Doug E. Doug. There is great chemistry between all 5 of the main actors though.Feel the rhythm, feel the rhyme, get on up, it's bobsled time. "}{"Title":"Brilliant, good humoured and fun","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It may never be a critically acclaimed film but Cool Runnings is a real 'feel good' film that can pick you up on a rainy day. Combining good humour with a nice storyline you really warm with the characters. Typically Disney, there is a number of underlying moral issues which try to be conveyed throughout the film, but despite this I think they are done subtly and creates a rapport with the audience as they follow the roller coaster the Jamaicans are on.Living in England the Jamaican lifestyle and people are respected through the popularity of reggae music and the laid back attitude in which they live, something I personally respect and aspire to. Therefore certain warmth is felt towards the characters because of their attitudes to life and the unusual and original storyline makes the film quite compelling, coupled with the fact I am a big sporting fan and any film about sport is likely to take my interest.For anybody reading this wondering whether they should watch the film I would suggest whole-heartedly that they should. Unless you are the most cynical viewer then you are bound to end the film feeling really good having had a few laughs on the way.My Evaluation - 5/5 - Really good fun, a must see disney classic !!!  "},{"Title":"Still going the distance?","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When this film was first released I was desperate to go and see it, at the time I was only ____. At that time I rarely saw any films in the cinema I didn't particularly even like films! This all changed as soon as I saw Cool Runnings. I immediately bought the video when it came out and it even stands the test of time because it still stands proudly alongside my DVDs and other videos whereas most of my other videos from that time are packed away in the loft. The performances by the whole cast are excellent, particularly John Candy and Doug E. Doug. All 5 of the main characters are great, each of them adding something to the film. Overall I would rate this as one of the best comedies ever made alongside 'The Blues Brothers'. 10/10 "},{"Title":"An excellent, touching and heartwarming film","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A thoroughly entertaining, enjoyable and heartwarming movie that had me laughing and yet greatly moved at the same time. John Candy provides an excellent performance as a disgraced bobsledding competitor given a chance to redeem his reputation. The other actors involved in Cool Runnings are also excellent and add a realistic and wonderful dimension to the show. Several significant issues are touched on during the film -including racism, the consequences and implications of cheating, your ability to do anything if you put your mind to it and so on-but it is at the same time a humorous and delightfully entertaining movie. 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Bobsledding is the sport of the Future!!!!!","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This past year, Team USA did the previously unthinkable...we won not one, not two, but three Olympic Bobsleigh medals, a task not seen in 56 years (The women, including the first African American Vonetta Flowers) actually won Gold in 2 woman bobslieigh (USA men, took silver and bronze in the 4 man competition).I use the above example because bobsledding (or bobsliegh) is not for just anyone who can run and jump into a 500 pound sled and ride jt down a icy, hairpin-turning, half pike at 90 MPH.  It takes intelligence, patience and above all courage.  Vonetta Flowers, a young african-american female track runner failed to qualify for the 2000 Summer Games; somewhat dejected, as chance has it, she happened across a flyer asking for interested candidates for the first ever USA women's bobsled team.  She tried out, less than 2 years later she is an olympic gold medalist!  Chances are exactly what Cool Runnings is all about.Inspired on the actual story, Cool Runnings, tells the tale of the first ever Jamiacan bobsleigh team.  An event that shattered many long held rules of winter sports competition.After pleading to no success to Jamaica's senior Olympic official to be reinstated on the 1988 Jamaican Olympic Track team, after failing to qualify to compete in the 100 meter run, defeated Jamaican sprinter Derice Bannock (Leon, in an above average acting  performance) notices an old photo of his late father (himself a track star) at a Winter Olympics 20 years before. Seeing his chance again and determined to let nothing get in his way, not even Jamaica's utter absence of winter sports programs, Derice decides to try again for Olympic Gold in Bobsledding, using his highpowered running skills as his strategy for winning.  He has little clue about what obstacles he will have to overcome.Assembling a rag-tag team of equally defeated track sprinters, Yul Brenner (Malik Yoba) & Jr Bevil (Rawl Lewis), one patriotic loud-mouth push-cart driver, Sanka Coffie (Doug E Doug), and the long displaced and defeated bobsled champion (and former teammate of Derice's father) for a coach, Irv Blitzer (John Candy, in probably his last genuinely terrific performances before his untimely death in 1994), Derice and company make it to the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.  They make it, despite misgivings from Jamaican Olympic officials who think the whole idea of competing in winter sports is ridiculous and refuse help them in any way.History will always remember that the 1988 Olympic Bobsled compeition was won by the Swiss team, and that the Olympic medal count was dominated by the now defunct USSR and East Germany (USA only won 6 medals that year, Canada only won 5 with no golds).  But a group of black men from a 3rd world carribean island nation, with no winter sports history or experience, come in and made heads turn with their speed and determination despite overwhelming and sometimes laughable odds.Bobsleigh is a 2nd tier-sport that only recieves attention during the Olympics, just like so many other sports, but dreams of Olympic Gold drives atheletes of all races and natinoalities to excellence and fame...even a group of disenchanted Jamaican sprinters (and one pushcart driver).They qualify for the Olympics, and then face an uphill battle just for respect from anyone, including Jr's father (a business men looking out for the best interests of his son). But despite all their determination, this movies namesake, Cool Runnings, which happens to be their thirdrate, handed-down bobsled (beautifully painted in Jamaica's traditional green, black and yellow banner colors) breaks a runner (the sled's skatelike blade) and crashes on their final run just as it would seem they have pulled off the upset victory (this comes after a rickety 1st run which didn't help the ethos of their critics, and a stunning 2nd run).  Shaken and bruised, with no chance at victory, but determined more than ever to at least cross the finish line in spirit and leave their mark, Derice and the others pick up their sled and carry it across the finish to a thunderous applause including previously fickle and nasty competitors and bobsled officials, as well as countrymen back home.All in all, a great family-feel good movie.  It contains plenty of humor, jokes and gags such as Sanka's insistant kissing of his prized  egg as well as the team's initial clumsiness with ice such as the particulary cute moment involving their first-ever sled run on ice. There is also fantastic photography of bobsled racing (some of which is archival footage from the 1988 Olympic Bobsleigh competition). But Cool Runnings most striking feature is that it never loses sight of the aspects of competition, which is the fundamental theme of the Olympics. Jamaica returns to the Olympic scene again, this time as equals.Although the movie hints at social issues many would rather sweep under the rug, such as cheating, racism, and jealosy, Cool Runnings accomplishes what most sports related movies always lose sight of that victory doesn't always come on the playing fields (or in this case the track) but victory comes from friendship and determination just to compete.Check it out!!! "},{"Title":"A truly Great Film","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Given the awful films that John candy made right before his death(Example...Canadian Bacon,Wagons East),It is Great to see that a film like this one stands out as not only a wonderful,funny film...But also as a Showcase for John Candys Great acting abilities which Unfortunately the late actor never had the Chance to show in most of his other films.He gives a wonderful performance as the Disgraced coach of the Jamaican bobsledders...A role which required acting,Not comic shtick..and Candy proved himself up to the challenge.The film makers deserve praise for Giving Candy that opportunity before his Death...One that few others did.The film itself is quite funny....the 4 actors playing the Bobsledders are very funny....(Doug e doug's busking scene was Hilarious)..and the film has sad moments...and some Great action scenes.Words simply dont some up this fabulous film which is a triumph for director john turtletaub...(Whose subsequent films have been pretty low grade),its a special film that will always remain in my heart..and one I will always think about.The film makers should take a bow...for giving us this Brilliant film..and giving the late John candy the chance to show his true acting ability...a chance he rarely had.I give it 10 out of 10...and as doreece says....Peace be the journey "},{"Title":"Call me sentimental...","Date":"29 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" ...but I really liked this warm little movie.  Sure, the plot is cliche and the movie is corny, but they put together a delightful assortment of characters and used a novel setting to make it a lot of fun. Candy is a bit weak at times, but the other actors are superb with their characters. You also rarely get to hear Jamaican accents.  One of my favorites.  "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites","Date":"4 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cool Runnings is loosely based on the amazing, but true story of the First Jamaican Bobsled Team that competed in the XV Winter Olympiad in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. The late John Candy did a fantastic job portraying the Team's coach, Irv Blitzer, who had won a Gold Medal in Bobsled at the Sapporo Winter Games in '72, but was disqualified for making illegal modifications to his sled. Leon, Malik Yoba and Doug E. Doug all did great work in this film. The part I liked was the ending after the crash where the team picked up their sled and walked across the finish line. This movie showed what the spirit of the Olympics is really all about. About the real 1988 Jamaican Bobsled Team, The team was started by George Fitch, an American businessman in 1987 and went to Igls, Austria for Bobsled school and Trained for the Olympics in Lake Placid. When the Olympics came around, after the first three runs, they were in 7th place going into the last run and then, of course was the famous crash. The biggest moment for the Jamaicans came 6 years later in Lillehammer when the team finished in 14th place, one spot ahead of the first U.S. sled. After Jamaica's success in '88, other warm-weather nations started teams, which include Brazil. I wish Disney could make a sequel based on the Jamaican's success at Lillehammer. "},{"Title":"Great (Sanka Stoner Rocks)","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  FEEL THE RHYTHM FELL THE RHYME GET ON UP ITS BOBSLED TIMESANKA Are you dead mon? Ya mon?The story is great and you can really get into this movie because of the feeling.This film was shot on location in Calgary and some of the great locations I frequent or have in the past.  This movie shows that Canadians are the shiznang (good God mon where be da reefer) Sanka rocks because he always has the munchies ??!! What does that mean !!!This movie shows Canadian locations and with the great Canadian actor John Candy in the lead role it is one of the best feel good movies eva.Suck on That Targets from below  "},{"Title":"Highly recommended","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When it first came out, I never really bothered to watch it in the theater. My friend, who's a elementary school basketball coach took his team to watch it and he recommended it to me.  I've seen this movie many times since then. It's one that I always can go back to and enjoy on video when I don't know what else to watch.  Good humor and good fun with a feel-good kind of ending.  I recommend it to anyone and everyone.  "},{"Title":"Inspiring and hilarious.","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  We've watched 'Cool Runnings' as part of our curriculum in a course for children who learn English as a Foreign Language.The moral values portrayed in this movie were really great for the children, who tend to compete in almost every aspect of their lives. The film also proved to be funny enough for them to have a good time as well.   "}{"Title":"a great time","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Funny, family-oriented Disney film is the entertaining true story of the first ever Jamaican bobsled team. Determined to make it to the Winter Olympics, four sprinters enlist the aid of a former American bobsled coach to try and achieve an almost impossible dream. Despite being met with hostility and disrespect, they maintain their dignity and find in each other the will and determination to give it their all and represent their country with honor. The familiar story elements along with an obvious setup make it occasionally predictable, but enthusiastic performances, a likable, feel-good script, and lots of laughs make it worth your while. One of those films that's been done time and time again, but that you can really get behind. *** "},{"Title":"Does not portray Jamaicans properly","Date":"2 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is your typical Disney exploration of the feel good comedy sports movie. This is not at all the true story of these guys. It does not portray Jamaicans properly. Movies are quite capable of adding sub titles for other languages why couldn't it be done here? This was done intentionally to add some sort of poor comedy relief. I'm not Jamaican but I believe in acknowledging people and races and culture in the proper way. I do however love John candy. He was gone too quickly. I remember him for his rolls in home alone and trains planes and automobiles. Uncle buck was certainly another timeless performance. On a whole cool running a explores lightly the true story of the first Jamaican bobsled team. There was just a different less Disney way of going about this. "},{"Title":"Feel Good At It's Family Best","Date":"27 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is one of the greatest family movies with moral messages and a great feel good vibe. There is enough comedy for both kids and adults to chuckle at, but I wish there was more to wail about. John Candy is at his usual best in this film giving a good acting role and playing his typical cynical comedian self. But that aside, you won't find another movie that is quite like Cool Runnings. Everything from the storyline to the comedy and to it being based on a true story, no other movie I've seen is anything like Cool Runnings. A great family gem that is not just for the family. Perfect from start to finish, but I wish there was just that little bit more for me to want to re watch it countless amounts of time. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Sports Film","Date":"17 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" What a funny and inspirational little movie this is. At times, director Jon Turteltaub's film seems almost too good to be true, because it isn't exactly true. While it is based on a true story, the film is heavily fictionalized and most of the characters were created by the scriptwriter. Still, the film is a nice portrait of a quite extraordinary event in sports history.Cool Runnings is the story of a Jamaican runner named Derice (Leon) who wishes to follow in his father's footsteps and run the 100 meter dash at the Olympics. An unfortunate event keeps him from qualifying at the trials, so he hunts down bobsledding coach Irv Blitzer (John Candy) to help him form the first Jamaican bobsled team. After recruiting best friend Sanka (Doug E. Doug) and some fellow Olympic runners (Rawle Lewis and Malik Yoba), the team takes on the Winter Olympics world, including a hard-nosed Olympic Alliance, to prove the world wrong and show that they belong.The film is not extraordinary in any way, but it can make you feel emotions immensely. After watching the film numerous times, I still chuckle at Sanka's little jokes and goofiness, largely because of an eccentric performance from Doug E. Doug. He does some over-the-top acting in a good way, Leon does some over-the-top acting in a not-so- good way. His portrayal of the leader of this squad is a little too forced, but we still believe in him because he is so determined to win. John Candy was an excellent choice to play Irv. He begins as an impolite bookie and turns into quite a brilliant coach who cares about his guys. He even gives a speech to the Alliance that is intense and surprisingly not very cliché. The film doesn't take any risks in the editing, and has a number of scenes that feel unnecessary, but the story usually covers it up just enough to keep it from being too much of a distraction. It's nice to see a film focus on a country like Jamaica. The accents may be a little overdone at times, and some things might be a little stereotypical, but the culture and reggae soundtrack and score by Hans Zimmer is relieving while enjoying the movie. It's all brought together by no other than Sanka, who at one point reminds Derice of who they are and where they come from. He says, If we walk Jamaican, talk Jamaican, and is Jamaican, then we sure as hell better bobsled Jamaican. This comes after Derice continuously idolizes the Swiss team, and Doug's delivery is perfect and heartfelt.There is a point in the film where the team is huddling up for their final run, and they shout Respect! I love this little bit because it encapsulates the main theme of the film. This story isn't about these guys trying to win the gold or even the silver or bronze. It's about their struggles to gain respect for themselves and for their country. This drive makes the film so riveting and the final scene can send chills down your spine even after watching it for the tenth or fifteenth time. Cool Runnings is not the most outstanding sports film, but it's right up there with Rocky and Hoosiers in terms of having the most heart. It's nearly impossible to not laugh and cheer when watching this story unfold, and there is nothing wrong with that. "},{"Title":"Very motivational film","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" 'Cool runnings' is a brilliant film and very inspirational. There are great quotes from this movie such as We're different. People are always afraid of what's different. That was my favourite quote in the movie, I feel it was very moving.I also loved this quote from the move All I'm saying, mon, is if we walk Jamaican, talk Jamaican, and *is* Jamaican, then we sure as hell better bobsled Jamaican. It teaches us to be who we are and not someone who we are not.'Cool runnings' was great and did not feel at all like a Disney movie, I think it was very mature and if I ever came across this movie being shown on television I would definitely watch it again, without a doubt. "},{"Title":"Plenty of humor with a splash of inspiration.","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is one of three sports movies that I can easily enjoy, the other two being Happy Gilmore and Moneyball. The main reason it is enjoyable is because it is more of a comedy than anything else. Most sports movies attempt to be inspirational by having an underdog team win the championship against insurmountable odds, usually with some kind of emotional conflict in it (e.g. Remember the Titans, Miracle, Rudy, The Perfect Game, The Express, Brian's Song). While Cool Runnings does feature an underdog team and has some amount of emotion in it, there is a much different feel to it than the aforementioned films. This is likely because it is not base on a true story, or at least very loosely, has no overriding emotional subplot, and has lots of humor mixed in with it. It also helps that the team is good evidently pretty good, but metaphorically crashes and burns due to unfortunate circumstances at the end. However, there is still an air of inspiration to the end sequence as the world recognizes their feats. The main characters are each easy to root for and likable in their own way. Their personalities are well developed and plausible as well as their relationships with each other. Derice and Sanka are friends already, so they obviously have pretty good character chemistry right from the start, though Derice has relatively little personality. Junior gets along well enough with the other four guys by being moderately outgoing. Yul is obviously averse to his teammates, but gradually pushes his emotions and pride aside to relate and collaborate with his teammates while retaining his cold personality. Irv is the only character that I have seen portrayed by John Candy who is not cheerful. However, Candy pulls off being a secluded and sorrowed guy. He does not contribute very much humor to the plot, but is nonetheless a good character. We can clearly see that the team sort of gives him hope, even if he tries to hide it.The sports element of the movie doesn't really kick in until after about forty-five minutes when the team gets to Calgary for the Olympics. Here, the emotional conflict is kicked up a notch in terms of Irv's dispute with the board and Junior standing up to his dad. There are only a few bobsled runs that are shown, and some of them are done for comical purposes. The front-runner Swiss team are kind of put in the villain position here, and we have a couple of encounters between the Jamaican and the Swiss athletes. Apart from that, we see some training scenes throughout.Finally we have the comedy element. The humorous moments come at a pretty constant rate with the same feel to the gags and lines. Some of the humor comes simply because of the absurd idea of a Jamaican bobsled team. Sanka contributes the most laughs out of anyone from his antics on the ice, to his three pump-up songs that he composes throughout, and other various jokes. The one scene that is devoted purely to comedy is the scene where the team tries to raise enough money to get them to Calgary. The technical execution is nothing special, but the acting and scripting is fine for the most part. One could maybe argue that it discriminates against Jamaicans, but I don't know enough about Jamaica to discuss this. The story is not award-winning by any means, but in a movie that is just sort of suppose to be fun, a strong story is not entirely necessary. I would recommend it to anyone seeking a good kid friendly comedy that isn't geared too strongly towards kids. I will caution prospective viewers not to be misguided into thinking this is a stereotypical inspirational sports film, because it isn't. It's not something I would recommend you rush out to buy, but if you happen to come across it, it's worth a try. Overall Rating 8/10 "},{"Title":"Fun, If Inaccurate and Possibly Racist","Date":"24 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Based on the true story of the first Jamaican bobsled team trying to make it to the winter Olympics.As far as based on a true story goes, this is true to a point. Yes, there was a Jamaican bobsled team in 1988 and yes, they did crash. But the rest is a bit of stretch. Their coach was not involved in any scandal for cheating or otherwise. And they were not despised by the other teams, even if the people who made this film wanted to create a white and black bigotry where there was none.Oddly, although anti-racist on the face of it, the film itself may be subtly racist itself. The portrayal of Jamaicans as simple, somewhat backwater people is unfair, and that none of the main actors were actually Jamaican seems unfortunate. We are instead stuck with New Yorkers and exaggerated Jamaican accents.Those criticisms aside, this is still a fun movie and enjoyable for what it is. How can you not help but like a group of misfits who have to face unlikely odds to succeed? This is a tradition in sports movies, and this one has more comedy than the average sports film, making it much more fun for the average viewer. "},{"Title":"Fun joyful movie","Date":"24 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It's 1987 Jamaica. Derice Bannock (Leon) fails to qualify for the Olympics 100-metre dash in Seoul when Junior Bevil (Rawle D. Lewis) falls and trips him and Yul Brenner (Malik Yoba). He is devastated and told to wait for another 4 years. He sees Irving Blitzer (John Candy) in an old photo with his father. Irv is a former medal winner friend of his father who is now a bookie living in Jamaica. He has the idea to start a Jamaican bobsled team with his bumbling push cart friend Sanka Coffie (Doug E. Doug). Along with rich boy Junior, angry Yul, and Irv, they head to the Calgary Winter Olympics. This is simply a fun movie. It's mostly due to the characters and the actors. Doug E. Doug delivers the light hearted humor. There's a real good-nature charm to this movie. It follows a familiar formula. "},{"Title":"Cute","Date":"24 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It had been about 6/7 years since I had watched Coolrunnings I remember I was rather fond of this film and thought I would try relive it. It was recently put on Netflix and the opportunity arose. Coolrunnings is about a Jamaican bobsled team. The film has likable characters and John Candy as usual plays a brilliant role as the stubborn old coach. Sanka seems to be the most funny I found the one I got the most laughs out of this film is good for two reasons, one - it's based on true events so really it is teaching you the past in a way. Secondly it's just a pleasant film just an OK watch I think once you've seen it a couple of times it does get abit boring but the first few times are well worth the watch. The ending is rather moral and nice "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The screenplay is intelligent, focused and clever. I much enjoyed this film, mostly because of the convincing characters. I am aware of much of the criticism around this movie, claiming it is bad and not worth seeing. To all those who have said these things, I have to ask What film were you watching? With style, charm, and humor to spare, this film was among the top echelon of movies from 1993. I laughed and was moved and all of that good stuff. At the end of the day, it's a fun, entertaining film. Wonderful movie, and I should know, I practically grew up on it. An excellent and difficult production, bolstered by great performances. "}{"Title":"Feel the rhythm! Feel the rhyme! Get on up, its bobsled time! Cool Runnings is a cool movie! No problem, man!","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This underdog sport movie is sure to touch you and lift your spirit. It's nearly a perfect family film. The film is loosely based on a series of true events of the first ever Olympic Jamaican Bobsled Team during the 1988's Calgary Winter Olympic Games. The movie by director Jon Turteltaub takes a lot of creative liberties in the story, recreate a movie infusing enough humor, heart and charm to make this story, very entertaining. The movie tells the story of four Jamaicans athletes, seeking a new way to make their country proud after failing the Olympic tryouts in track & field. All four, find the way in, through an ex-bobsledder named Irving Blitzer (John Candy) whom was banned from the sport, due to cheating. Now, living in shame, in Jamaica, Irving has become an alcoholic has-been. The team enlists his services to be their coach, and soon we find ourselves that maybe Team Jamaica might have a chance to make it to the Olympics, after all. The comedy was funny and enjoyable as each archetype character brings in a lovable trait in that makes it worth watching. First off, there is Derice Bannock (Leon) who dreamt of Olympic grander even if it's takes him losing his Jamaican identify by copying the Swiss team to do it. Then there is Junior Bevil (Rawle Lewis) whom lives under the strict watch of his wealthy father who doesn't wholeheartedly support his Olympic goals as a sub-plot. Third is Yul Brenner (Malik Yoba) who lacks a good education but makes up for that with physical strength and macho attitude. He is often mistaken as a thug. Last person in the team is Sanka Coffie (Doug E. Doug) whom may not be the best athlete of the four, but carries the most heart and pride in being Jamaican. The bobsledders portrayed in the film are fictional, but at less, the movie could had more realistic names for the four characters than naming one out of a pot of coffee, and an old Western actor. It's like naming a fast runner, Usain Bolt. Wait a minute, the last one is really his name. Haha. In the film, the team is formed by Jamaican sprinters after failing to qualify for the 1988 Summer Olympics. In real life, the Jamaican Summer Olympic Trials would have occurred following the Winter Olympics in Calgary. Irving Irv Blitzer is a fictional character as well; the real team had several trainers, none of whom were connected to any cheating scandal. In the sport of bobsledding, adding weight to the sled is perfectly legal. Both two and four-man sleds have minimum and maximum weights. As of this writing, the character of Irving Blitzer did nothing wrong. John Candy is amazing in the role, and it's sad that he died so soon after this movie. The villains of the film, if you can call them 'villains' are the East German team lead by arrogant leader, Josef (Peter Outerbridge) who treat the Jamaicans with serious scrutiny. Like the cartoony Jamaican stereotypes, the East German portrayal in the film are just outlandish racist. The only thing missing is the pencil thin mustaches for them. In real life, the East German team was very supported to the Jamaican bobsled team. There were somewhat true things about the film that worth noting. They did indeed turned up in Calgary without a sled. The nightclub fight didn't happen, but they almost start a riot there, when their singer got carried away and tried to sing a country song during a fund raiser for the sled. They were disqualified by the Olympic committee, but able to gain appeal. It was because the lack of training and whole thing about not having a sled. Not because cheating. Without spoiling too much of the ending, the events that happen are way different than that in real life, but the crash footage was the real life footage shot that day in 1988. The movie is so sport clichés that it's predictable to watch. The slow-building standing ovation is an example of this cheese formula. The film's depiction of such bobsledders carrying the sled over the line on their shoulders for dramatic effect works. This film in a masterful way shows that what matters is not always the victory but just being there and participating. Throughout the course of the movie we see the team prove to the world through their persistence that they are just as good as any other team, regardless of where they come from. They learn to become a team, learn to take pride in their culture, and do a lot of self-discovery. Even if the film itself, verges on being a bit mushy. Great morals that children will pick up on. There is some mild use of profanity, and few violent, but for the most part, it's worth watching with your children. The humor works, and the soundtrack is perfectly suited to support the mood of the movie. While the film was made by Americans. I think Jamaicans can find this movie, interesting to watch. Without this film; there wouldn't be much of a Jamaican bobsled program. The Jamaican national bobsled team still represents Jamaica in international bobsledding competitions even today. One of the original bobsled team member even won a Gold Medal in the Olympic in 2006 for Canada. International fans would love it for its Olympic source material, and the use of supporting your culture. So ya mon, it's a good movie! "},{"Title":"John Candy is the Coach","Date":"22 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" John Candy is Irving Blitzer, a former Olympic medalist in the bobsledding, who was disgrace and stripped of his medals for cheating. He moved to Barbados and became a bookie. He meets a Jamaican sprinter named Derice, and a pushcart racer, Sanka, and they convince him to coach them for the Calgary Winter Olympics. Two more sprinters join the team and Irving acquires an old sled to practice with. They are mocked by the East German team, resulting in a bar fight. The team trains hard, and after struggling, finally qualify for the Olympics. John Candy is excellent as the affable coach, and the athletes, convincing as the bobsledders. The feel good Rocky, triumph over adversity story has been done many times, and Cool Runnings is one of the funnier ones. "},{"Title":"One of my favourite films EVER! Absolutely Loved It!","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cool Runnings.I first saw this film as a random watch because i was pretty bored on a Weekend afternoon. And boy, was I immediately hooked. It's one of those rare films that you could watch over and over again without getting tired of it, and that is really what i liked most about Cool Runnings.I also loved this movie because of the fact it was based on a true story. These movies always leave me wanting to know what actually happened in real life, if i didn't know already, which allowed me compare how close the feature was to the actual event. Apart from the characters having different names, the other parts were pretty much accurate, and that always gives a film a boosted rating from me.The plot was well put together as well in my eyes, mainly because the characters all seem to have fitted in with the storyline anyway. You could clearly see from the start who the 4 main characters were going to be, and it remained that way throughout.The characters themselves were perfectly casted, particularly Rawle D. Lewis (Junior Bevil. His ability to play his personality is an all-time favourite. The late John Candy was very good as Irv Blitzer as well.Overall this film is an all-time great, and will be for years to come.5 stars ***** 10/10 "},{"Title":"Simply amazing!","Date":"25 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Based on the true story of first Jamaican Bobsled team on Winter Olympics 1988, this movie is one of funniest movies i've ever seen, yet contains lot of morals. Patriotism, friendship, teamwork, willingness, sacrifice and many more. A brilliant work from Disney. I don't get it why people just rate this movie 6 out of 10. It's deserved at least 7 pointers. I've watched this movie several times but still, the ending is very touching and makes me teary, although i've already known how this movie end. You've never seen this movie before? just go and grab the DVD's, and feel the emotions when the four crossed the finish line.It's a must-watch family movie and perfect 10 score for this movie from me D "},{"Title":"modern day classic/feel good film","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This was a great movie, and knowing it was based on a true story makes it even better. I loved every minute of this brilliantly made film. One character being coerced into leaving the team for his father's team for his father's business will remind you of Dead Poets Society;the difference here is that he decides to stay and the father understands. The preparation scenes for the bobsled races are hilarious, and John Candy is well-cast as the disgraced ex-athlete who is talked into coaching the team who has never even seen snow, much less a bobsled! Leonard Maltin praised Candy's performance, saying the part required acting, not comic schtick, and once again Candy proved to be a natural. I agree. The entire film was great. The team is nearly laughed off the slopes, but you can probably figure out what happens at the end. Great film! *** out of **** "},{"Title":"A little clichéd and predictable, but a well performed and nice Disney feel-good film","Date":"27 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I admit it sports movies are not my thing, but I have enjoyed some, namely Remember the Titans and this. Cool Runnings may be clichéd and predictable in terms of plot, but it is very nice to watch and it is fun. It is often very funny, and heart warming. The film is well filmed and directed, and the bob-sleighing scenes were definitely the best element of the film. They are quite inspirational and guaranteed to have you cheering. Then there are the performances, while I was most impressed with the bob-sleighing I was even more impressed with the spirited performances from the entire cast. The best was John Candy who was both hilarious and endearing, shame that sadly died not long afterwards, he was such a talented actor. In conclusion, nice and fun film. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"classic","Date":"5 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cool Runnings is one of those rare family films that you can actually watch again and again and still be impressed. It manages to appeal to the whole family, not just to children. Adults can really enjoy this film as well. It's also one of Disney's best and in my opinion it's underrated with a 6.6 rating. The film is extremely funny as well as being very heart-warming and inspiring. The five central characters hold the film effortlessly. The journeys taken by each of them as people, as bobsledders and as friends throughout the movie is conveyed brilliantly. This is a truly great 'feel good' film. Plus Doug E. Doug's performance as Sanka Coffe is hilarious. I would recommend anybody who hasn't seen Cool Runnings yet to definitely go and watch it. "},{"Title":"Cool Runnings","Date":"23 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" From director Jon Turteltaub (While You Were Sleeping, Phenomenon), I knew a little about the film's plot and one of the stars, so I decided to just watch it. Based on the true story, this sees disgraced bobsled athlete Irving 'Irv' Blitzer (John Candy, who tragically died of a heart attack not long after), and he meets disqualified Jamaican Olympics sprinter Derice Bannock (Leon). Along with friends, push-cart driver Sanka Coffie (Doug E. Doug), rich Junior Bevil (Rawle D. Lewis) and sprinter Yul Brenner (Malik Yoba), they decide to form the first Jamaican bobsled team to compete in the XV Olympic Winter Games 1987. They start pretty rough, but as they get better, they prove to be potential winners, even in the end they are winners, without actually winning. Also starring Raymond J. Barry as Kurt Hemphill, Peter Outerbridge as Josef Grool, Paul Coeur as Roger, Larry Gilman as Larry, Charles Hyatt as Whitby Bevil Sr., Winston Stona as Coolidge, Bertina Macauley as Joy Bannock, Pauline Stone Myrie as Momma Coffie and Kristoffer Cooper as Winston. The performances are all good, the bobsledding scenes are all very good viewing, and it is an inspirational story, that if not true probably wouldn't have worked, a good Disney feel-good film. It was number 49 on The 100 Greatest Family Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"Heart-warming stuff","Date":"22 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cool Runnings is a simple movie, based on the infamous exploits of the 1988 Jamaican Bobsled team.While not a fully faithful 'biopic', it does take the core idea and feeling behind the 1988 team and makes a Hollywood version of the story. The characters are fictional and the main chunk of the movie is, as such, presumably fictional too.It intersects real footage from the 1988 Winter Olympics into the movie when the team are riding the bobsled on the ice track.The movie gives us a nice message about never giving in if you have dreams. This message is expanded in a number of ways beyond Derice's dream to compete in the Olympics...you'll certainly enjoy the chemistry between the characters.And while we get this nice message, we also get an entertaining, funny and charming movie that is full of character and memorable moments.Nothing to technically comment on here. Everything in Cool Runnings is smooth, as is the acting...although I presume Jamaicans will have something to say about the accents; but they're not too bad.It's a solid family movie that leaves you with a smile on your face. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Whooa","Date":"15 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This film leaves me breathless. It is like a prescription tonic for the credit crunch. John Candy is wonderful. The bob-sleigh team is a true Ambassador for Jamaica. You add in the nasty Germans, the resentful Americans and the whole amateur sports is controlled by professionals nonsense. It all works. I know some very cynical Capitalists who expressed themselves above such candy floss trivia and yet whooped for Jamaica by the last run -)This is my favourite feel-good film of the 90's. If you have seen it already - do yourself a favour and watch it again. Everyone needs some buttons to help them through bad economic times and I've yet to find better.Cool Runnings Rules! "}{"Title":"Must watch","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I gave this film a ten, not because it is the greatest film of all time. In term of film as a science, it is not the best and many others fly by it in terms of quality. But this film has something which I think is missing from a lot of films, and is missing from a lot of other Disney projects, heart. It is a truly happy film, it is a film which can lift you no matter how bad you feel. The whole concept about the little guy beating the big guy is a bit clichéd, but it works beautifully. The acting is actually pretty good, and John Candy is actually very good and if he had turned in the same quality in a film that wasn't meant for kids easy to imagine some serious awards for him. My final reason for you watching this film is simple, I am 18 years old and I still but cant help at cry at two moments in this film. It just makes me feel so happy and hopefully...SEE THIS FILM "},{"Title":"Funniest Movie Ever","Date":"11 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" No people say, you know they can't believe, Jamaica, we have a bobsled team. This chant describes this movie, the funnest movie ever made! From the first minute, to the heart pounding finish, I did not stop laughing. This movie is loosely based in the Jamican bobsled team at the 1988 winter Olympics. It is a true story, just slightly modified, to make room for more comedy. The plot is easy to follow. I could not stop watching because I had to know how it ended. The acting in this movie was incredible. With only one big name actor, John Candy, you would never know that none of the actors never made it big time. Doug E. Doug was the only other actor that ever made it somewhere. He later stared in the T.V. show 'Cosby' ( not to be mistaken with 'The Cosby Show') and voiced Bernie in 'Shark Tale'. The bobsledding scenes were really well done. The camera work was great and the transitions from a movie camera, what would be shown on a TV screen and the REAL footage from the Olympics was perfect. I have seen this movie over 50 times ( no joke) and i still laugh when i watch it. It is great for all ages and and is a must see. "},{"Title":"Long live Jamaica!","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When I saw Cool Runnings the first time, I mostly cracked up at the line about drawing a line down the middle of Yul Brynner's head (cut me some slack; I was nine years old). Nowadays, I understand that the movie did focus on a real story and so at least had that value. While it was silly at times and did try to pull at emotions at times, I still consider it a pretty admirable movie. John Candy (who would have turned 57 today) plays one of his slightly more serious roles as the Jamaican bobsled team's manager; I always say that these movies show what we lost when he died. But among other things, I just like to see Jamaica. I mean, the country that gave us calypso and reggae also had a bobsled team! All in all, a pretty good movie. "},{"Title":"Feel the rhythm...","Date":"12 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" There was no real coach who committed a breach of character. The four bobsledders in the movie were not the actual people. They were Harris, Stokes, White, and Clayton.Two Americans with Jamaican business interests got the idea after witnessing a Jamaican pushcart derby. Yes, they decided that these sprinters were perfect for push bobsledding.There was no sprinter who tripped in the Olympics causing the bobsledding try instead (this was in the movie). The Winter Olympics had already passed and it was now time for the Summer Olympics, so that kicks that premise out.The names of Yul Brenner (after actor Yul Brynner who was bald), and Sanka (whose last name in the film was Coffie) were inside jokes. Also Sanka means sled in several Slavic languages.The push bobsled team did enter again in 1992, finishing 14th. They won the Gold Medal in 2000. In 2006 they failed to qualify.I read so much misinformation, I thought I would correct some. Did I enjoy the spirit of these men and the movie? Absolutely. It has a nice mix of characters and gives one an uplifting spirit. I've watched it more than once. And probably will watch again in a few years. Great inspiration. "},{"Title":"Best Turtletaub film.","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is the director's best film ever - forget 'National Treasure' which was an absolute joke with no heart. Cool Runnings has LOTS of heart. Almost everyone gives this a 10.For anybody who follows international sports, the characters and organizations in this movie ring true. Whether you follow skating, gymnastics, skiing, or any other essentially solo international sports, you have seen the loners, the chosen stars, the politics, fund raising, and everything else that goes on behind and in front of the scenes. John Candy rules as the coach as well as the team.This movie captures those people and circumstances exceptionally well. As has been noted in the coverage of the Olympics, the parallels to Bobsled team are stunning. But it is exactly the dated fashions, music, cinematography, skiing equipment, and attitudes that make it a keeper.Candy is the quintessential American loner, out for his own goals and not interested in serving the needs of his sport, his team, or the international press. It's a character we've seen a thousand times in real life, and it's one who gets deified or demonized depending on his success in the field of sport.I love the line 'If you're not enough without the gold medal you'll never be enough with it' "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cool runnings is not at all a *BAD* film, but its not perfect, but its O.K so watch it. Jamaican Bobsled team, okay...but it turns out to be good interesting, funny and all that stuff but like i said before , its not *PERFECT* i think it should be higher than whats its marked on IMDb though. I think it should be round about seven or somewhere near that...Seen films better but not bad...I like it where the Jamaican Bobsled team are doing lifts on the bars and The Coach has to push Sanka up because he cant do it himself. I also like where he kisses his luck egg. People might think different to me but thats my report on Cool runnings...George Rymer, Age 9 "},{"Title":"A Winner","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" COOL RUNNINGS ****1/2 Based on the story of the four Jamaicans who made it to the national winter bobsledding Olympics despite all odds and returned to their home country as heroes, even though they didn't get a trophy; they had a profound impact on Jamaica's national heritage and history. In this script, we find four Jamaicans of different social classes joining together to make a riot of a team that keeps the laughs rolling. With great one-liners, wholesome family entertainment, and in-depth, realistic content, 'Cool Runnings' is a film you're sure to enjoy. It's a winner. One of John Candy's last films.Rating System ***** Excellent **** Good *** Fair ** Poor * Bad "},{"Title":"A great film for all the family.","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When I first thought about watching this film with my family I thought it would be some kind of cheap kids movie, but I was so wrong.It was really funny and touching at the end. It tells a story of 4 Jamaican runners who want to become the first Jamaican bobsleigh, yes bobsleigh team. Then they are trained by a former gold medallist. The story is exciting but light hearted and a pleasure to watch I would recommend this film to any one who enjoys good quality, feel good movies and any age. The acting is brilliant as the stars put over the fact that they having a good making it as well as the characters. Costumes are bright and colourful much like the clothes in Jamaica so it also seems realistic. Well done to all who made this and I hope future viewers have as much fun watching this film as I did! "},{"Title":"A great Story","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cool Runnings were are movie that i have seen over 15 times and why ? well cool runnings is a great compenation of Laughs And Feeling I Don't Know Why but this movie made me actually cry in the end it is not like the end is like sorrow no the end is just so beautiful and so heart felt that you would like to see it many times more and what makes this movie even greater is the acting of john candy it is good for a time to see him in a more serious acting don't get me wrong the movie is really a laugh out but it is also really heart felt it has a lot of wrongs yeah but when you first are cut up in the motion you cannot stop watching it all in all it is a must see "},{"Title":"Profound film","Date":"12 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Did anyone actually cry seeing this? For some reason, I get so emotional at the end - it's totally bizarre.Really love John Candy's performance.The music attached the numerous montages is very uplifiting, and there is never a dull moment in this movie.Cool Runnings is both a great comedy and a great sports film.Super underdog film.John Candy does a great job as the coach and is phenomenal in the end.Great movie for any age, something that can really be watched over and over again.Highly recommend this. "}{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"14 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cool Runnings is a great movie because it combines adventure, humor, and sport into one movie. However, I think this movie is about following your dreams and believing in yourself more than anything else. After all it is a Disney film. The scene that best sums up this idea is when Sanka, Junior, and Yul are all in the hotel room the Hotel room talking together. Sanka begins to make fun of Yul's dream to leave the island of Jamaica and make something of himself. Yul pulls out a picture of the house he plans to live in once he reaches his goals. Sanka just laughs at the picture and says, If you plan on living there you better marry the Queen of England. That's Buckingham Palace. In that moment Yul is truly defeated, he crumples up the picture up and throws it on the floor. Junior picks up the picture and lays it back on Yul's dresser. He explains that without dreams like that no one would get anywhere in life. His father came from nothing and is now one of the wealthiest men on the island and he believes that their bobsled team can accomplish that feeling of success as well. If they all believe, as a team, that they have every right to be at the Olympics in order to live their dream then there is no stopping them. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is one of the better sports movies I've seen. There were comedic elements as well as a solid plot. The storyline follows the members of the '88 Jamaican bobsled team as they journey to overcome the prejudices of more qualified teams at the Olympic games. They have to deal with those people who don't believe they have what it takes because they're different. They also have to deal with the fact that their coach is looked at as a cheater because of a stunt that he pulled 16 years previous. Throughout the movie the characters are faced with all kinds of challenges, and in the end they manage to pull together as a team and rise above it to beat all the obstacles in their paths. "},{"Title":"Probably my favourite film.","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Cool Runnings is probably one of my favourite films. It is very funny, but one of few comedies I have seen with a good storyline. It is a great combination of people, their problems or history, comedy, sportsmanship and fun. I would recommend this film to everyone, it is suitable for the whole family, and very enjoyable. A fantastic film.  "},{"Title":" very entertaining movie for the whole family","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  great video rental! We miss John Candy more and more, when we see how well he plays here.  This movie is funny and definitely for the whole family. Even the story is true, it is not well known to most and therefore the suspense is kept to the end.  Cool Running! "},{"Title":"It's all an illusion","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is Vanilla Ice's movie Cool As Ice's brother, although Cool Runnings is Cool As Ice's much more successful brother. At the movie family reunion sometimes it get's awkward. Was this movie based on a cartoon? I'm trying to remember which cartoon it is but I have various chemicals coursing through my veins inhibiting memory. The plot of this movie involves dinosaurs, particularly a precocious young dinosaur who has recently just lost his parents, or is that the Land Before Time? What's this movie about then? Is this the one about the post apocalyptic future, or the one about the Olympics? I love the Olympics! This movie is better than well over five thousand of all the movies ever made! "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"18 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Loosely based on the true story of the first Jamaican bobsled team trying to make it to the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. Plagued by factual errors, and is a forced comedy that may have been smarter (and more authentic) to sell as a drama. Definitely takes a while to get going, but if you have the patience and are eager to make it to the end, you'll find that the laughs and the charming characters are worth the effort. Originally titled Blue Maaga. Those who make it to the closing credits will be rewarded with Jimmy Cliff's excellent cover of Johnny Nash's I Can See Clearly Now.**½ (out of four) "},{"Title":"Cool film!","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" We loved the film. Favourite phrase  You dead, man?.We liked the sport, the courage and pride of the bobsledders.The film is very funny, Sanka is funny with his egg.Favourite character  Sanka. The film is very funny, Sanka is funny with his egg.Favourite phrase  You dead, man?.We loved the music. We loved the film. We liked Jamaica and Canada.The team spirit is very important. Favourite character  Sanka.We liked Jamaica and Canada. We liked the sport, the courage and pride of the bobsledders.The 5A class in Fréjus "},{"Title":"I Have Seen This Film Over 10 Times.","Date":"18 December 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Top casting, top acting, top script, photography, background musical score & direction.With established comedy actor John Candy(Uncle Buck, Planes Trains and Automobiles) and a solid supporting cast which includes Leon and Doug E. Doug.This film is loosely based on the true story of the Jamaica national bobsled team's debut in the bobsleigh competition of the 1988 Winter Olympics in Canada.Plot Irving Irv Blitzer was an American bobsled two time Gold Medalist at the 1968 Winter Olympics who finished first in two events again during the 1972 Winter Olympics but was disqualified from the latter for cheating and retired in disgrace to Jamaica, where he leads an impoverished life as a bookie. Irving is approached by two Jamaican athletes top 100m runner Derice Bannock, who failed to qualify for the 1988 Summer Olympics when another opponent tripped him at the trials, and Sanka Coffie, a champion push cart racer.The athletes wish to use Irving's previous experience as a Coach in order to compete in the 1988 Winter Olympics as bobsledders. Irving had been good friends with Derice's father, Ben, a former sprinter whom Irving had tried to recruit for the bobsled team years ago, who is presumed to be deceased. Yul Brenner, another runner who was tripped at the qualifier, joins the team as does as Junior Bevil, the runner who tripped Yul and Derice. Eventually Irving is convinced to coach the team.The four try to find various ways to earn money to get in the Olympics; singing on the street, arm wrestling, and holding a kissing booth, but all fail. Junior, however, sells his car, which gets the team the money that they need.In Calgary, Irving manages to acquire an old practice sled from the American team, as the Jamaicans have never been in an actual bobsled. The Jamaicans are looked down upon by other countries, in particular the East German team whose arrogant leader, Josef, tells them to go home, resulting in a bar fight. The team resolves to view the contest more seriously, continuing to train and improve their technique. They qualify for the finals, but are briefly disqualified. At the primary judge meeting, Irving immediately confronts his former coach from the '72 Olympic Winter Games Kurt Hemphill, now a primary judge of the '88 Olympic Winter Games, for disqualifying the Jamaicans for his mistake. He confesses that he made the biggest mistake in his life by cheating by hiding weights underneath the sled to make it run faster. Irving's 1972 Gold Medals were revoked and he embarrassed his country with the scandal. He says that if Hemphill wants revenge, just punish him, not his team. He begs Hemphill to let the Jamaicans qualify and represent their country in the Olympics. Later, the judges overturn their decision and the Jamaicans are back in.The Jamaicans' first day on the track results in more embarrassment and a last place finish. Sanka convinces Derice to stop copying qualities of the Swiss team. Once the team develops their own style, the second day proves better; the Jamaican team finishes with a fast time which puts them in eighth position. Later, Irving tells Derice the truth about his past and convinces him to think of himself as a champion even if he doesn't win the gold, saying, A gold medal is nice, but if you're not enough without one, you'll never be enough with one. For the first half of the final day's race it looks as though they will break the world bobsled speed record, until tragedy strikes their sled, due to one of the blades falling off, flips on its side coming out of a turn towards the end of their run, leaving them meters short of the finish line. However, the team lifts the sled over their shoulders and walks across the finish line to rousing applause from spectators, including Josef, Hempill, and Junior's father. The team, at the end, feels accomplished enough to return in four years to the next winter Olympics. A brief epilogue states the team returned to Jamaica as heroes and upon their return to the Winter Olympics four years later, they were treated as equals.Completely unlike the story in the film, the Jamaican team was not in conflict with any of the other international bobsledding teams. Other teams were, in fact, supportive of the Jamaican team. One of the other teams even lent the Jamaican team a backup sled so they could qualify.The bobsled competition in the film consists of three individual runs, whereas in reality the Olympic bobsled competition is two runs a day held over a two day period.In the film, the Jamaicans are on world record pace during the final run of the competition when their sled crashes. They emerge from the sled and carry it across the finish line. In real life, however, the crash occurred before the finals (eliminating the Jamaicans) and Jamaica was not on a world record pace. However, real-life footage of the crash was used in the film. After the crash, the team walked next to their sled as track officials slid it down the track. They received sporadic applause, but not a rhythmic slow clap as in the movie Verdict A MUST BUY FILM THE WHOLE FAMILY WILL ENJOY. "},{"Title":"Great movie!!!","Date":"20 December 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Disney has a handful of sports films such as The Mighty Ducks films, The Rookie (2002), Remember the Titans (2000), Angels in the Outfield (1994), Invincible (2006), Miracle (2004), etc.Cool Runnings made me laugh throughout the entire movie.The film stars John Candy, Leon, Doug E. Doug, Rawle D. Lewis, Malik Yoba, etc.Irving Blitzer (John Candy) disgraced himself when putting extra weights into his team's bob in the Olympics, resulting in his gold medal being taken away from him. Years later, Derice Bannock, son to a former friend of Irv, fails to qualify for the 100-yard sprint for the Olympics due to a stupid accident. But when he hears of Irving Blitzer living also on Jamaica, Derice decides to go to the Games anyway. If not as a sprinter, then as a bobsledder. After some starting problems, the first Jamaican bobsledding team is formed and heads for Calgary. In the freezing weather Derice, Sanka, Junior and Yul are only laughed at, since nobody can take a Jamaican bobsledding team led by a disgraced trainer for serious. But team spirit and a healthy self confidence may lead to a few surprises in the upcoming Winter Games.This is one heck of a funny movie that I've seen in years.But too bad that John Candy passed away a year later after this is made, his official last movie for him was Wagon's East, but he did Canadian Bacon before that, but it came out in 1995.This is another movie you should see, you'll laugh like crazy.Cool Runnings gets 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Best Film Ever","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is probably the best film i have ever seen. It has a fantastic story that is loosely based on a true story. The acting is great and the characters are hilarious. I especially like that fact that the team doesn't win in the end. This makes the movie a lot more meaningful and a lot less cheesy that it would be if they won. Sanka (Doug E. Doug) is probably my favorite character from any movie. He is hilarious and keeps the movie funny all the way to the end. It is simply a feel good movie and no more than that. If you haven't already seen it i would highly recommend it to anyone, old or young. It just came out on DVD and is selling for cheap on EBAY so there is no reason for you not to have this movie. "}{"Title":"Feel the Rhythmn","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The movie Cool Runnings is a fun little flick which actually begins to tug at the heart strings. It is the story of the first ever Jamaican bobsled team. Derice, a spurned Olympic runner, joins up with 3 other Jamaicans and a washed up bobsledder from the states to try and make it in the Calgary Olympics. The team chemistry finally gels and becomes a medal threat. The happy ending, however, is not for them as they crash on their final run. While this film is a little hokey in parts, which is to be expected because of its Disney roots, it actually makes a case for it to be taken seriously as a movie. The movie is a good mix of funny instances featuring actors John Candy (Irving Blitzer) and Doug E. Doug (Sanka) as well as serious, with the determination of Derice (Leon) driving the film. Even when watching this movie after the initial viewing, I still am caught up in the moment and wish, for once, the team to make it through and win the event. Sadly, however, Disney restrains itself from its typical Cinderella ending to depict the actual crash in the Calgary Olympics. This movie is light enough for casual watching but deep enough to actually entice people to sit and watch over and over. "},{"Title":"Get on up it's bobsled time!","Date":"13 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Cool Runnings is both a great comedy and a great sports film. It can become overly cliché at times, and the story itself is the typical underdog story, but the origin is much different. The comedy really captures how much of a joke the idea of Jamaican bobsled team was in 1988. Even if they crash at the end, they are able to win the respect of the fans. There are a lot of great shots used in this film, but the extreme close up was used so many times that a couple of the races looked like they were just repeats.If you have seen Remember the Titans, then you will recognize the treatment that Disney gives to a true sports story. Even serious matters are turned into comedic events. The music attached the numerous montages is very uplifiting, and there is never a dull moment in this movie. Dialogue is as long as it needs to be to get a point across and not any longer. John Candy does a great job as the coach, conveying the emotion a former Olympian turned traitor would experience having to come back to a sport where he is not very popular.Great movie for any age, something that can really be watched over and over again. "},{"Title":"Winter Olympics Time Again!!!","Date":"11 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Well the time has came for the Winter Olympics and so I watched Cool Runnings yesterday. It's a great movie full of life and light hearted humor. After all these years its still funny and the wise cracking Sangka still makes me laugh. It's a movie full of good messages and morals. This movies is also inspirational at certain key moments, which gives reward to human qualities, like belief in yourself and others and determination. Having said that at times it is a bit dull but all in all its not too bad.You know there are some people who can not believe Jamaica has a bobsled team! Respect to Mr. Blitzer! "},{"Title":"Downhill All the Way","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Here is the Disney Buena Vista formula find or build a story based on a very simple moral. Being all you can be is good. Make the characters thin (figuratively) and endearing. Build the whole thing around sweeping music. Disney has the best music shop in the business, especially for telling us what to think and when. Turn the crank.In so turning, emphasize the opinions of others as the key plot device. The climax should take place with a crowd you have won over.This is worse than a waste of time. This can damage your ability to critically think when you encounter a real film. I don't say that often with film (always with TeeVee). But this one is particularly pernicious and subtly patronizing.Ted's evaluation 1 of 4 -- You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"Not very funny or entertaining. . .","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Good story and subject for a comedy, but totally misses the mark.  So obvious it hurts, as in conflict between rebellious rich kid and his dad, weak man and bully, bob sled teams from other countries are rude and mean to the fun-loving Jamaicans, etc.  John Candy, in one of his last roles, looks and acts tired.  There is no creativity in the script or story, and the acting is weak and characterizations too stereo typical.  If you're age 10 or younger, you might enjoy it, else don't bother. "},{"Title":"Kept me entertained","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  That's right.  I was going to give this lame excuse for a film a 3, but I had pity on it, seeing that one night in Vienna, I was bored to death and it happened to be on TV.  If not for successfully wasting my time without me noticing, it would be a three...however it is a 4. "},{"Title":"Cool shouldn't be used with this movie","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was awful. just flat out lame. i didn't wanna see it when it came out in theatres (thank god i didn't waste my money), and i ended up seeing it on video with a friend that had it. i was around 13 when i saw it and i still thought it was lame then. not funny, not cool.  "}]