[{"Title":"One of the best Chinese films... ever!","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"95 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  One of the best Chinese films...ever!The story was touching and brilliant, packed with unforgettable scenes The Dickens-like portrayal of the young Peking opera performers undergoing training was heart-breaking.  The presence of Japanese, Nationalist and Communnist troops were powerful reminders of Modern China's torrential times.  The class struggle scene was a painfully poignant reference to the inhumanity of Maoist China (especially for those Chinese old-timers who vividly remember the days of the Cultural Revolution). And off course, the last scene was nothing short of stunning.  It begs the viewer to open another box of tissues.One scene that particularly had me in tears was when Douzi was going through his opium withdrawal and he starts shivering, It's so cold. Mother, the water's frozen.  It was clearly a heart-breaking reference to the earlier days of his arduous youth.The acting was also superb.  Leslie Cheung's portrayal of the effeminate Douzi was hynoptically convincing.  (Especially compared to his usual roles in HK action flicks).  Gong Li constantly demands our attention with her stunning beauty and charm.  Last but not least, Zhang Fengyi's portrayal of the masculine Shitou was excellent.  I can't imagine anyone else taking his role.It's refreshing to see such an intelligent and historic Chinese epic (especially after watching all those deadbrain gun-toting HK action flicks) Director Chen Kaige did a wonderful job portraying the complex and often uneasy love affair between the two stage brothers.  He also managed to skillfully express profound themes that resonated throughout the film. Fate, loyalty, class struggle, the parallels between Opera and Life, and other ideas leave the viewer dazed in deep thoughts for hours after the film.Because of the heavy references to modern Chinese events, some viewers may be confused by this film.  While modern Chinese history is not a pre-requisite, I believe knowing the basics would definitely enhance the experience of this film.  But nonetheless, this is quite possibly one of the best Chinese films... ever.  Take it from me  Rent this one NOW!Trivia Note The struggle scene (where the Red Guards dragged out Douzi and Shitou in front of the mob for confession) was based upon the real-life experience of Director Chen Kaige.  Chen suffered the same fate when he was purged during the Cultural Revolution.  In fact, he denounced his own father, an act which he later regretted. "},{"Title":"A fine movie, truly an epic.","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"79 out of 94 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I finally got a chance to see Farewell my Concubine.  I'd been anxious to see it since its initial release in 1993.  It surprised me in its depth and technical skill.Three points make this film outstanding.  The first is the technical skill of the director and the luscious taste of the director of photography. The entire film is a feast for the eyes, taking full advantage of elaborate costumes and exotic locations.  The second strength is in the actual storytelling.  The plot is a fascinating tragedy, it feels almost Shakespearean.  The acting is nothing short of incredible.  Some of China's finest actors demonstrate their ability to carry a story that covers 52 years.  Normally, these two strengths alone would be reason enough to see a film, but Farewell my Concubine succeeds in satisfying one more category (the bain of any epic) historical accuracy.Farewell my Concubine is exceptionally accurate in portraying the monumental changes that were sweeping China at the time.  The film doesn't just treat these events as background events, but drags them right into the plot and pins the characters into their surroundings.  This is interesting when you consider that the story takes place in the Peking Opera, not the most likely place for these events to have effect.  Instead, as we see the new China emerge, we watch these vestiges of old society fall, and the work of all involved make this transition an achievement to behold.  The power of this film was not missed by Chinese censors who banned, removed, and then banned the film again several times over -debating whether or not its artistic brilliance was worth subversive portrayals of suicide and homosexuality.  Unlike The Last Emperor, this film was made by Chinese film makers and is in tune with its subject.  I recommend this film highly!As one last note, the version I saw was a DVD containing the original 170 minute version of the film, in its wide-screen splendor.  From what I understand, the shorter versions released internationally deleted and shortened some opera scenes for fear that they would be lost on Western audiences.  Having no prior experience with any Peking Opera, I found the scenes fascinating and integral to appreciating the entire story.  Spend the extra time if you can.  "},{"Title":"A Tremendous Story on Many Levels","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"65 out of 91 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  As an WASP American married a lady from Mainland China, I have a great interest in and curiosity about China. My wife's mother and father actually saw these men perform. I have discussed this movie with many Chinese friends, most of whom saw it before coming to this country. Some of them knew the story from real life as well as the movie. They are quick to point out the accuracy of the story in its detailing of Chinese history from the end of the last dynasty until its end during the Cultural Revolution. They also claim that the major happenings in the movie are real events, not the norm for most of Hollywood's real life stories.  One point of conjecture in the movie is the sexually of Dieyi. It is presumed he is/becomes a homosexual.  However, from what I have learned about the Peking/BeiJing Opera through reading and discussions, it is more likely that Dieyi was virtually unaware of his own sexuality.  As opposed to being a hetero or homosexual, he was asexual in a way like it had be surgically removed from his being. It had been taken from him through the rigors of his training and years of performance.  His love for Xiaolou is powerful, maybe even surpassing ordinary man/woman love, but platonic in as much as his mind is devoid of its sexuality. He suffers the same jealous anger and sense of betrayal as might be found when a wife discovers the cheatings of her husband, and reacts, unfortunately, accordingly (Heroin). His real, enduring love is performing. It is the one constant that has seen him through.  He throws himself into it, being willing to perform for anyone, even as it drives the story to the end.  The end of the movie is not satisfying to everyone.  It was not a Hollywood ending.  However, it was reality. "},{"Title":"I'll not make a film better than this.","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"70 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I've always boasted that I could make a better film about China, about the Cultural Revolution in particular, until I saw this film.    It triggered an out-burst of many of my emotions I hadn't had since I left China.   In the movie, as the events developed, the tragedy, caused by the human feelings  love, hate, jealousy, and guilt under the social unrests,  came so naturally to me.     It is a movie which should not be missed.  "},{"Title":"A powerful film (and I do not give that out lightly)","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I've seen this movie more times than I can count and I cry every time. I first saw it in the theater in 1993 and I was rooting for it to win Best Foreign Film Oscar, but it lost to the far inferior Belle Epoque (Spain). As to the person who wrote that this film made Cheng Dieyi seem like he was made to be gay because of abuse, I think you need to take another look. To my mind, Dieyi seemed to be infatuated with Shitzou as soon as he got there. However you look at it, this is a film that has great performances all around. I especially loved Leslie Cheung as the adult Cheng Dieyi (requiem eternem Leslie, 1956-2003), not to mention Gong Li. An excellent film, but be forewarned it's almost three hours long. 10/10 "},{"Title":"A very lovely film...","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"33 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" The film paints the story of two actors, from their first encounter at school in the Twenties through their success as stars of the Peking Opera, difficulties during the Japanese occupation, the Communist takeover in 1949 and the traumas of the Cultural Revolution in the Sixties&#133; For the so-called Fifth Generation of Chinese filmmakers, the film touches new ground on two fronts&#133; In the first place, though it does not avoid from acknowledging the sufferings under the old regime, it takes an embittered view of Communist society and of the Cultural Revolution specifically&#133; The two friends, Xiaolou and Dieyi, adopt a young man, Xiao Si, who becomes one of the Red Guards and quickly informs the political sins of his benefactors&#133; Second the film is a love story of a rare kind&#133; Dieyi is a homosexual and suffers rejection when Xiaolou begins an affair with Juxian (Gong Li), a gorgeous prostitute&#133; The personal conflict of each character is the heart of this exceptional movie&#133; "},{"Title":"One of the grandest epics of our time...","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"39 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  A masterpiece in every sense of the word, Chen Kaige's breath-stealing parable of China's multi-layered political revolution, is centred on two men. Chen presents us with an absorbing story of a 52 year-old relationship between two opera actors mounted upon an impossibly large canvas. But without sacrificing any intricate plot development or smudging over any delicate complexity in the relationship.Considered by many to be one of the greatest epics of all time, this film rightly established Chen's reputation as one of the most brilliant narrative and artistic directors of our time, along with other such contemporary auteurs as Kieslowski, Bertolucci and Kurosawa.You can not call yourself a film-buff if you haven't seen this movie. And film-students you can witness the true art of filmmaking and story telling through the skilled hands of Chen Kaige's Farewell My Concubine. "},{"Title":"Opening and closing scenes","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" quote by tedg Opening scenes are seductions, promises. They transport one to the world of the story and establish who you as viewer can expect to be. Done right, they are an art to themselves. This film's opening is among the best I've seen, establishing the world of performance politics as theater and love as both. It lets you know the perspective is centered on a stylized stage and concerns loss, sexually ambiguous brotherhood and betrayal. All in a couple minutes.Well put. Also noteworthy is that at the end of the movie the opening scene is being mirrored (the two actors on stage being lit by a spot light), the film thus coming full circle. Quite ingenious.What is good about the movie is that we (Westerners that is) learn a lot about recent Chinese history, which cannot be a bad thing considering the direction in which China is heading.Oh, and Leslie Cheung's - may he rest in peace - performance is simply outstanding. But then, the acting is first rate all round.This is one hell of a movie.And, off topic, I have once again realised that the problem with sub-titled films is that one misses so much/too much of the actual acting, making it really necessary to view movies twice. Still, (a lot) better than viewing dubbed films though. "},{"Title":"A great movie made even greater with the DVD.","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favorite all time films, and I associate it with another of my faves, Remains of the Day. Both films deal with unrealized love over a backdrop of important historical events that directly or indirectly affect the main characters. Both films are extremely well made with lavish color and attention to details. Both offer a sort of built in history lesson for the viewer, and both are adaptations of novels that are in themselves worth reading.Farewell My Concubine has more of an epic sense about it, and has been made even more so with the 170 minute DVD version. Being of Asian descent, I thoroughly enjoyed the additional opera scenes. But, as others have indicated, the singing will probably have an adverse effect to western audiences as the movie progresses. As with any novel adaptation, there are many differences between Lillian Lee's book and the film. I personally would have liked some things in the film to have stayed closer to the book, but overall, the film definitely is able to stand on its own and, I feel, does the book justice. Banned twice in China, once due to the veiled homosexual themes and later for Dieyi's suicide at the end (authorities insisted suicides never happened in China), this film nevertheless is the result of an unusual amount of artistic freedom given to director Chen Kaige, and he exploits it to the full. This is especially true during the Cultural Revolution scenes, which casts a negative light on the Communist government. Kaige's experience as a former Red Guard provides a frighteningly accurate portrayal of the terror during this period.I initially viewed this movie because I am constantly mesmerized by the skill and beauty of Gong Li (who isn't?). But I quickly became fascinated with the outstanding performances of Leslie Cheung and Zhang Fengyi, not to mention the children of the opera school in the first part of the movie. I will agree with the reviewer who stated that the constant beatings of the children is a little harrowing. But it does make one realize that sometimes other cultures in other times put different values on human life than we do.One of the main points of the film is how the stage role of Concubine Yu Ji paralleled the life of Dieyi in his offstage life. I found this to be eerie as I discovered that Leslie Cheung's real life in many ways mirrored Dieyi's character. Cheung was a huge pop superstar in Asia during the 80's, and widely known for his gender bending styles of dress onstage. Cheung himself said that the role of Dieyi was, in fact, him, and I would not debate this. Speculation that depression and a failed relationship with his male lover led to Cheung's suicide a couple of weeks ago, somewhat similar to the plot in the movie. Perhaps life imitating art??A great film made even greater with the additional footage on the DVD. Not recommended  for small children, homophobes, anyone expecting martial arts action, or those unable to sit through more than 2 hours of movie watching.  "},{"Title":"Beautiful, captivating movie...","Date":"12 January 2004","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  'Farewell My Concubine' is, in a word, excellent.Though often portrayed as haunting and disturbing, it's also quite touching at times... attributed largely to the outstanding emotional performances by the film's lead cast.  Hands down, Chen Kaige has directed one of the most beautiful films involving the fall of the great Imperial China... and subsequently... the friendship of two of China's greatest leading opera performers.  Leslie Cheung's role as Cheng Dieyi, the tormented 'concubine' of the story, is absolutely astounding, and is probably one of his greatest performances to date.  Fengyi Zhang plays well opposite Cheung, and Gong Li is fantastic as always.  The production sets are superb, as are the costumes and cinematography.  Definitely a must see for all fans of foreign cinema, and certainly worthwhile for all newcomers.10 out of 10 "}{"Title":"A lavish, opulent, and intense film; bring your lunch","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" As far as story and content goes this owes more than a little to The   Last Emperor (1987), which is not surprising since Director Kaige Chen   was a member of the cast of that film and no doubt was influenced by   its success. But stylistically, and especially as the film was directed   and cut, Farewell, My Concubine is original and stands alone. If The   Last Emperor was a Western movie about the Chinese political experience   in the Twentieth Century, then Farewell, My Concubine is a Chinese   movie, influenced by the West, about that same experience. While the   former focused on the emperor and those around him, Farewell...   focuses on two actors of the Beijing opera.     Admittedly, Farewell... is long (I saw the 157-minute version) and   sometimes strays from it intent, but gains and maintains power and   keeps our interest mainly because everything is presented in a   starkly-lit, intensely focused manner. The epic-like story itself is   good if a little pedestrian at times. The lavish and stunning sets in   opulent color and design, are just fascinating to view. Everything from   the extras in the crowds to the porcelain for tea is carefully chosen   and presented. Particularly striking are the traditional costumes and   makeup, shown to advantage through the fine camera work. But what makes   the film is the glimpse we get of the world of the Beijing opera and   its traditions. From the Dickensian boy's school for the actors to the   intrigues with patrons and the political powers that be, there's the   sense of a world beyond our experience.    The acting was also excellent. The beautiful Gong Li, who played Duan's   wife was captivating as she displayed a wide range of emotion. Leslie   Cheung as Dieyi, the concubine, and Fengyi Zhang as Duan, the king,   were also excellent. The boys who played the actors as children,   especially the actor who played Douzi, were first rate. "},{"Title":"I've Caused You So Much Grief","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Opening scenes are seductions, promises. They transport one to the world of the story and establish who you as viewer can expect to be. Done right, they are an art to themselves. This film's opening is among the best I've seen, establishing the world of performance politics as theater and love as both. It lets you know the perspective is centered on a stylized stage and concerns loss, sexually ambiguous brotherhood and betrayal. All in a couple minutes.And then it unfolds. That unfolding is not wound tightly like the entry; it keeps the play outside the play notion, but epically sprawls. This is clearly a film worth watching, but not all the character/actor combinations are powerful enough to carry the epic scale.There is something that bothers me. China is an old civilization with its own stylized conventions of storytelling. We somewhat see those in what is depicted on stage, but the film uses none of them, instead taking a strongly western stance. The dissonance is jarring, especially since so much is made of the symmetries between the film and the opera. This is somewhat true with the style of acting, but in that dimension I admit that innovation is near impossible. But the stance of the camera! We went through a dynastic-like period, a Japanese period, a brief nationalistic one, and then a couple iterations of mob totalitarianism (with a Soviet flavor). But except for the sets, nothing changed so far as the environment in which the narrative was presented. Should have, could have. Instead we have the Hollywood style as transferred through budget-conscious Hong Kong Static camera, few setups, languorous editing. "},{"Title":"'Gone With the Wind' of China","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" An apt functional definition of art is 'a stylistic representation of an artist's views through a given medium.' A style can take many forms, such as realism or surrealism, but what all styles hold in common is the conveyance of a message. Films like Farewell my Concubine are political in nature, expounding a philosophy that the personal is political . This movie is a high-style epic drama, which is why some critics call it whiney  or soapy . Although there are melodramatic elements in the film, it should not be taken at face value, but instead as representational of Chen Kaige's deep-seated feelings about the status of the Chinese people. What appears to be a story of love and betrayal amongst tumultuous political change is in fact a criticism of the dissociation between Chinese politics and Chinese culture, causing major problems throughout an individual's life.The dichotomy between culture and politics and the tension therein caused, is shown by three broad elements Peking Opera representing culture, extraneous political forces, and people living in between art and politics. By examining how all three elements interact we will see the director's political views and how the personal lives of characters figuratively represent the dilemma of the Chinese people.What lies between culture and politics is the individual. The individual, like a canvas is painted by environmental factors. For Douzi and Shitou, the principle characters, their first impression in the film is the Peking opera. The Peking Opera as an environmental factor represents culture. As the troupe leader says while the children are going through difficult training, 'the Opera is what makes us human, without it we are but animals.' As people, our culture is our humanity . Food, art, clothing, religion, and ceremony culminate to create 'culture.' Without it, we could scarcely define ourselves apart from animals. The Peking Opera represents Chinese culture, and purposely so. Few elements could capture the true complexity and nuance of a culture like Peking Opera can. The movie, developed in the last three-strip Technicolor lab , allows the colour, technique, flexibility, and more, to show the product of the cultural embellishment in Peking Opera (Chinese culture). As well, to fully integrate into a culture, one must suffer cultural hazing. Douzi undergoes many initiations. His finger being chopped off, a pedophilic encounter with an old man and continual beatings for not accepting cultural role are examples of his initiations. But after accepting the throws of culture, he finds comfort and stability within his culture. Douzi's transfer of his stage character, the concubine, into real life is an affirmation of his cultural identity. The concubine must suffer in the opera, and therefore so must Douzi. The climax of his suffering is his own death, which is the ultimate instatement of cultural identity. At the opposite end of Douzi is Shitou, a character who is far more politically oriented than Douzi. Shitou can be considered a cultural sellout, someone who sees survival as more important than tradition. At the heels of Cultural Revolution Shitou abandons his history. For example, when both King and Concubine discuss their art to the young communists in an acting class, Shitou yields to the political flame of communism, agreeing with the young communists. And as artifacts of his cultural history are being burned in the streets (books and swords), he too dumps his personal history into the flames (wife and friend). Douzi can do nothing but kill himself, out of love for king and country, because his king has lost the final battle.The tension between Douzi and Shitou embody the tension between Culture and politics. Chen shows that one end of the spectrum must suffer at the hands of the other. Throughout the film we feel sympathy for a dying way of life, especially as we grow to know more about the nature of Peking Opera. Our sympathy for opera suggests that alien political systems antagonize the cultural system, and therefore are an object of criticism. This is most apparent during the Cultural Revolution when traditional artifacts and ways of life are brutalized. The 'culture of revolution' according to Marx should destroy a bourgeois' past, and establish social and economic equality for the masses . Instead, what the Cultural Revolution destroyed was what made all Chinese equal and great, their cultural heritage. The revolutionists may have dispelled capitalist motivations, but first and foremost they destroyed the love between man and woman, between king and concubine, the very symbols of beauty in this film.At the end of the film there is a concession to Chinese culture, when a Peking Opera is put on to celebrate the operas 200th anniversary. In Chen's China this is reality, a country opening up to the world and to new ideas. The only way to protect itself from ideological domination from America and other influences is to protect its heritage, and part of that heritage is the Peking Opera. For China to ensure the safety its heritage, the culture that has shaped individuals for thousands of years must also shape modern politics. Openly celebrating Peking Opera in Chen's film is making the personal 'political', and merging the two dichotomous entities into a single unifying element for China. "},{"Title":"Phantoms Of The Opera","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" While 'Ba wang bie ji' (aka 'Farewell My Concubine') has been labelled as a tragic epic what really makes it stand out is its depth and attention to detail at the same time while telling an engaging story. Like Akira Kurosawa's 'Ran' ''Ba wang bie ji' Kaige Chen's film is like a tragic poem on canvas. The vivid colours, the emotionally moving opera songs, the vivacious cinematography and luscious visuals all compare the film to a beautiful painting. Lillian Lee's superb screenplay (adapted from her own book) involves the viewer in Chinese history and the lives of Dieyi and Xiaolou. It beautifully introduces the viewer to the history of Chinese opera and also demonstrates the radical transformation that took place before the emergence of New China.Leslie Cheung gives a magnificent understated performance that is skillfully restrained. Even though his characters displays shades of darkness and malice, there is a humanity that draws immense sympathy from the viewer as one witnesses his life falling into pieces. Fengyi Zhang too does a great task as Xiaolou, who is in many ways Dieyi's polar opposite and his best friend (and love of his life). Gong Li is sublime and makes full use of her time and powerful expressions.I had been postponing watching the film because of its time length and I wanted to reserve 3 hours so that I can watch it in one go and devote my full attention to it. I was right to do so because this film deserves the viewer's full attention. It might be an overwhelming experience but one that is enlightening and worthy of the almost three hours (avoid the cut version). "},{"Title":"A modern masterpiece; include this in your top 100 movies","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" This film is set in China from the 1920's through the so-called Cultural Revolution to the modern day.It is a love story. A young man, a street kid, who befriends another child surrendered into a tough training regime. They both become renowned performers one, a male dancer/acrobat, the other a man who performs female roles. Then the third element, the beautiful woman, enters.This is the story of China itself. Its first steps as an independent nation, its dealings with foreign influences. We understand the horror of the Japanese occupation, the Nationalist betrayal, the coming to power of the CCP and the repressive nature of the Cultural Revolution.It is a story of human triumph. I dare you not to be moved.You will be enriched by this film and all the poorer if you neglect it.9/10 "},{"Title":"superb slice of Chinese history","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This tale of friends from the opera, impersonators in a hostile and complex world, remains memorable for its sheer scope and honesty, and the acting of the actors involved.'Farewell, My Concubine' has much to say about Chinese history and culture, about friendship, betrayal, honesty, passion, and the ability to survive.  This is the main strength of the film, choosing an unusual topic and then depicting it with no aspect missing.  A bigger hit than many expected, this superb piece of world cinema deserves to be seen much more than it is.  I'd recommend it unreservedly and look forward to the day when I can view it again. "},{"Title":"The greatest film of all time?","Date":"22 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Like the French, the Chinese seem to produce nothing but incredible movies; movies that are so culturally rich and psychologically grounded that they are almost like novels.  Farewell My Concubine is about the cultural revolution in China; with the relationship between two heroes and the heroine being a microcosm of this movement.Dieyi, who plays Concubine Yu to Xiaolou's king, represents the old society of corrupt, but noble, decadence.  Warped by abuse and betrayal, victimisation literally turns him in on himself, until he becomes homosexual in so many ways.  The grim passivity, of  which his homosexuality is only one facet, is bitter and snide on the one hand, but stoical and brave on the other.  The suffering and ugliness that lies behind his elegant pristine act (as Concubine Yu) is like the hardship, toil and exploitation that was behind the old society (with its palaces and silk clothes created by the tired hands of the proletariat).  Through combining both the ugliness and the beauty of the old society in one character, the film is able to justify it the proletariat and the nobility are one, their suffering is one, and their triumph is one.  This is forcefully iterated in the scene where communist pupils attack Dieyi's aesthetic preference for noble ambience on stage (beautiful backdrops portraying aristocratic gardens rather than proletariat metal pylons).  We feel the injustice and hypocrisy of their ideology, for Dieyi is tougher than any of them; he has suffered and toiled harder than the most exploited slave in the history of mankind.Where Xiaolou represents practical masculine reality, Dieyi  represents art he talks with a distanced air of finality and confuses the opera with everyday life.  This is, for the most part, rooted in psychological realism. When Dieyi is beaten he refuses to cry because his artistic temperament detaches him from rationality and gives him a tragic-heroic identity which sustains him to cry would be death for him.  Xiaolou, on the other hand, chooses to grapple with reality and play up to the masters who beat him; he takes the lashings with comic defiance and exaggerated pleas for relief. The film only goes wrong when it becomes Dieyi's mouthpiece, condemning Xiaolou for betraying him.  In the world of the film, it is no more fair to say that Dieyi  is braver than Xiaolou than to say that Xiaolou survives where Dieyi  perishes within their own vital spheres,  both prevail.Xiaolou's wife, is a beautiful subtle portrayal of womanhood.  From her beginnings as a whore (physically and emotionally) she grows in  stature until she chrysalises into the film's most worthy character.  The compassion and fortitude with which she tolerates her husband's operatic partnership with Dieyi, even when it is responsible for the loss of her unborn child, is heroic in a womanly sense (a kind of heroism rarely acknowledged in literature or film).  Her pity for Dieyi  outweighs her jealousy she nurses him out of his heroin addiction as if she were his mother (his mother was, significantly, a prostitute from the same whorehouse as she).  However, at the end, when the two of them have both been denounced by Xiaolou, the characterisation slips into sentimentality instead of bearing Xiaolou's callousness with contempt (as she does when he hits her earlier) she gives up on life.Like many of the greatest works of art, this film is flawed and it is the ending which reveals and embodies this flaw sentimentality. "},{"Title":"An Incredible Film. Don't skip it because it's foreign!","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie only once but it left an indelible impression on both me and my wife. It is a beautiful film with gorgeous photography, invisible direction and fantastic acting. What struck us most about this film was how many levels it had. It was a story about politics, love, life, faith, all rolled into one exceptional package. Yet none of these messages are hammered into you. They just flow over you in well-timed waves. Many of these Chinese movies are so interesting because of their unique perspective. It's wonderful to immerse yourself in a great film from a different culture. The many points of beauty in this movie are subtle, delicate and drenched in China's magnificent history. You have to experience it for yourself to understand, and once you do you'll fall in love with the world of Chinese cinema. "},{"Title":"Harsh Trials of Friendship and Love","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  During the 1920's, two orphan boys are taken into a renowned school for classical Chinese opera in old Peking and for years must endure the exacting training by their master. They not only survive this ordeal but become star performers, famous throughout all of China.As adults, the macho Duan Xiaolou (portrayed by Zhang Fengyi) and the effeminate, delicate Cheng Dieyi (Leslie Cheung) maintain a strong friendship, but they are not lovers. They are joined by Xiaolou's vibrant, sexy mistress Juxian (Gong Li).Alert for following spoilers telling about major plot developments!!Dieyi has a fit, unfairly seeing Juxian as a rival. Yet, Dieyi is later comforted in a crisis by Juxian, who gives him the maternal care he had always lacked and craved; he learns to trust her. Meanwhile, the passion between Duan and Juxian survives other challenges.These three overcome turmoil and oppression during the occupation of Peking by the Kuomintang and Japanese armies and later during the early years of Communist rule. Dieyi continues to star in female roles, especially as the tragic mistress to Xiaolou's doomed warlord in 'Farewell My Concubine.' The 'Great Cultural Revolution', however, provides a most cruel test. A horde of Red Guards storms the opera house, seizes them, puts them on 'people's trial', and forces them to recant their 'reactionary' ways. The sadistic mob next demands that the three denounce each other. Dieyi, timid and frightened, yields to their threats and accuses Juxian of having been a traitor&#133;conveniently forgetting that Juxian had earlier slept with a Japanese officer only in return for protecting all three of them. Xiaolou is shocked and angered at Dieyi's betrayal, but he cannot save Juxian.As Juxian is led away for execution by the lynch mob, her lovely face reveals bewilderment, pain, and sorrow. She becomes the tragic concubine to whom we must bid farewell.The anticlimactic remainder of the film includes how Dieyi's kindnesses to an apprentice opera singer are rewarded with treachery&#133;strong retribution for what was done to Juxian.At the end, much later, Xiaolou and Dieyi find themselves alone in the empty opera house and suddenly replay their famous episode in 'Farewell My Concubine.' He forgives Dieyi, and they are reconciled at last.  "},{"Title":"VISUAL, ABSORBING MASTERPIECE","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  *MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS* Stimulating, engrossing and outright fascinating portrait of two orphans, who stay friends throughout sixty years or better, in twentieth century China. They are entered in the Peking Opera Academy, where they endure the arduous rigors of training. In their childhoods, is where they master the defining roles they are destined to portray all their lives.FAREWELL MY CONCUBINE is at times claustrophobic, subtly depressing, but never dull. It is always intriguing. The film penetrates all cultural barriers, allowing the viewer to become involved in the story. Gritty scenery and atmosphere, strong performances (Leslie Cheung is stunning in his portrayal) and brutal reality are this film's hallmarks.An excellent foray into what telling a story, via a motion picture, is all about. Excellent and heartily recommended.    "}{"Title":"I feel like I have to apologize for not liking this movie","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The basics two young Chinese boys go to opera school together in the 1920s, and grow up to become big stars.  Their lives revolve around their specialty act, the classic Chinese opera, `Farewell My Concubine,' to such a degree that their offstage life begins to reflect their onstage one (shades of `I Pagliacci').Everybody loves FAREWELL MY CONCUBINE but me.  And I can certainly see why they love it it is an epic view of the story of China's 20th century, magnificently shot.  All the same, it leaves me cold for much the same reason that another epic, DOCTOR ZHIVAGO, did.  It is chiefly the story of what happens to the protagonists, not the story of what they do.This is also why, again unlike everybody else, I like the second half of this movie better than the first.  The second half has Gong Li in it, who (in addition to making the film more beautiful, as she would any film) is the most dynamic character present, the one who most determinedly takes her destiny in hand.  It has the courtroom scene, which is the only one where Daeyi tries (and fails) to influence his own fate.  And it has the Cultural Revolution scene, where Shitou finally makes an important decision with immediate, and tragic, results.The first half, on the other hand, I found almost unwatchable.  Behind disgustingly coarse subtitles, we are forced to endure scene after scene of little boys being tortured.  I just don't enjoy that sort of thing, and I frankly feel uncomfortable about those who do.  It might be different if the torture actually had a purpose, if the kids were suffering in order to achieve something, but it is made deliberately and brutally clear that this is not the case the teachers act with the same sadism toward both the good and the bad students, and think nothing of completely destroying their precious talent by maiming them, killing them, or driving them to suicide. Furthermore, the first half appears to portray Daeyi's homosexuality as being something he learned in his youth.  This does not accord with scientific observation, which clearly suggests that homosexuality is not a learned behavior.I admit I am being cynical here, but I believe that Daeyi's homosexuality has given this movie a popularity with the faux intelligentsia that it would not enjoy otherwise.  Many who would denounce the love triangle as cliché if it consisted of two men in pursuit of the same woman will claim to suddenly find the formula interesting when, as in this case, it consists of a man and a woman in pursuit of the same man.  After all, this movie dares to ask the question, if a straight woman and a gay man both love a straight man, which will he choose?  What do you mean, you guessed already?  This is a Great Dramatic Question, dammit!My first exposure to Chinese opera was from Zhang Yimou's RAISE THE RED LANTERN, where I found the performance of the opera singer quite enchanting. I'm afraid I did not enjoy the operatic element of this movie nearly as much.  To my Western ear, Daeyi's singing voice sounds grating.  The masks generally look grotesque.  The acrobatics, I admit, were very impressive, lending an energy to the performance that Western opera would benefit from. But for me, opera will always stand or fall on the vocal performances, and those were lacking.  This is probably another reason I didn't enjoy the movie if I had felt the beauty of the opera as many Chinese do, and could have shared the two principals' passion for it, I wouldn't have found the experience of the movie so unmoving.Rating ** out of ****.Recommendation  What can I say?  Everybody else enjoys it; don't mind me.  "},{"Title":"Opera and the Narcissism of Master Yuan","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Most genuine is the parallel between opera and life. This is not alien to Chinese people but people in other culture are not familiar with this concept. Chinese people deem our life in other way is an opera and everyone has his own role. Tears, laughter, sorrow, anger, despair are the various emotions in the opera and the various experiences in life. Most important this concept is associated with the emptiness of life. Everything would be gone, just like an opera would end somehow. Despite the emptiness opera is so beautiful and stands for the delicacy and refinement of art. In the film Dieyi and Yuan performs their desperate love towards Opera, indicating their pursuit for the true, the good and the beautiful. Dieyi is a pure man pursuing his ideal both in art and in the real world. Yuan is not as perfect. He is a sophisticated speculator, and has struggled for wealth and fame for his whole life. But he is so obsessed with opera for it is perfect beauty. Dieyi is the incarnation of the beauty which he is dying for. In his pursuing for, protecting, and admiring Dieyi in spite of the others' disliking him and misunderstanding, we see respectable humanness.First time he saw Dieyi he can sense that he is not welcomed. But as a gentleman he expressed his admiration and then left. His directness and decisiveness shows his confidence as well, with a clear mind that he has something else what would win Dieyi's heart, other than money.His argument with Xiaolou on the opera performance shows his insist on art, independent thinking, and his knowledge in opera, and is a foreshadowing for his own competition with Xiaolou. Xiaolou got married and Dieyi was not happy and desperate. Yuan came comforting Dieyi and took him away. Or we say this time Dieyi followed him. He fulfilled his dream to perform the opera together with Dieyi although without any spectator. In his house Dieyi saw the sword and Yuan gives it away unconditionally. He knows Dieyi would leave anyway with the sword, but he never complains, but just gives what he has, to help fulfill Dieyi's dream.Later when Dieyi performed on stage he was interrupted by anti-Japanese leaflet. But Dieyi insisted to complete the performance. In the darkness only Yuan was watching. He really understands what Dieyi insists on, that is the independence of art in spite of any political or racial view. When Dieyi was on trial for betraying his country, it is Yuan that help secure Dieyi. He asks for nothing in return but wants to argue with Xiaolou for the previous performance issue. This is the first time he tries to prove others his pursuit for art. Before that he only did this with Dieyi. We can say he compels Xiaolou, or is willful. He loves Dieyi but doesn't want to occupy him. He lets Dieyi free and is there to protect him. This is unselfish and unconditional, and is different from the romantic love. Or we can say, the love for Dieyi is also his love for the purity of life and the beauty. He saw a Dieyi that lives out his beliefs and values, to some extent Dieyi is another Yuan in Yuan's eyes, standing for the part of Yuan that is free to pursue love and beauty. He loves Dieyi but doesn't want to occupy him. He lets Dieyi free and is there to protect him. This is unselfish and unconditional, and is different from the romantic love. Or we can say, the love for Dieyi is also his love for the purity of life and the beauty. He saw a Dieyi that lives out his beliefs and values, to some extent Dieyi is another Yuan in Yuan's eyes, standing for the part of Yuan that is free to pursue love and beauty. Yuan was executed in the end. Before he died he defends the opera art at a price of his life. He can die without pity, for he finally carries out his value. He never is able to perform on the stage, for he can't be a pure artist, but the execution of him brings him onto the stage, on the last day of his life. How ridiculous this is. The world has become insane. Yuan knows it pretty well and stepped onto the stage with ease. Yuan was executed in the end. Before he died he defends the opera art at a price of his life. He can die without pity, for he finally carries out his value. He never is able to perform on the stage, for he can't be a pure artist, but the execution of him brings him onto the stage, on the last day of his life. How ridiculous this is. The world has become insane. Yuan knows it pretty well and stepped onto the stage with ease. "},{"Title":"A Chinese Cinema Masterpiece","Date":"2 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Farewell My Concubine is a Chinese film that stars Leslie Cheung, Gong Li and Zhang Feng-Yi together with Lu Qi, Ying Da, Ge You and David Wu. It is similar to other Fifth Generation films like To Live and The Blue Kite, the movie explores the effect of China's political turmoil during the mid-20th century on the lives of individuals, families, and groups, in this case, two stars in a Peking opera troupe and the woman who comes between them.The film is an adaptation of the novel by Lilian Lee. Lilian Lee is also one of the film's screenplay writers.It was directed by Chen Kaige.Not many people were aware that most members of the Peking Opera were originally orphans or illegitimate castaways with nowhere else to turn. Such is the case of Duan Xiaolou and Cheng Dieyi, two homeless outcasts, trained from childhood in the grueling rigors of the Opera by master Lu Qui in the film.It traces the 52-year friendship between Xiaolou and Dieyi, a friendship pockmarked with fiery conflicts and tender reconciliations. Though the delicate Dieyi specializes in female roles and the gutsy Xiaolou plays noble warriors, theirs is an essentially heterosexual relationship; still, when Xiaolou takes upon himself a prostitute bride, Dieyi is as petty and jealous as an outcast mistress. Farewell, My Concubine holds the viewer in thrall from start to finish; as such, it is thoroughly deserving of its many international film awards and nominations.No question that this is a classic film on its own as it has all the elements of a great film.The performances were brilliant and outstanding especially that of Gong Li.It was visually stunning as well.The screenplay was intelligent and outstanding while the characters are emotionally involving as the viewer will care and sympathize with them.And most of all,the direction of Chen Kaige is superb and marvelous.I give this film a very high recommendation as a must-see movie. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Epic, Tragic","Date":"6 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Farewell My Concubine is a glorious epic about two friends over the span of many decades. Together they go through the horrors of opera school as children in the 1920's, and then Opera stars during the Japanese invasion of China in the 30's, the Communist takeover in the 40's, and the Cultural Revolution of the 60's. Between them is the wife of one and a former prostitute, Juxian, played by Gong Li. The relationship among the three is often very complex, and goes through plenty of turmoil, but Dieyi and Xiaolou and the Beijing Opera somehow stay together.This movie to put it simply is beautiful, particularly during the opera scenes. It's one of the most pleasing movies just to look at that I have seen in some time. It's also beautifully told. With so much ambition it could have been way too complex for someone not familiar with the history to understand, but it's actually quite direct and flows fantastically from one section to another.The two acting leads do good jobs, but it's Gong Li that stands out. Her character evolves greatly at first from dislike of Dieyi to sympathy and even tenderness. In her marriage to Xialou she wants him to quit Opera, but eventually accepts it and sees it as a necessary part of his life. Gong Li is the main heart and soul of the film, and this is the best acting work I have seen from her.This certainly stands as one of the five best Chinese language films I have ever seen. It's not completely flawless, some of the earlier scenes I think are a bit heavy-handed, but overall this epic and tragic story for friendship and love is a must see. "},{"Title":"An obsolete art form becomes fascinatingly alive through the medium of film.","Date":"3 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" It is near impossible for anyone who admires Chinese cinema to profess a distaste for this film. Without a doubt, Farewell My Concubine is arguably director Chen Kaige's most famous and critically-acclaimed work. Perhaps the second best known filmmaker to emerge from China after Zhang Yimou (Ju Dou, 1990; Raise the Red Lantern, 1991) in the late eighties, Chen often has to perform in the shadow of his ex-cinematographer. But it is Farewell My Concubine that finally landed him the accolade he so deserved &#x96; the Palme d'Or from Cannes, and the fame that resulted from it. Farewell My Concubine stars two actors at the top of their game &#x96; Leslie Cheung and Zhang Fengyi. They play two opera singers who enthrall countless legions of fans with their skillful rendition of the opera which the film is named after. Cheung plays The Concubine, a feminine character of grace and elegance while Zhang plays The Gangster King who is forced to leave his concubine and escape from an invading army. Chen's film chronicles the friendship and struggles of the actors who play these two characters over a span of more than half a century, with China's tumultuous modern history set as the temporal backdrop.Farewell My Concubine begins on a very impressive note with its first hour being one of the most compelling examples of the hypnotic power of great Chinese cinema. The consequence of such a potent beginning is that the film's power would start to fade, and this is evident from a second act that occasionally meanders due to the film's loose narrative structure, which could be improved upon with tighter editing. Maybe there isn't this issue with the theatrical version, which runs about twenty minutes shorter.Nevertheless, Farewell My Concubine is still highly engaging, and an eye opener even for Chinese viewers, let alone Western audiences. The cultural value of Chen's film is highly obvious with its very detailed depiction of the intricateness and artistic elaboration of the Peking Opera style as much a revelation as it is striking. Coupled with the traditional use of percussion and suona (a high-pitched Chinese trumpet), the opera sequences open the door to a mystical experience never before felt on the big screen. In other words, an obsolete art form becomes fascinatingly alive through the medium of film.Chen's direction is supreme. His mastery of tracking shots, handling of large crowds, and eye for period detail are impeccable. His treatment of the film's story is also well-handled despite some of its flaws. But strangely, even though the acting is strong, there is still not enough emotional pull to make us fully empathize with the characters, most notably that of Gong Li's. She plays a classy prostitute who after coaxed by Zhang's character, falls in love and marries him, an act that causes tremendous strain on his friendship with Cheung's character.Banned in China for some time because of its negative portrayal of communism and its implicit homosexual content, Farewell My Concubine remains to be Chen's finest hour as a filmmaker. In some ways similar to Bernardo Bertolucci's The Last Emperor (1987), this epic spans across five decades and is a splendid showcase of the exemplary use of color and lighting to tell what is one of the most memorable stories to emerge from nineties Chinese cinema.GRADE A- (www.filmnomenon.blogspot.com) All rights reserved. "},{"Title":"By far. The very best of Chinese film","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" This is, without the doubt, the very best of Chinese film making, acting and story telling. I didn't watch this movie only until last year, and there are no words were powerful enough to express my feelings. The acting were flawless, and the emotion in the entire film were so real and strong, you'll feel so attached the whole time. Leslie is the one and only actor who can fully deliver the role of ChengDieYi, and his work in this film is remarkable. A true milestone performance of his career and film acting. The story, The history, The culture, The acting!!!A must see film!!! "},{"Title":"A Chinese version of Once Upon A Time in America","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Most of Chinese movies made nowadays are strange to western viewers, except some kongfu action movies which are pictured almost the same way. It is commonly believed that kongfu movies are brought to try to amuse Oscars; they are tasted just like McDonald's and with little value to us.But Ba Wang Bie Ji (farewell ,my concubine) is fairly thought as an excellent movie made by native Chinese director (unfortunately it is his only masterpiece, I think).The other day at a famous movie fan website of China, 95% or more voted it for the best Chinese movies all time with another two or three.Regular viewers of IMDb could not probably understand what the movie is about.The name of this movie comes from a play of Beijing Opera, the Beijing Opera is usually adapted from old Chinese history, of which are well-known by Chinese people.In this tragic story happened in the end days of Qin Dynasty, a fistful of heroes chase the power. Xiang Yu (Ba Wang) is the most heroic and romantic one. But finally he is defeated by his cunning rival Liu Bang who is the founder of Han, what Chinese ethnic majority names after. In an intense battle where Ba Wang is embattled, his army is totally destroyed, his beloved mistress, Yu Ji, tries to persuade him to run away and come back with recruited armies. Ba Wang refuses to leave her, so she kills herself to let her man leave. This is not a complicated story but much too tragic and touching (Ba Wang kills himself too as he is too shameful to go back to his hometown).In the movie, the opera adapted from the old story was performed in early time of Republic China, when the country was in a mode of civil war and natural disasters. As a tradition of the Beijing Opera, actors playing feminine roles were all males.Sometimes they were mentally displaced by considering himself a woman.Die Yi devoted herself into the opera and fell in love with the hero Ba Wang performed by Xiao Lou, and that was why this is not a gay movie.It was long ago before the last time I saw it, and I barely remembered plenty of details of the plot. But one thing impressed me was the mix of modern-history and life between the roles and actors.In one word, it is not just an excellent opera of the ancient tragedy but a real story about the actor and actress. Xiao Lou and his woman experienced the regime of Japanese and civil war and he actually married a woman as his real wife. The play is so well-known and popular that even the communists allowed them to go on playing. During the Culture Revolution, many people were insulted and abused if they were suspected to have connection with capitalistic enemies or simply categorized as counter-revolutionists. Die Yi was also humiliated and tortured at public because she once performed for the Japanese invaders to rescue Xiao Lou during WWII.As it usually happened those days, the one who was judged as counter-revolutionist would be rejected by his family and friends. Xiao Lou was too scared to speak for Die Yi, she finally killed her self on the stage where she was so popular during a temporary rehearsal with Xial Lou, as the role did to herself 2000 years ago.It might be a coincidence Leslie Cheung killed himself ten years later after the movie hit the screen,which was anther tragedy adding to the whole story lasting for 2000 years.Ba Wang Bie Ji is seldomly the movie which is widely accepted both by Chinese and foreigners, it contains much about history and modern revolutionary activities, and it is so tightly connecting the fabrication and reality，with childhood and adulthood,romance and betrayal, dream and consciousness, life and love, a bridge over old and modern China,even the final destiny of the actress on stage and actor on screen. There's only one movie that can compare to it in the world "},{"Title":"Perhaps too ambitious","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" This film follows two Beijing opera stars (stage names Cheng and Duan) from their youth in 1924 to a final performance in 1977. Cheng is somewhat effeminate and plays women in the performances, most notably the woman in the traditional opera Farewell My Concubine. Cheng is gay and in love with Duan who is classically masculine; Duan's feelings for Cheng do not go beyond friendship. Things between the two go along well until Juxian enters the picture as Duan's lover and subsequent wife. The story revolves around the complex emotional interplay between these three, played out against dramatic historical events. The history of China in the years covered would require a shelf full of books, but this movie concentrates on three eras The Warlord Era in the 1920s, the Japanese occupation of Beijing during WWII (and its aftermath), and the Cultural Revolution during the Mao era. The interweaving of the personal stories with the themes of the opera Farewell My Concubine, together with the historical events, is cleverly done. The telling of this epic runs to 171 minutes on the DVD. In keeping with its operatic theme this movie has an overture that sets the tone and piques your curiosity about what is to come. This sequence seemed artificial to me until I understood its intent.Most everyone will be impressed with the sumptuous color cinematography. The opera scenes are impressively filmed and, while I could appreciate the artistry involved, being primarily attuned to Western culture prevented my being captivated on an emotional level as I was, for example, by the operatic scenes in Amadeus. Cheng's singing sounded more like the harsh screeching of a cat than anything that would engage me. The atonal music and highly stylized acting in the operas were interesting as artistic phenomena of a foreign culture, but it would take significant exposure for me to ever truly enjoy such, if that were even possible.The extent to which this movie offers history lessons is not clear to me, nor is it clear how much is intended. During the 1920s the focus is on Cheng and Duan's training as young boys under the tutelage of a sadistic taskmaster. The child abuse is so graphic that some may be tempted to avert their eyes. Was the brutal treatment of the boys a symbol of the brutality of the era? I don't know. The political pressures of the Cultural Revolution must have been extreme in order to provoke the personal denunciations we see toward the end.One thing I found odd was that, while the characters must be at least sixty years old by the end, they look like they are still in their 30s.I admire this movie for its ambition and could appreciate it on an intellectual and artistic basis, but its epic sweep and cultural differences kept me at a distance. "},{"Title":"A flawed masterpiece","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I have had a great deal of trouble writing this review. Every time I make a start I can find nothing to get my teeth into and no coherent thread to interconnect my thoughts. While there are many potential sub-topics they all seem to stand in isolation. While this may simply be a reflection of my inability to string two sentences together I think in this case it pretty accurately summarizes the issues I have with this movie.It is difficult to figure out what this movie is and if asked to summarise it in 25 words or less I would be flummoxed. Is it a Chinese history movie? An opera movie? A Chinese culture lesson? A love story? A story of betrayal? A story of pseudo or actual homosexuality? It is snippets of all of these and probably more, but it does not really do justice to any of them. Basically it suffers from multiple personality disorder and unfortunately we don't get enough time with any of them to relate to any of them. Yes, the history and cultural aspects are interesting in their way but don't really add anything to our understanding of the horrors of the Japanese invasion of China, the Nationalist/Communist struggle, the early Communist era and the later Cultural Revolution. Yes, it is a love story between the two actors who play the King and the Concubine, but we never experience any passion or come anywhere close to connecting to either of these characters to really care. The King character in particular is very undeveloped, little more than a cardboard cut-out who happens to be the object of the Concubine's unrequited love. The character played by Gong Li is also skin deep and we never really care about her or her relationship with the King actor &#x96; indeed the random and non-sensical way in which these two characters become engaged simply nukes any credibility that this relationship might have had, and by extension destroys the credibility of any other relationship on the movie, most importantly the pivotal one between the King and the Concubine. The betrayal, which I gather meant something personal to the director, is dealt with too curtly to have any effect at all. The character of the son, raised from an abandoned baby, is totally illogical and we simply don't get to know him well enough to care about him or understand why he would possibly want to betray his adoptive parents. It all just seems facile and silly. We never really understand (or at least, I don't) the homosexual overtones of the Concubine. Was he simply beaten into a form of insanity in which he thinks he is always in character as a woman? Is he actually a homosexual? His king friend seems to be too thick to understand the Concubine's feelings for him and this to me trivializes the whole affair. And to be honest, none of the characters come across as being particularly nice, in fact the Concubine character comes across more as a petty, whinny, jealous, lightweight flake than a tragic figure we could weep for.OK, just because a film is not perfect doesn't mean you should not watch it. Farewell My Concubine is one of those films which is a must see despite its failings. If it falters as an emotionally satisfying and coherent movie it is a stunning technical tour de force and a masterpiece of its kind. Just to have made a movie of this scope is an achievement, almost to the point that its success is secondary, crazy as that may sound. It is a movie of such breadth that it is impossible to take in completely in one sitting, and that is perhaps the ultimate test &#x96; you know you need to see it again to understand it but can you care enough about it to make that effort? But &#x96; trust me - you need to see this movie &#x96; your education as a movie goer is incomplete unless you do. You will enjoy it, and you will be moved to have an opinion, one way or the other. "},{"Title":"Everyone should be responsible for his own fate","Date":"30 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" In this movie based on Lilian Lee's masterpiece, Chen Kaige has mainly developed the evolution of the 'sentimental' link between two actors (one gay one) through the turbulent history of China in the 20th century, with the fall of the Empire, the Japanese occupation, the civil war, the communist victory and the Cultural Revolution. The Chinese opera Farewell My Concubine functions marvelously as a leitmotiv. The sentimental relationship between the two actors, and later with the lover of one of them played superbly by Gong Li, will be seriously shaken during the political earthquakes. Although 'everyone should be responsible for his own fate', everybody, if he isn't strong enough physically or psychologically, could be forced to betray his friend by false accusations, particularly during violent public interrogations. The political message of the film can be summarized by the slogan 'Cursed are the tyrants who plunge their people into misery.'With unforgettable scenes, like the abandonment of a child by his mother, the rigorous training of the young aspirant-actors, the public political trials or the meeting of 'old friends', Chen Kaige translated perfectly in moving pictures (with sublime color grading) Lilian Lee's text.Nevertheless, Lilian Lee's book transcends all personal relationships with her sublime meditations on art, the artist, individual life, love, death and politics. One example from the book in the ordinary world, victory and defeat, life or death are only during the time of a wink. But art and artists are not part of this world, where politics with its slogan 'kill or be killed' only sow pain, suffering and misery. Through art, the spectators escape during the spectacle for a few hours the harsh reality of life and enter into a world of dreams and deepest emotions, which are embodied in the actors (of Chinese operas). This movie is a must see for all lovers of world cinema. "}{"Title":"relationships in the time of political changes","Date":"20 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Chen Kaige's Bàwáng Bié Jī (Farewell My Concubine in English) is a breathtaking look at the changes in 20th century China as seen through the eyes of two friends. Opera performers Douzi (Leslie Cheung) and Shitou (Zhang Fengyi) get to know each other in a Beijing orphanage in the 1920s. They stay friends over the years, but then courtesan Juxian (Gong Li) comes between them. The Cultural Revolution also complicates things.This is one of the movies that I would recommend to anyone who wants to truly understand why China is like it is today (another is Steven Spielberg's Empire of the Sun). The impact that the Japanese invasion, the communist revolution, and then the Cultural Revolution have on these two men is beyond mind-blowing. The movie does not shy away from the disasters that the Cultural Revolution caused; I get the feeling that China's government was not too happy with the movie. But above all, it's important to understand how the world's most populous country (and likely dominant power of the 21st century) came to be what it now is. A very good movie. "},{"Title":"An Epic Character Study","Date":"2 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Probably the most important parts of making an engaging film is having strong characters (although there are exceptions). They don't have to be particularly unique, but they are our window into the story, and they give us the emotional investment we need to see them through to the end. What makes Farewell My Concubine so emotionally stirring is that the three characters in this film are people we know and understand (if not always like), and who are swept up through years of societal change and turmoil, and that's on top of the interpersonal conflicts between them.The film details the lives of two life-long best friends, Dieyi (Leslie Cheung) and Xiaolou (Fengyi Zhang). The two are stage brothers, acting partners in the Chinese Opera. But then Xiaolou meets, and subsequently marries, a beautiful courtesan, Juxian (Gong Li). This angers Dieyi, who is gay and wants to be partners with Xiaolou on-stage and off.All three of the performances are stunning. Leslie Cheung has the most complicated part, and he is superb. Dieyi is not a likable person; he's spiteful, arrogant, manipulative and traitorous, especially to those who like him. But he is a deeply conflicted character who has suffered so much at the hands of others that we can't help but feel for him. That's probably why we understand the compassion that Xiaolou, and surprisingly Juxian, have towards him. As Xiaolou, Fengyi Zhang has the least showy part (Xiaolou is more of a reactionary person), but Zhang gives the character the sense of individuality that he needs. Xiaolou has his own set of moral values, but with times changing so rapidly and dramatically, he's going to find out just how far he's willing to go to keep them. Then there's Gong Li, the international sensation who's been dubbed The Asian Meryl Streep. As Juxian, she's almost like an older sister to the wayward Diyei; she doesn't like him, but offers him her support nonetheless (probably because of her love for Xiaolou, but you never know). She's stubbornly loyal; no matter how bad things go, she always sticks by those who are close to her.Director Kaige Chen is an expert at developing his characters, but his storytelling needs a little work. There's a little too much subtlety here, and at times there seem to be missing pieces in the narrative (however small and insignificant they may be). Yet, these characters are richly developed, even the ones who seem small and unimportant, are all so compelling that Chen deserves much credit.Emotionally complex and richly rewarding drama, Farewell My Concubine is a near-masterpiece of Chinese cinema.My rating Rated R for language, some strong violence and sexual content, and disturbing images. "},{"Title":"Life was heavy","Date":"29 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" This is the best movie Mr. Chen Kaige has made.I was totally hit by his amazing talent to make such a heavy film ,through the film he told us the Chinese Beijing Opera players'lives at different times in Chinese history, the feelings of them,their love, sad, happy,desperate,mad... The cinematography was perfect by Mr.Gu Changwei. I like his speciality very much,I think especially he is good at the red color when he is shooting,in this movie, the scene of Juxian's suicide is excellent,I think,her red wearing was the focus of the scene,by the music of Red Lamp arising,this scene was the best one in this movie.The story happened in the Cultural Revelotion times was very real,moving,and very heavy. Of course, this is one of the best movie made by Chinese. "},{"Title":"Two opera singers' ever changing relationship over the decades.","Date":"25 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I loved this film. Beautiful directing. Wonderful sets. And the acting was amazing. I had no idea what a wonderful film this was when I rented it. This film explores the relationship of two opera singers, a relationship that is complicated by abuse, political turmoil, corruption, and failed relationships/marriages.The plot had enough twists and turns to keep me intrigued, and wondering what will happen next. This art-house film, like many of the genre, had excellent characters. The characters were well defined, unique, and surprising.I highly recommend this film. It reminded me a lot of Raising the Red Lantern. Both beautiful films, but extremely sad as well. If you're interested in costumes or sets you should definitely check out Farewell My Concubine. "},{"Title":"Outstanding Movie-making","Date":"1 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I am a huge movie buff and for my money this film gets top marks in every category I use to rate movies. I hate seeing a movie that leaves me with the feeling that I have seen it many times before in formulaic fashion. No worries here - This movie is COMPLETELY unique, unbelievably well made, has topnotch performances throughout and tells a compelling story. The opening and early scenes immediately arrest your attention and draw you in, you are never quite sure where it will go. In the end as the story becomes completely revealed I was left feeling a myriad of emotions with that certain sigh of contentment one experiences whenever encountering anything of outstanding quality! Movie making at it's finest!!! "},{"Title":"a lesson in Chinese history","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" also includes elements of religion (a reference to karma) and certainly politics with the depiction of the cultural revolution (which would be more appropriately called the cult revolution; it was cult worship of chairman mao, but thats another story). Also includes lessons in economics in that the living conditions of the young boys was the result of their economic class, as well as that of other characters in this remarkable film.to fully appreciate the story you need to read up on Chinese history and culture in the 20th century, specifically the practice of keeping concubines, WW II and the Japanese invasion, Chinese opera etc. this work has something for everyone and at 170 minutes presents a well crafted work, very entertaining. I wish I knew Mandarin so I could more fully understand the nuances. the ending was brilliant, the only possible finale that ties the beginning of the film to the end. I have an abiding hope that the Chinese will one day realize a dream as old as their land that they will be free from enslavement of all kinds. the introduction of private enterprise and the internet to China is a source of hope. I wonder if this film could be produced today in Hong Kong . .. "},{"Title":"Stunning!","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  SPOILER AT END OF COMMENTSI recently got the opportunity to see this film on the big screen, for the first time, at the Hong Kong Intl. Film Festival 2004. As a westerner I have lived in Hong Kong for over 3 years and always previously imagined the standard Hong Kong film genre to be either a comedy/historical-comedy/gangster/police style of film. How wrong I have been! This film was absolutely stunning from it's opening scene to it's eventual conclusion.I found the cinematography/direction/props/locations/sets/costumes/make-up/acting/music to be of the highest quality and detail. As a lover of french historic dramas, and the work of Mr Jean-Paul Rappenneau, I feel this equals and at times exceeds his Cyrano de Bergerac in quality and stature. Which I rate as my favourite film.As stated by other users here, Leslie Cheung has his character so well sorted. His opposite number Fengyi Zhang does very well to keep up with such a brilliant performance by Cheung. Although Zhang is equally well supported by actress Li Gong who plays his wife Juxian, with some wonderful repartie between herself and Cheung trying to outwit each other.It was also interesting to see this film after having read Jackie Chans' biography, describing his upbringing at a chinese opera school in Hong Kong, in the 60's. The comparisons between his experiences and those portrayed in this film were very similar.I can easily say that this film ranks extremely high in my opinion. Anyone wanting to see what is surely one of the best chinese films ever produced should see this film.Rating 10/10SPOILER AHEADThe most touching scene of the film, apart from the obvious one that I won't mention here, is the scene where the fellow escapee boy from the opera school, realises his dream of fame in a devastatingly macabre way. Having dreamt of being a famous opera star, earning lots of money and eating candied crab apples every day. When he becomes aware that a beating of almighty proportions is about to follow, he stuffs his mouth with all his 'ill gotten' apples and so decides to end it all. As the rest of the school discover the scene, the schools stage falls out on to the floor with a crash, signifying the boys last and ultimate performance. A real lump in the throat moment. "},{"Title":"A definite must see!","Date":"27 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Ba wang bie ji is an incredible film not only for its stunning portrayal of China's historical and cultural conflicts, but also for its thoughtful and provocative character development.  I am particularly impressed with Chen Kaige's ability to scrutinize the gray areas of gender through visual media; by no means an easy task. "},{"Title":"A tragedy of art, life and history","Date":"11 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The beauty of this movie is objective and absolute. Farewell my concubine is an example of how much a movie opera can be still close to the spirit of classical tragedy. The hidden tissue of art and life covering the characters reveals at the end the obscene and terrible relation between destiny and our choices. The whole experience of all the characters is intimately joined to the ruinous becoming of history and every single event contributes to give to the recurrent scenes a new and different meaning. So the representation is really complete holding into a more tight catch life and history, theatre and truth. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I found the film to be very interesting and informative. I didn't know the extent of what went on during regime changes in China. I also found it interesting to learn about the Peking Opera.I was a little disappointed in some of the scenes though. I wasn't certain in a few sections of the film if someone had died or not. The first incident was with the boy that ran off, the second was with the wife. I wish they would have shown more in those scenes to make things clearer.All in all, I find it to be a good film and worth the time to watch it. "}{"Title":"Amazing that so much of a completely different culture could come over so well","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Strong story, character acting and opera performances made this one of the best films I've seen in years.I was amazed at the amount of the film that managed to cross the vast cultural and language barriers from China to Ireland.A real classic. "},{"Title":"A winner(9/10)","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  A stunning film with excellent visuals and a superb cast. What more can you ask for? While you get this out of the foreign film section of your local video store, make sure to check out Gong Li's other movies. It's an absolute joy to watch her movies, a gifted actress indeed. "},{"Title":"Powerful story, but the director doesn't deliver.","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I'm not a fan of Chen Kaige. Most of his films are either too melodramatic or big on concept but fail to deliver on the human level. He knows his craft, is hugely ambitious, but there is something missing in his soul.It would help the viewers to know something about the historic background of this film. Google Chu-Han Contention, Xiang Yu (the king/hegemon), Battle of Gaixia. May help to know a bit about the more recent events in modern Chinese history such as the Cultural Revolution too, but that's not at the heart of the story.The best developed character is of course Dieyi. Based on the traditional Chinese role of the tragic heroine, with the additional complexity of gender confusion. not very appealing, despite hitting all right notes of the traditional femininity, unless you got yellow fever. Xiaolou, the king who is not really a king, like Xiang Yu, strong but unable to control his fate. the easiest character to relate to. Juxian is not well developed, the king's horse? Yuang is potentially interesting character, well acted, but again not developed enough.It is Chen Kaige's best movie I've watched. Worth watching, but ultimately not as satisfying as the more straight-forward and honest movie by other fifth generation Chinese directors. I would watch Hong gao liang over this any day. "},{"Title":"Top Chinese Movie ever made!","Date":"25 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" CHEN Kaige is one of the most famous and talented director in China..His good taste of aesthetics and deep understanding about culture leads him to the road of glory...maybe non-Chinese audience will get a little bit difficulty in the story or some characters' strange behavior...those refer to history background....but it's a wonderful movie for all the Chinese to be proud of!! the movie contains so many elements suck as drama(Beijing opera),culture revolution,and it's all connected by the tragic and miserable life of Cheng Die Yin(Die Yi means butterfly wearing) and the actor Zhang Guo Rong is a combination of man and woman ..he acted truly to real life...he got into the role so much that he cannot help crying in some senses..when he put in the make-up we can even feel his tender soul while another leading actor Zhang Feng Yi is widely known in China,and is one of the most excellent Chinese actor alive....The movie achieved great success and it was just a monument for Chinese movie industry.. "},{"Title":"Very good film","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Farewell My Concubine is a very good film. The story is interesting and upsetting. The acting is exceptional (Li Gong is fantastic) and everything from cinematography to the script is brilliant. It's a bit too long, if you ask me, but the film is, nevertheless, interesting until the end.This is only the second Chinese film I have seen, but it is almost as good as the absolute masterpiece Raise the Red Lantern (Li Gong is in that film as well). Recommended. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Leslie Cheung and Farewell, My Concubine","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  A classic movie and a must-have in any foreign film collection. Leslie Cheung gave his role in Farewell, My Concubine an amazing depth that few actors could ever dream of creating; it's only sad that his greatness couldn't transcend his emotional problems.(So tragic to lose one of the few truly talented people in entertainment. He will be incredibly missed.) "},{"Title":"History tells us...","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" What can we learn from history? When I watched Farewell I asked myself. The story about two Peking opera brothers, their life behind stage with love betrayal and anguish.I didn't experience the period from 20s to 70s. But as a born Chinese I know the fifty years history very clear. China changed a lot in this period. From feudalization went to an independent democratic country. I have to mention Chinese traditional education about opera player's training. I guess many people felt miserable and pitiful when the teacher was beating opera apprenticed kids, I just want to say it was very common in opera school at that time and every actor must take it if he desires to fame. Even now a few of parents still hit their children especially in countryside families, because they believe no kids grow well without severe chastisement. It's a part of Chinese traditional culture obviously. Certainly, I don't think it's right.The second issue I wanna point out is Culture Revolution(66-76), the disastrous fault in China modern history. Duan solo(Zhang Fengyi) betrayed his loyal wife(Gong Li) and disclosed his brother's(Leslie Cheung) past when they were animadverted in film. Why he did that, I think the revolution twisted his soul. If anti-Japan war and the civil war destroyed the material of living, I ought to say the revolution destroyed all the generation of my parents. They didn't accept entire education and become a tool of politics. Young men didn't know what the revolution is and why it exists at that time at all.A great movie all in all, pathetic ending, but be doomed to that. If a person finds he had lost the meaning of life and not hold pain brought from fate any longer. Nothing left but suicide to him. Worthy of spending three hours to watching if you are interested in Chinese culture and what happened in the past. "},{"Title":"Farewell My Concubine","Date":"16 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" This Chinese film is one I found in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die, I didn't know anything about it beforehand, but it was rated highly by the critics, so I hoped for something good. Basically set in the 1920s and continuing through to the aftermath of the Cultural Revolution, this is the story of how performers Douzi (Leslie Cheung) and Shitou (Fengyi Zhang) became friends and talented actors in the Beijing Opera. Later however Douzi wants to be more than friends, Shitou does not give into his advances, the situation worsens when courtesan Juxian (Li Gong) manipulates Shitou into rescuing her from a life of prostitution, and then marrying her, while Douzi is in fact homosexual. The friendship and relationship status between Douzi and Shitou goes up and down through the changing times over fifty years of Chinese history, but they remain close, but it is unclear whether they can return to the way things used to be, and the show must go on. Also starring Qi Lü as Master Guan, Da Ying as Manager, You Ge as Master Yuan, Chun Li as Xiao Si as a teenager, Han Lei as Xiao Si as an adult, Mingwei Ma as Douzi as a child, Zhi Yin as Douzi as a teenager, Yang Fei as Shitou as a child and Hailong Zhao as Shitou as a teenager. I will admit having to read the subtitles I could not follow absolutely everything going on, but the acting is certainly well done, the colourful sets and costumes certainly grab your attention, and the theatrical performances are interesting to watch, all in all I think the film is a worthwhile art house drama. Good, in my opinion! It won the BAFTA for Best Film not in the English Language, it won the Golden Globe for Best Foreign Language Film, and it was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography and Best Foreign Language Film. Good! "},{"Title":"The best movie in my life","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie in 2013, when I was 14. I didn't quite understand what was this movie about when I watched it for the first time. Then I read though some information about the history background and finally I understood a bit. 2013 was the tenth year since Leslie Cheung had passed away. After watching this movie, I became one of his fans, overwhelmed by his fascinating performance. This movie creates the unique Dieyi in the world, also the unique Leslie Cheung in people's hearts. The historical tragedy of The Cultural Revolution is the deepest memory for every Chinese people and also the timeless theme. I've watched this movie a few times and will never get tired of it. No matter how many times I have watched, I'll be still moved to tears. I know I am too young to understand the thoughtful meaning of this movie, but all I know is that it is the best movie I have seen and it will be the best movie I would have seen in my life. "},{"Title":"This should be the movie that opens American eyes to the wonders of Chinese cinema.","Date":"2 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Farewell My Concubine is two films at once an epic spanning a half century of modern Chinese history, and a melodrama about life backstage at the famed Peking Opera. Indeed, Chen's remarkable movie uses an unusual love triangle to telescope more than 50 years of tumultuous Chinese history, and it is neatly divided into eight chapters, each section representing a different era. As the line between the protagonists' art and lives is smudged, they play their roles without deviation or variation, both on-stage and off. Their relationship is portrayed with depth, sensitivity, and realism, creating a real and powerful illustration of human interaction that depicts layers of hatred and love. Appropriately operatic, this visually spectacular film is sumptuous in every respect, but its message is unrelievedly tragic. It is a narrative of sorrowful paradoxes where good intentions inevitably go wrong. "}{"Title":"One of the best movies made by Chinese","Date":"3 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" It came astounding to me that a Chinese movie made in 1993 could present so delicately people on such personal levels, as real imperfect human beings, without a haunting habit of moral judgment. As a movie that has a story line flowing with the stream of history, it is better that Huo Zhe, the highest rated Chinese Movie to date, in an artistic sense. May be because the protagonist, a true artist, is much more sensitive, idealistic and paranoid, thus giving the movie more color and vigor. The story of Huo Zhe on the other hand, is applicable to the majority of Chinese, the ones that do not fight back. Also this is a masterpiece where not even one line or one scene is abundant.This is not a movie to be missed. The story telling is friendly to those who have a limited knowledge of Chinese history. "},{"Title":"An intriguing tale, spanning over 50 years.","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" An intriguing tale, with a fascinating chunk of modern Chinese history serving as the background. Spanning over 50 years, the film tells about the ups and downs of a traditional Peking Opera troupe, and its two stars, from 1924 to 1977. Not only do we see the various political events of the time, but also how the traditional opera and its stars are treated during different eras.The two stars, Dieyi and Xiaolou, are brought up and trained to play specific roles - that of concubine and king respectively - in a famous play. Dieyi (Douzi) is trained, or should I say, forced to behave, sing, move and dance like a girl, from a very young age. The two of them share a unique and close bond, and this balance gets affected when a woman, Juxian, enters the picture. Their political naiveté get them into many problems, but it's their properly unresolved love triangle that causes more trouble.The lines between fact and fiction are blurred when we realise the similarities between the play and their actual lives. Dieyi's devotion to opera and Xiaolou are as strong as the concubine's devotion to the king. (The lines are blurred even more when Leslie Cheung, bisexual himself, takes his life in 2003) The end is inevitable, as we realise while the story progresses, but it's reached with proper momentum and after an intriguing chain of events.The acting by the three leads is really terrific. Leslie Cheung as the female-role playing opera star who's completely devoted to his art, Fengyi Zhang as a talented and playful man who can easily separate his private and work lives, and Gong Li as the prostitute-turned-wife whose shades of determination and compassion keeps us from not having a fixed view of her character. With Chen Kaige's talented direction and Gu Changwei's spectacular cinematography, the movie has many colourful and memorable scenes.I really liked the movie, and wasn't bored for a single second. The movie deals with so many interesting themes - Modern Chinese history, sexuality, art and its reception, devotion and passion - but yet it somehow makes me feel that it had the potential to be much more compelling. Other than the political events, the characters could have been explored a little more. "},{"Title":"A Story of the Chinese Opera","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" The story of two men, who met as apprentices in the Peking Opera, and stayed friends for over fifty years.Right off the bat, I must say I do not get the high-pitched Asian singing. I say Asian and not Chinese because I know the Hmong people of Laos do the same thing, leading me to believe this is a cross-cultural thing. And not all the time, as is evidenced by the normal singing over the closing credits.But that aside (which could probably be resolved by my reading more), this is a strong, semi-epic story of love and song. The costumes are beautiful, and in many ways this seems more like Japanese cinema rather than Chinese, with the elaborate costumes calling to mind samurai stories and other tales. "},{"Title":"Rich epic","Date":"9 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" It's 1977 Beijing and things are better. In 1924, Shitou is the lead boy in Master Guan's performing troupe in Beijing. Laizi tries to run away but fails. A mother from the brothel tries to leave her son with Guan but he refuses because of an extra finger. In desperation, she chops off his extra finger. They call him Douzi. It is a tough existence of brutal beatings and rigorous training. Years later, Laizi and Douzi run away. Douzi is so entranced by an opera performance. He becomes determined to take as many beatings as needed to be a star. They return to the troupe. Douzi willingly takes the beatings but Laizi hangs himself. Shitou and Douzi become close with Shitou taking the male roles and Douzi taking on the female roles. Shitou gets engaged to manipulative Juxian causing a rift between the duo. The story is rich. It is original. The acting is terrific. It is compelling. It is a long movie but it's an epic from another era. It's engaging from start to finish. "},{"Title":"it's not simply about homosexual","Date":"31 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" people ask if Cheng DieYi is gay.... Well he probably is, but not genetically, as far as I know.. We can see from the beginning, while he was young and was under training, he refused to say I'm a girl in the play. It was the lasting punishment from his teacher, and, most importantly, the disappointment from Xiao ShiTou (that scene when Xiao ShiTou punish Xiao DouZi) transformed him. The day he said out loud  I'm a girl, not a boy, he was transformed... He dedicated to JingJu (Chinese drama) so much and played his role too well that he couldn't realize that he's actually a man. And so during he's cooperation with Duan XiaoLou, he couldn't help love him so madly.... I think the greatness in this movie is not simply homosexual love. It's also about Cheng DieYi's love for his career. And the movie demonstrated how actor like him dedicated to Chinese drama in that era; and how all those poor people survived (or not) during wars and those dark ages... "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" There is no doubt that this is a great movie. You could check out the awards it won. I just want to mention that the main hero of this movie is Leslie Cheung who is my favorite singer.One of his great song is When Love Fades Away（in Chinese Dang Ai Yi Cheng Wang Shi)that is the theme song of this movie. If you are interested in this song, you might as well give it a try. Well, it's a mandarin song, but as the saying goes Music knows no boundary between countries.You might be impressed by the emotion it expresses. Besides, the following songs sung by Leslie are also great if you I want to know more.Silence is golden(Chen Mo Shi Jin)、In My Life Time(Jin Sheng Jin Shi)、Blamefully Beautiful（Guai Ni Guo Fen Mei Li)、The One Who Doesn't Want To Hold Me（Bu Xiang Yong Bao Wo De Ren) "},{"Title":"Such love one day tow one day is false","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Their love is humble and fierce. A lens is the deepest impression is butterfly garment rehabilitation building successful time to feed his drug sitting beside him, then senior teacher younger brother came in to see him when he shy smile and section of the building of ridicule him JiaoChen to choke him. He must feel very happy, in front of house so his sat next to him, even the chrysanthemum fairy said nothing. Women love to the old and the man to love is different. She is very pure love, true don't contain false naked love, want a birthright and he always followed her and to all people。When the cultural revolution was small four edges out don't her position at chrysanthemum fairy butterfly their makeup Chrysanthemum fairy, is really old, and she can be as beauty live forever in front of process adjustment. Her for so long, finally building Shouting I draw a line with her divorce with her. So she has always been to maintain the backbone. Yes, love can be a woman in my life the only really important things. How much she loved him, she also don't know. As she is such a status woman is not in a position to choose who don't have the right to love, wins is won. Actually I also thought she had won. If what can let him to heart, also is the dress from the back of the red wedding clothes. So I feel or butterfly garment more happiness. He love of so humble so no dignity but he can enjoy his easily Cheng butterfly heart remember is a sword Once we knew maybe a movie is a book album song at a concert Said you want to see I will go to buy and then lend you see film you say well I will go down seriously read and then tell you feel your best I'll wait for you whole looping remember every sentence lyrics say I can come then gloat. But we did not process adjustment so heart. After all, can turn around you don't have yourself, do you want to go to the east I like to do you want to go to the west I accompany you to use do you want to bully me do YuJi you want to break the selling watermelon came up I just far looking at you is like a difficult to cross the river. Final adjustment committed suicide. You should not meet, so then you may not love. The one you should not known well, so then you may not lovesick. The one you should not accompany, so then you may not owe. The one you should not pity, so then you may not recall. The one you should not love, so then you may not abandon. Had better not is opposite, so then you may not meet. The one you should not harm, so then you may not negative. Had better not mutually, so then you may not continue. Had better not linked, so then you may not match. Had better not meet, so then you may not meet. But once meet bosom friend, meet what to see. Monarch was Andrew tactic, not teach hard for acacia. "},{"Title":"Complex story- Great rendering","Date":"13 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I first saw the movie right after it being awarded the Palme d'Or at Cannes Festival 1993 along with 'The Piano', the co-winner. I have seen it again and again more than ten times, at least, despite its length, amounting to nearly 3 hours of footage. One of the reasons why I saw it so many times is that I translated its dialogs from Chinese into Italian for its dubbing. Nearly all movies are dubbed in Italy. The language spoken by the old people was quite formal, while children were more colloquial and, sometimes, vulgar. There also were passages reminiscent of historical events and literary quotations.What impressed me from the very beginning was the fast rhythm of the whole movie, quite different from that of nearly all the Chinese movies I saw in the past. 'Red Lanterns', the great movie by by Zhang Yimou, is entirely different, just to quote one.The sung parts were clearly performed by non professional Peking Opera actors, but they were essential to the narration itself and not many people may have realized it.Actors and the actress, Gong Li, are excellent.The movie is a remarkable portrait of the Chinese society during a few crucial decades a masterpiece! "},{"Title":"..vitally human, beautifully artistic..","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" ...don't even try to figure-out what you're missing from the Chinese language in the sub-titles...just revel in this lush movie, which you'll never see again in an American film. This could only be filmed in China, in their native manner. You'll also get an education about Chinese history, even though you may have lived through it all and didn't understand it. I encourage you to read all of the comments given here - I'm sure they contain many aspects of the film that I've missed, the several times I've viewed it......and, I haven't seen the uncut version.It is very easy to determine that Douzi (Leslie Cheung) is flat-out gay from the moment you see him, although some reviewers characterize him as asexual. He is thrust into a brutally cultural opera-school, where living the performance is mandatory. Although most of the students deride the tender-looking boy, one of them (Fengi Shang, Shitou) recognizes he's found his life-companion and actor/actress partner. There is little subtlety in his protecting this fragile boy. Of course, as he ages, he also must live his heterosexual life, and hides his true love by repeatedly telling Douzi he is fantasizing, he cannot separate his persona between the stage and his true life. BULL ! the only time he denies his strong love is during the revolutionary (?) Chinese era, to save his own neck.During this couple's rise to national stardom, there are some strange and extremely fascinating characters introduced into the story - including the fabulous portrayal of a whore-turned-loving wife by Li Gong (Juxian). I have learned to recognize the characters by their faces I don't even ATTEMPT to remember their names.I won't reveal any of the story, because that's the pleasure of understanding it in-spite-of the difficulty of keeping-up with it, from the Chinese. One learns that the world's people ARE the same, no matter what race they may be - and that human nature is no different, only exploited and twisted to suit a nationality's purpose.As many have written, this is a movie to view as a life-experience. It is powerful and gorgeous, pre-Brokeback Mountain in another language. Director Kaige Chen made a masterpiece from Lillian Lee's (and other's) writing. I can fault nothing about this film. Every intelligent adult should see it several times, to capture the multi-staged plots and realize life is life, no matter where you live it.Definitely a 40...........see it ! "},{"Title":"On my top 10 all-time list","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" This movie is clearly the best one out of Director Chen Kaige. And in my opinion, one of the best movies by any Chinese director and any director in the world.Some recent movies directed by Chen and Zhang Yimou(most of them are commercial big manufacturing), stressed too much on cinematography and aesthetics while overlooking the storyline and character explorations. Some of early productions by Chen and zhang, two most influential Chinese directors at this point, are a bit too artistic in my opinion.However, this movie is very balanced. Storyline, directing, cinematography, dialog design, acting, all of those are almost immaculate. For foreign watchers, it is better that you know a bit of Chinese contemporary history such as Janpanese invasion, cultural revolution, and so on to really understand the background and better know the development of plot and characterization. If you know nothing about China or Chinese history, this is still a fantastic movie, but you will miss a lot of subtle details.The movie is about a life of a Chinese opera actor, or you can say a group of them. In the backdrop, you can witness all the big events in Chinese contemporary history. The good thing is the director wants to let all those political and social environment play in, which is essential to the character development, but the director doesn't explicitly depict all those events. "}{"Title":"One fantastic film","Date":"9 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" A must see film, i recently got a friend of mine to watch this movie, I was very worried she would have me turn it off as it is not the type of film she normally like's, but much to my surprise she was hooked from the word go. I first saw this film on it's cinema release and went to see it twice, I was also was hooked from the start, but when Leslie Cheung first appeared as Dieyi I was struck by what a wonderful actor this man was. I fully believe he should have won award's for his role in this movie, but even in his native Hong Kong he not. If you haven't seen this film then give it a chance, you may not think it your sort of film, but if my friend can watch and enjoy it that anyone can. "},{"Title":"Historical perspective of tradition and moral change","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" It is amazing how things acceptable to a society today can be so different from what they will be in the future or have been in the past. Noteworthy is thinking about how we can cope with these circumstances and adapt, while at the same time trying to make sense of our new environment. A very complex film dwelling on primal instincts of war, sex and passion. There is a more subtle escape into imagination but the hardship of what China went through in the last 100 years might be too much to bear on some. A true lesson in reality. An artistic masterpiece with sound and color, crude and true. A confrontation that will put your deepest fears and your highest ambitions in a balance. A must see. "},{"Title":"A beautiful story of fame, fear, love and betrayal.","Date":"6 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  A wonderful glimpse into the world of the traditional Peking opera from the brutal training to the lavish life of a star. Not only is a great story of two stage brothers told, but also a story of how painful and wrenching the Cultural Revolution was for China and her people. Love, betrayal, fame and the fall to obscurity, obsession, survival, radicalism, devotion and a love of the arts are major themes with many more explored. If for no other reason Farewell should be watched to see the amount of work and sweat that goes into Peking opera. "},{"Title":"Well done","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Although I found the abuse of the children hard to take at times, this is a very good film.  An interesting story of two boys raised to be opera stars. The abuse they endure at the hands of the master, while disturbing, serves to build a tie that cannot be broken.  A very well made film. "},{"Title":"Simply superb!","Date":"9 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Superb film. One of the few movies I've seen that blends an intriguing historical background with a love triangle relationship. Usually a subtitled film of this length (close to three hours) will lag at times but this one really holds your interest as you journey through the lives of the two main characters. Well worth watching! "},{"Title":"Beautiful, Bold, Awesome","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  In history, there are films that are so beautiful and astounding and moves the audience deeply and so boldly that the audience has to sit for about 10 minutes to calm down after the film ended. Well, for me,(at least) this was one of those films. This film was so beautifully photographed and very-well storyboarded with memorable characters with an astounding cast. This is just my opinion, but I think its screenplay followed the pattern(in a way) done by Stanley Kubrick in Lolita.  That is just my opinion and I'm not trying to degrade the film in anyway. It's good to learn from other films in order to make your film better. That's how films get better and better for the future generation.  Anyway, just watch it.  I'm not going to tell so much about the film since it's hard to describe in words. "},{"Title":"A must see","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  This is the movie that you must see. This is the kind of movie that you can see it over and over again. And you can learn quite a lot of different things every time you watch it. I have seen it for 6 times and I cried 6 times. It is so touching,romantic, beautiful, and strong! You can even get shocked from the silent part of the movie. I love the movie, I love the story, I love the history, I love every thing in that movie!!!  "},{"Title":"If you can stand the first hour, you might like the movie","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" After finishing watching The Last Emperor, I found quite entertaining the way they portrayed events of modern Chinese history throughout the story of somebody's life. Since I know that movie might be a Hollywood-esque portray of those events, I looked for a movie with Chinese actors, that also developed through key events of modern Chinese history (e.g. the warlords, revolution, etc). Netflix suggested me Farewell my concubine.This movie was definitely not my cup of teaI found the first hour brutally violent, and hard to watch (the first 45-60 minutes). It might have been because in my opinion, the violence portray seemed to not help the development of the story.The movie felt too long, and probably since I did not like the first hour of the movie due to the fact stated above, the last hour and a half felt a bit boring (something I did not feel in The last emperor which was also a loooong movie).Finally. This is my own bias, since I do not like opera, the opera scenes seemed highly repetitive and the high pitch voice was hard to bear. "},{"Title":"Very different from 'Huang Tu Di'","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" The first hour is so incredibly well made that I cant give it less than 8 out of 10. Almost Fellini-esquire it tells of the brutal training of the young opera actors. It goes here and there, a frenzy of pictures, sometimes tragic, sometimes funny, always keeping your attention peeled. Somehow it lost me a bit from then on however.As the turns of history was woven together with the opera, it was no longer as involving. All the actors were exceptional, but lost a bit focus in the history part. I also suspect the history part to be one-sided. It was very tragic and brutal, but to this extent? I don't know, and should the film take it unto itself to paint broader it would end up twice its length perhaps. Its ambitious and almost there, but I like 'Huang Tu Di' better. "},{"Title":"Really Good Piece of Cinema","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie long and but interesting.  The acting was really good and a great script.  The film itself is a classic that everybody should see. But this is not a film for everybody and I guess you really have to be in the mood to watch it.  I would say rent the movie and see it whenever you think you are ready to sit for almost 3 hours and enjoy a great piece of film. "}{"Title":"Sadistic Japs.","Date":"22 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" This is a good epic film. But very sadistic. It's that jap obsession with pain, morbidity, and discipline. It takes a big stomach and tolerance from a European to see this. If you are nto bored at the beginning you might stay with it. But it's a testament to this sad bigoted culture that is the Japanese one. These guys wanted to conquer the world with Hitler, they were the worst savages in that war, worst than the German by far. And part of their flock suffered too, especially the women they amassed in whorehouses, and the people they did live experiments on... I won't go into this...google it.So this is an epic film with a lot qualities, but it has that weight on it, a whale's weight of that sadistic hara-kiri culture of Japan, and it's really hard to watch for this reason. "},{"Title":"Correction --","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" He suffers the same jealous anger and sense of betrayal as might be found when a wife discovers the cheatings of her husband, and reacts, unfortunately, accordingly (Heroin).I don't know how a person can watch a film, give it a rave review, and yet get prominent details wrong. As example, it is made clear in the film that Deiyi is addicted to OPIUM.As for whether Deiyi was asexual or homosexual it's obvious, in the film (reality might have been different, in view of the fact that the film is FICTION*), that he has a homosexual relationship -- it is in the context of that he becomes addicted to opium. _____*That one of the characters is modeled on Mei Lanfang does not make that character Mei Lanfang. _____One sees equivalent scenario in the subsequent Mei Lanfang/Forever Enthralled. "},{"Title":"Stunned yet again...","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Lately, I've been watching a great number of foreign films and I must say something. Hollywood...you suck.This is a MASTERPIECE. Unbelievable acting, cinematography, costumes, plot, continuity, the whole thing start to finish.Sure, it has subtitles, but 2 minutes into it, and I didn't even realize I was reading them as I was so engrossed with the movie it was effortless to me.So many people already have given the Reader's Digest version of this movie, but honestly, and I am a real hard to please kind of movie person, if you haven't seen this movie, do it.If you are like me, you'll probably watch it again right after you finished it the first time. I did! "},{"Title":"Despite subtitles, this film conveys the intense emotions that were underlying within the harems of the Chinese Imperial regime. A truly Shakespearian production","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" Despite subtitles, this film conveys the intense emotions that were underlying within the harems of the Chinese Imperial regime. A truly Shakespearian production. I am always wary of subtitles, but within minutes I was so absorbed that I completely forgot about them. The animosity between the first wife and the newest wife was palpable. You could guess at the ending..... but I don't think you will!! For anyone looking for an insight into history (pre-Mao China) this film has to be seen. Not many films coming out of China will be so honest. This film combines suspense, drama and historical fact; all set in a background of authentic scenery (I believe it was filmed in China) and excellent acting - in that the actors behave with the decorum appropriate to the period they are portraying. I will keep my own copy of this film for posterity! "},{"Title":"Emotionally moving","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  The story of two men who grow up together from boyhood, one of them born of a prostitute, to become two of China's most beloved Opera stars during the Chinese Revolution and Japanese Invasions.  This riveting portrayal of the trials of love and friendship disrupted by the horrors of war and revolution will leave you in tears!!   "},{"Title":"Gender Confusion","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I'm beginning to wonder if you can't measure a society's participation in the global economy of what used to be called the free world by the quality of its movies. China is still a monolithic and authoritarian structure but it's loosening up. It was only ten or so years ago that a friend who had visited mentioned that there were only ten McDonald's in all of Beijing. Now the city is more sophisticated than the one I live in, which is served by a weekly train of burros from the nearest cavalry fort. Starbucks is the name of the Mimbreno Apache who brings me an occasional jack rabbit carcass.But, all seriousness aside, this is a pretty good, and quite subtle and adult, film. It's a longie, so I was unable to catch the last half hour or so, but what I did see should be applauded for its acting, direction, and production design.It squeezes a long period of time, from 1932 to beyond Mao's take over, into the story of two orphan boys at a school that trains performers for Chinese opera. The female parts are played by men and boys, as in Shakespeare's time, and in fact Cheung, who plays the female part, looks pretty appealing in make up. Cheung's friend, Zhang, is masculine and plays the role of the King of Chu in gaudy make up.Chinese opera is a demanding art. As children, the two friends are beaten without mercy -- and I mean BEATEN -- for any mistakes they make. One of them is beaten even when his recitation is perfect, to remind you how good you were. The two grow up to become famous actors in the opera -- Zhang as the demanding and desolate king, and Cheung as his devoted concubine who kills herself.But then -- cherchez la femme. And who is the femme? The luscious and beautiful Gong Li (or Li Gong, to put her clan name first.) She's a knockout. It's no wonder that she's able to finagle Zhang into rescuing her from the whorehouse -- The House of Blossoms -- and marrying her. But, as new wives will, she's jealous of Zhang's close friendship with Cheung, who by this time has become gay. Disruptions ensue. Politics rears its ugly head. And at that point -- three in the morning -- I had to shut it off and go to bed.I don't know what happens at the end. I hope Cheung gets his head straight and becomes heterosexual again, that Zhang is satisfied with the arrangement, and that Gong Li becomes an eager participant in a polyandrous marriage. Things would be so much easier all around. "},{"Title":"A So-So Story But A Wonderful Portrayal Of Chinese Culture And History","Date":"1 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I have to say that in some ways I found the story here to be slightly lacking, in the sense that it seemed to jump around a lot and was at times difficult to follow. In another sense, though, I guess it's clear enough. It's about the close friendship between two actors in the Chinese opera, traced from the warlord era of 1924 through to the end of the Cultural Revolution in 1977. Whatever is lacking in the flow of the story, though, is more than made up for by some of the very strong content.First is the look at the Chinese opera itself. In the west, opera is a sort of niche entertainment; certainly not something that has mass appeal. In China, though, the opera is mass entertainment, and its performers can become major stars, as in the case of Dieyi and Xiaolou, whose friendship is the focus of the film. The friendship is tested in many ways, most particularly by Xiaolou falling in love and marrying a prostitute, and then by the barbarism of the Cultural Revolution, which is briefly but chillingly portrayed. The costumes and sets of the operas are dazzling (the film's title is apparently the title of a Chinese opera.) In the end, while the story has its weaknesses, the movie is worth watching for the look into Chinese culture and history. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The Chinese version of Last Emperor","Date":"1 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  A movie which educates us about Chinese ethics throughout the last century and recites the Chinese history of this era. A bit lengthy for its content but nevertheless dramatic and powerful. Strong performances although a bit unfamiliar to western audiences. "},{"Title":"Back on course in social criticism again.","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":"  Human tragedies and joys are all caused by the traditional Chinese culture, which was in resurgence in the 1990's China due to increased wealth and economical development.  The hidden theme behind the film is no other than warning the Chinese public that Chinese people needs to discard the not-so-favorite part in their tradition while inherit the good part.  "},{"Title":"Powerful movie but one may have problems with it","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" This movie was meant to be intense and powerful. But what lies behind its power and intensity? You find yourself so unsure once you decide to ponder a little deeper.For example****spoilers below****I was very shocked when, after the mother saw Master Guan refused to train her son, she cut him off one finger. It's a powerful scene but I can't help but ask questions like Why did Master Guan have to take the child in after he is chopped off one finger? How did the mother know this was gonna work? When you find such questions unanswered you think less of the powerfulness the film is trying to achieve.As to the Master Guan, though we may not agree with his way of training pupils, he has a lot of spirit. The boys respected and even feared him. Our main characters DieYi and XiaoLou respected him even after they were grown up and became big stars. Hence the powerful scene when the man took off his trousers and let his master beat him. But was he a respectable man? When another master, apparently bigger than he was, came to visit his school, he behaved like he would like to kiss his ass (sorry for the language). This make you cast another eye when the main heroes pay respect to the Master Guan in a somewhat humiliating way.Another confusing plot is DieYi's repeated failure in saying the line I was born a girl. After all, he was being trained to be an actor. why couldn't he say that? My interpretation is He has trouble recognizing his own sex. This is another poignancy happened to him. But what's wrong to have caused this? The movie gives no clue.The only real powerful scene is during the cultural revolution. Every one is trying to persecute you when you have a different opinion. But this powerfulness I attribute to history itself, not the director of the film.****end of spoilers****Another thing that bugs me is how the characters talk. Especially Master Yuan. When he finished a word, he paused one second before he uttered another one; he paused ten second between sentences. Other characters sometimes talk like this, too. It's funny. We Chinese never talk like this.This movie is not light entertainment. That's why it makes you think. Yet the more you think, the more absurd the movie seem to be. It's powerful, but just superficially. "}{"Title":"Too long, too operatic, too boring","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" I am particularly fond of sweeping, historical epics and because of that I looked forward to watching this movie. But not long into it, I was looking forward to the end of it. Perhaps it is because the subject matter - ancient Chinese opera - is too esoteric for my taste. But though there are some rich moments in the film and the historical backdrop is interesting, the movie seemed to just drone on and on. After seeing the two actors perform the same lines in the same whiny voices during the same scene in the same opera over and over and over I was ready for my own cultural revolution. The movie is simply way too long, the acting is stilted and interest fades long before appreciation has time to build. "},{"Title":"The Birdcage meets Fatal Attraction, with a gigantic helping of Sado-Masochism","Date":"26 December 2006","Score":"11 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Romance","Review":" As I write this review, there are 50 comments on IMDb &#150; 48 of which rate this film a 7/10 or higher. Needless to say, a contrary opinion is desperately needed, and I will now provide it.Take the costume designers from The Birdcage and the fanatical sexual obsessions from Fatal Attraction. Then add a gigantic helping of Sado-Masochism, and you'll get something remarkably similar to Farewell My Concubine. Taking this into consideration, the praise this film has garnered is almost inexplicable.The first 50 minutes focus solely on the child abuse of the two lead characters. None of the characters are remotely likable because everyone acts as if they are certifiably insane while on PCP. Children escape their abusers, only to then return and actually beg to be beaten. Boys lick each other's flesh wounds while dressed in drag, or simply pee on each other's heads. Old men (when they're not asking stupid questions like, What year is this?) get their kicks off of beating little children or making them pee into little glass bowls. How the hell could anyone consider this tripe entertaining? Thankfully, the film calms down for the final 120 minutes (and yes, it lasts almost three excruciatingly long hours), when a woman obstructs the friendship of the two leads. But even during the better portions of the film, the negatives still heavily outweigh any positives (1) The sadomasochistic obsession of all of the characters rears its ugly little head on multiple occasions. The two lead characters welcome their despotism with near fanatical graciousness, and structure their entire existence to facilitate this repressiveness. This film almost glorifies abuse.(2) The death of the troupe master is unintentionally hilarious.(3) The entire subplot of the conflict with the Japanese practically derailed the main plot of the story.(4) The subplot of Gong Li's miscarriage was played down too much, when it could have contributed greatly. It seemed to have little to no effect on the primary storyline.(5) The film fails miserably to earn the viewer's sympathy for the characters. The lead character renounces his love for Gong Li. Gong Li kills herself. The film then fast forwards 11 years to imply that one of the male leads kills himself. It all seemed so ad hoc and cheap to me &#150; a way of cheaply earning sympathy at the very end of the film.Farewell My Concubine was a major disappointment. I was expecting it to rank amongst some of the newer classics (The Road Home, Happy Times, In the Mood for Love, Shanghai Triad, Kikujiro, 2046, Dolls, Sonatine, Eat Drink Man Woman, Hana Bi, The Isle, Chungking Express, etc.). Unfortunately, it simply fails to entertain in any significant way. The first 50 minutes annoyed me; the final 120 bored me.So basically, if you enjoy watching men dressed in drag while singing at glass-shattering pitches that must have required the inhaling of a blimp full of helium, then Farewell My Concubine might be for you. Otherwise, stay far away from this one.Update Just saw Yimou Zhang's Raise the Red Lantern, which blows this movie away on every level. See that one. Forget about this tripe. "}]