[{"Title":"An excellent legal thriller. One of Tom Cruise's best performances.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"75 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  In The Firm, Tom Cruise plays an extremely intelligent young lawyer who takes a job with a tremendous firm, having been seduced by their huge financial offerings. The Firm begins to sound very creepy very early in the film, when it becomes known that `the firm' has never had a divorce, `the firm' encourages children,' `the firm' is a big, happy, 41 member family. Unfortunately, it seems that another interesting little side note is that no one has ever left `the firm' and lived. Mitch McDeere (Cruise) is hired by `the firm,' and at first, everything is great. The firm loves him enough to pay back all of his student loans all at once, and he is completely taken in by everything, even down to the way that the firm furnished his new house, in his beautiful new neighborhood (`To make you feel at home. Hope you don't mind.'). The lives of Mitch and his wife Abby (Jeanne Triplehorn) are completely and drastically changed when he is hired by the firm, setting up a disorienting atmosphere, especially when strange things start happening, people getting killed by boat bombs and whatnot. Gary Busey plays a small, seedy role, and it works really well because he's best at playing seedy characters. Ed Harris also delivers a good performance as an FBI agent trying to coerce McDeere into helping them investigate the big bad firm. It seems that McDeere has been helping the firm in its illegal activities, making him guilty without him even knowing about it. If he doesn't help the FBI, he'll go to jail with the other 40 members of that big, happy family. The Firm really gets going once McDeere starts trying to investigate, making copies of incriminating files, etc. Some things may have gone a little too far, like the conveniently placed pillow truck, but as a whole, The Firm is a great thriller. It may not be quite as good as other John Grisham adaptations, The Rainmaker, in particular, but The Firm's complex and fascinating plot, as well as good direction and acting, makes it way above average.    "},{"Title":"Joining a law firm from hell can be detrimental to your health...","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"35 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  All the elements to make a hard-hitting melodrama of corruption (with FBI and Mafia aspects present) are unfolded here in a gripping yarn from John Grisham's novel. Tom Cruise is excellent as a young man who joins a small but prosperous law firm, only to discover that all the perks he enjoys come at great expense to his integrity, not to mention his life. The plot thickens when members of the firm are murdered and Cruise gets drawn into the unmasking of the firm, risking his life to reveal the criminals. Gene Hackman, Ed Harris, Holly Hunter and Hal Holbrook all give strong performances, with Hunter fully deserving her Oscar nomination. The pacing is good despite the film's length (well over 2 1/2 hrs.) and there's seldom a dull moment. Especially gripping is the supercharged climax.Not having read the book, I see where others are disappointed with the ending. Having no comparison to make, I can only say that it kept me absorbed until the final scene. Definitely a must-see if you enjoy action thrillers with a climactic punch. One of the best films of the '90s, full of suspenseful twists and turns. "},{"Title":"A Complex Suspense-Drama","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"31 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a long (154 minutes) but pretty solid drama-suspense story about corporate corruption. The film features a well-known cast, and as soon as the action kicks in this becomes a very tense story.Tom Cruise is very good as the hotshot lawyer, as is Jeanne Tripplehorn who plays his unhappy wife. This is a complex story at times, one not always easily understood, especially the ending. So much is explained so fast at the end it's tough to comprehend it all.Wilfred Brimley, Gene Hackman, Hal Holbrook, Holly Hunter, Robert Strathairn and Ed Harris all make this a really deep, impressive cast. For more details of the story, check some of the other reviews. "},{"Title":"The far-fetched law firm from hell!","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"38 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Though not the best of the Grisham adaptations, this is up to the usual high standard in plot and stars that Grisham movies have become associated with. The plot on this one is a little more far-fetched probably on account of the fact that this was one of Grisham's first works, escapism and entertainment seem to be the most prominent here, other Grisham works had begun to develop other traits alongside populism, like being almost topical and seeming to make social comment on issues that Grisham must have had an inside eye on when he was actually involved in the legal business for all those years. The Rainmaker is a great example of this when a young lawyer takes on a pro bono case of a widow's suit against a rogue insurance company that wouldn't pay up on  a claim for her son's illness, and who as a result died from it. You will find none of this in the Firm, it is the straightforward story of a young lawyer whose life becomes entangled in the law firm from hell, which has all the usual mafia connections and all the usual FBI hardball characters battling with the caricatures from the Mafia. It does however make great entertainment , you will soon forget how far-fetched and improbable it all is, as you will become instantly fascinated, and stick with 155 minutes of plot twists and turns.  "},{"Title":"Lawyer/Client Privilege","Date":"30 June 2007","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Tom Cruise, the All American kid from the trailer park who worked his way through Harvard Law School, just got the dream job with a prestigious white shoe law firm in Memphis, Tennessee. Sounds like he's on his way to the top with wife Jeanne Tripplehorn. But it turns out to be a nightmare. This Firm's main client is a Chicago crime family and they launder the mob's money. Now the FBI in the persons of fatherly Steven Hill and hard-nosed Ed Harris are squeezing Cruise to infiltrate and get incriminating information. That would result in disbarment for violating lawyer/client privilege. And The Firm isn't a gang of boy scouts either. They're not above a little blackmail and entrapment and they've got a security man in Wilford Brimley who's real good at it.How Tom Cruise gets out of this rock and a hard place situation is the plot of The Firm. Sydney Pollak gave him one stylish cast in support and everyone of them delivers. Even players like Gary Busey, Hal Holbrook, Gene Hackman, take essentially supporting roles because this film was a guaranteed blockbuster. All of John Grisham's novels have their own built in audience, The Firm is no exception. I do remember my mother was a devoted reader of his work, whereas I always await the film version.Holly Hunter got an Oscar nomination for her small role as private detective Gary Busey's secretary and girl Friday. When Hunter witnesses Busey's murder without the hit men knowing it, she sets the wheels in motion for the downfall of the bad guys. Hunter got nominated for Best Actress for The Piano and Best Supporting Actress for The Firm, a most unusual occurrence. She won for The Piano in 1993, but lost the Supporting Actress Award to her co-star in The Piano, Anna Paquin. Winning both would have just been a bit too much for the Academy voters.The Firm has a far fetched plot to be sure in the way that Tom Cruise brings them all down. Still that's the charm of it. It's almost Hitchcockian in its pace and mood, and even more resembles the Mission Impossible television series in the way it's all brought off. Small wonder that Tom Cruise was chosen to star in the big screen adaptations of that television classic.When I watch The Firm, I'm reminded of that line from another television classic that one Hannibal Smith used to say about he loved it when a plan comes together. That's what you will like about The Firm. "},{"Title":"Better than the book! (*and possible spolier!*)","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I read The Firm after watching it, not knowing what expect (I didn't know if it would be a tight or loose adaptation). It was pretty close, with the difference mainly lying in the ending, and that where Sydney Pollack makes this story go from good to great The book, at the end, makes Mitch out to be a coward and a traitor at the end, by making him give into the FBI. But, in the film, Mitch is seen as a hero who doesn't give into anyone. The FBI doesn't win and the Mafia doesn't win. Mitch wins. He bows down to no one. Tom Cruise also plays a *great* Mitch McDeere, with a lot of intensity and charisma. You cheer for him as the protagonist. Holly Hunter is top-notch with her portrayal of the vulnerable, secretary turned accomplice Tammy. Gene Hackman is also great as Avery Tolar, the one bad guy who sympathizes with Mitch and Abby. Such a great screen presence. His scenes while they're in the Kaymen Islands are key ones to watch. Jeanne Tripplehorn finally makes up for her role in Basic Instinct as Abby McDeere, the cheated wife, not only by her husband, but also by the firm he works for. Sydney Pollack showcases some of his best work as director, especially by the opening segment that describes Mitch McDeere perfectly in the span of less than 10 minutes. Such a GREAT adaptation, and a even better film to watch! "},{"Title":"Nice performances, clotted plot","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"22 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" You really can't fault any of the performers here. Tom Cruise has a boyish high-school handsomeness and an unthinkingly naive demeanor to go with it. Jeanne Triplehorn has big dark soulful eyes and does and says what she's supposed to. But the lesser actors are the more interesting. And they are here in droves. Gene Hackman, the late What's-his-name Viterelli (I can only think of him as Jelly in Analyze This), Holly Hunter looking sexy and sassy, a hypomanic Gary Busey who, when capable of it, really delivers, Paul Sorvino who underplays (honest), Hal Holbrook and Wilfred Brimley being nasty, poor Tobin Bell as the albino who must have played a dozen hit men and mass murderers by now, Ed Harris now with a completely shaved head, Terry Kinney as the pale blond nice guy who conceals his demons, and Steven Hill as a ruthless FBI man.The performances and the locations make this worth a dekko. This ought to be Sidney Pollack's turf alright -- corruption in a law firm and illegal activities by the authorities, the kind of polluted panorama that he often finds appealing. But somehow it doesn't come off. I haven't read John Grisham's book but it's hard to believe the plot could be as complicated as this movie. There were times when I was completely lost, especially towards the end when the firm begins to unravel and the chases and breathless phone calls start.Probably the most interesting character's is Gene Hackman's crooked but very human lawyer. His scenes with Tripplehorn are really quite good, his hesitations, awkward silences, embarrassed chuckles, and vapid smiles. His last scene with her, as he lies half drugged in bed, is outstanding.The ending is hard to swallow. Cruise gives the Feds just enough legal information to put the bad guys away for several years, based on the fact that the firm overbilled its clients and used the post office to do it, which is a federal offense. A clever move on the part of Cruise but I had a hard time visualizing these murdering wealthy perps doing any jail time. I mean, for what? For sending a client a bill that charged too much? That would put my plumber in jail, my doctor, my shrink, and a strange porno web site that I once unwittingly subscribed to -- but these guys? Nope. Even if they were convicted, I see Dershowitz handling the appeal "},{"Title":"Alternate Screenplay","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I wanted to get a copy of the screenplay to compare the movie with the dialog and directions, but initially received the FIRST draft by David Rabe.  I finally got the shooting script later.  All I can say is that it ended with Mc Deere blowing away all the partners in a restaurant with an AK-47.  It really made me appreciate the re-write by David Rayfiel and Robert Towne.  I have watched this movie many times and enjoy the suspense, romance, and Grusin's solo piano score, which always blows me away.  But the one thing that impressed me most with multiple viewing, is how Gene Hackman really makes the movie work.  His portrayal of this corrupt, but incredably likeable character is the one thread that holds the movie together for me and goes down as one of his most memorable acting performances. "},{"Title":"Can a thriller about lawyers thrill? Beware a plot filled with technical twists.","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Firm (1993)The twist in the plot as you realize this Memphis law firm is not what it seems, and the rather innocent freshman lawyer played by Tom Cruise is slow to catch on, is the core of the movie, and a relief. It starts steadily, or slowly, depending on your patience, and in fact plays many scenes out in more detail than we need for a kind of bookish thriller. It's not a bad ride, and there are some further, minor twists, but it's not packed tightly enough, or frankly original enough, to lift its boots out of the sand.Director Sydney Pollack, hugely successful as a director and actor, might have just had bad scriptwriting here by David Rabe, because John Grisham's book had proved itself. The acting is really solid (I'm no Cruise fan, but he's fine), but the characters are often doing things that just don't quite follow, or that are improbable or stupid. Or they end up doing something dangerous and the danger is either watered down or ridiculous. Examples that come to mind are how they show Cruise discovering or stealing or xeroxing files. We get the plot, but it lumbers along, or is just shown, not built up with suspense. The cinematographer takes a hit here, I think. Things are often nicely framed and routinely well done, but a thriller needs to hide some things, show some things, create ambiance and mystery, and so on, visually. It doesn't really happen.So, for a kind of technical high-stakes, rich person's good-guy bad-guy suspense film, it will get you through, but barely. By the last five minutes, if you aren't sucked in, you'll want to scream hurry up! "},{"Title":"firmly implanted","Date":"3 July 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When The Firm came out was - believe it or not - the first time that I had ever heard of Tom Cruise (although I didn't see the movie until several years later). And let me tell you, this was a great introduction. Cruise plays novice lawyer Mitch McDeere, who goes to work for a Memphis firm. With this firm, he has everything that anyone could want. But there's the question why does everything seem so perfect? The answer lies in the firm's unseemly other side. And they're not just going to let Mitch blow their cover.Sydney Pollack pulled off everything perfectly here. It's sort of like an Ira Levin novel how everything plays out. You may be suspicious of everything after seeing this movie. Above all, it shows that Tom Cruise can actually do a good job when he tries. Also starring Jeanne Tripplehorn, Gene Hackman, Hal Holbrook, Wilford Brimley, Ed Harris, Holly Hunter, David Strathairn and Gary Busey.It's hard to believe that this was the first movie adaptation of a John Grisham novel. "}{"Title":"has some quibbles that can't be overlooked but it does entertain","Date":"29 February 2012","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Mitch McDeere is a brilliant young law student, happily married husband, and&#x97;despite some shady family ties&#x97;has a bright, ambitious future in the legal community. About to graduate from Harvard in the top five of his class, he agrees to join Bendini, Lambert & Locke, a prestigious Memphis law firm that makes him an offer he can't refuse. All of his dreams seem to be coming true, but he quickly learns that his new firm isn't as virtuous as it seems. Based on the novel by John Grisham the film benefits from interesting characters brought to life by an excellent cast, and it effectively builds an atmosphere of suspense and intrigue, but they're marred by the film's long running time, an odd (and inappropriate) score, and a third act that runs around before finally arriving at a resolution that's much too pat. Highly watchable, but only if you can accept the obvious flaws. **½ "},{"Title":"The Firm","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Most entertaining of the John Grisham works made into film. There is a great pace, set perfectly by director Pollack and star Cruise. There is great support from a huge ensemble cast with Hackman being especially impressive as Cruise's womanizing associate. Hunter was Oscar nominated.  "},{"Title":"Tortured Plot Device But Great Cast in Some Fine Moments","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Hitchcock called the plot device that kicks everything into gear the MacGuffin.Is there a less plausible, more tortured MacGuffin than the one used here? The Mafia creates an elaborate conspiracy to get lawyers to work for it.Huh? Lawyers have been happy to work for mob money for a very long time. That's one reason there are so many lawyer jokes. There are some notable moments in this otherwise mediocre thriller, though. * The albino assassin. The Da Vinci Code also has an albino assassin. I think it's high time that the National Association for the Advancement of Albino Assassins protests Hollywood's blatant stereotyping.* David Strathairn. Any movie with DS in it is worth watching. (Okay, excepting Limbo.) He has two fine moments a prisoner, he expresses a wish to see the sky; out of jail, he tells a woman how pretty her mouth looks; she says, That's not even my best feature. I wish there had been a sequel built on those two stars' chemistry. * It's amazing to confront how good looking Tom Cruise was when he was younger. He's still good looking, of course, but when this film was made he was at his peak.It's fashionable to mock Cruise these days, but he deserves credit. He was almost eerie good looking when he was younger, and yet, unlike, say, a Matthew Mcconaughey or Brad Pitt who let their prettiness just sit up there on screen without doing much with it, Cruise had the drive of a Jimmy Cagney or other actors who had to get past their lack of prettiness. Cruise's drive is something to watch. * Jeanne Tripplehorn is so pretty but so boring to watch. And she and Cruise have zero chemistry. * There's an amazing scene where an older Gene Hackman attempts to seduce younger, prettier JT. Hackman's so poignant in this part, and the part was so well written, that you wish that that storyline had had its own movie. * And, the Elvis imitator/catfish truck driver was kind of interesting ...And no movie with Ed Harris in it is a complete waste of time. "},{"Title":"The movie was just as good as the book and had great acting.","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie was very good. I saw it after reading the book and was not disappointed. Tom Cruise had a decent performance, but I felt the performances of Gene Hackman, Hal Holbrook, and Wilford Brimley were especially great and put this film above most similar movies. Brimley has never to my knowledge had a role similar to this before and he was excellent. I had not really been impressed with his acting but in this movie I definitely was. The suspense flowed naturally and never seemed forced just to fill time. The music score was very good. The variety of settings (first Cambridge, MA, then Memphis, TN, then the Caribbean) made it more interesting, too. I have seen it twice..once on the big screen and once on video. The book was also very good. "},{"Title":"A law thriller that will please everyone","Date":"7 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I always assumed that no movie based on John Grisham's books can be boring. Why? Because all of them include the most gripping and thrilling stories ever. And it can't be denied that one of their most amazing aspects is that they are perfectly fitted to be adapted onto the big screen. I wanted to watch this film since the time that I have finished reading The Firm, this amazing book, which turned Grisham into a world class writer. I craved for more of its pure excellence. I just needed to see Sydney Pollack's vision. And I am so happy to say right now that he certainly didn't let me down.Tom Cruise, still in his early days of glory, is an ideal Mitch McDeere, the young, ambitious and somehow innocent young lawyer. The man just passed the bar exam and started looking for a job. And then he found what he thought was a perfect opportunity for a well-paid job of his dreams. Unfortunately, this all seemed a bit too good to be totally legit and risk-free. But, at the time, who could tell that this particular firm is controlled by a group of dangerous Mafia thugs?This is the moment when the fun starts. The fast-paced sequences begin to roll. The viewer starts to uncover one secret after another of the overly corrupted Bendini, Lambert & Locke law firm. The suspense is heightening with every scene and that is what makes you concentrated all the time. You simply don't want to miss any part of the action. And I can assure everybody, it won't stop until the last minute. This is what makes the movie so similar to the book - you just can't stop till you know the whole story all the way through. Of course they had to do some rewrites and cut out some of the scenes and subplots (even though the movie is still relatively long). This is probably why the movie seems a bit chaotic at times. Also, I didn't like what the did with the ending, it should have stayed as it was described in the book.On another topic, I love the way that all of the great supporting characters build up the plot. And the stars that play them. One of the most memorable cameos of this movie must be the one made by Gary Busey. The only person that really didn't convince me was Jeanne Tripplehorn. I pictured Mitch's wife very differently - let's just say she seemed more beautiful and appealing in my mind. However, that still didn't stop Gene Hackman's character as he tried to seduce her in the most adorable way (one of the best scenes in my opinion).Even though I found the book more exciting than the movie, I still highly recommend it for its ever-occurring suspense and the atmosphere that causes shivers on the back. You won't find many law thrillers like this one for sure - except maybe for other Grisham masterpieces.8/10 "},{"Title":"Had issues, still good","Date":"11 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  May contain spoilers, be warned!It seems like the more Tom Cruise movies I watch, the more I really really like him. The Firm surprised me because it was LONG, which means it has a lot of potential for viewers to lose interest, but that didn't happen to me. It was tight & suspenseful all the way through.  My one compliant there were too many characters & too many different settings. I didn't know all the lawyers names, plus the Mafia guys, the FBI workers, etc., not to mention where they all where, as the action was spread across several US cities plus in the Cayman Islands. All in all, a good movie. The changes in the story from the book that it was based on didn't create a weaker/worse film. ***1/2 out of 5   "},{"Title":"Not Exciting Enough To Be This Long,","Date":"29 July 2013","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Firm is a decent movie with a promising storyline that dosen't really deliver.The movie certainly shouldn't be called a thriller,it wasn't very exciting and it wasn't something that I couldn't keep my eye away from.I was impressed with Tom Cruise,Jeanne Tripplehorn,Gene Hackman and Ed Harris performances and their probably the only reason why this score isn't much lower,because their all just very talented and did the best they possibly could with this overall dull and boring movie.I wouldn't recommend the Firm,especially not to fans of thriller's,it isn't exciting as the story makes it seem,and it is dragged out way too much,with two hours and a half,and it gets boring after about the first hour.The movie is too plain,simple and long but fans of these actors will appreciate their performances.Mitch McDeere (Tom Cruise),a trained lawyer,joins a prestigious law firm only to discover their business is dangerously shady. "},{"Title":"Riveting thriller with great acting","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I first saw 'The Firm' just because it sounded interesting.  What I didn't know, though, was that I was in for quite a treat!  I enjoyed every minute of this intense thriller, from the beginning until the surprise ending (though I'm tempted to tell what happens, I'll let you find out for yourself!).  I tell a bit of the story here, so it is possible they may be regarded as **SPOILERS**, so if you don't want to know anything about the movie, STOP READING.Tom Cruise shows off one of his best performances as Mitch McDeere, the formally poor boy who goes off to Harvard Law School and graduates cume laude.  He goes to many prestigious firms, all of whom want him real bad. One firm, though, Bendini, Lambert, and Locke, strikes his interest.  In return for joining, he gets $100,000 per year, and a shiny new Mercedes. He accepts, and he and his wife, Abby (Jeanne Tripplehorn), fly to Memphis, where they get a nice house, with most of it payed for by the firm.  The story unfolds, and through the course of events, Mitch learns the dark truth about his firm. . .The acting is superb in this film.  Tom Cruise's performance reminds me of his in 'A Few Good Men'; strong and realistic.  Jeanne Tripplehorn is a pleasure to watch as his wife Abby.  Gene Hackman plays a surprisingly sympathetic role as a partner in the firm.  Holly Hunter (who received an Oscar-nomination for her role) is almost humorous as a southern-twanged secretary-turned victim-turned accomplice.  Ed Harris brings his usual fine acting style as an FBI agent, and veteran actor Hal Holbrook plays a grandfatherly lawyer more evil than his attitude would imply.  Sydney Pollack's directing is radiant, and the single piano score by Dave Grusin can be both calm and content, then become fast and furious.In conclusion, 'The Firm' is a fun, fresh thriller, and it should be enjoyed for years to come. "},{"Title":"A great suspense thriller","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie was the movie that finally drove the fact home to me that Tom Cruise was a good actor and pushed him to the front of the line. The casting was really really great and the plot was first rate. Cruise is a fresh out of college law student named Mitch with a pretty new wife who is dreaming of becoming a successful and big name lawyer. So as any other graduate he is sending out resumes and getting offers from different firms. But one firm from Memphis, Tennessee gives him an offer he can't refuse. It seems like a small homegrown firm that is very wealthy and prosperous and prides itself on being the best. But this isn't any ordinary law firm. It's a Family with a history of partners having premature deaths and now Mitch is part of it. And he can't get out. Not alive anyways. So Mitch has to find a way out without joining the list of expired former associates. Gene Hackman in this is incredibly, stunningly, unbelievably great. His character quickly becomes Cruise's mentor. He is an unhappy, alcoholic, womanizing ambulance chaser (albeit an highly powerful and prosperous one) who also cannot escape either and is the linchpin in the unfolding drama that Cruise and Tripplehorn find themselves square in the middle of. Hackman is the one you should despise and dislike right from the beginning but you can't even if you try very hard because he is a likable person and you know he is in serious trouble which makes you emphasize with him right from the get go. My favorite Grisham book adaptation it made him a household name to this very day. Also features appearances by Paul Sorvino, Gary Busey, and Holly Hunter. "},{"Title":"OK movie but not as good as the book","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The movie The Firm was OK but really cannot compare to the book. There were a few things that were very different and many parts played like one long action sequence. The book is a masterpiece and although the movie is certainly watchable it is a bit dull at times. The book existed on incredible tension, drama and great dialogue. It was simply riveting all the way through. The movie was less like a drama/psychological thriller and more, at times, like an (action movie?).There was nothing wrong with Cruise as Mc.Deere. He looks like what I'd picture Mitch to look like anyway from the book. But I am baffled as to why this was not left alone and done exactly as the book was. After all, the book was a major success-there's gotta be a reason. Gristham is such an amazing story teller that I don't know if this could have been successfully adapted to a movie but as movie thrillers go it wasn't at all dreadful but was just alright. But Just lacked a certain something and I gotta say it again, it would have been better to stick to the book (exactly). The changes they made in the movie didn't work.(won't give any spoilers.) Also to many corny chase scenes substituting for real suspense that was so prevalent in the book. only slightly above average movie-READ GRISTHAM'S BOOK-MUCH BETTER! "}{"Title":"an intelligent triller!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An excellent triller in which intelligence is more important than guns or violence in winning against an enemy much more stronger! Tom Cruise during the movie is able to loose his brave-kid face and Gene Hackman is very clever as usual "},{"Title":"Solid thriller with a great cast","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is definately one of Tom Cruise's best, much better than A Few Good Men. Its not real hard to follow, and has great suspense. With Sydney Pollock(Tootsie, Three Days In Condor) as the director, and a cast that includes Gene Hackman, Holly Hunter, Ed Harris, Hal Holbrook, and cameo appearences by Gary Busey, and Paul Sorvino, you really cant go wrong. Its not the best thriller ever made, but its still good fun. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An original story, shame about the end though.","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Before watching this film, the only thing I knew about it was that Tom Cruise was a lawyer, and Gene Hackman was the bad guy ( no surprises there then.)  Cruise and Hackman actually make a brilliant pair.  The young, eager one, and the older, more experienced lawyer. I must mention the music- it is absolutely fantastic.  It makes you tap along to the quick beats of the piano.  Ed Harris, in his common supporter role, was surprisingly effective as the determined cop, desperate to stay one step ahead of Cruise. Cruise is an up and coming lawyer who is taken on by The Firm, a very close group to say the least.  Harris, the hard-headed cop wants Cruise to copy confidential files as the Firm have strong connections to the Mob.  There are some original and interesting ideas here, but all too often you find yourself looking at your watch.  The ending is also a complete let down to what I was expecting. The film also makes lawyers seem superhuman.  In the closing scene I actually thought that Cruise was going to rip off his shirt to reveal a superman outfit! However, it is worth watching on a rainy night, and if you like watching Cruise run.  And run. "},{"Title":"Pollack at his best","Date":"18 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is really one of the most interesting movies if ever seen. But not only because of the great acting from Tom Cruise. The greatest thing about this movie is the Oscar-nomminated O.S.T. by Dave Grusin. Really genius. The story is intelligent, basing on a novel by John Grisham, and really exciting. Go and see the movie, you'll really love it! "},{"Title":"My personal fav ... bar none.","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  My all-time top-rated film; this one has it all.  The characters, not just the leads, are real and substantive.  Hackman almost steals the show. Cruise takes you with him as a young comer with the world before him brains, energy, confidence, a beautiful wife (Tripplehorn, who is gorgeous, sensuous, supportive and yet strongly her own person), and a dream job. Cruise and Tripplehorn sizzle throughout the movie, but never more so than in the penultimate scene when he repeatedly asks Have I lost you?  Her answer simply melts the heart.The writing is of course superb, and, although the ending, different from the book, has been criticized, I found it an amazing extrication from a situation which compels the viewer to believe is hopeless.  You want the stars to somehow escape their continually worsening plight - both within their personal lives together and with the evil external forces that have ensnared them, and the movie ending does not disappoint.Disappointing, however are the last few moments, which are disjointed and seem to belong to another movie.  It amazes me that something better could not have been done.  It could only have been worse had our heros ridden into a sunset to the strumming of a western guitar ...   "},{"Title":"once more MAYBE, possible spoilers","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am not impressed with Tom Cruise as an actor, but this is one movie I MIGHT watch again, due to the seriously gifted cast, including Miss Tripplehorn. there is enough tension in the plot to show what could happen in a thoroughly immoral, power hungry business. I can truthfully say that virtually everything I know of Memphis, aside from the home of Elvis, I learned from this film. My thanks to those in charge of such details. Everything, I know of Memphis, aside from Graceland, I learned from this film .Again My thanks to those in charge of such details. Many of us will never be able to travel to all the places we would love to see.I have noted this fact in previous reviews. Please give us more location details. It is our armchair tour guide. "},{"Title":"Not All Lawyers Are Legal......","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Back in the early 1990's, movies based on lawyers and law were everything, so it's no surprise that many of John Grisham's books were adapted into screen during this time, including this movie The Firm. The Firm is actually a really tense, character-driven thriller that works despite a stuffy running time and a very confusing plot(especially the last half-hour.) The screenplay is effective, but kudos to those who can follow the entirety of the plot because it was hard to follow at times.Sydney Pollack's film is about this very smart man who is on the cusp of graduating from Harvard when he is offered a package at this law firm in Memphis which can afford him an affluent lifestyle. But little does he know the firm has a sinister side. When the FBI talks to him about the firm and asks him to be an insider, Mitch McDeere's life will be forever changed.This film has a well-rounded cast and everyone is put to good use. Tom Cruise does a great job using brain and muscle to sort things out. Gene Hackman does a great job as his flawed, but kind character. Jeanne Tripplehorn is effective as Mitch's wife, Abby. We also get smaller key performances from Ed Harris as the FBI investigator and David Strathairn as Mitch's older brother, Ray who is serving time for manslaughter.Overall, The Firm is a very interesting movie. The plot is all over the place and the film runs over two and a half hours, but the film never becomes boring and it's not all that hard to put the pieces together. I also like the jazzy piano score by Dave Grusin. It sounds upbeat at times, but it adds to the film. A very suspenseful thriller and I was surprised how fast my heart was beating in the three-way battle between Mitch, the FBI, and the Firm. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent crime mystery..","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is based on a best-selling novel by John Grisham under the same name. John Grisham is well known writer for his thrilling novels. The story revolves around a young and ambitious lawyer, Mitch who has just passed law school and is looking for a job in a law firm. As he is one of the brightest students of the batch, he gets plenty of offers from the country's leading law firms, but the law firm which he chooses to work in, was going to change his life forever.He got hired in small law firm in Memphis, offering him an unexpectedly large salary, a BMW, a sign-on bonus, use of corporate jet, 10 years contract and a lifestyle he ever dreamed for him and Abby, his wife. They were unaware of the facts about the firm and everything seems perfect to Mitch as all of these he ever wanted was there. SPOILER ALERT But after some days Mitch realized that some conspiracy is going on in the firm and soon he found out that Firm is linked with the a Mafia family called Moroltos, and soon FBI came after Mitch to reveal the facts about firm. Now he had to run from both FBI and firm. Overall plot is good and the focus is mainly on Mitch and the firm. In the movie, firm searches for the candidate who are married, young and from poor background, who can be disillusioned with the money. Tom's acting is appreciable and story is changed a little bit from that of novel to create better climax. In my opinion the story of film is not better than the original screen play of the novel but overall film is perfect for the viewers who like mystery, drama with thriller. "},{"Title":"First-rate legal thriller based on John Grisham's #1 bestseller","Date":"22 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" THE FIRM, in my opinion, is a first-rate legal thriller based on John Grisham's #1 bestseller. Whenever Mitch (Tom Cruise) was in danger or someone died, I got a little scared. This was because I didn't want to see them anyone get hurt. It was fun watching Mitch outsmart the bad guys, though. To sum this up, the performances were top grade, the direction was flawless, and the casting was perfect. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Tom Cruise or Gene Hackman, or you enjoyed John Grisham's title novel, I highly recommend this movie. You're in for a good time and lots of thrills, so see this movie today. I guarantee you that you'll have a good time, so rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, lock the doors and windows, and watch it. "},{"Title":"A Law Firm?","Date":"5 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sydney Pollack directed this adaptation of the John Grisham novel that stars Tom Cruise as Mitch McDeere, who is recruited by a powerful but mysterious firm to work for their exclusive and wealthy clients. At first, things are fine, as his wife Abby(played by Jeanne Tripplehorn) is most happy about the home and money that come as partners, but things take a dark turn when two associates are murdered, and the FBI contacts him about being an informant, which he refuses, but cannot go along with the illegal dealings of his employer either, so comes up with his own plan... Long but interesting and well-cast drama has a most clever and compelling story, and an ingenious solution by Mitch to get out of the mess. Costars Gene Hackman, Hal Holbrook, Jerry Hardin, Holly Hunter, and Wilford Brimley. "}{"Title":"Tom Cruise's Best","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Mind you, I was never a Tom Cruise fan, nor am thrilled by his roles. But in two movie he is very god - in this one, and in Operation Valkyrie. Both are his stellar performances. Here, we see the John Grisham's classic novel turned into a classic thriller with excellent cast, including Gene Hackman, Jane Tripplehorn, Gary Busey, Ed Harris among many, and then there is Tom Cruise who delivers his best role as a young and aspiring lawyer, Mitch McDeere. The plot is well-known and there is no need in retelling the events, but what a great tempo! What a beautiful camera work, what excellent views of Cayman Isles and Memphis! The plot is twisted and goes on very fast, despite 2 hours of timing. The work of all the movie team is decent and the result never disappoints. The movie is very captivating, and it runs very smooth, allowing us to enjoy the splendid play, great music score by Dave Grusin and like every moment of this very fresh and strong film. Highly recommended "},{"Title":"Elvis Has Left The Building","Date":"23 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was at 5 Points,hitting on the waitress. Elvis gets up and heads for his truck. About 3 minutes later,a trench coated man runs in,taps the shoulder of another trench coated man. They run into the restroom. The waitress and I looked at each other with raised eyebrow. A couple seconds later,they run out of the diner,get in their car,and spin off. I mentioned to the waitress,I think the secret service lost track of Elvis.Tommy Matthews drives the Kenworth big truck.Tommy Matthews is a permanent A list actor.Jeannie Tripplehorn and Barbera Garrick are hot!!---Onr Truck Drivers Opinion---erldwgstruckermovies.com "},{"Title":"A top notch moving Legal Thriller","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The movie The Firm without doubt is one of Tom Cruise best films. He leads an all star-cast, playing a Harvard graduate lawyer who lands a dream job at a Memphis law firm.Not long after he joins the firm the nightmare begins. He wonders what he's got himself involved in. A bunch of Mafia thugs who are laundering money back and forth to the Cayman Islands.Cruise gives a believable performance as Mitch McDeere who is on the run from the Mafia.Gene Hackman also gives one of his best performances as Avery Tolar since Lex Luther in (The Superman Movies), and Secretary David Brice in (No Way Out). There were other good performances from Jeanne Tripplehorn, Holly Hunter as Tammy, Gary Busey as Eddie Lomax, Wilford Brimley as the scary grim-faced law enforcer for the firm.Overall, the film moves along nicely with Cruise carrying most of the film.However, being a John Grisham fan and having read the book I thought the film makers could have stuck to the ending in the book. Anyway, I can't complain because Cruise does a good job and is a believable Mitch McDeere. "},{"Title":"An Interesting Watch...","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sydney Pollack's Box-Office Super-Hit 'The Firm' is An Interesting Watch, that manages to catch your attention, especially in the second hour. Also, the impressive star-cast, pitch in some real good performances.'The Firm' is a legal thriller, where A Harvard Law School grad, played by Tom Cruise, discovers that the law firm he has recently joined is run by the Mafia.Based on the 1991 novel by the same name by author John Grisham, This flick offers a set of interesting & gripping moments. The culmination, though not nail-biting, is executed neatly. Adapted Screenplay David Rabe, Robert Towne & David Rayfiel, is definitely worth a nod. Sydney Pollack's direction, is impressive, as always. Cinematography is perfect. Editing could've been sharper.Performance-Wise Tom Cruise delivers a truly fine performance. In fact, I believe, this performance is amongst his better works. Gene Hackman & Holly Hunter are good, as always. Jeanne Tripplehorn is decent. Ed Harris does a fair job. David Strathairn, Hal Holbrook & Gary Busey are nice.On the whole, An effective thriller, that is mostly convincing. "},{"Title":"Lawyers are honest crooks","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Some would call that a legal thriller but that would be reducing it too much because there is little court action, in fact there is no court action. It is all about how you can fool the FBI, get your feet out of the rich mud in which they are and at the same time remain absolutely true to your oath as a lawyer when you were registered, sworn in to be more precise, to the local bar, here Memphis, Tennessee. But it is a very good film on one legal loophole in our society. A lawyer knows about the crimes of his clients and if these clients are criminals what can the lawyer do when he is under the menace of being killed if he stops doing his good job. That's the first interest of the film. Lawyers cannot because of their oath do anything and yet it is their legal duty to do something. So it will have to be like for Al Capone, a collateral problem that has nothing to do with the business of the client. That's the real loophole of our legal system. Everyone has the absolute legal obligation to report a crime they know about, except lawyers and priests, and that is immoral. A lawyer has to defend his client. An accused criminal has to be defended in court the best way possible. But hiding the crime you know about is not defending, it is concealing. Our society has some kind of a flaw there, and it goes back a long way. Is our justice really equal for all and just for all, victims and criminals alike? The second interest of the film is the super exploitation young lawyers can be the target or the victim of. They are bought by some legal firms with millions of money and merchandize just to be over exploited for a certain amount of time, for doing what they are asked to do, for keeping their mouth shut, including inside the firm, for being subservient servile servants of their older partners. The wives are demanded to be their wives and that's all, and that's hard enough, waiting for them at night when they work late, worrying, but not too much when there is something strange, caressing and cajoling the Dearies when they go through a difficult period, etc. This profession in this society is essentially misogynistic. What about women lawyers today? Then the film shows how the famous Cayman Islands were used in those days as a haven for business, crime, tax evasion, speculation, prostitution and many other options in evil doing. Finally it also shows how justice can be short-circuited by the simple system of parole and turned into a means to pressurize one person by paroling or not paroling another. The film is well built, full of resources, action too, and rather moral in the end, even if the main criminals will go on running, in that case the mafia and their lawyers. Our society is so hypocritical. Shedding crocodile tears all the time on the poor little poor people who suffer so much. Let me give you twenty euros or twenty dollars for you to go to the restaurant and forget about your misery.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"If It Sounds Too Good To Be True, It Probably Is.","Date":"28 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In this excitingly convoluted genre piece by Sydney Pollack---who blossomed into a straightforwardly commercial director who was happily a part of the commercial mainstream, unlike such surviving contemporaries as Sidney Lumet and Woody Allen---Tom Cruise plays Mitch McDeere, a poor boy who is embarrassed by his meager roots now that he has graduated from Harvard Law fifth in his class. He gets offers from the top law firms in New York and Chicago, yet ultimately opts for a smaller firm stationed in Memphis. His choice is money-minded. He regards money as peace of mind, however later in the film he is less certain than he's ever been of how flush he'd need to have to be truly at peace.Some movies about the law reduce the judiciary elements to the rank of incidental. This one squeezes them for all they're worth. Without betraying too much of the story, I can say that McDeere is soon enough being blackmailed by both the FBI and the firm's security chief, grizzled and mild Wilford Brimley, quite compelling in an unusual jaunt as a bad guy. To protect himself, Mitch has to exercise both mind and body, eluding hit men and outwitting lawyers, to save both his life and his license to practice law.Drawn from the novel by John Grisham, as adapted by three of the most high-priced screenwriters at the time, this star-studded suspense melodrama takes an admirable two and a half hours to work its way through a hair-splitting ethical hodgepodge. By the finale, regardless of McDeere's gasping expounding during phone calls in the middle of a chase sequence, his plan of action is bewildering. And then there is the one character who never saw two particular killers when she witnessed another character's death because she was totally enclosed and hidden, which is how she survived, but in a later scene with Mitch, she says she saw the killers and details what they looked like, even the color of one's eyes, the one actually being an albino. However, it doesn't seem as far-fetched as it would were the style of the movie not as competent even when the fine points were bleary.Sydney Pollack, usually a solid director of easy-going entertainment, liked to make big, demanding movies and he was secure working with huge stars. Whether or not that colors his movies with a sugar-coated worthiness, he utilized them as abbreviated exposition. Case in point One glance at Hal Holbrook as the top dog of the Firm and we sense it's a suspicious organization. Holbrook almost always plays the ostensibly dignified man with skeletons in his closet. One look at Gene Hackman, as the law partner who becomes Cruise's coach, and we know he's an incredibly faulty yet essentially not such a bad man, as he always is. One look at Cruise and we get a complacent feeling, because he is, in lots of his roles, just a little slow to figure things out. His characters appear to trust people too readily, and so it seems authentic when he accepts the Firm's song and dance and inducements.The movie is practically a compilation of great small character performances. Ed Harris, menacing with a shaved head, mainly requires little more than a couple of concise appearances to persuasively disclose the FBI's case against the Firm, and to divulge its airy readiness to force a potential witness to undergo impossible duress. Another potent performance is by David Strathairn, as the brother McDeere hasn't told the Firm about. Strathairn has arisen as one of the most commanding character actors around. There are also rich performances by Gary Busey, as an articulate private eye, and especially by Holly Hunter, as his allegiant secretary. Actually, watching this high falutin' legal thriller, it hit me that law firms have to some extent usurped Army platoons as Hollywood's most enjoyed universal human setting. The new law thrillers have the same components as those reliable old World War II action films Assorted cultural and character archetypes who battle each other when they're not battling the enemy. The law movies have one formidable leg-up the female characters engage equally in the fray, rather than simply cooking, cleaning and writing letters.The vast peanut gallery of characters makes The Firm into a persuasive Hollywood landscape. There are enough convincing people here to give McDeere a genuine environment to inhabit. And Pollack was forbearing inwith some ways with his material. He would allow a scene to go on until the point was made somewhat more acutely. That would let an actor like Hackman be stunningly compelling in scenes where he delicately authenticates that, in spite of everything, he has a decent soul. A sensitive scene near the climax between Hackman and Tripplehorn is like an advanced course in acting. The parts of The Firm seem better than the whole. And there are some great parts. "},{"Title":"Evil is everywhere","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Pure evil can be found just about anywhere if you look hard enough. One of the scariest things to happen to a person is unknowingly getting involved with the wrong kind of people and finding out when it's too late. Makes for a great Thriller, either on paper or the screen. One thing that really makes them effective is if what happens in the story is something that has or can happen in real life. Of course nobody would want to experience something life threatening themselves, but it's something that makes watching movies such a pleasant experience. Director/producer Sydney Pollack, his actors, and his crew know that, which is why this adaptation of John Grisham's novel is such a treat.Pros Amazing cast, solid performances. Great story. Taulty directed. Nice score. Suspenseful. Moves at a good, slow burn kind of a pace until the really dramatic moments and then kicks into gear. Some beautiful filming locations. Lots of neat twists and turns.Cons A bit far fetched. The final act is a little confusing. Perhaps too long.Final thoughts 'The Firm,' while not a perfect film, is a well done entry into the genre that is well worth the time. It has a lot to offer viewers looking for something to keep them guessing and on the edge of their seat. It has the right ingredients, and mixes them together quite well.My rating 4/5 "},{"Title":"a brilliant thriller from Sydney Pollack","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" this is a very smart thriller from Sydney Pollack, his directing too. the mystery and tense feeling in this film really won me over.the film stars a fairly young Tom Cruise as a man trying to join a law firm. when he finds the law firm that makes his dreams come true all isn't what it seems. the film also stars Gene Hackman, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Ed Harris and Holly Hunter.... they all do a good job with the acting in this filmthe thing i hated about this which made me give it an 8/10 instead of a 9 or possibly 10 is the musical score....... its terrible and annoying. when i watch films in order for it to get a 9 or a 10 it has to be almost or fully perfect and this isn't just for the musicits a long, exciting and mysterious thriller. its awesome........ 8/10.........j.d Seaton "},{"Title":"One of the best Grisham adaptations and Crusie on top form","Date":"29 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" An above average action thriller. Pollack plays the tension very tight - there are a number of times during this film that the audience is left wondering how Cruise's terrified legal stripling actually got out of that. Cruise is absolutely in his element here. His easy charm makes his precocious barrister effortlessly believable, then his intensity raises the drama of the chase to a gripping pitch.His support is first class, with Gene Hackman (say no more) and in-form Jeanna Tripplehorn. A noteworthy actress Tripplehorn, possibly a little narrow but sympathetic, sharp and seductive in the same package (a brunette version of Rebecca De Mornay and Erika Eleniak perhaps). It's Grisham's story though that makes the whole thing a shot in the arm. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Convoluted, but Ultimately Worthwhile Thriller","Date":"8 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" By now, the specifics of the plot of The Firm are well-known. Consequently, any plot description would be ultimately useless. Nonetheless, John Grisham's plot has been given worthy treatment by its screenwriters (David Rabe, Robert Towne, and David Rayfiel), its director (Sydney Pollack), and, especially its actors.Many of the plot holes in Grisham's novel have been deftly handled by the scriptwriters, though fortuity still plays a far greater role than it should. All the same, Pollack's stylish direction, and particularly astute performances by Cruise, Tripplehorn, Hunter, Busey and -- in what should have been an Oscar-nominated performance -- Hackman, rescue the film. Hackman's performance in particular is an anchor -- an example of what Cruise's character could have become. Two particularly profound moments demonstrate why Hackman is one of the two or three greatest actors of the latter half of the twentieth century -- first, the moment outside the schoolyard with Tripplehorn, in which he is laid almost completely, emotionally bare; the second (also with Tripplehorn), in the Caribbean co-op, where his line-delivery is practically a primer in restrained, but effective, acting.As noted above, the performances of Cruise, Tripplehorn, Hunter and Busey are also noteworthy, as is the score of Dave Grusin, which keeps a percussive (and suspenseful) thread beneath the entire proceedings. In short, this is a film I expected to hate (because of the initial, contrived hype of the book's plot), but was converted by the fine direction, scripting, and performances. "}{"Title":"Loved It Once Again!!!!","Date":"11 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Loved It Once Again!!!! - I'm not someone who needs to view a movie multiple times, and had seen this movie in the theaters in 1993, remembered it was a very good movie but forgot the details and decided to view it again today on TV. I haven't changed my mind! Very well done! And Tom Cruise is a sentimental favorite as he is a great actor, his popularity has only increased since 1993, and we share the same birthday! It's a real thriller. So much is going on in this movie and it keeps you in suspense the entire time......One of the original John Grisham movies, now a classic, and a very well-written story.........The actress who plays Tom Cruise's wife is just beautiful, but she seems to have dropped out of sight since that movie. And she ironically seems to resemble Katie Holmes........... "},{"Title":"Enjoyed equally with book - liked ending in movie better","Date":"16 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Since 1998, I've enjoyed seeing this film for more than just the story and performance.About five years following its 1993 release - my family and I spent a week and a half at Westin's 5* Casuarina resort on Grand Caymen. It is across the main beach road, not far from the Hyatt facility featured in the film - every bit as nice, but immediately on the beach, and on the best stretch of one of the finest beaches anywhere.We danced at the large Holiday Inn resort (now supplanted by an new facility), where Gene Hackman was doing the same when he and Cruise visited the island initially. We walked the beach at night, in what in the film appeared to be the same part where Cruise was filmed with the beautiful young island girl.I've read elsewhere, and in this site, that both Cruise and Tripplehorn's parts were preciously offered to other actors - and I feel the story is better for these others (unwisely, career-wise) passing.Every single other actor in the picture is well-cast - and this is one of those films where, for me, both the story and the way the director chose to present it - as well as the performances by all concerned, merged perfectly.If you haven't read the book, please do so. And as I indicated above, while the ending in the book is different, I liked the way it was portrayed in the film even better, but both were effective. "},{"Title":"The golden trap","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First it is rather difficult to write about this film. I may not tell the plot! The Firm is a factory of very special lawyers. Tom Cruise, graduated, receive a lot of money, house,and coaches to get a lawyer here. But how these men earn their money? Almost our Hero has a brother who is a prisoner. The F.B.I. surveys this  strange  firm The police knows how they do without any proof they work with the Maffia to wash the money in the Caiman's Islands in order not to pay any taxes. Furthermore there is a lot of died lawyers in the firm. Between his lawyer's duty and the F.B.I. How our Hero can do without be false to one's oaths as to set his brother free! Is he a winner or not? "},{"Title":"Totally different from the book...","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  the book was awesome!! so i was a lot disappointed by the movie because it was totally different from the book... why did they do that? i can say that if someone has not read the book could find the movie very nice... but for me this thing was disturbing..after all the book plot was much more better and realistic. i guess the happy end didn't fit and they had to give the ''very happy happy end''... "},{"Title":"A great cast in a tense thriller","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Film is a tense thriller about a lawyer who joins a mysterious law firm which turns out to be quite a different enterprise. Tom Cruise and Gene Hackman head a fine cast that brings John Grisham's best-seller to life as partners who try to leave the firm find themselves and their families in grave danger. The firm has unsavory connection with organized crime which has a talent for weeding out malcontents and discouraging defections. Another troubling aspect about the firm is the strain it brings on Cruise's marriage as he discovers how desperate his situation has become. Cruise's attempts to get his brother out of prison and his cooperation with the FBI are part of the film's twists and turns as his erstwhile partners close in on him. Picture has great color and a nice music score. "},{"Title":"good depiction of the book","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I recently saw The Firm after reading the book, and I must say that I was very impressed. Although some changes were made from Grisham's novel(which always happens when a book is made into a movie), I thought this was one of the better depictions that I have seen of a book on film.(spoiler)I would have liked to have seen more of the chase towards the end of the book, with McDeere outmaneuvering the FBI and the members of the firm almost simultaneously. That would have been exciting to see on film. However, I thought the ending in the movie was a pretty clever adaptation from the book. All in all, The Firm was definitely a great flick. I recommend reading the book, then watching the movie. "},{"Title":"You Never Know What a Jury Will Decide.","Date":"8 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A long and winding sleight of hand based on the vastly popular novel survives due to its stunning cast and remarkable direction by the always dependable Sydney Pollack. Recent law school graduate Tom Cruise takes a job with the titled entity, a deceptively dark and crooked organization with intense Mafia connections. Almost immediately nothing seems to be right and blackmail soon takes the place of gifts and rewards. Cruise gets caught in the middle, wondering if he should cooperate with the authorities or stay true to his new job. In the end Cruise may just have to come up with his own way of doing things. The Firm is a movie with lots of dead weight to it, but enough action and suspense makes up for that huge shortcoming. An all-star cast which includes Gene Hackman, Wilford Brimley, Gary Busey, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Hal Holbrook, Ed Harris, David Strathairn and Holly Hunter (in an oddball Oscar-nominated role) helps to keep John Grisham's wild novel believable and coherent. 4 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Quit comparing!!!!","Date":"1 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Like most people who had read the book and anxiously awaited the movie release I felt betrayed after going to the theater and viewing the film.  As I left the theater I along with others who had read the book were complaining about how they (Hollywood) ruined a great suspense novel.  However, the friend I had gone to see the film with seemed to have really enjoyed the film.  I couldn't understand how, but then he had not read the book.  A few months later I had the opportunity to view the film again at the cheap seats and to my surprise I found myself entertained.  This time around I quit comparing the book and the movie and just watched and it wasn't have bad.  After talking to others who have read the book and were initially disappointed with the film I have come to the following conclusion.  While almost everyone who has read it believes that the book is a much better story than the movie, the movie isn't half bad if you can quit comparing every change.  Of course you still notice the changes but don't spend as much time dwelling on the changes while watching the film.I hope that Hollywood makes Grisham's THE PARTNER into a movie, it is as good as if not better than THE FIRM.  I also hope they stick to the original story this time. "},{"Title":"A young unsuspecting rookie lawyer joins a Law firm run by the Mafia.","Date":"15 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  An unsuspecting young rookie lawyer Mitch McDeere(Tom Cruise) fresh out of Harvard has being hired by a most prestigious law firm in Memphis. A few days at work he realises that there is something about the firm that isn't right when he finds out that two mysterious deaths of his colleagues were not an accident. A few months later FBI find him and tell him that The Firm is owned by one of the most dangerous Mafia crime family's in the US and that no one had ever left this law firm alive! The FBI want Mitch to help them but if he does it might mean him his life if he decides to stay at The Firm he will be a part of the conspiracy either way his in danger.  "},{"Title":"How Lawyers get rich","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A pretty exciting if far-fetched film - the invoicing methods adopted by the Firm were, however, pretty realistic in my experience!Very good performances from Tom Cruise and Gene Hackman.Not a classic but an entertaining way to spend a couple of hours. "}{"Title":"Watchable","Date":"28 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  While the plot holes are immense, it is in general good entertainment. It goes smoothly and if you turn off your brain (especially in the end) you could possibly enjoy it. The first hour is even building up some tension! Oddly, I thought the bed scene of Jeanne Tripplehorn and Gene Hackman emitted more eroticism than Tripplehorn and Cruise. Paul Sorvino and Joe Viterelli are extremely miscast. When I first saw them at the airport scene I thought the film diverts to a mob comedy!  "},{"Title":"A lawyer wrote this shlock about lawyers?","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" What a bad joke this is. Did the author actually go to law school? What lawyer is disbarred because he is coerced into revealing his clients private information under the fear of death? Preposterous. Never happen. Yes, this young lawyer should be more worried about a new job than death. And then there is the nonsense about all these clients willing to overpay their bills instead of changing their legal help by going to a new firm!!!!It's so stupid it is hard to be believed. It's far-fetched but this is the book. Can't blame the movie for being lousy if the book is lousy. "},{"Title":" I Get suspicious when there's nothing to be suspicious about ","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The law is the law anywhere one goes except where it can be manipulated by powerful lawyers. The more innovated the firm, the more power it exerts. When officials collide with such a small powerful group of attorneys, the public observes just how inept the government really is. The O.J. Simpson case, Robert Blake's trial, John Gotti and the really famous affair involving Jon Bennet's parents are but a few of the more notorious examples. These are the sources for the movie  The Firm. Our idealistic hero is one Mitch McDeere (Tom Cruise), fresh from prestigious Harvard Law School, lands a job with a obscure but powerful Memphis law firm. He and his wife Abby, (Jeanne Tripplehorn) discover their dream life has a much higher price than either one cares to give. Once in, the firm proves to be a viper's nest of illegal activity and will destroy anyone who tries to leave it. The proof is not only in the mysterious deaths of his former colleagues, but also in Mitch's close friend Avery Tolar (Gene Hackman) who allows him to discover the devious ways the company has to envelop him in their powerful grasp. Hal Holbrook plays Oliver Lambert the head of this extremely powerful organization which involves the Mafia's Morolto brothers (Paul Sorvino and Joe Viterelli) and Wilford Brimley playing the heavy William Devasher. Other Hollywood notables include Gary Busey, the Private Investagtor, Ed Harris the Federal Agent, David Strathairn, Mitch's imprisoned relative and Steven Hill, the attorney general. The movie is packed with character intrigue, dramatic excitement and most of all, a perfect collection of cinematic ingredients to entertain any audience. **** "},{"Title":"Alternate title","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" very great movie, but a better title is The Tax Evasion Law Firm - otherwise the rather broad title appears to slam all law firms, before you realize the type of law firm it actually is - it reminds me a little of the also excellent movie Boiler Room with Giovanni Ribisi, who is, coincidentally, also a celebrated Scientologist, like Tom Cruisethe movie begins with a general overview of law firms and law schools and how well-qualified Tom Cruise's character is, but eventually it becomes clear that this law firm is only in the business of finding tax loopholes for its rich clientstax law is a very specialized field of law, so the title The Firm is quite misleading until you find this out about midway into the film "},{"Title":"Years later, and I still enjoyed it!","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I've recently become greatly enamoured of Tom Cruise (think Last Samurai), and I'm amusing myself by looking back over his lengthy filmography.The Firm was a good one!  I enjoyed seeing it in the theater when it first came out, I've enjoyed it on TV, and now I'm enjoying owning it on DVD. Mitch is a young top-of-his-law-class lawyer, who is seduced by the big money of a little-known Memphis law firm.  They seem like nice folks.  He grew up poor, and the megabucks and megaperks being offered dazzle him. He drags along his wife, Abby.Things turn strange, and dark, and Mitch learns that all is not what it seems.  He has to turn to his own ingenuity to escape the clutches of the evil firm, the FBI, the mob.My favorite scenes involve Tom (of course!!).  He is such an incredibly talented actor.  I like the scene (SPOILER) where he is shown the sexpics by Wilfred Brimley.  His shame is tangible.  I like the scene (SPOILER) where he is dangling, sweating on the ceiling, with dripping sweat droplets causing danger of discovery.  Obviously, lots of people liked that scene. He used it again later in the original Mission Impossible.I had forgotten the scene where he viciously attacks and kicks (and kicks and kicks) a prostrate Wilfred Brimley.  That was a surprising and powerful scene.  Many of Tom's characters have had a dark edge to them (think Magnolia).  I can't wait for his new movie, Collateral, where he plays a hitman.  I'm expecting to be chilled.The Firm is enjoyable.  Holly Hunter was funny and lively.  Gene Hackman (who I dislike) is really good as the sad Avery.  The actor who played Mitch's brother, Ray, is good.  Ed Harris as the slightly befuddled FBI agent is good.  There are lots of good performances here.  Good, not great.The main draw of the film is Tom Cruise and his palpable charisma onscreen. Oh, and Grisham's story is all right, too. 3 stars out of 5.  "},{"Title":"Painful adaptation of Grisham's page-turner","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" John Grisham fairly burst on the scene with the very definition of a page-turner in the legal thriller The Firm. His novel is slick, manipulative, undeniably fast-paced and suspenseful. Keep those last two terms in mind, because fast-paced and suspenseful can never be ascribed to the stillborn, ponderous mess that Sydney Pollack perpetrates on the viewer.The storyline centers on idealistic young attorney Tom Cruise, who joins a prestigious Southern law firm that ends up having ties to organized crime and begins to take control of his life. The novel details the dawning realization and horror that the attorney and his wife face when it is discovered that they are basically owned by The Firm and their lives are in danger should they ever step out of line. The film details pretty much the same story with some rather wrong-headed derivations and devoid of any tensions or excitement.The cast is par excellence. There is not even a minor role not inhabited by a first-rate actor. Cruise is ideally cast as the attorney. Gene Hackman is reliable as his mentor at the firm. Unfortunately, of the remaining cast, only Holly Hunter makes much of an impression as a canny private detective's secretary who ends up helping the lead couple. Jeanne Tripplehorn spends much of the film looking constipated as Cruise's wife. The film offers her a mid-way revelation that results in her spending an obscene amount of time moping on a set of swings. The various shady characters at the firm that instilled such fear and distrust in the novel are inhabited on screen by a diversity of non-threatening, retirement age actors - like Hal Holbrook. And to play the terrifying head of security and enforcer of the firm - the man that no one wants to mess with - Pollack casts Wilford Brimley - the avuncular grandfather figure from the oat bran commercials. Apparently Pollack was going for irony, but it blows up in his face. There is something to be said when Ed Harris' relatively sympathetic FBI agent comes off as more of a threat than the assassins dogging Cruise. With the likes of Holbrook and Brimley out to get him, Cruise just has to rev up to a hearty shuffle in order to avoid them.The pace is the film's worst problem. It is stagnant from start to finish. There is literally no stretch of excitement in the entire film based on a novel that was swimming in it. Part of the issue is that Pollack seems to think the story is of biblical importance and needs to be portrayed with unflagging solemnity - in short, he is too good to stoop to a thrill. The film is tragically overlong and easily feels like triple the length it is. Anything that was remotely exciting from the novel has been removed or depicted in such a painfully tedious fashion lest one break a sweat.Even worse, changes made in the story and the outcome in particular make no sense. The true evil of the firm was actually the organized crime syndicate that it fronted for. In the film, the organized crime syndicate is depicted as almost a neutral figure that can be won over by Cruise's reasoning and savvy, while the firm itself it depicted as the ultimate evil (HUH?). We never truly feel that Cruise and Tripplehorn are ever in any serious danger and that, coupled with the staggering pace and running time, gives us no rooting interest in the outcome. And when the outcome is as weak as it is here, one is just as happy not to wait around for it.The score sounds like low-rent jazz and often detracts even further from the action.This production is a veritable textbook on how not to adapt a popular page-turner. A lumbering, tortuous, joyless mess devoid of tension, suspense, excitement or any recognizable human emotion. Even the most undiscerning viewers will find themselves looking at their watches and tapping their feet prior to the halfway mark. A complete misfire and a total dud - this film is indeed painful. "},{"Title":"Very good entertainment.","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I never finished reading the book, but that there was some differences between certain parts of the book to movie. From what I have heard the ending is different between the two. I have also heard that the ending is better in movie. I had seen this movie a million times before today, but just now bought it on DVD. The theatrical trailer 1 is very good and doesn't even show that much of the movie. My favorite parts of this movie was mainly the ending sequences which I won't go into because you need to see them for yourself. I loved right at the beginning where Tom Cruise's (Mitch McDeere's) wife gets home and as she's opening the door, the door flings open and Mitch grabs her and they go straight for the couch kissing. Then after a few seconds she says Okay. Okay. You're going to have to leave now. I'm expecting my husband. The hell with him he says and shuts the door and takes her into the kitchen.The movie is very good, entertaining, and I do agree with it being a little far-fetched but all a movie is supposed to be is entertainment because it is all fantasy. Even stories based on true events are fantasies because they may not show exactly how certain things took place and that it is a biased story. It only shows how one person viewed something. In any case, this movie deserves an 8 or nine out of ten. "},{"Title":"Tom Cruise is brilliant.","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Tom Cruise stars as Mitch,a graduate who gets offered a job at a law firm,as soon as Mitch arrives at this small but respected firm,he discovers corruption and greed.Most of the lawyers there who discovered it's secret died. Mitch now in danger with his wife,decides to leave,but are they after him?The firm is a shallow,but gripping and intense thriller.It goes on for nearly three hours in which it can get boring at times.The story doesn't pick up until three quaters of the way through the film. The film was a book by John Grisham.Overall the film is worth renting,only if you have the time to see it though.I rate 3/5. "},{"Title":"Paranoia Thriller","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Invited to join a mysterious legal firm on a high salary, a law school graduate begins to suspect that something is amiss in this riveting Tom Cruise movie. The firm acts like a cult every member is happily married, they encourage wives to have children, profess conformity to traditional values... and ten percent of lawyers who have worked there have died in horrific accidents. No lawyers have ever left either (at least not alive). This intriguing premise comes from the pen of John Grisham, and as the film veers off into speechmaking near the end with Cruise talking about learning to discover the law again, Grisham's mark is noticeable. Sydney Pollack has the directing chair though, and much like with 'Three Days of the Condor', Pollack spins a superb paranoia thriller from Grisham's story with limited dialogue and instead focus on establishing a foreboding presence within the firm. There is an unshakable sense of unchecked malice in several scenes. A strong supporting cast helps, though not everyone is in top form. An always wide-eyed Jeanne Tripplehorn has zero chemistry with Cruise and makes an odd choice for his wife. Gary Busey is also little more than himself. Hal Holbrook renders his character fantastically menacing though and Wilford Brimley sends chills down the spine as a security director of sorts for the firm. At two and a half hours, the film sounds a bit on the long side, but it is gripping all the way. "},{"Title":"Shot by Both Sides","Date":"2 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A tight and adroit thriller about a lawyer who must walk a treacherous path between a rock and a hard place. Tom Cruise is captivating throughout and complimented by a talented cast, including Gene Hackman as a Firm senior who sees in him a potential for redemption. Only a face like Cruise's could convince us that a lawyer could swim through an ocean of excrement and come out smelling of roses. In support of his integrity is the relationship he has with his wife, the doe-eyed Jeanne Tripplehorn, where honesty triumphs over mollification. Cruise and David Strathairn, unwittingly I think, manage to reproduce the recovering affection of the fraternal relationship seen in 'Rain Man'. The appeal of this movie, which incessantly brings us throughout all the delightful intricacies of a John Grisham novel, is that McDeere (Cruise) is not only likable but credible. Even at his most incensed he remains nothing less nor more than an incredibly desperate man fighting for his existence, and his life.If you enjoy a more cerebral thriller and wit with your grit you won't be disappointed by The Firm. "}{"Title":"Is Grisham still punching American stereotypes ? (rental)","Date":"27 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I don't have read a single novel from this author so i can't interpret his work but it's the second adaptation i watch after « Christmas with the Kranks » and i feel that he silently kicks the American society in the balls ! So after denouncing Christmas conformism and neighbors pressure, here he explains the prestige of law firms. When all other movies stop at their brilliant career and consider them as wealthy saints, those lawyers are just crooks, criminals, killers who knows how to lure and trap partners into their scheme ! So for sure it's original and in a way, the firm has offer the same devilish promise of a prestigious career than Al offers Keanu in the « devil's advocate ». The cast is really prestigious from always convincing Cruise to old tutor Gene, to dark Harris. Even the less important parts are well filled with « Deep throat », Don Sorvino, Busey and for sure Holly Hunter ! At first, you expect that she has very limited screen time but finally she becomes an essential player and she really gives originality and punch to a character would could have been transparent. The movie offers many outdoors locations as well and the sets are really beautiful (the firm building for example) and Pollack with his old style doesn't give us headaches with violent editing ! However 148 minutes are maybe too long and I don't have grasp the legal loophole that Cruise uses&#x85; "},{"Title":"Great Legal, Crime Thriller","Date":"16 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A young lawyer (Tom Cruise) joins a prestigious law firm only to discover that it has a sinister dark side.Roger Ebert gave The Firm three stars out of four, remarking The movie is virtually an anthology of good small character performances. The large gallery of characters makes The Firm into a convincing canvas but with a screenplay that developed the story more clearly, this might have been a superior movie, instead of just a good one with some fine performances. I think Ebert is spot on here. The plot is pretty good, but never seems as strong as the characters. Every actor gives the full amount of their potential.For me, it was a thrill to see Tobin Bell. Cruise is great, Gene Hackman is incredible, Ed Harris is pretty good... heck, even Gary Busey performs better than usual. But Bell is great to see. I do not think he really became known before Saw, and even then only by certain people. Here, he has an excellent supporting role as a hit man. "},{"Title":"Do not use all of these Private Money Lender here","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" MY TESTIMONY FROM A LEGITIMATE MONEY LENDER My name is Dorene Zeller, I am from United State. Have you been looking for a loan?Do you need an urgent personal or business loan?contact Dennis Hopkins Finance Home he help me with a loan of $300.000 some days ago after been scammed of $2500 from a woman claiming to be a loan lender but i thank God today that i got my loan worth $300.000.Feel free to contact the company for a genuine financial service. Emaildennishopkins_financehome@live.com or http//www.dennishopkinsfinancehome.com/ or dennishopkins69@yahoo.com or Tel USA +12404374240 Skype IDroger.n.william TelUK+447509546091.He is a trust worthy man. "},{"Title":"Caught In A Trap","Date":"27 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Anyone who has experienced poverty or hardship in their early life never forgets the experience and always retains a certain element of insecurity about wealth, regardless of how much financial success they later achieve. In The Firm, it's this phenomenon that essentially drives a brilliant young law student to ignore numerous offers of career-enhancing opportunities from a number of prestigious big city law firms to, instead, join a small Memphis partnership who offer him a fantastic remuneration package. Unfortunately, what follows, perfectly illustrates the wisdom of the old adage that if something seems too good to be true, it probably is.Mitch McDeere (Tom Cruise) is the Harvard Law School graduate from a poor background whose exceptional academic achievements lead to him being head-hunted by Berdini, Lambert & Locke. The firm offer him a huge salary, a low-interest mortgage, a Mercedes and the repayment of his student loans and in return, Mitch readily agrees to join them. After relocating to Memphis with his wife Abby (Jeanne Tripplehorn), he quickly settles into the practice and regularly works long hours. Initially, he's comfortable with the firm's family ethos and doesn't share Abby's unease about some of the advice she receives such as the firm encourages children etc. A little later, however, when he realises that a high percentage of the firm's work is related to the activities of the Mob and a couple of the firm's lawyers suddenly die in mysterious circumstances, he gets the strong feeling that something sinister is going on.Mitch's suspicions are confirmed when he gets approached by the director of the FBI and Agent Wayne Tarrance (Ed Harris) who inform him about the firm's criminal and money-laundering activities. They want Mitch to supply them with information and documents to be used as evidence to bring his employers to justice and add that if he doesn't co-operate, things will be made very difficult for his brother who's in jail facing a manslaughter charge. They also emphasise that Mitch effectively doesn't have any choice in the matter because no partner has ever left the firm alive and if he simply decides to stay with the firm, he could face 20 years in prison when they go down, as they inevitably will.Mitch knows it would be impossible to pass on the documents that the FBI want without breaching the confidence of his legitimate clients and taking that action would inevitably lead to the loss of his licence to practice law. He therefore realises that in order to meet their demands without losing his career, making his brother's parlous situation worse or winding up dead at the hands of his ruthless employers (or the Mob), he needs to devise an imaginative plan to get out of the trap he's in. When he then discovers that the firm have routinely been over-billing clients for some considerable time, he starts to see an opportunity to formulate just such a plan but, of course, its success is by no means guaranteed.Based on John Grisham's bestselling novel, this glossy thriller was understandably a huge box-office success. It's intriguing, tense and highly entertaining and features a whole collection of great performances from its star-studded cast. Surprisingly though, it's Gary Busey, Gene Hackman, Ed Harris and Holly Hunter that really bring the screen to life in their relatively small parts while Tom Cruise and Jeanne Tripplehorn also do well in their starring roles. "},{"Title":"A nice thriller!","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Though some might think it's pretty slow paced -- and it really is, this movie is thriller all the way. It builds its story as the movie progresses (and it progresses! a lot 154 minutes) and I was entertained from the beginning until the end; and what an (add unexpected here) end.I read that some people thought the ending wasn't good, but I thought it reflected the whole movie's idea and message behind it. I thought it was a nice way to end it.This is a nice movie to watch on a weekend with a free, open mind. You might get surprised by how immersed you might get, as tension grows for each minute it passes. "},{"Title":"The Firm","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Firm is too good to be true starring Tom Cruise at the top of his acting game (before he became an action-hero, cartoon version of himself), Gene Hackman at his wry, lecherous best (in a Letch Luthor role, a categorization my father likes to give this type of role Hackman seems to attract), Jeanne Tripplehorn, Holly Hunter, Hal Holbrook, Ed Harris, David Strathairn, Gary Busey, Paul Sorvino, and others; based on one of the best and most screen-worthy of John Grisham's legal thrillers; adapted by Tony Award-winning writer David Rabe, Academy Award-winning writer Robert Towne (Chinatown), and Edgar Award-winning writer David Rayfiel; directed by the late, great, prolific Sydney Pollack, who seemed to have a knack for the genre (ref Three Days of the Condor). Cruise plays Mitchell McDeere, a Harvard law student who chooses as his first post-graduate employer a small, Memphis firm with a family appeal (we keep each other's secrets), spacious accommodations inlaid with mahogany and marble, country club membership, and a six figure offer (in New York dollars). Bendini, Lambert and Locke seems too good to be true. The firm sets up Mitch and his wife Abby (Tripplehorn) with a low-interest mortgage and a brand new Mercedes, sends Mitch to client meetings in the company jet, and pays off all of his student loans. But there are ghosts painted on the walls portraits of attorneys who met with untimely, accidental deaths. Both Abby and Mitch detect weirdness, but Mitch is more reluctant to assume foul play. When he does find out who the firm's real clients are, he still can't believe it. Nothing is real until I tell it to Abby, he says to his incarcerated brother, Ray (Strathairn)&#x97;a line that always hits home with me, since my wife's name is Abbey. To reach his objectives of getting out without getting offed, and, more importantly, to get his life back, Mitch employs, more than once, an interesting tactic telling the truth (or some form of it). He buys some time and trustworthiness by immediately reporting his run-in with the FBI to the partners of the firm. He mutes potential blackmail leverage by confessing his infidelity to Abby. He allays the mob's suspicion by divulging the firm's overbilling scheme. Dave Grusin's piano-driven, initially upbeat, jazzy score takes on an edgy, suspenseful pulse as the action culminates in a heart-pounding chase over Mud Island. The firm within The Firm seemed too good to be true, and it was&#x97;a fictional front for criminal activity, but the only crime committed by The Firm&#x97;a fabulous work of movie fiction&#x97;is that it's simply too good. "},{"Title":"A Lawyer Who Joins A Sinister Firm","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Firm,a best-selling by John Grisham,is about young lawyer named Mitch McDeere,who joins a prestigious law firm at Memphis,Tennessee.Later on,he discovers that is has a sinister dark side as it is part of the mob.Mitch McDeere,played by Tom Cruise,is a young man with a promising future in law as he is about to graduate from Harvard Law School as among the Top 5 in his class. He is approached by Bendini, Lambert and Locke.He and his wife, Abigail or Abby,played by Jeanne Tripplehorn, move to Memphis, where it is located. Avery Tolar,played by Gene Hackman becomes his mentor.He was offered with lots of money and showered with lots of gifts and benefits, including a house and car,he is at first totally has no knowledge to the more sinister side of his company. Then, two associates are murdered. The FBI contact him, asking him for information and informing him that not that the film is connected connected to the mob. Aside from that,every associate that has ever tried to leave was murdered. His life as he knows it is forever changed. He has a choice work with the FBI and risk being discovered by or stay with his employer knowing that at sometime he will get involved with laundering mob money and in the end go to jail. He then devises a plan that allows him to cooperate with the FBI by finding proof that all partners were guilty of over billing, while at the same time reaching an agreement with the Morolto brothers. Aside from that,he manages to do so without breaking any laws, thereby being able to keep his status as a lawyer.In the end,the McDeeres leave their house in Memphis for Boston, driving the same car they arrived in.The movie's story isn't as powerful as the book as it played it safe for the character of Mitch McDeere. That is why it never stood out in my opinion as one of the best John Grisham novels that were turned into movies unlike The Rainmaker and The Chamber.But nevertheless,the acting was decent with Tom Cruise,Gene Hackman, Ed Harris,David Strathairn and Holly Hunter.It was also entertaining in a good way but not as great as the book. "},{"Title":"Love that ending!","Date":"7 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Firm is a solid adaptation of one of John Grisham's legal potboilers. The film is more successful than the book in my view - it is very accessible (perhaps due to the large, and excellent, ensemble cast), whereas I found the book stodgy.Where the film really wins, however, is in its ending. Protagonist Mitch, seduced by the mafia-backed Firm, and blackmailed by the FBI, is in an impossible position - either he caves in to the FBI and is forever at risk from the Mafia (not to mention betraying his legal ethics, for this young lawyer is truly ethical), or he refuses to co-operate with the FBI, and goes to jail.The movie Mitch finds a third way which enables him to turn his employers over to the FBI and thus get himself of that hook, establish an effective shield to protect himself from the Mafia, and retain his legal ethics to boot. Brilliant! One of the most satisfying movie endings ever, and far more satisfactory than the novel, where Mitch simply caves. "},{"Title":"Decent Thriller","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Featuring Tom Cruise as a hot-shot young graduate lawyer who unexpectedly finds himself working for the mafia. And if that isn't enough; the FBI are also on his case. It's a very taught, suspenseful and scarcely believable story.Cruise leads an excellent supporting cast also starring Gene Hackman at his sleazeball best. Wilfred Brimley and Ed Harris each do sterling work.There's a clever script that's worth close attention, nice music and sound-tracks. All the technical issues such as camera-work, lighting and editing are themselves as slick as the lawyers they depict. I don't think I've ever seen a movie in which Tom Cruise doesn't demonstrate how fast he can run, and here he's quite exceptional. If he didn't get out of breath, I sure did whilst watching him.I'm surprised it has such a low rating. It may be a fairly formulaic outing, but every aspect is so polished that it must deserve the 8 stars I've given it. As a thriller it is certainly on a par with 'Ronin' or 'The Pelican Brief'. "},{"Title":"Tom Cruise heads cast in fast-paced legal drama.","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Tom Cruise plays Mitch McDeere, a Harvard graduate who lands a job with a Memphis law firm. It sounds too good to be true a huge salary, a luxurious house, a Mercedes. But before long, the dream turns into a nightmare. His wife Abby (Jeanne Tripplehorn) wants a simple life. Unlike Mitch, she grew up with wealth, so she's not obsessed with money. When she realizes that Mitch has to work day and night to prepare for the bar exam, as well as working on cases, she begins to worry that the romance has gone out of their marriage. Soon she has more serious concerns. Two lawyers with the firm are killed in a suspicious boat accident. Then she learns that the beautiful home the firm gave them is bugged. And it just keeps getting worse. An FBI agent (Ed Harris as Wayne Tarrance) is following Mitch. He warns him that the firm is under investigation for ties to the mob. Mitch has no choice but to assist the FBI in the investigation (by collecting evidence against the firm). If he attempts to run, he'll be killed just like the other lawyers. The Firm is a taut drama skillfully directed by Sydney Pollack, who has made such diverse films as Tootsie and Out of Africa. The cast is loaded with talent, beginning with the three actors already mentioned. Gene Hackman has never been better as Avery Tolar, a corrupt attorney with a romantic side, a tragic figure who is destroyed by the firm. There are other strong supporting performances Wilford Brimley as William Devasher, a grimly-humorous enforcer for the firm; David Strathairn as Ray McDeere, Mitch's convict brother; Holly Hunter as Tammy Hemphill, a seemingly ditsy secretary who helps Mitch pull off his intricate plan; and Gary Busey as Eddie Lomax as the tough ex-con/private eye who pays the ultimate price for asking questions about dead lawyers. But the weight of the film ultimately rests on the shoulders of Cruise, and he doesn't disappoint. Mitch is a supremely confident young man who strongly believes that lawyers can be both successful and ethical. And it is this idealism that gives him the strength to navigate through the minefield that is the firm. "}{"Title":"Watchable legal thriller, good Hackman and Holly Hunter","Date":"22 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This film is based on John Grisham's popular novel. The film tries its best to paper over deficiencies in the original text but only succeeds partially. Tom Cruise is alright and brings a certain likability to his role. Gene Hackman essays a fine performance and brings a somewhat complex part to life. Holly Hunter is lively and energizes the film with her presence, while Jeanne Tripplehorn is a bit flat. The story is pretty obvious and one can guess the truth early into the proceedings. Still, it mostly works until the weak climax. Watchable at home on DVD/television.Overall 6/10 "},{"Title":"Run, Mitch RUN! Good Action Drama for older teens, adults!","Date":"8 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Young lawyer hotshot Mitch McDeere (Tom Cruise) has risen from poverty to graduate with honors from the prestigious Harvard Law School. Watch all the firms seek to draft McDeere with great salaries and benefits. (Especially good teen to adult viewing if your TV version has reduced the gratuitous language, sex, violence!)But McDeere takes the best offer - from an obscure Memphis, Tennessee law firm Bendini, Lambert & Locke. Guess he was charmed by the Southern hospitality and the talk of We're like a family from managing partner Oliver Lambert (Hal Holbrook). Appealing for a young guy whose dad died young...! He and wife Abigail (Jeanne Tripplehorn) soon move to Memphis and soon enjoy a great home, rented Mercedes - the good life.However, the FIRM's FAMILY VALUES SOON turn sinister...as We're like a Family and Keeping each others'Secrets - mean that Cruise is now working for the sole legal representative of the Morolto Crime Family! Cruise's character is also pressed by the unsympathetic FBI to rat out his employer's crime family ties. This would violate client lawyer privilege. How will Cruise escape with his marriage intact, even with his life? And can Cruise's character ever practice law again - assuming he is not murdered by the Avenging Moroltos! Lots of memorable Southern characters - good and bad. (The list of quality actors above gives you a clue!) Even an ELVIS wannabee- who is Holly Hunter's estranged (but helpful) husband.Watch how Mitch has to play off the Crime Family and the FBI against each other! (Note - If you watch an edited TV version, the crude language and suggestive stuff is modified. DVD is unedited.) "},{"Title":"The movie vs. the book","Date":"12 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Wow! I've seen this movie at least a half a dozen times, but never got around to reading the book until this week. This is truly one of those rare instances in which the MOVIE IS BETTER THAN THE BOOK! I couldn't believe it! The basic plot and characters are the same, but the movie is better paced, more clever, and has a much better ending. In the book, Mitch McDeere is a somewhat arrogant rude jerk, and doesn't have many redeeming qualities. He simply takes the money, copies the files, gets his brother busted out of prison, turns the files over to the FBI, and gets on a boat with his brother and Abby. In the end, the Firm has been indicted and Mitch plans on sailing around the Cayman Islands for the rest of his life living off the money. The book is worth a read just to see the vast differences, but don't expect the same level of entertainment you got from the movie! "},{"Title":"Good Thriller","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Tom Cruise stars in the fabulous law thriller - The firm. With support from Gene Hackman, Thripplethorn, Ed Harris and cameos from Joe Viterelli, Paul Sorvino and a Minor role for Gary Busey who gives us a great performances even though he has very little screen time.Cruise is good as McDeere. Also David Strathairn pops up as his brother in another limited but deliciously good role.Brilliantly directed by the great legend Sydney Pollack. A great Thriller. A good film which is worthy of much more recognition than it received at the time. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Slick and suspenseful with knockout cast","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sydney Pollack's films have a very professional feel about them, and The Firm is no exception.Tom Cruise is Mitch McDeere, a hot shot Harvard graduate who lands a six figure salary (complete with Mercedes) at a small law firm in Memphis. However he soon discovers this particular firm has some very dark secrets.Mr. Cruise is yet again in very good form, and is well supported by the lovely Jeanne Tripplehorn, as well as Ed Harris, Hal Holbrook, Holly Hunter, Gary Busey, David Strathairn, Wilford Brimley (playing a role similar to the one he played for Pollack in Absence of Malice) and the ever sensational Gene Hackman.Not for the impatient at two and a half hours, still a very slick, suspenseful and entertaining film with a knockout cast.Friday, July 23, 1993 - The Classic Cinema Elsternwick "},{"Title":"The Firm","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Firm is a legal thriller film released in 1993, directed by Sydney Pollack, and starring Tom Cruise, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Gene Hackman, Ed Harris, Holly Hunter, Gary Busey, and David Strathairn. The movie is based on the novel, The Firm, by author John Grisham. The plot is simple a new attorney is drawn into a seductive law firm that seems to have many secrets. When he finds out who they are representing and what price has been paid by others who have come across the truth he risks it all to escape with his law license and his life. This movie is very entertaining and i loved the acting by Cruise. I imagine if i was ever an attorney these would probably the things that i will go through, cause you never know. "},{"Title":"Simply Put A Must-see","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" THE FIRM (1993) ***** 'The Firm' proves primarily that Corporate hot shots don't always have everything going for them...at least not for Tom Cruise, a fresh lawyer out of Harvard University esteemed with honors of great competency and greater potential, who's life comes crashing down at the least expected time. Hired by a Memphis firm with an opportunity to live a life in luxury, Cruise quite soon discovers improper conduct between his law firm and the Mob involving salary exploits. Now the FBI wants to recruit him to sell out the company, but his superiors are of even greater threat to him if truth of all he knows seeps out. In the climactic point our hero takes on his own plan of justice to save himself from hell's door and set things straight. Superb score (Dave Gruslin) and story work (adaptation of John Grisham's novel), as well as a first-rate supporting cast of Gene Hackman, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Ed Harris, Holly Hunter, and Wilford Brimley. Simply put a must-see. Rated R. "},{"Title":"If you read the book, do not see this movie!","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm not going to give this movie any stars, not because I thought it was terrible, but because I'm quite biased and wasn't able to look at it objectively. I just read the novel for the first time recently, having not seen the movie in about 10 or so years. I was in grade school when I saw the movie, so of course I was just bored out of my skull. The book, needless to say, is a thrill-a-minute. God bless John Grisham! I once read the book while waiting for my train to arrive, and accidentally stepped onto the wrong train, because I was so into the story. Since I finished reading the book, I was anxious to see the movie. Boy, I was disappointed as hell! During every scene of this movie, I would think to myself This part went on so much longer in the book or This part was so much more exciting in the book. I'm sure everyone who read the book was disappointed by the movie's squeaky-clean Hollywood ending. Why couldn't they go with the book's ending? There was no legitimate reason to change the ending. One strength of the film, I felt, was the casting. Tom Cruise was perfectly cast in the lead role, as was Gene Hackman as the villain. Gary Busey was great as Eddie Lomax, which is why I was disappointed in the fact that he had such little screen time (his character was fleshed out much more in the book). The only actor who I felt was miscast was Holly Hunter. Having read the description of her character in the book, I was expecting a sexy blonde actress to play the role, but Holly isn't sexy at all in this movie. She's a good actress, don't get me wrong. I just didn't think she was fit for this role. I'm sure that if I watched the movie before reading the book, my opinion would've been totally different. After all, Sydney Pollack is a darn good director who knows his stuff when it comes to this genre. I know that adapting a novel for the screen is a rough process (10 times more difficult than writing an original screenplay), but the screenwriters could've done a more earnest job at making a suspenseful film, while at the same time remaining faithful to the Grisham novel. I don't care if this movie was 3 hours and 30 minutes long. I'd rather watch that than such a condensed version of this great story. "},{"Title":"This could have been a true Classic if it had followed the book...","Date":"28 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I give it a three for how many times I felt ANY kind of suspense as I seem to remember the book was a very exciting read...giving this a watch as I couldn't find anything else and since I enjoyed the book..((sound familiar??))...first of all as much as I think Tom Cruise is about as one dimensional an actor for that time it probably was a good choice since he was certainly bankable in the early 90's..however he truly shows no acting charisma in this... shows all the same facial and hand expressions that you will see gone into overdrive by Jerry MacGuire which got him to major ham status... The movie is too plodding and edited with so many inconsequential scenes it just sucks the life out of the suspense...the best actors in the film are actually the supporting cast from Holly Hunter to Ed Harris..even the great and understated Steven Hill gives you more to think about than three quarters of this movie as Cruise and Tripplehorne give us NOTHING to really care about with mopey facial expressions and Cruise's trademark hold on I am thinking while staring the other direction and pointing my fingers and then standing with a perplexed look to mug for the cam in a manner WE KNOW somethings about to go down...and then there is the score....where do I begin...the jazzy piano added NOTHING to the supposed suspense the book has created..I firmly expected a dance number to come out of nowhere in the middle of this....totally inappropriate music for this....Gene Hackman is...is......GENE HACKMAN....nuff said......the ending is just ridiculous anti-climatic and makes you think are you SERIOUS?....to sum this up the best way possible..my favorite scene in the whole movie involved Gary Busey...chew on that for a second or three....LOL "},{"Title":"Not for those who've read the book","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I don't know why they bothered calling this movie The Firm. I read John Grisham's book prior to watching this movie and the book was a 11 out of 10 - a total must read. It was great! As for the movie, I wonder if the script writers actually read Grisham's book or if they just read a Coles Notes version of it because most scenes are completely false and the ones that are similar to the book have been completely altered. Basically all the best stuff from the book has been left out of the movie making it a weak and formulaic presentation (hopefully Grisham has never watched this movie, it would make him angry). If you have read the book I do not recommend you watch this movie at all, however if you have not read this book and do not plan to then do go ahead and watch this movie, Cruise puts on a good performance and the intrigue will keep you entertained. "}{"Title":"Some Nice Touches...","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This adaptation of a John Grisham novel is one of those films that passed me by when it was first released and which, until now, I never caught up with. It's quite a solid feature, with intense performances from a youthful Tom Cruise and a middle-aged Ed Harris, whose part calls for the wearing of a pair of geeky glasses, presumably to emphasise his dubious character.While the film is as slick and well-made as you'd expect from Hollywood's top dogs, the story is complete tosh. Any company that tacitly makes it clear to its employees that termination of their employment contract equates to termination of their life would be blown wide open within days of the first threat being made, irrespective of the power and ruthlessness of its owners. That The Firm manages to relegate such an intrusion of logical reasoning to the back of the viewers' mind for most of its running time can only, therefore, be to its credit.Although Cruise and Harris get the meatier roles, it's a couple of supports who steal the picture. The gruff yet amiable Wilford Brimley &#x96; who only ever played Wilford Brimley, irrespective of the part he was playing &#x96; is the law firm's gruff but amiable (until he's trying to execute you) head of security, and it's a role that most casting directors would have aimed towards some menacing heavy with broad shoulders and dark suits. Perhaps it's this incongruity of casting that makes his performance so effective. Secondly, there's the ever-dependable, ever-wonderful Gene Hackman, who plays Cruise's self-assigned mentor. As the film unfolds, his character grows increasingly pathetic &#x96; but in an altogether believable way &#x96; and there's a depth to his character that is missing from all the others; you can sense the despair, the sense of loss and regret and self-loathing simmering beneath the fake bonhomie of his character.When all's said and done the film eventually plays out like a typical thriller, and has a happy ending that stretches incredulity just a little bit. But then maybe that's because film lore has taught us all that, like fate and God, the mob is all powerful, able to reach out and rudely pluck any one of us from our lives of mundane security whenever it desires&#x85; "},{"Title":"A great legal thriller.","Date":"22 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I've always loved political/legal thrillers, especially ones that deal with a man in a corrupt organization who is trying to work his way out and beat them. The Firm is definitely one of the better films of this nature that I've seen. Tom Cruise is definitely the right man to lead the story along, making it compelling the entire way through and keeping the viewer on his side. Most of the cast is quite good, but I want to highlight Ed Harris who steals every one of his scenes. He was perfect for the part and added an intensity that really impressed me, especially in the scene at the dog track. Holly Hunter (who received an Oscar nomination) should also be mentioned for a role completely unlike her work in The Piano, which she won the Oscar for in the same year. It's a cute, bubbly secretary character that feels like it came right out of some classic noir. The Firm is a crisply written, very suspenseful, well acted and well executed thriller. I'd also like to mention the excellent, Oscar-nominated score, which felt like something out of a more vintage era of thrillers. It was very reminiscent of Three Days of the Condor's, another thriller from Pollack that featured a man on the run from several organizations trying to figure out what's going on. My only complaints are that it feels a little bit too long and it gets pretty convoluted about halfway through. I'd say around when Mitch (Cruise's character) discovers the over-billing thing is when there starts to be a bit too much going on and it gets a little hard to understand everything in the moment. But it's never too over the top. "},{"Title":"Stuff Movies are Made Of","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Grisham movies generally get panned, and for the most part I agree, but not with this one. I happen to have seen most of them and the rest fall somewhere between trivial and yawn. This one has something more. It's got stuff movies are made of.For there is enough in this sometimes implausible plot to keep you on the edge of your seat. The cast is impressive - you can read here who's in it - and it really doesn't matter much that it's headed by Xenu Princess Warrior. One thought that did occur to us though how could he participate in this flick what with the fact his own life is besotted with the same thing? Whatever. The direction, story telling, and above all the editing add a lot. Not to speak of the hard hitting piano playing (score by Dave Grusin and others) which really gives the movie an added dimension. "},{"Title":"Okay movie.","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A Movie about Dowe,Cheatem & Howe law firm, when the associates are not overbilling and getting high in Cayman Islands are bugging the sweet whisperings of newly married played by Holly Hunter as Abby and Tom Cruise as the hubby. The plot thickens with couple of godies chasing baddies. Other than Holly Hunter there is nothing outstanding. Cruise is perpetually self doubting Tom a generic any body could have thrived well. Gene Hackman as the flirting attorney is not Oscar material. The background music is flawed. "},{"Title":"Very good except bad casting of Jeanne Tripplehorn.","Date":"2 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is an entertaining film and exciting to watch, if you can suspend most of the technical flaws with the story. I have seen this film several times and enjoy watching except for Jeanne Tripplehorn 's casting as Cruise's wife Abby.Although she is a year younger than him, she looks too mature for him and comes across more like his aunt or mother than a wife. She is a good actor, but this is a bad casting match with Cruise. "},{"Title":"Very thrilling.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This film is very thrilling. Cruise did his good performance in this movie, Gene Hackman too. I really like this kind of movie. What would you do if you want to quit your job but they won't let you out ?If you like a good thriller, watch this one. "},{"Title":"A short essay about John Grisham adaptations","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First I thought John Grishams novels had brilliant plots. That was a few years ago, as I read The firm and The pelican brief. I must admit that was real  thrilling stuff. But after reading a few of his books, I noticed that he constructed the same conspiracies  ever and ever again  - a murder, an innocent witness,  a young law student or a lawyer that gets in a struggle between the FBI and mafia etc. - I soon got bored of it. I guess that´s why the latest Grisham films were  commercial failures. Honestly, has he ever been  a  good author? Yes and no. I have no doubt that he was  an excellent lawyer (he had an own law firm), but I think it´s also the work of Hollywood´s scriptwriters and directors that tried to make the best of his books. The firm was the first of six adaptations -  I didn´t count  The gingerbread man which was only  a script, not  a novel - which reach from good to  mediocre The pelican brief (turned out well; my favorite),  The client (his worst book, mediocre film), A  time to kill (controversial book, well adapted),  The chamber (conflicting stuff, average film, but  good actors) and The rainmaker(honestly I didn´t read the book, but the movie was quite okay).I guess The firm belongs to the a-little-bit-better- than-mediocre ones. The first two hours of Sydney  Pollacks adaptation were close to the book, almost perfect - not to mention that the watching-over  atmosphere of the book marginally mentioned in the  film, but that doesn´t matter so much to me. But what the heck did Pollack do with the ending? I won´t tell  anything about the solution, but it was so different  to the book, that I was a little disappointed. What  the movie made worth for watching to me, was the perfect casting of Tom Cruise as the young, enthusiastic lawyer Mitch Mc Deere He harmonized perfect with the  character of the book. Last but not least I´ve got to mention that I really liked Dave Gruisins piano score. Altogether this was a solid law lesson.   "},{"Title":"Good thriller that falters","Date":"24 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Reasonably good version of the John Grisham bestseller Sharp, idealistic Mitch McDeere leaves Boston for Memphis and the firm of Bendini, Lambert and Locke, making a Faustian bargain in the process.  Once he discovers certain truths, both the Firm and the FBI become very interested in our hero.  Has a good sharp story, great locations, and solid ensemble cast, but the ending, which differs from the novel, has some major plot holes.  Still, a pretty good thriller.  Also, Dave Grusin's toe tappin' score good music, but doesn't really fit the movie. "},{"Title":"I love this film","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yes, it's long.  Yes, it's rather far-fetched.  But so what?  It's great entertainment.  Just as the book was hyped as L.A. Law meets the Godfather so is the film.  I'm not a big Tom Cruise fan, he almost always plays the hot-shot (fill-in-the-blank) who's the best at what he does, but I must reluctantly agree that the man can act.  Here, he is supported by an amazing cast including a very understated Gene Hackman, the under-rated Ed Harris and the under-utilized Gary Busey.Even at over 2 1/2 hours, it is missing much from the book and the ending was completely rewritten as the chase through the Florida keys in the novel would have required a 2 hour movie all by itself.  Despite that, the plot twists and turn keep you watching and the large ensemble cast hit all the right notes (it was worth the $7 in the theater just to hear Wilford Brimley use the f-word).I own this and have watched it several times.  As always, the widescreen version is highly recommended over the hacked-up pan & scan version (the Mudd Island chase is seriously hurt by the cutting necessary to fit to TV proportions). "},{"Title":"Few objections, your honor","Date":"6 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The most amazing thing in The Firm is Wilford Brimley, more commonly known as the Quaker Oats man.  Here he plays a nasty bad guy, and that alone is enough to make The Firm a bizarre film.  It's not a bad movie, but I found it tough at times to decide what was going on (especially toward the end.) It's also quite long (well over two hours in length) and the book was better.  But if you're a sucker for Tom Cruise and some action, The Firm is watchable. "}{"Title":"The idealistic lawyer is back in town!","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One might think that when John Grisham is writng his books, the first thing he does is think who will play the idealistic young lawyer. Well, it's Tom Cruise now. Yes, again an idealistic nice looking young lawyer, accompanied by his idealisticnice looking young wife, coming to Memphis to join a respectable firm. but soon he finds out that his firm is actually a web of deadly lies, that no one managed to get out from alive. with the CIA pressuring him to to become a spy, and his ideals on the second ear (he is idealistic, did I mention that?) he has to take a move. Though Cruise looks like he has an upset stomach, Jeanne Tripelhorne and Holly Hunter save the day. Despite the predictable plot and the those long 155 minutes, the outcome is pretty fair. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After an Intriguing Set-Up of a Harvard Law School Graduate's Recruitment into a Too-Good-To-Be-True Law Firm that Utilizes a We are all Family Slogan things start going Downhill at a rather Sluggish Pace as though some On-Set Billing Hours needed Padding. But this is no Devil's Advocate (1997). It could have been, but is nothing more than a So-What Mediocrity.It is a Movie Populated with a Number of Recognizable Supporting Characters trying to keep things Propped Up with some Working Overtime to make this more Interesting than it is. But it is just those that keep this from Falling completely Flat. Aside from one Woeful Miscasting (Security Chief) , the rest Deliver some Punch to this Otherwise Long, Wordy, and Confusing Story.The Ending is most Anemic as things Grind to Halt Abruptly, and without much Advocacy. Some may find this a Tolerable Semi-Thriller, like Fans of the Novel's Author, or Tom Cruise Groupies, but others may say What's all the fuss about?. After all, this was a Mega-Best-Seller and a Mega-Budgeted Movie, but there is a Case to be made that could require some Deliberation as to what went wrong. "},{"Title":"Could have been way better if they invested wisely","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I'm gonna do this review a little different and pick on 3 major flaws of this movie. Had they fixed these, this could have been a classic.1/ Casting The casting for this movie was awful. Tom Cruise was good as the lead and Gene Hackman, Gary Busey and Holly Hunter were solid, but nearly every other actor was terribly cast. Most notable was Jeanne Tripplehorn as Abby and David Strathairn as Ray. The reason for this bad casting- David Rubin. Check out his resume of terrible movies...Random Hearts Men In Black Albino Alligator Waterworld Addams Family ValuesShame because the chemistry between Tom and Jeanne was vital to the movie, and they had the chemistry of Rob and Sandra from the 10 Late News. Also more marks taken off for the lazy casting of Paul Sorvino and Joe Viterelli as mafia guys. They sure are typecast. I'd love to see either of them as lead guys in a romantic comedy or sci-fi thriller.2/ The Score The music for key scenes was awful. Blame Dave Grusin for this. His resume includes The Goonies and The Fabulous Baker Boys. How did they pick him? Was one of the producers watching The Goonies on video one night and thinking the guy doing this score is brilliant, but I reckon he'd be better suited to the law genre?3/ The extra Great scene after Tom gets off a public phone about 3/4 of the way through the movie where he walks away and an extra walks across camera smirking. One of the best I've seen, the best being the guy in Cliffhanger who laughs almost off camera when a lady falls to her death.That's enough whinging. Let's get to the movie review.The Firm is about a brilliant prospective lawyer who decides to join a lesser known firm in Memphis who has headhunted him desperately. The lawyer, Mitch McDeere (Cruise, in his best work since Days of Thunder), can't believe his luck and after some wining and dining is sold. His partner, Abby (terribly cast once again as Jeanne Tripplehorn, and it's not anything to do with her because I loved her in The Fugitive, although all she did was get brutally murdered and then utter the famous line Richard....Richard...he's trying to kill me), becomes suspicious about the firm and soon her fears mount when two lawyers mysteriously die. Turns out the firm is involved with the mafia and has some secrets to hide. Mitch is soon threatened and must decide whether to keep quiet or risk everything, even his life, to expose them. Guess which road he takes?Was alright, some good moments, but could have been way better if I cast it and chose the music. "},{"Title":"A law firm in trouble for over-billing?","Date":"7 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Sorry, the premise just doesn't hold. For anyone in the audience who can suspend their disbelief, they may find the film action interesting, the acting passable, the film was shot in Memphis, Tennessee; there are some interesting scenes and settings.Gene Hackman, Tom Cruise, David Strathairn, Wilford Brimley, Gary Busey and Holly Hunter make for an interesting cast, and decent acting, but I had difficulty accepting the overall premise.For some reason, films made from mystery/suspense novels do not always gel. Think of First to Die, and Along Came a Spider written by James Patterson. While there were a few very good scenes with Hackman and Hunter, the story itself doesn't hold water. Anyone who has ever worked for a large firm will know that protracted litigation and over-billing is what keeps the business afloat, and in todays political climate anyone who cannot conceive of this should do a reality check. 5/10. "},{"Title":"Excellent thriller, that's very suspenseful and involving, with a great story, and superb performances!","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is an excellent thriller, that's very suspenseful and involving, with a great story and superb performances!. All the characters are awesome, and the story is excellent as well, plus Tom Cruise is simply amazing in this!. It has a wonderful cast, and even at 154 minutes I didn't find it to be overlong, plus it also had some great twists and turns as well. Gene Hackman is fantastic in his role, and I thought Cruise and Jeanne Tripplehorn had very good chemistry together, plus the finale is extremely suspenseful and tense. It's very well written and made, and while patience is required at times, it's never boring, and always engaging, plus Holly Hunter is terrific in her role. It will always keep you guessing throughout, and it's also quite creative as well, plus Sydney Pollack has another excellent film that he can add to his resume. It had some exciting chase scenes, and this role is ideally made for Cruise, plus I liked the ending as well. This should be higher then 6.6 in my opinion, and all the characters are extremely likable, plus Cruise and Ed Harris had some brilliant and intense scenes together. This is an excellent thriller, that's very suspenseful and involving, with a great story, and superb performances, and I say it's a must see for everyone!. The Direction is excellent!. Sydney Pollack does an excellent job! here, with awesome camera work, great angles and just keeping the film suspenseful and at a very engrossing pace. The Acting is top notch!. Tom Cruise is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, as always had tons of charisma, had a role that was ideally made for him (a cocky young hot shot lawyer), was focused, had very good chemistry with Tripplehorn, was fantastic in the action scenes, and he can add another brilliant performance here to add to his resume as well! (Cruise Rules!!!!!!!!!). Jeanne Tripplehorn is very solid here as Cruise's wife, she is pretty likable, and did a very good job, it was actually rather difficult role, and she pulled it off just fine, I really liked her. Gene Hackman is fantastic here, he had an unpredictable character, was likable, and as usual didn't know what to expect from him, he was just perfect for this role. Hal Holbrook does what he has to do well, and added class. Ed Harris is brilliant in his role here, he had some seriously awesome scenes with Cruise, as they were one of the true highlights of the film, he had a great role!, I loved him. Holly Hunter is top notch here, she deserved her Oscar, and really impressed me a lot. David Strathairn is good as Cruise's brother, I dug him. Gary Busey is excellent in his couple scenes, too bad we didn't get time to know his character well enough. Paul Sorvino has a good cameo near the end. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall a must see for everyone!. ****1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Slick legal thriller.","Date":"9 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" contains spoilersTom Cruise is Mitch McDeere, a hot-shot new lawyer who is seduced into taking a job with a firm of top lawyers who help the mafia to launder money.'The firm' is quite sinister in that no-one ever leaves alive.McDeere is not initially aware of the firm's illegal activities, but when he is made aware by the FBI he grudgingly agrees to help to make a case against them.  "},{"Title":"Not bad, all things considered","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, so it's your typical star-driven blockbuster adaptation of a less-than-literary novel.  It still has its merits, mainly in fine supporting performances by Gene Hackman and Holly Hunter.  Cruise, of course, is Cruise.  This is a typical role for him--the brash and cocky young hotshot--so he doesn't really have to exert himself to make this work. The finish is a bit farfetched, but for the most part the plot is believable and the pacing adequate. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This was a pretty good movie, but it was pathetic how far it strayed from the book, which is far more interesting. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"10 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am a huge John Grisham fan, but I never cared much for The Firm. I finally decided to watch it as part of a paper for my film class, because as the first adaptation of a Grisham novel, it was important to the paper, but I still can't explain why it was the first novel they decided to turn into a movie. The story follows a younger lawyer who is graduating at the top of his Harvard Law class. As the offers pour in, he has a tough decision to make, and finally settles on a small Nashville firm, that has made him an offer that is too good to be true. As he starts working for The Firm, Mitch McDeere (Tom Cruise) comes to realize that their only client is an organized crime syndicate and he's trapped inside. Eventually, the FBI comes to McDeere and tries to recruit him as a whistle blower, and his response is somewhat unorthodox. What I never understood about this story is why McDeere went to the lengths he did. He could have achieved the same outcome by simply complying with one side or the other. He jumps through all these hoops and does all these secretive things in order to achieve the same outcome. To me, this always made the second half of the book and film to be pretty much pointless. Tom Cruise stars and shines in the type of role that defined his early career. At this point in his career, if Tom Cruise is not starring as a dark loner or a sci-fi action hero, there isn't any point to watching his movies, but back in the early 90s he really had that special spark that has garnered him the reputation he has today. Cruise was paired with Gene Hackman, making the perfect dynamic of the old star, turning things over to the new. It was a bold move that didn't work out so well for the Indiana Jones franchise, but here it was one of the most interesting things about this film. The acting is terrific and a Grisham film is always very clever and well written, but as I said I've never been a fan of The Firm. The second half of the story just doesn't sit right with me and I'll continue to say it no matter how good the cast is. "},{"Title":"Good thriller but third act not up to standard","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Mitch McDeere (Tom Cruise) is a young hot shot Harvard law graduate. Everybody is vying for him, but a small Memphis makes him an offer he couldn't refuse. His wife Abby (Jeanne Tripplehorn) is suspicious but Mitch comes from a poor family and is seduced by the money. Soon, he finds troubling evidence that his firm is corrupt, and some of their lawyers are dying in suspicious circumstances.It's a tight little thriller based on a John Grisham novel. Tom Cruise is perfect as the young go getter. There are great acting talents in Jeanne Tripplehorn, Gene Hackman, Hal Holbrook, Wilford Brimley, and Ed Harris. On the other hand, Holly Hunter isn't wild enough in her role.Everything is going great. The last third is a bit too sloppy. Sydney Pollack isn't the greatest action director. The chases and the guns aren't good enough. For a third act, there is a lot of exposition. When it should be exploding, the movie is giving us an exam. "}{"Title":"Why did they forget Grisham's end ?","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Firm is first a fantastic novel by John Grisham. This movie is a good movie in its own. Tom Cruise is a really great actor, the perfect guy to embody Mitchell Y. McDeere, Gene Hackman is a really good Avery Tollar, the soundtrack is excellent. The beginning of the movie is great, but, Mr Pollack, why did you forget John Grisham's end ? Don't you think that the fact that McDeere can go to Boston in peace after having destroyed Bendini, Lambert & Locke's Firm is a bit naive ? The best part of the story is when Mitch is pursued everywhere by the FBI and the Mafia and in this movie, this part doesn't exist. In the real end, Mitch McDeere must hide to survive.I think this movie is rather simplistic. "},{"Title":"One confusing film, although not a bad one","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Don't get me wrong - Tom Cruise fans, suspense thriller fans, and fans of the original book, will LOVE this. Of course. But the movie drags on for 2 hours, and there's more plot twists and side stories than you'll feel comfortable with.Tom Cruise is an appealing, determined young lawyer hired by an upscale, elite new firm. Problem is, they have very dangerous hidden agendas and rules. Cruise is his usual likeable persona, Gene Hackman is his usual snake-like and cold villain, and Ed Harris is his usual take-no-bull, rough guy FBI agent. For some ODD reason that is beyond my sense of decoding logic, Holly Hunter was nominated for Best Supporting Actress for her role in this. Did the academy not have a lot of solid votes to contend with that year???That aside, the movie has its share of thrills and exciting turns of events. It's just not something you'll want to watch if you feel like a mindless, easy-to-follow action thriller.2.5 stars out of 5  "},{"Title":"Music is distracting","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is quite good.  The actors play their parts well and the plot is complex, yet easily understood.  The biggest problem I had with the movie was the music.  Music is there to enhance, to support the plot, to create feeling.  I felt the music was quite distracting; not enhancing the plot, but rather drawing the attention away from the plot.   It would have played better to have toned down the music.  "},{"Title":"Passable entertainment","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  As a whole, The Firm is passable entertainment. It has a good cast and shows that Sydney Pollack is a pretty skilled director, but it has got some weaknesses.I've heard some people say that it's boring. Due to its long duration, the film does seem to drag a bit in places. Tension is built up slowly and the story grows tighter towards the end, but unfortunately it never fully succeeds to reach the level of pure thrills. "},{"Title":"Good film of John Gresham's book","Date":"16 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A fine film version of the book by John Gresham. I enjoyed this action packed film, and Tom Cruise turns in a very good performance, as do Jeanne Tripplehorn and Ed Harris, among others, in supporting roles. Unlike other films that showcase a lot of action, this is actually a SMART thriller. Enjoy this one, it's a great ride. "},{"Title":"Cookie-Cutter Cruise Canon (turn off your brain and enjoy)","Date":"24 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Tom Cruise is the best fighter pilot. Tom Cruise is the best bartender. So why not be the best lawyer (actually, one person got a higher score on the bar exam, but he probably cheated). This film, directed by Sydney Pollock and based on yet another dolphin-lawyer-swimming- in-shark-filled-water book by John Grisham, is stylistic, classy, and perfectly vapid. Cruise, straight out of Harvard (yet he had to work hard to make it through, and, like all of Cruise's characters, has a troubled past he must make up for), gets a lucrative job at a firm that not only caters to the mob, but is part of their own crime syndicate. After he and wife Jeanne Tripplehorn (in an effective performance aimed at opening night audiences) are given a new house, a new car, and a great new paycheck, Cruise, after realizing the firm's corruptness, slowly figures out a loophole to beat them at their own game. What he does to strike back is confusing and would probably take a lawyer to understand (or someone who read the book), but it doesn't matter. Fun is fun, and this movie, if taken too seriously, could be thoroughly despised. Especially if you ask certain questions Why would the firm's lead hit-man be over six feet tall with shockingly blonde hair and albino eyes (Tobin Bell) i.e. easy to remember? Or why is Cruise's character able to do acrobatic somersaults (in perhaps one of the silliest moments in film history)?So just give in to this handsomely filmed lightweight thriller with a straight-through piano score and some great actors dumbing down for the sake of being in a Tom Cruise blockbuster. Gene Hackman, as Cruise's personal mentor... a charming, womanizing lawyer who loves the vacationing aspect of his job... David Strathaim, as Cruise's glibly laid-back jailbird brother... Terry Kinney, as a seemingly innocent lawyer who initially puts Cruise at ease... And Gary Busey as a fast talking private eye help elevate things at least for as long as they're on screen. But the show belongs to Cruise, who, as usual, delivers this pizza with tons of cheese and, unless you're expecting steak or caviar, it'll fill you up as needed. "},{"Title":"Tom Cruise not acting...just running","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Far-fetched suit-and-tie thriller from John Grisham's bestseller concerns cocky young law student accepted into mysterious law firm, one where the mortality rate among the departing attorneys is exceptionally high. Smartly-packaged and produced, this Sydney Pollack-directed hit is crafted as a crowd-pleaser, keeping star Tom Cruise constantly on the run (as well as jumping, diving, and dodging). Too bad Cruise's big acting moment (his job interview, done in creeping close-up) rings completely false, mitigating any interest we might have had in this character. Supporting players (albeit hammy) fare a bit better, except for Jeanne Tripplehorn, cast yet again as an anxious wifey (why not make her the lead?). Outlandish, arrogant, cocksure picture will please its target audience...and Cruise's ever-faithful admirers. ** from **** "},{"Title":"good but unsettling","Date":"13 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" One doesn't usually think of legal dramas as being fast-paced; consider films such as 'The Verdict' or 'Presumed Innocent.' They almost always proceed slowly and deliberately, weaving the various plot threads into an intricate pattern that is only unraveled at the very end. 'The Firm', though, moves at a lightning pace. We are not even through the opening credits before we know more than most films of this type reveal in the first hour. Cruise's character, fresh out of Harvard, goes to work for a tightly-knit, closed-mouth law firm in Memphis; he is provided with a new house, a new car, a big salary; his wife is immediately suspicious of how controlling the law firm appears to be; and there is every indication the people running the firm are corrupt. This, as I say, is revealed before we even get to the director's credit. What follows is a very entertaining legal thriller with the requisite labyrinth plot, twists and turns, and surprise (if a bit confused) ending. I will let someone else comment at length on the preceding. Here's what I meant by the title, 'good but unsettling'- it seems to me that, at its heart, what 'The Firm' is really about is how people will sell their souls for perks. That idea runs throughout the film, sometimes just below the surface, other times driven home with the subtlety of a sledgehammer. The home, the car, the big paycheck, a plush office, trips to the Caribbean- they're all yours (or Tom Cruise's) if you just sign away your individuality, your identity, your soul. Your only loyalty is to The Firm. It comes first. In fact, there's nothing that even comes second, not your wife or family, certainly not your freedom. And to ensure that loyalty, you are spied upon, your house is bugged, you are followed when you go to lunch, you are liable to be photographed in any situation. The unsettling part for me is not just how this is presented on film (though it is undeniably creepy), it's how easily people watching this can be sucked in at first, just like Cruise's character is. Many will see the first few minutes and be very envious of the riches suddenly bestowed on him; many will feel they are watching something like a person winning the lottery and wish they were in that situation. The movie does get around to asking the question, how important is it to be rich? When is the price in return too high to pay? I suspect you could devise an interesting psychological test by asking people at what point in this movie they would say, No, it wouldn't be worth that. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but Cruise not so good!","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  the Firm was one good movie, but I may say that I dislike Tom Cruise. He just didn't seem right to play in this movie, and there are some people that agree with me. Anyway, the film was good, the plot was intriguing and I may say That Grisham is a great writer, and any movies done on any of his books are great. The Client is another one. Anyway, the rating would be 8/10. "},{"Title":"Didn't Get It!","Date":"27 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Someone mentioned the book to me the other day (saying it was incredibly good), so I decided to check it out. I don't like reading (especially fiction), so I was glad to learn that there's a movie based on the book.I was also pleasantly surprised that Jeanne Tripplehorn was in it. She is someone whose talent I'm a fan of, even though she's extremely underrated as an actress. It's unfortunate, but, for some reason, she always ends up in unremarkable, second-rate flicks like this one.Well, I'm very disappointed. Not sure about the book, but the movie is EXCEPTIONALLY boring and disjointed. I didn't really get it. A lot of the things didn't make sense, and the movie was just too slow and too boring. The actors were good (some of them a bit cheesy, though), but the movie itself really, really sucked.This movie is dull, uninspiring, meaningless, and... did I mention BORING? "}{"Title":"totally ruined the novel","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" this novel could be a great thriller-movie, i thought when i read the novel, and i recently noticed that there actually was a movie, and i had a chance to watch it. the story jumped from here and there, the whole plot became absurd (compared to the novel). Mitch talking to the Moroltos was maybe the most absurd scene. And Tom Cruise is ALWAYS the same, he never become somebody else, he is always Tom Cruise, which means he cannot change the character from movie to another, very bad actor. i don't recommend this movie to someone who's already read the John Grisham's novel. this movie is just bad, in spited of those famous actors. Skip this movie. I've seen many movies that were inspired by or got plot from novels, and this is the worst, as far as I remember. "},{"Title":"So-so adaptation of a very good book","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I eagerly anticipated this movie, but was somewhat disappointed in its flat directing, uninspired acting by a good cast, convoluted ending and changes from the book. The book was far better than the film, Tom Cruise doesn't really bring anything to the role of Mitch, Wilford Brimley is miscast as Bill De Vasher, the head of security, the great Gene Hackman is given little to do as Mitch's mentor, Hal Holbrook probably comes off best among the stars. Jeanne Triplehorn gets to run irrationally in her big scene. The suspense builds but never really pays off, the ending is completely different from the book, and it's not an improvement. OK, but should have been better. "},{"Title":"Firmly ordinary","Date":"19 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" John Grisham's legal-tinged novels may not be known for their depth, but their page-turning plots attract film makes by the dozen, and 'The Firm', directed by Sydney Pollack, is a typical example. The start of the story, of a hotshot young lawyer (Tom Cruise) who finds himself caught up in dodgy dealings, is a fast-paced, yuppie nightmare that unfolds with some skill. But when the brilliant Cruise decides to turn the tables on his employers, the mob, and the F.B.I. and starts to play his own game, the film descends into predictable, though unlikely, cliché. 'The Firm' remains watchable throughout, thanks to the complexities of the storyline, but in spite of a top-drawer cast that also includes Gene Hackman, it never transcends its genre. This is a solid film, but also an ordinary one. "},{"Title":"Powerhouse cast makes up for an overrated potboiling best seller","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  THE FIRM (1993) *** Tom Cruise, Jeanne Tripplehorn, Gene Hackman, Hal Holbrook, Ed Harris, Gary Busey, Holly Hunter, Wilford Brimley, David Strathairn, Steven Hill.  Young, hungry law school grad is accepted into lucrative law firm that turns out to be more than he bargained for.  Fine adaptation of John Grisham's best seller with a strong supporting cast (including Hunter who garnered a Best Supporting Actress Oscar nom) to boot as well as Cruise's patented cocky performance.  Paul Sorvino has an unbilled cameo and Joe Viterelli, who would go on in the latter part of the decade excelling as comic tough guys in films such as `Bullets Over Broadway' and `Analyze This'. "},{"Title":"Despite being pop-corn Hollywood veneered, a very acceptable drama","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Tom Cruise had the problem of trying not to be just the pretty boy of Hollywood, and on the whole his dramatic performances thus far clearly indicate he is a talented actor. Matt Damon, for example, has not succeeded even remotely in convincing anybody of anything. However, Cruise has calibre ever since `The Color of the Money' (1986) with Paul Newman, the first film I can remember seeing him in, he has turned in some excellent dramatic interpretations. Among his most memorable rôles I must mention as well as The Color of Money, Rain Man (1988) as Charlie Babbitt, Born on the Fourth of July (1989) in a very powerful performance as Ron Kovic, A Few Good Men, (1992) also in an inspired rôle as Lieutenant Daniel Alistair Kaffee, The Firm, (1993) as Mitch McDeere, Magnolia (1999)(qv) as Frank T.J. Mackey, and I might just tag on his rather overcooked interpretation in Jerry Maguire (1996). And it does not look as if this actor is anywhere near running out of steam; I'm not surprised Penelope Cruz would inspire anyone to do great things! (I have not yet seen `Vanilla Sky').In this case it is a rather naturally gorgeous Jeanne Tripplehorn who helped out in tending the loving hand of wife for Cruise in this well-paced legal thriller, indeed, one of the best of its kind. Perhaps after over two hours my concentration was going down, as I tended to lose track of where everybody was, scene shifts from Memphis to Boston to Chicago to Cayman Islands to New York (have I missed out anywhere?) and back to Memphis, punctuated by a quasi-Yul Brynner looking FBI type and Holly Hunter in all sorts of predicaments. But there is no doubting the integrity and coherence of this film as it exposes certain underhand or just illegal operations carried out by a prestigious law company. Well, we already know that in those opulent walnut-lined offices all kinds of not very transparent goings-on are going on&#133;.. whether you be in London, Berlin, Sydney, Seattle or Dallas they would only be wallpapered otherwise.Despite being just over 150 minutes long, this film is worth your while, for the interpretative performances as well as the story-line, very correctly directed by Sydney Pollack, and with Dave Grushin supplying some interesting music played by himself.I go along with 6.6 on the voting scale  "},{"Title":"Could Have Been Better","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" John Grisham's book was better than this movie. Still, the acting, directing was good. It was simply the story didn't move as fast. This was a fast food thriller that Hollywood cranks out at the expense of the movie-goer. Compare this to 'In the Line of Fire' or 'Phone Booth' and there's no comparison. It's just a by the numbers movie. I wish one of the executive would make more effort to reach out to other directors who are super-talented, but are not in the fraternity. You would have so much more better and more diverse movies for the entire public. 'The Firm' was an average movie at best, and also a waste of time in the end. "},{"Title":"Will he fly like Superman or drive the Batmobile?","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Firm isn't a bad movie, but it isn't a really good one either. I really wonder why they had to put all those unnecessary action scenes in it. Several times I had the feeling that in the next shot, Tom Cruise would start flying like Superman or driving around in the Batmobile. OK, that's perhaps a little bit over the top, but I really thought that the movie would have been so much better without all the action. Does that mean the movie wasn't any good? No, it certainly had some good parts. I'm not going to tell which of course, that you'll have to find out for yourself. And Tom Cruise and Gene Hackman are fine actors of course, no doubt about that, but it was just too predictable and unbelievable.As a conclusion I would like to say that it certainly had potential and from time to time there was a lot of suspense, but they should have made it more believable. A lawyer isn't Superman with a far more than average IQ. I give it a 6/10.  "},{"Title":"Sluggish at best.","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  With a horribly sluggish pace, THE FIRM is not for everyone. But for a healthy consolation prize, our little film does make a good enough story to watch it from beginning to end, whether you are dying of boredom or not. The music is well done, and so are the characters. They simply have kept THE FIRM glued together.Harvard Law grad Mitch joins a prestigious firm in Memphis. Sadly for Mitch and his wife, this firm has plans for them.Can we promote infidelity a bit more? Everything has an unreal quality in THE FIRM. If it was not for the actors' collective effort, this could have blew up in everyone's face. Thankfully, nothing was overdone to hate this. "},{"Title":"Read the book!","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Movie wasn't bad -- but the book is an overall better experience.  Reading the book before seeing the movie almost forced me to walk out of the theater.  Choice of actors didn't seem to match the books description of the characters and key parts of the story line were omitted or distorted. "},{"Title":"Disservice","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  When the movie was produced, a great disservice was done to the book! The book was great and the movie was a bomb! John Grisham wrote a wonderfully exciting and suspensful story and when it was translated to movie format...the story got lost in the production/writers translation, thereby losing the true and exciting storyline. "}{"Title":"Wrecks the Masterpiece of a Book","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is an example of Hollywood rewriting at its worst ! They changed this wonderful thriller of a book into a long boring commercial for the supposed high ethical standards of the legal community. A lawyer is willing to risk his life to protect client information?!? Nonsense ! The book is fast paced and interesting and yes the lawyers are just as sleazy as the mafia. This is not to say that all lawyers are sleazy but nor are they all saints. Some reviewers have said that the music was ridiculous and they are right. Unlike the book, the pace is so slow, that you will have the urge to start checking your email. Be sure to MISS this movie. "},{"Title":"Silly bore of a film, darn near impossible to take seriously on any level","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Based on a John Grisham novel about an ambitious young man and a really evil law firm (it's not as terrible as it sounds, and is probably Grisham's best book as a whole, although that is a little like picking my favorite genital wart), this flat Sydney Pollack thriller from 1993 is nowhere near as fun as it should have been (come on! Tom Cruise running from an evil law firm? This should be a masterpiece!). The script is a soulless bit of hackery from some writers more than capable of a great screenplay (Robert Towne was responsible for Chinatown among other memorable efforts), Pollack is phoning it in as he unfortunately did with many films where his tremendous talent didn't show for a second, and the cast is alternately inspired and terrible, although Cruise himself is very good. Often a point of criticism, the piano score by Dave Grusin is an interesting effort and might have worked had the film been any good, which it most certainly is not.4/10 "},{"Title":"A decent thriller which has its problems","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Mitch McDeere, played by Tom Cruise, is a young lawyer who is hired for law firm, where his salary is pretty much the dream of all lawyers. The firm pays his new house, his new car and basically everything, but then Mitch finds out that the firm isn't what he thought it was.... That is the plot outline, a good plot outline for a thriller. As a thriller, this movie manages itself pretty well, it's decent. The story has some twists in it, which keeps you interested pretty much throughout the movie. The screenplay's good enough, but the movie itself isn't a masterpiece, hence to what I said earlier Decent.We all know Tom Cruise is a wacko these days, but I don't mind, as he is one of my favourite actors and can pretty much perform any role pretty flawlessly. He has this certain charisma which many actors don't have and that makes him unique in a way. In this movie I am happy to say that his role performance is probably the best thing this movie has to offer. It's nothing mind breaking, but it's still a good role performance. He is very believable in the young lawyer's role and his showing of emotions is once again excellent. That's what makes him one of my favourite actors, he's just so believable when it comes to emotions in a role. When he has to cry and shed a few tears he always does it in a so realistic way that it's always a real pleasure for your eyes. Not forgetting Mr. Gene Hackman, who is pretty much always an eye pleaser. Though the role performances aren't so significant in this movie, both Cruise and Hackman do their job like it's supposed to do. Nice.Probably one of the best things besides already mentioned Cruise's performance is the rhythm of the movie. It starts off slow, building up minute by minute and the tempo just raises all the time right till the end. It's pretty genius and for a thriller that's what is needed to make it work. The end solution is pretty intelligent as well, I myself didn't see it coming. Like I said earlier, there's twists in the plot for everyone to have a decent movie experience. I also have to mention the music, as it's also one of the best things in this movie. It's this piano music which keeps on going, raising and then going down, nothing beautiful or mind breaking, but it fits to the movie like candy for a child. Great.The movie isn't perfect, but it's not bad at all. I don't love it and I don't hate it, it's just some of those movies you can watch late at night by just sitting in front of the TV eating a sandwich and drinking your beer, you get that decent movie experience, you'll just be pleased enough. However, that is all you pretty much get. I could watch it again, so it's not boring or anything, but however I have to admit that it does have this certain dullness in it. If you're looking for a thriller nothing so serious and above the average, then this is what you're looking for. "},{"Title":"OK Film.","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a very enjoyable film, but it has flaws. Doesn't have the pace of John Grisham's book. There was so much in this film, that you could really discuss it for hours. The old guy steals the show in his portrayal of the Firm's head, what a powerful performance! Cruise is good, but less effective- he gets a lot better in the last 45 minutes of the film though. What really surprised me was how good the directing was, in a part designed for someone to look like John Grisham's book. There are so many admirable things in this movie, and the whole concept was very intriguing. But what was with the ending?, after the previous two hours it was a slight disappointment, but I suppose its easy to see how it will all turn out in the end. Its all about cause and effect, so the wheels will keep turning round and round. "},{"Title":"The worst film adaptation of a book","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I read this book prior to seeing the movie.  I was very disappointed in the way the screenwriter omitted all the twists and turns in the revenge plot and his brother's character.  I thought Grisham's plot was thrilling and suspenseful, whereas the movie had a very lame ending.  When I saw how it ended I wanted to scream at the screen.  Grisham must have also screamed when he saw the final version.If one had not read the book, the movie would be ok.  I recommend that everyone should read the book to find out all the great stuff they missed. I would give this movie a 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Surveillance","Date":"6 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  First off, John Grisham is to the law what Tom Clancy is to the military.  All his works involve people watching other people and everyone hiding secrets from everyone else, it's that simple.  Thus, like Clancy, no good movies can be made from his works because the source material is poor.The Firm implements a lot of Sydney Pollack's style, particularly in the visual department, reminiscent of made-for-tv film.  Not a good thing.  The music too is on the same quality level.  In short, there are few positive aspects as a film alone that I can recommend.Cruise, Tripplehorn, Hackman, Holbrock, Harris, Hunter, and Busey in particular cannot be described as anything other than typical blockbuster prop-ups.  Everything is exactly what it seems.  I will give credit to the firm security chiefs for speaking in the two tongues rather effectively.  I think the locations chosen throughout the film add to the atmosphere, even if the scenes themselves are predictable.It's interesting to study the relationship between Pollack and the Steinkamps, his editors for this movie.  He's trusted them with so many other films, but those were better than this.  Notice how they understand Pollack better than he understands the script in most cases.  This is slick, repetitive, and just plain boring.Overall, it is Cruise himself who sinks this movie.  Can't say I really recommend it.  2.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"At Least It's Got Holly Hunter","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Firm is the only John Grisham book I've ever read, and while I remember barely anything about it, I remember that the movie version veered far away from the plot of the book as it reached its climax.I also remember that the film is flabby, far too long and has one of the most annoying piano scores I've ever heard in a film. This belongs to Tom Cruise's cocky wonder-boy period (or wait, maybe he's still in that period).What I remember most about this movie is the performance of Holly Hunter in a tiny role as a secretary. She acts like she's in a totally different movie, and that's a good thing. She brings some pizazz to all of the cloak and dagger hoo-ha.Grade C "},{"Title":"sober pleasure of legal logic","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The sober pleasure of legal logic&#133;Nah, not that, this is not one of those movies that makes you want to be a lawyer. (Those movies are rare). I really liked the script to this movie, in addition to the casting. One can always see those little quirks of characters. I guess not every movie has to have circuitous completion. I still like this movie a lot, and would recommend it to anyone who isn't looking for the most complicated of legal situations that cannot be understood by the viewer. I am not a fan of these legal thriller things &#150; never read a book by John Grisham (I've never been that bored on holiday!) and didn't find the glut of films from his work to be as inspiring as their box office success would suggest that they were. Despite this I always try to give a film an honest crack of the whip and so I sat to watch it. It's good. "},{"Title":"A Lot Of Promise Leading Up To Nothing Much","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had a promising beginning. Mitch McDeere (Tom Cruise) graduates from Harvard Law School near the top of his class, and is aggressively recruited by major law firms all over the United States. Based on the attractiveness of the offer and on their stated devotion to family, McDeere chooses to join a law firm in Memphis, Tennessee. Upon their arrival, Mitch's wife Abby (Jeanne Tripplehorne) becomes uncomfortable as she speaks to the wife of one of her husband's new colleagues and gets told that the firm doesn't forbid wives from taking jobs, but it encourages children. Why is the firm so obsessed with controlling the personal lives of its lawyers and their families? It's a mystery, and could have been a good one.From here on it's difficult to talk about this movie without a few spoilers. After two hours of murder, mystery and intrigue in which we watch Tom Cruise running desperately away from bad guys over and over again, we discover that all the mystery (and all the murders) stem from the fact that the firm is overbilling its clients! That's it! They're overbilling! Nothing more. A pity, really, because the premise did have promise starting out.The movie was further weakened by the introduction of so many characters. We have to keep up with the McDeere's, with the law partners, the black sheep brother, the FBI agents, the private investigator and his secretary. Too much. Perhaps this works in Grisham's novel (which is a very different medium) but it does not work in a two and a half hour movie.There was a decent enough performance from Gene Hackman as Avery Tolar(McDeere's mentor), which was counter-balanced by trying to believe Wilford Brimley as the firm's security director.In the end, a lot of promise leading up to very little. 4/10. "},{"Title":"I think that somehow Pollack and Cruise do not match","Date":"19 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Forgive, my presumption, but only Stanley Kubrick, could be the arbiter of this opinion. He had both as actors in Eyes Wide Shut and his Genius would certainly detect compatibilities or oppositions.I do not think The Firm to be a good movie. It's too long for the theme, Cruiser's character looks to young for the part, compared to his role in Rob Reiner's A Few Good Men, almost contemporary...Is it Pollack's fault?. In a way, yes. Pollack's characters must be deep, to sustain the length of his movies. Just watch again Out of Africa, it's almost a miracle. The characters are deep, the script is so real, the emotions so overwhelming, the truth so historical..Maybe the fault is just Grisham's Novel. I've never read Grisham, I'm not American and intend to die without reading the fellow, unless he gets the Nobel prize.. Even so, I will think thrice before ordering a paperback. "}{"Title":"Tom Cruise serious liability","Date":"10 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  One does not expect much of a movie to be made from a book by John Grisham, and Tom Cruise is the kiss of death to most films he is in. (I make an exception for MAGNOLIA). Still, Gene Hackman is a decent actor and the film has a certain, if confusing, intrigue. Say totally average. "},{"Title":"good music, weak ending, average movie","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The beginning started out good.  Film looked like it had a lot of potential. Also, I really liked the piano music.  Seemed to go well with the movie.However, the ending is where this movie seems to lose it's appeal.  Too much stuff having to get wrapped up and things fall together too neatly.  Kinda seems too unrealistic and that lowers the suspense and intrigue the movie started out with.  The ending is what turns this into an average movie. I'd give this a 6 out 10. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, it just could have been better","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Tom Cruise gave a good performance as Mitch McDeere.  Also Jean Tripplehorn is very good in this.  She gave a very believeable and real performance. The only thing that really spoiled the whole effect was the irritating piano music in the background.  It was distracting, and it didn't fit the whole package of this film. "},{"Title":"When the dream job turns sour","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The Firm is a thriller. It is about a young and brilliant lawyer Mitch McDeere (Tom Cruise) who is just graduated with honours out of Havard University and has many opportunities before him, so he takes the one that looks the best -- and that one was a mistake. Unfortunately, I cannot give too much away about the movie because if I do I would spoil it. I will try to examine the movie as well as possible without saying anything.Throughout the movie we know as much as Mitch knows, and no more. There are some things that are revealed to us but Mitch realises this already. We are told a couple of things just so that we understand, but I feel that it could have been done with out this knowledge being revealed. When we first enter the firm we see it as a friendly place where everybody is close and like a family, but when we begin to look deeper we notice that it is not all that it seems. The first hint is when they say that the Firm is like a family; though one would consider any firm saying that they are like a family.Mitch McDeere is the main character in the firm. He is an innocent man, more like a boy, having just come out of law school. He neither understands faithfulness for not only does he cheat on his wife, but he steals somebody else's wife. Mitch wants to be free when asked why he became a lawyer he tells us it is because when he was young, he watched the pizza shop that he worked for go under because the owner mucked up on his tax return. Thus in this movie he finds himself trapped, being torn by two forces that he hates and looking for a way out. Mitch is a very self-centred man; we learn that he has a mother whom he never sees and he only goes and sees his brother when he needs help. What does seem to change is that when he realises that he is trapped and it looks like he has lost anything, his brother seems to be the only body that he cares about. Yet it looks that he did care somewhat for his brother, but not until he had nowhere else to turn. Even so, he still had nothing to do with his mother and it is actually through Aggie's mouth that we learn that he has a mother.Avery (Gene Hackman) is one of the other major characters. Gene Hackman plays a brilliant bad guy (I don't think that he really suits good guys). The nature of his character changes through the movie. It is not possible to go in too deep because it will probably give away too much. Avery is Mitch's mentor, and he sort of guides him through the first part of the movie.The Firm is a very good movie with a very unravelling plot. My only gripe is that Mitch runs off with Aggie who happens to be married to somebody else. There is a distinct lack of faithfulness shown in this movie but then Mitch is faithful to very few people and has little faith in anybody else. Mitchel McDeere is definitely not a role model and should not be treated as one. "},{"Title":"Bad awful etc","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Spoiler!!!I do not know why so many people like this film.  The begainning of this film is great, but the story deteriorates like depleted uranium.  The story follows a pattern of unbelievable to more unbelievable, to totally stupid.  A few flaws in this story, one would the FBI let it self lose 750,000 dollars,two Tom Cruse is not gangland executed,three Gene Hackman show up and tries to pick up Cruse wife for no reason,four Tom's brother can get out of jail for no reason, and five Cruse can walk out of the law firm with evidence for a rico statute, do they not believe in locks. I watched this film again and its still a 5, Cruse is a great actor who picks alot of average film, no wonder he has not won best actor yet.  "},{"Title":"They stole 2 hours of my life","Date":"9 June 2004","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Firm is one of the most ridiculously dumb movies I have everseen. It reminded me of the kind of filler they used to show on TV on aWednesday afternoon.The direction is laughable and the cast of stars is almostcompletely wasted.Some of the more minor characters like the FBI agent and thePrivate detective are okay, but are totally wasted on this worthlesspiece of garbage.I could actually feel myself aging whilst enduring this in thecinema.Strangely I seemed to be the only one who realized how dreadfulthe supposedly 'erotic' seduction on the beach was.How I didn't laugh out loud I'll never know.I can't help but think that John Grisham's novels are not well suitedto being filmed.Worst of all, everything seemed at least 20 years out of date.In a word? Crap.  "},{"Title":"Dull, Lifeless, But Most of All Disappointing...","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The Firm is a very average thriller. There is nothing special about it. It's taken off of a pretty good novel, and turned into a mediocre film at best.Tom Cruise plays Mitchell Y. McDeere, a promising lawyer with lots of potential straight outta law school. He has offers from some of the most prestigious firms around the country...but all of them are forgotten when a firm from Memphis, named Bendini, Lambert & Locke, offers Mitch a spectacular proposal. They give him a BMW, a new home for he and his gorgeous wife, and a nice paycheck, all in return for Mitch taking a spot at their firm, which he does eagerly. But soon, Mitch suspects something more than meets the eye is going on. Avery (Gene Hackman), his co-worker, seems to be doing odd things for the firm...and when Mitch has someone investigate into the firm's past, he finds some startling information. And then his world really comes crashing down when Mitch is alerted by the FBI that the firm is really a front for a gangster organization; and now Mitch must choose help the FBI, or become the next victim of the firm to die mysteriously.The Firm was a second novel by writer John Grisham. I never really loved the novel, but it was good. The film spin-off, however, is a pretty weak one. The novel was gripping from the beginning on, but the film is turned very mediocre at best there's really nothing special here.Tom Cruise fits Mitch's character from the novel a bit snobby and full of himself. But he doesn't seem to have enough charisma to really carry the film through by himself.Gene Hackman does good as Avery Tolar, but not spectacular he seems to try his best with an average script, and comes off just average. His is surprisingly watered down and uninvolving.Director Sydney Pollack, who has brought us films such as Tootsie, really got side-tracked on this one. He seems to be a good director--his credits dating back to The Alfred Hitchcock Hour--but he loses focus of what he's trying to say here.The dialogue isn't nearly as good as that in the book. The things characters in the film say are cliched and cheesy; though I must say it's not as bad as dialogue I heard in a film a few days ago named Mercury Rising His parents were killed by a real bad man, Bruce Willis says. Laughably bad.In the long run, The Firm isn't a terrible movie, but it's very average and mediocre, and a much better film could have come out of the novel.2/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Disappointed!","Date":"11 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Finely I have finished the book The Firm. Im so impressed. There are so much emotions it gave me.I had never been interested in detective and started to read it by accident and by good reviews! The book fulls of actions and smart plans of the main character Mitch McDeere. And now me and my bf are trying to watch the movieThe firm by Sydney Pollack and we cant!! Because its awful and more then awful! Seems like they cut so many pieces and also change the history in wrong way! If I haven't read the book I wouldn't understand the movie! When you read the book you brain draws your own characters and environment, you make your own movie in the head! And I don't know what exactly Sydney Pollack felt the day he read it but obviously not an admiration! And actors! OMG where did they find them?!!! Abby McDeere (Jeanne Tripplehorn) looks like a drunker or very old women with many face lifts! Tom Cruise is super of course!No Doubt!The book fulls of content and of course the movie director couldn't completely fill it with actions and effects!! But I would suggest to make few series. As The GodFather! Im so disappointed by the movie(( "},{"Title":"When the movie is better than the book, usually neither is very good","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This book was pushed on me, since I am interested in law, but it was so schlocky and so amateurish that I had to force myself to finish the darn thing. Admittedly, that makes Grisham one of the richest amateurs ever, I haven't had the stomach to read any of his later fare; hopefully he's improved.But since I had invested the time in reading the waste of paper, I thought I may as well see what kind of film all those stars would make from the thing. And they did as good a job as anyone could. In fact, just about every major flaw in the plot was corrected in the screenplay. So the movie, while still pretty bad, wasn't a joke like the book, but just another ordinary Hollywood property. Quite a coup, considering their source material. (Sorry to be so negative, but I just like good writing.)   "},{"Title":"Overlong, unconvincing, surprisingly failing to really grip and rather plodding at times","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Mitch McDeere is an up and coming attorney who finished in the top five of his year at law school and only seems destined to go to the top. Sure enough the offers come rolling in but they are exceeded by a prodigious law firm that Mitch accepts. Starting his new job he immediately loves it, although wife Abby is a bit concerned by the way the firm seem to impose into the lives of the other families. Getting used to the good life, Mitch throws himself into the job but is shocked to be approached by the FBI who inform him that his employers are none other than the main law firm for the Chicago mob and that the only lawyers that ever leave the firm leave dead. Faced between continuing in his job but going to jail or helping the FBI and thus risking death, Mitch tries to play the situation the best he can.Perhaps it is best if I say up front that I don't like John Grisham novels very much, nor am I a big fan of the genre of airport tomes that he has contributed towards creating. I say this because I didn't think this film was much good and I just wanted to make you aware of my bias just in case you love this film and just want to dismiss me as someone who shouldn't have bothered watching it in the first place. Anyway, despite having the appearance of a classy product, this film really drags at points and it only occasionally manages to inject pace here and there but it is too padded and long to really keep the tension going. It is a shame because it is an interesting enough story and never actually bored me but it should have been really honed down to the bare bones and the tension upped quite a bit.The cast help the appearance of a classy film but they cannot do much to make it better. Cruise runs around with his boyish good looks but really he never convinced me &#150; I can't imagine someone who is looking up the corporate ladder like he was having the morals he does. Tripplehorn is average but is really just in the background; Hackman is so-so but, surprisingly fails to make an impression. Quality is in the background in the form of Holbrook, Brimley, Hunter, Strathairn, Busey, Bell and others but no matter how many faces there are in there, it still doesn't help the central failings in the film. Harris is as good as always though and his tense relationship with Cruise is one of the better aspects of the film &#150; shame it gets little time spent on it.Overall this is an average film that is typically Hollywood &#150; a hyped star vehicle that jumped on a trend but hasn't stood the test of time. The cast are impressive on paper but don't manage to do much on the screen; the plot is interesting but is plodding at times and only occasionally did I feel any threat or tension &#150; a fact not helped by the overlong running time and the failure to turn a massive book into a serviceable film script. "}]