[{"Title":"Don't watch it for Jackie, watch it for Michelle!","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  &#145;Supercop 2', the sequel to &#145;Police Story 3 Supercop' from the same director Stanley Tong, is more than just a sequel. To me, it seems slightly superior to the (still of course very entertaining!) first movie. It has a different approach altogether, because the first movie was basically about full speed action and amazing stunts like we are used from Jackie Chan's movies. Michelle Khan in her role as a police officer from China helped him along. In some ways, it was a `buddy movie' with one buddy being an extremely tough girl! In the second movie, Michelle Khan is the star. Jackie only has a small guest appearance in a silly and unnecessary scene.  &#145;Supercop 2' gets a lot more serious than its predecessor. The tragedy motif Michelle realizes her ex-boyfriend has become a criminal and now works for a gang of high-tech bank robbers. The characterization is surprisingly detailed, down to small things like choosing a wrong present for someone you love but not completely understand, and the ending (Will she shoot him? Or will she let him escape?) had me sit on the edge of my seat... My favourite scene is Michelle's fight against one of the mercenaries a 7 feet giant trying to hit a 5 feet girl, and you bet he's getting his butt kicked really hard &#150; I've never seen something like this before. Hah, take this, Rambo! Probably this movie was an important step for Michelle Khan (a.k.a. Yeoh) on her way to the Bond movie `Tomorrow Never Dies'. Very recommendable, unless you only watch movies for being a Jackie Chan completist, and don't care about any other qualities in a movie, like a few other reviewers here seem to do, I'm afraid. "},{"Title":"Misleading to say the least","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film is being billed in the USA as a Jackie Chan flick.  Don't buy into the hype - Jackie has a short (2 minutes approx.) cameo in a scene that makes little sense and is hardly tied in to the rest of the film.  His presence in drag is unexplained, and worse still his voice has been dubbed by somebody who apparently spent two hours at the dentist's before filming, and was still under the effects of the anaesthetic - or at least it seems that way.The rest of the film is passable - some good shots of Hong Kong and Guangzhou, but some glaring plot holes as well. Nothing to write home about, but a fairly good performance from Michelle Yeoh at least brings this up to a 5 out of 10 effort. "},{"Title":"One of the best Police / Action / Crime movie ever!","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Firstly, the script kicks ass! It's a local story, authentic dialogs, fast paced, straight forward and realistic, yet entertaining. Most of all, it got lots of authentic local cultures in it and it stands out. (Plz don't make movies just for the foreigners markets, draw foreign markets with your local culture - remember the success of Jackie Chan, Bruce Lee, Mr. Vampire series, & recently Pang Brothers movies???!!!)What stands out is the time frame of the storyline is longer than most movies out there in the same genre and yet you don't feel bored or awkward. All the actors and actresses' performances' are so natural and believable. Don't know why, but it makes it so much relaxing to watch. Even the cameos all ditched in and made the movie better bit by bit.Thirdly, the director is very smart in the sense that he acknowledged that he didn't have the luxury of getting the support from Jackie Chan's stuntmen group. Thus, you can't stuff the whole movie with those crazy stunts. Instead, he created a lot of exciting action scenes from various authentic settings - shoot em all scene from the worn down factory building, the underground banking, and the HK underground subway systems.It's jam packed with action, drama, terrific fight scenes. In all it's a great movie because everyone in the movie knows what they're doing and did very well. It may not have the Hollywood production $$$ but definitely more entertaining than their recycled story lines & movie stars. It's a celebration of HK movie during the 90s era! Top notch real S!#$% hk police action crime movie!!! 9/10!!! A must see! Go rent it today!!! (I bet Banlieue 13 stole some ideas from movies like this one =) "},{"Title":"Great die-hard action!","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although not as good as the first, this film still contains plenty of action.  The action is more shooting/explosions than martial arts though. About a bunch of terrorists and good guys kicking the crap out of them. Rated R for Violence. "},{"Title":"An arresting action yarn with a strong set-up","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This spin-off of Supercop is one of my favorite Hong Kong action movies.  Once a Cop (Chao ji ji hua) kicks off with a rousing high-energy title sequence and never lets up.  The story is meatier than most action yarns a Chinese policewoman (Michelle Yeoh) tracks a gang of bank robbers to Hong Kong, unaware that their ringleader is her fiancé, an ex-cop (Yu Rong-Guang).  This intriguing set-up searches the emotions of the main character as it explores the cultural clash between get-rich-quick Hong Kong and the duty-bound mainland.  There's also a sympathetic subplot about a Hong Kong cop who's attracted to Yeoh but feels intimidated by both her and her fiancé.  The action sequences are all superbly executed, credibly grounding their martial arts in the actors' own athletic abilities (rather than falling back on wires and special effects).  And Yeoh's graceful gymnastic prowess has never been used to better advantage.Unfortunately, not everything about Once a Cop clicks.  The relationship between Yeoh and Yu isn't developed as deeply as it could be (though it's still more interesting than most action-movie romances), and it ultimately doesn't make the most of the premise's irony.  Jackie Chan's cameo (reprising his Supercop role) is awkward and not well integrated into the story.  And Alain Guernier as the central villain gives the worst impersonation of an Englishman I've ever seen (even if John Malkovich's Dr. Jekyll in Mary Reilly comes pretty darn close).  But pound per pound - and punch per punch - Once a Cop is as thrilling and exciting as any reality-based martial-arts movie to come out of the Crown Colony.  Anyone wowed by Michelle Yeoh's work in Tomorrow Never Dies should definitely check out this "},{"Title":"Typical Hong Kong action movie...","Date":"24 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" If you have seen Hong Kong movies from the early 1990s, then you will find yourself at home with Project S (aka Chao ji ji hua). This 1993 movie has every ingredient that were using in the Hong Kong action cinema in the early 1990s. But it is not a bad thing, because they had found a formula that worked quite well, and Project S is no exception.The story is about a criminal gang from mainland China doing a robbery in Hong Kong. And to close down the criminal activities and catch them, the Hong Kong police gets assistance from Hua, a highly decorated police officer from China.As with almost all movie from that era, there is a lot of action, gunfights and martial arts in this movie. And the action sequences were well executed and the martial arts well choreographed. One thing that was a bit bad was how poor everyone were at hitting targets with their firearms.The acting was good, and the cast list had some good names to it. As always, you never go wrong with Michelle Yeoh, and she delivers well in this movie. And for fans of the Hong Kong cinema then there were two grand cameos in the movie, and they are in drag nonetheless; you will see Jackie Chan and Eric Tsang. No kidding!Project S is a standard, if not generic, early 1990s Hong Kong action movie, but it is still an enjoyable movie to watch. "},{"Title":"It's About Romance Too, Not Just Pure Action ...","Date":"25 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film was released in 1993. I saw it not long after its release.I was very young when I first saw this film. Obviously, I felt compelled to watch it because Jackie was in it. However, as I first sat through the film, I thought it was extremely boring.The fight scenes were choppy. There were not many scenes that left indelible marks in my memory. Of course I have seen Michelle Yeoh in Supercop. But, I have never quite looked up to her as a great martial artist cum actress.* that is not to say that Michelle Yeoh is a completely untalented MA and actress though *Michelle's fighting style -- at least, her on-screen persona -- comprises of kicks and punches. That is normal. Yes, she would tumble, flip, leap, etc. These are normal too for Hong Kong film productions.But, the one critical element that sets Project S apart from other Hong Kong films -- Jackie's Police Stories included -- is the detailed storyline and plots. Her character, Yu Rongguang's, Emil Chau's, Fan Siu Wong's, and others were deftly crafted and executed.The scene where Michelle sprints to her bike on the parade field -- that is a beautifully done scene. For a military officer who has to remain steadfast in character, then suddenly runs because she was afraid of not being able to send off her lover, the act in itself speaks a lot about Michelle's character and the dramatic elements involved.The raid on the robbers' hideout at the shophouse was also a memorable scene. A team of former soldiers pitted against regular cops -- this scene should have no problems in enticing anyone to at least feel curious, to learn of the eventual outcome from the confrontation.Finally, the scene in the railway tunnel. Seeing Yu Rongguang's character at his end, his previous lies exposed; no longer was he the good man that he wanted Michelle's character to think he was. Then, to sacrifice himself for the sake of his lover, all these are emotional-ladened and intricate moments that uniquely distinguish Project S.This beautiful film subsequently concludes with a song sung by Emil Chau / Wakin Chau.I mean, how can anyone not feel anything when he / she sits through such a beautifully written film the like of Project S? ) "},{"Title":"Not great, but worth a watch.","Date":"27 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Depending on your whereabouts in the world, this film may go under any one of the following titles Supercop 2 (USA), Once a Cop, Police Story 3 Part 2, Police Story 4 Project S, Police Story V, Project S (UK), Supercop (also UK). Whatever the title, do not be fooled into thinking that this is a Jackie Chan film; yes, he does appear in the movie, but only briefly and in a scene that has absolutely nothing to do with the rest of the film.Michelle Yeoh, however, plays the same character as she did in Police Story 3 (which was known as Supercop in the US and did star JC&#151;are you keeping up?), a hard-as-nails mainland Chinese cop named Yang. She is called to Hong Kong to lend her expertise and assist in the apprehension of a gang of Chinese criminals who are pulling heists right left and centre and peeing-off the local cops.The police operations are going swimmingly until Yang recognises one of the criminals as Cheng Feng, her boyfriend from China who left for HK to find his fortune, and the two become reacquainted under somewhat difficult circumstances.With a decidedly routine plot, Project S needed to be something special in the action department in order to compensate, but despite some cracking fight action towards the end, there is far too much quiet time spent between bouts. The action is also geared towards gun-play rather than martial arts, so those expecting a full on fight-fest will be disappointed. That is not to say that Yeoh and co-stars don't display some wonderful skills from time to time; the high kicking action is pretty good when it happens&#151;it just doesn't happen often enough.The final half an hour, which has the gang attempt a daring bank robbery, offers the best dose of action, with Yang going up against a foe twice her size (and kicking ass, of course!).Director Stanley Tong and star Michelle Yeoh have both made far better films than this, but if your expectations are not set too high, you may find Project S a reasonable way to spend your time (although 105 minutes was a tad too long for me!). "},{"Title":"An average film at best with poor characters, an unengaging plot and action that is workmanlike but no more than that","Date":"4 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" With a crime spree occurring across Hong Kong, and all the crimes traced to the work of one major crime syndicate, the police look to focus their resources. Having recently proved how tough and resourceful she is, Officer Hua Yang is sent to help a couple of detectives. It becomes immediately evident that the group is a lot more organised than they expected but Hua shakes off her adviser role and takes direct action &#150; but when she discovers that the leader of the group is none other than one Ah Fung, Hua's old boyfriend.On the basis of the wonderful Michelle Yeoh being in it, I decided to give this film a go to see if it was any good. From the very start I was amused to see how cheap it looked, although it may have aged a little bit as well. As with all these type of films, plot usually comes second to the action and here is no different. The story is not that well delivered and I found myself with too many characters to care about and too little logic in the plot. It did jump around a bit and it relied too heavily on the former relationship between Jessica and Ah &#150; but it never bothered to really make us care about either of them as real people or get emotionally involved with them as was necessary if this method was to work. Sadly it didn't work and the film was quite unengaging for the most part.Of course with good action scenes this shouldn't matter too much, but it doesn't do anything that special on the action front. This is not to suggest it is no good, because the gun play and various fights are reasonably good, it is just that they don't really do anything special and they do lack a certain amount of style. The fights do feel like they were done on a budget and, like the rest of the film, they did lack imagination and effort. The cast didn't do anything that good but in fairness my version was badly dubbed so it is hard to tell. Yeoh is a great actress who I have seen been playful, exciting, sensitive and tragic in many films but here she has nothing to do although one or two of her fight scenes hint at her ability. I never really got into the characters played by Sui-Wong, Yu and Chau as they didn't make much of an impression, although I thought that Wei was good. Bill Tung is there in a small role and does his usual stuff but were they really so desperate to attract an audience that they had to make Jackie Chan demean himself in an unfunny drag cameo?Overall this is an average film at best. The presence of one or two famous names suggests that it will be better than average but in reality it is all a bit workmanlike and lacking effort. The plot relies on the characters being developed and, when they're not, it means that it isn't very engaging as a story. The action is OK but nothing special and I never went 'wow' or anything like that. The script is average and the performances (dubbed or not) didn't really do anything to improve on the situation &#150; Yeoh in particular was disappointingly bland for large sections. "},{"Title":"An Off-Shoot of the Police Story Series","Date":"26 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" After helping thwart a major hostage situation, Jessica Yang (Michelle Yeoh) is sent to Hong Kong to assist in a police matter there. As it so happens her fiancé, David Chang (Rongguang Yu) has just recently moved there because he supposedly wants to stabilize his financial situation prior to marrying her. While this may be true he also plans on robbing a large bank there with some help from an American criminal named Roger Davidson (Alain Guernier). What neither of them realize is that their paths are about to cross again in an unexpected way. Now rather than reveal any more of this movie and risk spoiling it for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this film is an off-shoot of the Police Story series (featuring Jackie Chan as Inspector Chan Ka Kui) and essentially follows Police Story 3-Supercop. Yet, while Jackie Chan does have a rather brief (and bizarre) scene here it focuses almost exclusively on Michelle Yeoh. That being said it lacks the peculiar mixture of comedy and charisma that only Jackie Chan can give to a film. That's not to say that this film is necessarily bad, it's just that it doesn't have the same degree of excitement as any of the Police Story movies. Accordingly, I rate it as just average. "}{"Title":"Decent action and storyline! 4/10","Date":"20 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Review I rented this movie, expecting it to be Police Story 3 Supercop but it turned out to be a movie that had 3 different names, which I found really confusing. Its known as either Supercop, Supercop 2 or Project S so if you have seen any of those movies, it's the same one. I think the confusion is because they named the third Police Story, Supercop as well. Anyway, this movie is based around an high ranked cop, Jessica Yang (Michelle Yeoh), who risks her life in China, to fight against crime. After being awarded a medal for her accomplishments in the force, her boyfriend tells her that he wants to move to Hong Kong to make some serious money because the army doesn't pay him well, so he leaves her in China to pursue his dreams to become a millionaire. Jessica then gets a call from the police force in Hong Kong because they need her to solve a case about a group of gun tooting criminals who have held up a bank and stolen important documents, so she heads to Hong Kong, only to find out that the head of the group of criminals is her boyfriend. With the help of her new friends in the Hong Kong force, they tackle the criminals who are plotting to steal loads of cash from a heavily guarded bank. The action wasn't bad in this film and the storyline was half decent but I kept on wondering when Chan was going to pop up. He has a small sketch, dressed up as a woman but apart from that, he isn't in the movie at all. I've always been a fan of Michelle Yeoh because of her no fuss acting style and her unique kicking Kung Fu. Her acting in this film was quite good, along with the rest of the cast and I'm glad that the director didn't over complicate the storyline. It did look a bit low budget in parts and the music was awful but the action scenes were impressive. There isn't any of those silly comedic scenes throughout the movie, until Chan does his little sketch, so there is a sense of intensity throughout. For entertainment it does tick all of the boxes and they even added a romantic element which made this movie watchable and enjoyable in parts. Round-Up Although I was expecting a Jackie Chan movie when I rented this film, I actually was surprised that I enjoyed it. It was directed by the highly rated Stanley Tong who also made Swordsman II, Police Story Supercop, which I thought this movie was, Rumble in the Bronx, First Strike, Mr. Magoo, Martial Law (Series) and the Myth with Jackie Chan. He didn't really have a big budget to make this movie but it done well with the money that he had. Its obvious that you need a big star like Chan, to get the big budgets because your usually guaranteed your money back but Michelle Yeoh, 53, is definitely worth the investment now, because she has starred in some big movies like Tomorrow Never Dies, Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, Memoirs of a Geisha, Fearless with Jet Li, Danny Boyles Sunshine, Babylon A.D. with Vin Diesel, The Mummy Tomb of the Dragon Emperor, the Lady and Kung Fu Panda 2. She has definitely proved that she is a versatile actor who always puts in good performances and she was amazing as Aung San Suu Kyi in the Lady. Budget $900,000 Worldwide Gross $16.2millionI recommend this movie to people who are into their action/crime/martial arts/comedies starring Michelle Yeoh, Rongguang Yu, Emil Chau and a special appearance by Jackie Chan. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Good Action Movie","Date":"12 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Good action movie that lacks originality but delivers the expected energy and stunts.Michelle's fighting scenes were good but could have been better.The Hong Kong scenery was good eye candy and Jackie Chan's short cameo was funny (if you are a fan of his art).The over all production was good but the script/screenplay needed help.Some very unbelievable plots that could have been avoided too.Worth a look for fans of the genre and big fans of the lead stars.......   "},{"Title":"sweet!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I had the pleasure of meeting Ms. Yeoh some years ago, and she's a very intelligent, charming, and absolutely breathtaking woman.  That was a great night, and knowing she does all this stuff for real is amazing.  Project S is very entertaining and a great showcase for her skills, but it feels a bit like a low-budget cousin to the Police Story series.  Give it a chance though, it's an efficient action flick, with good stuntwork and fight scenes.  It's awfully melodramatic at times though.... "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This follow-up to Police Story 3 is not nearly as good as its predecessor, despite having the same director (Stanley Tong). Although it is supposed to be a starring vehicle for Michelle Yeoh, she has surprisingly little to do. She gets about 3 fight scenes in the entire film (she does show her awesome flexibility in those at least), and is absent during many of the climactic set-pieces! The whole movie seems to favor (dryly directed) gunplay over martial arts, and although there are some spectacular stunts, they are pretty much par for the course for Hong Kong cinema. The most interesting aspect of the movie is the relationship between Yeoh and the bad guy who sincerely loves her, but the ending resolves that in a rather too-convenient way. Jackie Chan has a 2-minute scene that is so outrageously silly you can't help but laugh; also watch out for a brief appearance by Yukari Oshima during the opening action sequence. (**) "},{"Title":"Not That Good.","Date":"21 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" MPAARated R for violence. Quebec Rating13+ Canadian Home Video Rating14AI have seen both Supercop 1 and Supercop 2.Supercop 1 is one of my favorite Jackie Chan films.It had plenty of action,stunts and comedy while having a fairly good storyline to go along with it.Jackie Chan has a very brief cameo appearance in Supercop 2.The main star of the film is Michelle Yeoh.Supercop 2 does have some fairly good action scenes but it just doesn't add up to the greatness of Supercop 1.I saw this film a while ago on UPN and I forget what the storyline was.If you want a good Hong Kong action film rent Supercop 1 and wait for this to come on TV.Runtime104min 7/10 "},{"Title":"This could be a great movie, but it isn't... At all","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When i saw this movie i was really mad because i had bought it on DVD, thinking it was a great movie... Well i was wrong. This is not a great movie... at all. What could have been a great hong kong action movie is in reality a low budget american action movie with Asians playing all the roles. The hong kong movies i love in the martial arts genre is the ones where the action is clear, fight scenes are shot at a wide angle and with few cuts so you get pretty long sequences where you see everything the fighters do. In this movie however, they use closeups and fast cuts, usually seen in movies where they are trying to hide the fact that the actors can't fight. But we all know Michelle Yeoh can fight so why they have done this is beyond me. The lousy fight scenes ruined the entire movie for me i am a afraid. I rate this movie 4/10 "},{"Title":"Superdull","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Apart from some fight scenes near the end during the bank heist, the movie was, sadly, run-of-the-mill. Although Michelle Yeoh is billed as the lead, it feels more like an ensemble movie. She had more to do in Heroic Trio and she shared top billing with two other women in that film. Go watch that or Wing Chun instead.  "},{"Title":"Overall, a good effort.","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought it was a decent movie.  Michelle Yeoh did a good job with the acting and the movie itself was a nice change from the action-packed HK movies we've grown accustomed to.I was, however, just a little disappointed in the way that Jackie Chan was hyped as being in the cast.  I expected him to take a role of the Hong Kong police guy he was in Supercop again, but all he does is one scene as a lady. Kind of a letdown. "},{"Title":"Less then OK","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am a fan of Hong Kong Action Movies.  This one is a disappointment.  The love story never really gells.  There is far to much love story and semi-comedic momments and not nearly enouph action.  I wish it were better, and the ghost of the movie it should have been lurks in the shadows of this film. "},{"Title":"Jacky Chan?","Date":"2 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Crediting Jacky in this film at all was probably just a PR stunt. He's only in one scene, and that looks as though it was pulled from another film. To top it all off, he's in drag (personally, I liked the Chun Li Jacky from City Hunter better...). That being said, if you didn't know that when you rented the film, you probably haven't seen the poster. This is a typical Michelle Yeoh film great Kung Fu/acrobatics/stunts, high melodrama, and a plot that falls apart in the last 20 minutes of the piece. "}{"Title":"Not so good","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I guess as a generic Hong Kong movie it's okay .. but if you are expecting some high powered karate then you'll be disappointed.Not being very well versed in karate movies, I figured I can't go wrong with Michelle Yeoh. I loved her in the Bond movie, and was hoping for something similar. No such luck.I guess if you want to see Michelle strut around in a uniform, sit at a computer or talk endlessly with her fellow agents, then this is the film for you.What little she does (in the opening scenes especially) is great, and she shows agility, grace and strength. But it's WAY TOO CHATTY.Another problem seems to be that she doesn't win many fights.... she usually needs an assist from somebody .. In my opinion, that ain't right. She's the star. She's the reason to watch.It would be as if James Bond needed Miss Moneypenny to haul his butt out of danger most the time ...If anyone could suggest a good female based movie like this I'd appreciate it ... It's funny how the Jackie Chan movies have almost non-stop action, but the few female based movies I've seem are top-loaded with sideline love interests, over-the-top goony comic characters and other filler ....At least, that's based on what little I've seen. "},{"Title":"superbad, bad, bad","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Don't let the name Supercop 2 sucker you into thinking that this has anything to do with that fine Jackie Chan film Supercop.  Jackie only appears for a few minutes.  The rest of the film is a lackluster Michelle Yeoh flic. They ran this on a major network around the time that Tuxedo appeared in theaters, presumably to hype that Jackie Chan film.  But a Jackie Chan film this ain't... which doesn't bode well for Tuxedo. A waste of time. "},{"Title":"Pretty Bad!","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  First of all I have to say that I am not a fan of Chinese Action Films.  There have been a few that I've really liked, but they are few and far between.This film was just terrible!  The story was paper-thin, but that's nothing surprising when it comes to these martial art films.  At first I was worried because I didn't remember anything from Supercop, so I wasn't sure if I was going to be lost or not.  I assure you, you do not need to know ANYTHING about Supercop in order to understand this film.  They make one reference to the events that took place in Supercop and Jackie Chan even has a small cameo in the film, but even if you haven't seen Supercop, I'm sure you can figure out what they're talking about.Also, while I'm thinking of it...  What the heck was with that stupid Jackie Chan cameo?  Why was he dressed as a woman? And what purpose did that whole scene with Jackie serve in the movie?  Was it supposed to be funny?  It was just retarded if you ask me!Don't even get my started on the end of this film!  It was so abrupt and stupid!  I'm not going to go into why I don't like it, but if you've seen the movie, hopefully you know what I'm talking about.I guess I should mention the fighting scenes too?  VERY NOT IMPRESSED!!!  There was maybe one or two scenes that I thought were done well, but other than that, the fight scenes were nothing special.Unless you are a huge Kung Fu / Chinese Martial Art Film fan, don't even bother with this film.  It really isn't often that I would say something like that, but I really didn't like the film.  If you do see the movie, despite this review, I hope you enjoy it more than I did.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Dumb is the most appropriate description","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love even goofy kung-fu movies, but this one was just boooooring. My 14-year-old son and I indulge ourselves in regular kung-fu fests and I made the mistake of including this one. Stupid plot, poorly strung together action scenes and about a million ridiculous plot holes. The few fight scenes were mostly just idiots with automatics, spraying ineffectual bullets everywhere. Very little interesting kung fu.The best scene in it was Jackie Chan's 5(?) minute scene in the middle, a scene that had no point in the overall plot.Save your money, and spend it on a Jet Li movie. "},{"Title":"Boring sequel","Date":"15 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Pretty bad. Apparently the makers of Supercop 2 (aka.Police Story 3) failed to remember the formula to a good action flick- constant action. The action here is far too brief and sporadic, at best, and there are a minimum of hair raising stunts. Instead, the movie gets mired down into too much plot and the stunts become negligible next to the boredom the film induces. One does not watch a Hong Kong action flick for the dramatic acting (which, by the way, Yeoh is remarkably stiff and in need of a cattle prod to wake her up). A far better Michelle Yeoh cop/gunplay and kung fu film is Royal Warriors, or just stick with Supercop (in HK- Police Story 2).The plot has Michelle and Rong Guang Yu (Iron Monkey, himself) as would be lovers set at odds by his turn to crime and, more likely, the fact that he gives her what appears to be a white, hospital, lab coat as a present. Anyway, they separate, and six months later she goes to the mainland where he is now, unknown to her, heading a paramilitary gang of thieves. It is all rather lackluster in plotting. Lovers on opposite sides of the law, some gun battles here and there, and two subplots involving a cop with a crush on her and a vengeful gang member, go nowhere. YAWN, YAWN. Jackie Chan appears midway through, obviously, pointlessly glued in for a brief star factor cameo. It is seriously screwed up, Jackie trying to be funny in complete drag, and ends up being hard to witness without wincing in pain at how horrible the whole thing is.They try to add some thrills here and there. Some wirework, but only when people are jumping down from great heights?, not in any fights. In one escape scene the criminals base jump(parachute) off the roof of a building, and, in another, they scale down the back of their hideout (if I had a hideout, I would think of something a little more convenient then having to go up to the roof and then slide down the back with ropes every time I had to escape. I dont know...maybe, a BACK DOOR?!!?). Stupid instead of exciting.The Dimension video dubbing is pretty awful. Yeoh dubs herself, and while her English is great (after all, she was educated in Britain), her natural voice is so deliberate, slow, and seemingly self conscious, that it is flat and annoying. The dubbing company should be strung up for the way they dub some of the characters, particularly Jackie Chan in his brief, weird cameo. They use downright stereotypical Asian accents. The Jackie dubber has him saying, Freeze Po-Reez!(Freeze, Police)and I so sa-lee.(I'm so sorry) It is just insulting.Of note I found myself bored enough, that I began noticing little details to entertain myself. One of witch was the fact that Michelle shows her European education by turning the pages of a Chinese magazine the wrong way (in China one reads right to left, but she flips through the pages the English way, reading left to right).  "}]