[{"Title":"Cult Movies 52","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"39 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" 52. DRAGON The Bruce Lee story (action, 1993) A re-telling of the life of legendary martial-arts star Bruce Lee (Jason Scott Lee). From his brief childhood days in Hong Kong, to his days as a dishwasher, martial-arts teacher and eventual cinema superstar in Hollywood.Critique The life and death of Bruce Lee has inspired many a film and documentaries since his death. Most of these accounts center around Lee's 'mysterious' death from a 'brain edema', never developing anything really new of interest, just speculations. Incredibly it took over 20 years for a film to finally put to rest the many theories and innuendo. Dragon is by far the best of the legendary Lee story, not only for omitting the many death scenarios but also for giving us the closest account of the man. Apart from these welcome omissions, the film wouldn't have worked without Jason Scott Lee in the role. He gives a spirited, charismatic performance that captures the zest for life that Lee possessed. It's a long way from one of his first 'extra' roles as an Asian immigrant in the rather forgetful Born in East L.A. (1988). Scott Lee is totally appealing here, taking on such a legendary figure and making us believe that Lee is truly up there once again on the screen. The film's major theme of the demon curse Lee's family inherited, had a frighteningly real resonance when, after the movie premiered, Lee's eldest son Brandon (for whom the film is dedicated) was accidentally killed on the set of The Crow. This would prove to be his breakout film, just the same way Lee's last film, Enter the Dragon, made him a world wide superstar. This gives the film an added prophetic note that puts it in a category all its own. Based on wife Linda Lee Cadwell's book, Bruce Lee the man only I knew, directed with skillful restraint by Rob Cohen (who also co-scripted). Randy Edelman created the unforgettable musical score (you'll be humming the tune long after you hear it).QUOTES Linda All these years later people still wonder about the way he died. I prefer to remember the way he lived. "},{"Title":"Superb Character Portrayel by Jason Scott Lee","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"40 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" This film as a stand alone kung fu movie would be worthy of your attention, as it is very enjoyable and well made. The thing that makes it special is Jason Scott Lee's portrayal of the legend that is Bruce Lee.He successfully captures his mannerisms, attitude and even his fighting style, extremely convincingly (a truly remarkable feat of acting ability.)Although dramatised to heighten your viewing pleasure, the story actually follows the events in Bruce Lee's life and shows us the man behind the martial arts, covering his inner turmoils and personal struggles as well as his famous physical ability.A great movie, befitting the legend that is Bruce Lee.8/10 "},{"Title":"An exceptional biopic - vivid but highly entertaining, amongst other things!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Once you became a Bruce Lee addict and begin seeing and reading the numerous different biographies and biopics, you're going to realise that DRAGON has quite a bit of fiction in it - and in the bits you don't really expect it to.  For example, Lee approached Raymond Chow's Golden Harvest production company to make a marital arts movie, not the other way round and Chow isn't even the guy!  Also, due to Lee's 'mysterious' death, the film also doesn't really an idea of how its going to wrap it all up.  Therefore, the film is the perfect example of the word 'vivid'.However, what makes Dragon the fine film that it is is that it decides to look at the two lesser-known aspects which dominated Lee's life - his long, ongoing 'battles' with an inner-demon and of course the racism of sixties America.  These are managed and brought to the screen extremely well although to be fair they aren't particularly well developed.The highlights would have to be the performances of Jason Scott Lee as Bruce and Lauren Holly as his devoted wife, Linda.  They share a remarkable chemistry together and are certainly a credit to their subjects.  This review probably hasn't made Dragon sound like a very good movie.  Well if that's the case, then please think the opposite.  "},{"Title":"The greatest legend ever in martial arts history","Date":"20 April 2004","Score":"39 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie was amazing. Before I saw this movie, I had an idea of who Bruce Lee was. I knew he was one of the greatest martial arts masters of all time and I knew he was in a couple of movies. But, I had know idea about the kind of man he was and the struggles he had to go through. He is, in my eyes, an amazing human being with an unimaginable amount of courage and a whole lot of heart. This movie showed me that much. The score is also one of the best I have heard in my life. All in all, this movie is an inspiring take on a legend's life. Great story, great music, great human being.... What more can I say? Amazing!A solid 8/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie, but not a biography though","Date":"27 November 2001","Score":"27 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This is a great movie. Nice action scenes, nice soundtrack, nice photo...But it's not a biography of the greatest fighter of all time Bruce Lee. I am a big fan of Bruce and I know his life from A to Z, and this is not what I saw in that movie. I could tell all the mistakes I saw in the movie but here's just a few In the movie he is a unique child Reality He had one brother and two sisters and he didn't live with his father only, he had his mother. He didn't leave Hong-Kong because of the cops (what the?...) he left because he wanted to be famous. And please! What is that story of the ghost from the depts of hell?!?!? No, if you want to make a great action movie, good, go ahead, the right way to do it. But if you want to make a bio of a true legend, please tell the true story. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Good as a movie, not really as a biography.","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" The story told in the movie is really excellent and entertaining. However it feels more like a story based on the life of Bruce Lee rather then an actual biopic of his life.Jason Scott Lee perfectly plays Kung Fu legend Bruce Lee. Not only the way he plays Lee is impressive but also his fighting skills.The music by Randy Edelman was also surprising good. There are way too many fictitious and untrue things added in the movie to be considered a fair biography. But does it really matter for the movie? It's like Ed Wood that was also filled with altered things and false truths but still it was a movie that told us the story of an unique character and what drove him. Dragon The Bruce Lee Story isn't much different in that way. OK it's not completely fair to compare this movie to Ed Wood since that was a far superior movie to Dragon The Bruce Lee Story (what a horrible title by the way).The fight sequence are probably the best thing about the movie and they were highly entertaining, although very hard to believe that they actually really happened that way.It's a good entertaining movie but if you want to get to know more about Bruce Lee this isn't the best material for you to start with.7/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Dragon Review And General Feelings On Bruce's Death","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Very Good But Horribly Inaccurate Account Of His LifeIf you are watching this as someone who has no knowledge of Bruce Lee's life then this is a good fun action film but someone who knows the history and the story of his life may be dissapointed as this is not at all accurate. And knowing Bey Logan, he must cringe watching this. The film depicts Bruce's early childhood in Hong Kong, his teenage years in the US right way through to his eventual death in 1973. The element that I think drags this film down the most is the mythological side of it, if it had just been a realistic account of his life without the myths and demons, it would have faired much better. There are many innacurate scenes and occurences in this film which understandably makes the film more exciting for mainstream audiences but as a Bruce fan myself i wish they would have stuck to what actually happened. I wish there were more scenes where Bruce was on set of one of his films, like Way Of The Dragon or Fist Of Fury. There could have been more scenes with Bruce with Yip Man or Brandon. There could have been scenes of Bruce being challenged on the street in his infamous street fights, the episode of the green hornet they portrayed i don't think was an actual episode. And Bruce was not injured by the fighter at the martial arts challenge in Chinatown it was when he was weightlifting and pulled his back out. But the fight scenes are well choreographed.Jason Scott Lee has got his portrayal of the man spot on, he brings the right amount emotion and power to the role, he's clearly done his research on Bruce's mannerism's and got himself in shape for the role as well as training for the fight scenes. Its hard to imagine anyone else who could have played the role, maybe Jet Li who at the time the film was made was 30 and roughly the right age to play Bruce, but Jet spoke very little English. Lauren Holly is equally as good in her role as Linda. The strong portrayals are in many ways successful because of the on set help of the real Linda and Shannon(who makes a cameo as a singer). The music is perhaps the film's strongest part, somehow the main score seems to catch the right emotion of Bruce's death and Brandon's death in 1993. I like the way the film captures the aura of Bruce Lee.There will indeed never be another Bruce Lee. I find it fascinating to imagine what Bruce would have done if he had lived, the 80's and 90's would have been very different if Arnie, Stallone, Wiilis, Seagal and Van Damme had Bruce to compete with, Bruce is sometimes critcised for being a bad actor, but i disagree, if anyone has seen his episodes of `Longstreet' or `Marlowe' they will see that Bruce could convincingly carry a dramatic scene given the right script and no dubbing and he oozed charisma, and he showed glimpses of good acting in Enter The Dragon.Being a Bruce fan i kind of wish that Jet Li would do the films that bruce did or was planning on doing, Jet's early work in Honk Kong like the Shaolin Temple or more recent stuff like Fist Of Legend(remake of Fist Of Fury) and Once Upon A Time In China was very promising and it seemed he was the successor to Bruce but instead now he's doing crap in Hollywood with DMX and Jason Statham. Strangely the mediocre Lethal Weapon 4 is Jet's best Hollywood film, Maybe Jet should do a project with John Woo, it would be interesting and they'd probably get the best out of each other. "},{"Title":"Jeet Kune Don't","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Spoilers, clichés and big dumb white guys abound.Bruce Lee was an artisan, an innovator, an indomitable warrior, a genius. Inspiring many to create tributes to him, it unfortunately does not follow that those inspired to create these tributes are creative enough or qualified enough to do those tributes justice. Such is the case with Dragon The Bruce Lee Story.Not really a story about Bruce Lee, more the story of an invented character from the Cliché Handbook of Action Film Heroes (Body-Oil Edition). And not so much a tribute as a gratuitous insult; excepting Jason Scott Lee's physical prowess and the overwhelming hotness of Lauren Holly, the film boasted absolutely no redeeming qualities. And lots of body-oil. The dramatic contrivance of the po-boy-immigrates-and-makes-good was bad enough, even if it were true (which it is not) but then, in a film where assault and battery assumes a form of high art in the hands of the film's protagonist, we viewers are summarily assaulted and battered by the artlessness of the film-makers who opted for cliché over substance at every turn.In Lee's first fight at the prom, he conveniently loses his shirt (a la Vintage Kirk) &#150; beneath the shirt, judiciously body-oiled like a seal at a massage parlor, big dumb white sailors not so much being beaten up by him as sliding off his pecs like penguins and hitting their heads on the floor.The gym scene, and more big dumb white guys (and a token black guy) assault Lee for no reason &#150; remember that these were simple bygone days, when big dumb white guys were unaware that Every Asian Person Knows Kung Fu.Clichés for breakfast, lunch and dinner We've got the mother who doesn't approve, the searing hot white chick love interest, the battered loft converted into the martial arts school, the racism, the idiot antagonists attacking the hero with meat cleavers (which they never think to THROW at him), the kung fu veterans ordering Bruce to stop teaching &#150; or else - ! We've got the obligatory husband & wife confrontation (once again the wife bitching as her husband achieves a fame that she can only ride the coat-tails of I don't know who you ARE anymore! &#150; how about the guy who keeps you wealthy and your social status high?). Even if many of these aspects were marginally accurate (such as his wife truly being the ideal 70s stunner), the storyline unfolded in such a PG-13 paint-by-numbers format that one couldn't help but question the veracity of its dramatic elements.Then there's the goofy Black Knight character that haunts Bruce's dreams, proving beyond a doubt that the film-makers were higher than the publicist who engineered Janet Jackson's wardrobe malfunction. Besides the fact that this was an insulting dramatic metaphor for the mystery surrounding Lee's untimely demise, how dare the film-makers presume that this metaphysical nonsense in any way rationalizes, palliates or absolves the misfortune of Bruce's passing? Enter the Bad Guy combatant &#150; we can tell he's the Bad Guy on accounta his scowl and ominous theme music, and his body-oil is a whole inch thicker - and Bruce's debilitating cliché-defeat at his hands, achieved by CHEATING on the Bad Guy's part, of course. It's all true. Hollywood tells us so. Then we are treated to the obligatory montage of the Hero regaining his prowess through his Iron Will and jump-cut editing &#150; all due to his HOT WIFE'S pep talk - yes, if it weren't for bony, bossy Linda Lee, we'd never have Jeet Kune Do or Enter The Dragon.Bruce's book, The Tao of Jeet Kune Do, was published posthumously &#150; but in this film, he miraculously receives a copy while recovering from his bogus back injury &#150; a miracle only Hollywood could achieve. We cannot even disregard the fallacies of this movie and focus on the broad strokes to glean Bruce's life story, for those broad strokes themselves are indiscernibly shrouded in misinformation.Much like Capricorn One, another film which insulted the viewer from frame one to conclusion, with misinformation and egregious stupidity sprinkled so liberally throughout its makeup that one could not find any one point to logically start unraveling the threads of idiocy, Dragon bludgeons viewers with the unsubtle thematic gist that we are all obviously congenital idiots for watching it in the first place.One such example of just how IGNINT the film-makers believe us to be is the scene in which we are made privy to the methods on how to film a movie, with the fight scene on the last day of filming on The Big Boss. With just ONE tripod-mounted camera, they captured no less than 43 camera angles, and also captured slow motion shots without once loading different-speed film! Then, apparently you have to open the clapper and rip the film out and throw it on the ground in order to develop it, which is what Bruce does. Very informative! And all true, of course. Hollywood tells us so.It seems ironic that these film-makers, who attempted to portray a pioneer who fought to elevate the martial arts film above that of B-Movie schlock, unwittingly created B-Movie schlock in the process. Though their intentions may have started out sincere (which I doubt), what is left on the screen is a rancid marketing vehicle cashing in on Bruce's fame, rather than what might have been a much more interesting, entertaining - AND THEREFORE even more commercially-successful - exploration of Lee's life and times, adversities and triumphs.We can only hope that one day there will be a more reverent, less body-oiled, more factual movie to celebrate the life and achievements of The Little Dragon.(Movie Maniacs, visit www.poffysmoviemania.com) "},{"Title":"good flick, but inaccurate","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I really liked Jason Scott Lee's portrayal of Bruce Lee, but I noticed many inaccuracies in the story. If I had not seen the AMC special on Lee last year, I would not have a problem.-according to Linda Lee, Bruce was not hurt when competing for the right to teach whoever he wanted to. He hurt himself when he didn't stretch properly for a workout in 1970. That was the big inaccuracy-Bruce auditioned for another role in early 1965 before the role of Kato was offered to him.- other roles he took in America were completely ignored Marlowe, his appearances on Longstreet, etc...the movie went right from 1967 to 1972 within a minuteIf you want to see a really good special on Lee, as well as see lost footage from a project that was butchered after he died, check out the AMC documentary.- "},{"Title":"Confusion in the narrative and an overly comic book approach does not hinder the lead performance...","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" The turbulent, sometimes trying life of Bruce Lee, born Lee Jun-Fan in San Francisco and raised in Hong Kong, who was the leading proponent of Wing Chun Gung Fu and Wu style Tai Chi Chuan in the mid-'60s, as well as a boxing champ, a California martial-arts teacher, loving husband to a young American woman who soon gave him two children, and an international television and movie star in the early 1970s. Jason Scott Lee gives a commanding, one-of-a-kind performance as Bruce Lee, and the film is a well-produced chronicle of one of the most curious and intriguing icons of the last 50 years. Still, the picture seems to play a little fast and loose with the facts, and anyone hoping for a comprehensive look behind the legend is likely to be disappointed. Because this is a dramatized biography of possibly the most popular of martial-arts masters, there's certainly a whole lot of mortal combat (some of which is purely extraneous, pumped up to satisfy the target audience), and the approach is a bit more 'comic book' than serious students might like. The supporting characters and extras are over-directed in their enthusiasm, yet nothing seems to get in the way of Jason Scott Lee who, though perhaps more bulky in frame than the real Bruce Lee, does everything he can with this role and more. ** from **** "}{"Title":"A real shame","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Bruce Lee was an amazing athlete and martial artist, with a story to match. It's just too bad Dragon The Bruce Lee Story decided that wasn't worth telling. Instead, there are lots of fight scenes in improbable places with trumped-up foes, not to mention some stupid curse of the dragon that the real Bruce would never have believed in. In spots, this movie is almost as campy as the old Batman series was.A few documentaries have taken honest looks at the Lee phenomenon and managed to remain interesting throughout by showing us a determined, disciplined man who made his own success. In this movie, they had the entirety of Lee's life to use and decided to make up whole sections out of thin air just to spice things up. It puts itself not much above the sensationalistic Hong Kong films that made Bruce look nearly superhuman and the victim of some vast Triad conspiracy when the real man was just as fascinating. What a waste. I know conflict is emphasized in most screen writing classes, but instead of fight after fight as shown in this movie, how about showing some of the famous friends and students Bruce taught? And avoid the idiotic scenes like Bruce supposedly shattering 300+ pound ice blocks into chips with a single punch. If I wanted to see impossible feats like that, I'd go watch a Superman movie.Bruce's fighting philosophy was to eschew flashy techniques in favor of effective ones. Fighting wasn't for show, but to win. Only on film would he do things like backflips, somersaults, superhigh jumping kicks and animalistic kiai. Show us the man who trained long and hard, and studied and thought about not just fighting, but philosophy and health. Bruce's success was as much a product of his mind as of his body.We're now nearing 20 years after this movie's release and the 40th anniversary of Lee's death, with his legend and popularity only slightly diminished. To this day, Bruce remains the paragon of martial arts in the eyes of many, the man to whom all others are compared. I have a dream that someone will do a true biopic. His true story deserves better than to be ignored and hidden. I'd like to see a real drama rather than melodrama, with characters that have depth rather than the cartoonish ones in this film. There have been too many lies and myths told about Bruce over the years and this movie shamefully introduced more. All these years later, people still wonder about the way he died. I prefer to remember the way he lived. Too bad this movie didn't show that way. "},{"Title":"DragonThe Bruce Lee Story * * * *","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" My brother used to go to this rundown movie theater in Springfield,Massachusetts called The Jefferson Street Theater.From what I heard,it was a pretty bad place to go to.My brother would go there to see these kung fu flicks which probably excited him a lot being that he was a kid.A lot of kids went to or snuck to a martial arts film that probably made there day a lot better.Unfortunately,back on July 20,1973,the master of martial arts mysteriously died.His name was Bruce Lee.Years after his death,he is remembered throughout millions of fans,which includes me and is remembered around the world for his knowledge of martial arts.DragonThe Bruce Lee Story seems to be an appropriate title for a movie about the legend who reinvented martial arts .There has been a few biographies on Bruce Lee back in the 1970s.But none of those films didn't even bother to pay close attention to his lifestyle.Bruce LeeThe Man and the Myth paid attention to Bruce Lee's fighting style and for that time the actor who played him did a fairly good job,but treated the character like a school kid performing kung fu moves after watching a martial arts movie.In DragonThe Bruce Lee Story,the actor,Jason Scott Lee,just doesn't portray Bruce Lee.His is Bruce Lee.He seems to take the role very seriously and surrounds his presence with Bruce Lee's spirit.This happens to be one of the best films of 1993 and happens to be a film that shows respect to the martial arts legend.The martial arts cheorography are one of the best that I have seen and I was really pulled into the action.Historicaly,DragonThe Bruce Lee Story falls on its knees.Anyone who has studied Bruce Lee knows that what happens in this film didn't actually happen the way it actually did.For example,the scene in which he left Hong Kong and traveled to America in 1961.Any super Bruce Lee fan will know that he left Hong Kong in 1958.Biographies don't always get it right and I don't expect them to.Filmmakers usually do a pretty good job telling someone's true lifestory.Sometimes,they don't.The filmmakers who made DragonThe Bruce Lee Story,even though were not historically accurate,were accurate enough to qualify this as one of the best biographies that I have seen based on the martial arts legend.Jason Scott Lee should have been nominated an Academy Award for this film.I would given this film five stars.But the filmmakers failure to get into his life historicaly lowered down to four stars.This film I think works for fans of Bruce Lee. "},{"Title":"Profoundly Entertaining !!!!","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Bruce Lee is of course is easily one of the most famous and greatest martial artists who has ever walked the earth!!! The man is such a living legend that how could you not make a biographical film about him ? Bruce Lee is known everywhere, but a lot of people just look at him as a martial arts superstar who starred in a few big movies. He's not just that ! Bruce Lee was a much more deeper human being and probably one of the greatest modern philosophers of all time. He changed fighting and created his own concept of it called Jeet Kune Do (The Way of the Intercepting Fist). Bruce Lee is no doubt a huge inspiration for lots of new comer martial artists.The film Dragon The Bruce Lee Story is actually not all that accurate, but does a great job at showcasing who Bruce Lee really was. Originally Bruce's son, Brandon, was offered the part of his father in this, but declined and unfortunately later died before this film was completed. That's why this film is dedicated to him.Bruce is a struggling boy in Hong Kong who has amazing martial arts skills in Wing Chun and Gung Fu (Both are derived from Kung Fu). His father believes that a demonic spirit is after Bruce so he tells him to go to America. Upon arrival Bruce settles down as a dish washer/food delivery at a Chinese restaurant in San Francisco (Bruce Lee was born in San Francisco). Pretty soon Bruce is now in college where he studies philosophy and teaches his own version of Gung Fu to some students on the campus. This is where he meets his future wife, Linda Emery. Pretty soon they fall in love and Bruce opens up his first Gung Fu. Not long after Bruce and Linda are married and have a son. Bruce will then go onto develop the concept of Jeet Kune Do which is then published into a book. Bruce then hits stardom in America on the t.v series the Green Hornet. Later he returns back to Hong Kong and becomes huge martial arts super star.Once again, this film really touches on Bruce Lee as not just being a movie star, but also as a deep human being which a lot of people don't know him for being. Like I mentioned earlier, this film is not completely accurate and actually is based off the book written by Bruce's wife called, Bruce Lee The Only Man I Ever Knew. On this review that no one will read (except me for spelling errors), I will list all the inaccuracies in the film, so no one is confused between fact and fiction.1. Bruce Lee or his father were never haunted by a demonic spirit. I don't know why the writers came up with this, but the scenes with this spirit are VERY intense.2. I am unsure if Bruce actually worked as a dishwasher or food delivery guy while in San Francisco.3. Bruce attended college in Washington, not California.4. I don't think his wife Linda ever took martial arts lessons from Bruce.5. Bruce and Linda were never denied a table for being a racially mixed couple at a restaurant.6. Bruce Lee actually opened two Gung Fu schools, not just one. He nor Linda never lived out of the school !!!7. Bruce Lee was told to stop teaching martial arts to other races and was challenged to a fight. However, he fought Wong Man Jak in his school. He never fought a guy named Johnny Sun in this weird temple-type place. This fight (in real life) inspired him to come up with the concept of Jeet Kune Do.8. Bruce never sustained a back injury from a kick, but did it while lifting weights because he did not warm up his back enough.9. The Tao of Jeet Kune Do book was never published while Bruce Lee was alive. It was published two years after his death in 1975.10. I don't think Bruce or Linda ever had intense arguments while at home. I think the film just did that to make it seem more dramatical.11. On the set of The Big Boss, Bruce actually was challenged by an extra, but the fight was not as elaborate as in the film.Just one minor complaint, the only thing that I didn't like was how the film made Enter The Dragon look as such a minor part of his life.And here's a list of guest appearances you may spot Shannon Lee (Bruce Lee's daughter), Jerry Poteet (original Bruce Lee student.), Van Williams (actor who played the original Green Hornet).So I suggest you see this if you are a follower of Bruce Lee. "},{"Title":"Great not excellent!","Date":"3 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I think this is a great movie. Technically, at least this movie was made with a decent budget, contrary to most biopics made about Bruce's life. but I think it hasn't reviewed every little details of Bruce's life, and it has some lies about his life. At least, it could review his death! For example, Wong Jack Man did not kick Bruce Lee in the back while Lee was walking away from the fight, though this fight did take place. Bruce won successfully, but his fighting style was very limited at the time. This fight was the reason that Lee would develop his own style, Jeet Kune do. Lee injured his back while lifting weights.And so, There was no rematch between Lee and Wong Jack Man or a fight against Wong Jack Man's brother while making The Big Boss. However, a challenge match did take place between the real Bruce Lee and a local Thai boxer while filming The Big Boss.By the way, we did see a little about his son, Brandon Lee, and the film didn't note Bruce Lee's daughter, Shannon Lee; at which Linda tells Bruce she is pregnant for the second time - carrying Shannon.I don't want to point out some more!So, it will be 8 of 10! "},{"Title":"A decent movie with its share of problems","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Bruce Lee considered to be of the most famous martial artists of all time, finally had a decent movie made about him 14 years ago. When I first watched it I enjoyed it. I watched it again in bits and pieces a few weeks ago and was some what disgusted by it.The film is about the life of Bruce Lee and how he became what he was in life. The film itself contained many factual errors which bog down the film itself from something interesting to something that will make you say, that is not right.The biggest factual error that really got be upset was the Long Beach International Scene. The fight that Bruce Lee actually fought was an exhibition match. Bruce Lee only competed once in his life and got third in forms at the Long Beach Internationals.If you overlook the factual mistakes with there quite a lot you may enjoy this movie. If you know a lot about the history of Bruce Lee, then avoid this film, it will leave a bad taste in your mouth. "},{"Title":"Dragon The Fabrication","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" If you're looking for a good film about Bruce Lee, this is not it. Sorry, but despite Jason Scott Lee and Lauren Holly giving very good performances, this film is about as historically accurate as a tabloid story on Madonna's intact virginity.What has been described as the director's 'artistic license' is in plain English another Hollywood huckster exploiting Bruce by manufacturing numerous inaccuracies to sell a film and line his pockets. Bruce would be outraged at this blatant deception! You should be too.Don't reward money grubbers for ripping off Bruce Lee's legacy. If you want to know about the real Bruce, see the films Enter The Dragon, Return of the Dragon, and The Chinese Connection (aka Fists of Fury). Also read his books such as the Tao of Jeet Kune Do, the Tao of Gung Fu, and the series entitled Bruce Lee's Fighting Method by Bruce and M. Uyehara. "},{"Title":"The Dragon Wins","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  The main driver in building cultures (including religions) is the establishment of archetypes. Over a very long time a south Asian ethic of martial arts emerged, and like most really strong memes, this one is supported by an overemphasis on the master. It is a complex notion peace embodied in the potential for violence, akin to the western notion of the master magician who has the ability to shape the world only because he does not use that power. But it is all wrapped up in human icons as archetypes and so far as popular culture goes stereotypes.Every once in a while someone successfully makes a new entry into the film vocabulary. Bruce Lee's fame was that he did so, adding a layer of film type, stereotype and cliche that has since run exceedingly far and wide. As film is a key driver in culture, the two levels of film and `real' life reinforce each other. So Bruce Lee is important -- he's changed both my film and my real worlds.Now we add another, self-referential layer, a film about how Lee transformed film and hence life. It has a cool internal dynamic he broke the martial arts code (of internalization, of secrecy) by using the magician's power to change the world, and presumably suffering a faustian penalty for it. What possibilities this has as a story and for powerful, intelligent cinema! What tripe resulted! This could have been terrific, especially since the lead was suitably graceful and his wife suitably dumb, and dumber. Instead we get the sort of facile glorification we expect from acolytes. Maybe later. "},{"Title":"A BIO-PIC OF CONSIDERABLE ARTISTIC MERIT.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I had severe misgivings when I heard about the making of this movie. Too many deplorable attempts had been made by tenth-rate Hong Kong movie-makers over the years at portraying Lee's remarkable life that another one,even an American one, seemed to promise more of the same.How wrong I was,DRAGON is a remarkably well made biopic made by people who obviously had genuine respect for their legendary subject.This respect,however, did not prevent them from embellishing aspects of Lee's life and experiences with elements that were exaggerated and sometimes hokey.This is true of most biopics though and DRAGON is not the worst offender.The movie stands and falls by the performance of Jason Scott Lee and what he achieves here is quite extraordinary and under-rated.Although he does not look very much like the late martial arts maestro,he has captured his charisma and gestures,even the voice down to a tee.His handling of the fight sequences is perhaps the weakest element in his portrayal,relying as it does on too much showy acrobatics.He does enough though,as everyone involved does,to illustrate what it was about Lee that made him one of the key figures of twentieth century pop culture.It is sad that Scott Lee himself seems so far unable to progress very far from this very promising lead in a major studio picture.We can only hope that this changes soon as he proved to be a personable lead here and in one or two other movies. "},{"Title":"Almost does it but not quite","Date":"15 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" It is a shame that they have yet to make a really good film about Bruce Lee. This film almost does it but fails in so many ways. Firstly Jason Scott Lee does a reasonable job but clearly he is no Martial Artist and it shows. Bruce was the best Martial Artist we have seen in movies so to have someone so poorly trained spoils it somewhat. Jason does well and along with the many stunt men used we do get to see some decent action, but it falls way short of the quality of what Bruce could do. Secondly, sorry again Mr Scott Lee but Bruce was electrifying on screen. Even when not fighting he was so charismatic that your attention was immediately drawn to him. Also we did not see Bruce's humour or how he could mystify people with his speed. Bruce could snatch a coin from someones hand while replacing it with another. Thirdly, the story is so full of inaccuracies that it fails to show the true fight Bruce had to get where he was. As others have mentioned the back injury was not during a fight but during him exercising, it was not necessary to make that part up as Bruce had many real fights that could have been shown, such as during filming Enter the dragon, when an extra challenged Bruce and Bruce knocked his teeth out with one powerful and fast kick. Forth, It seems more focused around Linda, who sweet as she no doubt was, did not make Bruce. She did not talk him into opening a Kung Fu school, she actually attended one of his schools. She did not talk him into writing his book, Tao of Jeet Kune Do, Bruce had been doing this most of his life, making copious notes on his fighting style and philosophy. Fith, the references to the bad spirit Bruce is shown plagued with. I am sure Bruce may have been influenced by Chinese superstition, but I have never read anything he wrote or heard him say anything that showed it affected his life as much as this film shows it did. Six, the massive impact Bruce had on both Chinese Kung fu films and later Hollywood films could have been included. You would think from watching this movie that Bruce made a couple of films then died. Green Hornet is mentioned but not any of his other TV roles such as Longstereet or his part in the James Garner film, Marlowe. Also nothing at all about the many films Bruce made as a child actor in Hong Kong.So I hope that one day we will get a film that really shows why Bruce Lee was so amazing as both a Martial Artist and Actor. "},{"Title":"The key to immortality, is first, live a truthful life, worth remembering. I think Dragon Bruce Lee Story, somewhat shows that.","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" However, it also, does stray too far into fantasy. This biopic movie directed by Rob Cohen really does take a lionized approach to the legendary martial artist/movie star, Bruce Lee's life. These over the top embellishment really resulted in mixed reactions. Some Bruce Lee fans felt, that the use of artistic license, really hurts the historic authenticity of the film. Others, felt that the extreme improvisation made for a more interesting and challenging movie, rather than a straight, and boring historic accurate adaptation. In my opinion, I felt that slightly haunting, but fantastical subplot of Bruce Lee's family, being haunted by demons was a bit too over the top and wasn't really needed for the film. It wasn't a childhood nightmare that prompt Bruce to begin his martial arts training. Unlike what we see in the movie, Bruce actually began his martial arts training at the age of thirteen after getting beaten up by a street gang. However, it was somewhat entertaining, seeing Bruce Lee (Jason Scott Lee), having nightmares of a giant demonic samurai. It was also pretty cool, seeing him battling that say, demon to protect his son, Brandon (Iain M. Parker). Even, if it's so, out there, crazy. Who knows, maybe, there was a real-life, curse on Bruce Lee's family? Making this worse is the fact that Brandon turned down the opportunity to play his father here, opting to do 1994's The Crow instead. Brandon Lee would die from an accidental gun discharge during the making of that film, a few months prior to this film's release. Loosely based off, the biographies written by Linda Lee Cadwell, Bruce Lee's widow; Bruce Lee The Man Only I Knew' & Robert Clouse's Bruce Lee The Biography. The movie tackles, how Bruce Lee became the most famous martial artist of all time; while dealing with his cultural duality. You really do see, his struggles to keep his strong Chinese heritage alive, while, also finding his identity as an American. While, Jason Scott Lee is not related to Bruce Lee and had no previous martial arts training or experience. He was an accomplished dancer and really embody, what Bruce Lee was, in looks and the way, he acts. He's so charismatic and likable here, that you simply cannot take your eyes off of him. He is equally adept at action scenes and love scenes, and even if you don't like martial arts films, you will like this movie very much. I really love how the film, dealt with easing of harsh racism tones of the two countries with the romantic sub-plot of Bruce Lee meeting his future wife, Linda Lee (Lauren Holly). The two actor's chemistry, together, really makes this subplot, work. I really felt the heartwarming moments, between them. However, their relationship in real life was a little more, complicated than what's shown in the film, with Bruce Lee's rumor, adultery with actress, Betty Ting Pei. Still, much credit, goes to both Lauren Holly to portraying a realistic character in Linda, and for, composer, Randy Edelman for The Dragon's Heartbeat. That theme song is so uplifting and inspirational it has been used in countless trailers in the 2 decades since it first came out. This film pays a mostly honest tribute to how revolutionary, the man was, to not only fighting style, but his influence in both East and West filmmaking. However, in the movie, it's said, that Bruce Lee's acting career started when a producer discovers Bruce after witnessing his martial arts abilities. In real life, Bruce's family had connections to the world of show business and even Bruce Lee acted sporadically since his early childhood. He first appeared in 1941's The Golden Gate Girl when he was only 3 months old, and later in 1957's Hong Kong movie, The Thunderstorm. It wasn't his martial arts skills that got him, into the door of Hollywood, at first. While, I do champion, in the way, he change, how Asian Americans were portrayed in film. Still, the notorious idea that all- Asians know Martial Arts is bit, laughable. The film make it seem, like every Asian knows it. As if, it's was a well-kept secret. While, the fight scenes in the film, were well-choreograph and done pretty good. I really found, most of the whole-forced fighting conflicts to be, a lot of filler. Some, really good examples are, the fight scene at the film set of 1971's Big Boss and the scenes with the Chinese Martial Art School. Contrary, in reality, there was no real fight on the set of The Big Boss and while, other Martial Arts instructors were indeed, only teaching people of their own race, most Chinese martial arts school in America were a lot more understandable on Bruce Lee training non-Chinese in the arts. Another thing, I find, kinda jarring in the film, is how, the film, portray, Bruce suffering a severe back injury, due to a fight gone wrong. In reality, Bruce got the back injury, while exercising with weights. While, he indeed fully recovered since then; in private however, he continued to suffer from chronic back pain. Unlike, the movie that says, the demon curse, lead him to an early grave. It's more like, likely, that this back pain, cause Bruce Lee, to die at a young age, due to bad allergic reaction to a painkiller, given to him, for treatment. Overall While, this movie does take liberties about the life of Bruce. It was also well-written as a tribute to both him and his fans. It was written as a way to include the myths, rumors, and greatness that made him a larger than life, type of a hero. It's an amazing movie, definite worth checking out for any fan of his films. "}{"Title":"9/10","Date":"29 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I first watched this film in middle school when I didn't know much about Bruce Lee. Like any kid, I was fascinated by this mysterious and legendary martial artist, and this movie helped pique my interest. Although the movie has many inaccuracies, it tells the story of Bruce Lee in a realistic, innocuous way that is quite entertaining. The movie has a very good flow to it and mixes in the martial arts scenes at the right time to never leave the viewer bored. The acting is absolutely superb, as the chemistry between Jason Scott Lee and Lauren Holly is very believable. And my favorite part is perhaps the score &#x96; Randy Edelman creates a masterpiece. Watch this movie with no expectations and enjoy the influence Bruce Lee had on the world yet understand the many demons and hardships he had to face throughout his life. You will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A good story (not too sure how authentic it is though)","Date":"22 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I don't know that much about Bruce Lee, besides the obvious - i.e. his legendary status as the man who basically brought the martial arts genre to the West. Therefore I can't really say how factually accurate this film is (although, in the version I watched, Bruce Lee's real wife gave a brief speech at the beginning of the movie, saying how faithful it was). However, I hope I know a good story when I see one and I'm pleased to say that this is it.If, like me, you don't know too much about the man himself, I'm not sure how much more you'll know after watching Dragon The Bruce Lee Story. I've read Bruce Lee 'purists' online saying how inaccurate this film is, but, the one thing even they can agree on, is what good performances Lauren Holly and Jason Scott Lee give as Bruce Lee and his American wife.Therefore, with good performances, decent fight scenes and an - albeit questionably good - storyline, there are worst films you can watch if anything about Bruce Lee's life or the martial arts genre in general interests you. "},{"Title":"terrific compelling biopic","Date":"21 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Born in America, Bruce Lee (Jason Scott Lee) grew up in Hong Kong with his father. After a fight with western soldiers, his father sends him away to study in American. His father warns him of the demon that haunts the male children of the family. In 1962, he is washing dishes in San Francisco. After a fight with the kitchen staff, he's fired. After a fight with a bunch of jocks, he's asked to teach them how to fight. Linda (Lauren Holly) becomes one of his students. They start dating despite the discrimination and the disapproval. Opening his own school, he is challenged to a fight for teaching to non-Chinese. He is blindsided and severely injured. Later TV producer Bill Krieger (Robert Wagner) brings him in to play Green Hornet's sidekick Kato which leads to his eventual stardom.This is a fine biopic that is turned into a kung fu movie. Bruce Lee's story is quite effective. The rougher parts of his life is glossed over as his widowed wife Linda probably had a large say in the movie. I would like to have seen his life turn into more of a fantasy. The part of him fighting his demon could be used to much better effect. The demon is his greatest fight and provides a great opportunity. Nevertheless this is a very compelling biopic with a solid performance from Jason Scott Lee. "},{"Title":"great story grew on me through the move","Date":"4 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" wonderful story , it was truly a nice story it was heart warming and sad at the same time , it even teaches how racism can hurt people's feeling. there were parts that made me enjoy and the movie just stole my heart . the only part that i didn't like is the performance of the Bruce lee ,his was good at it but it felt like he is doing a comedy show but i don't know maybe the real Bruce lee was a funny guy but when i imagine Bruce lee i always imagine a character like harry potter or rocky but i don't but for as the film goes he did a pretty good job , overall great movie it deserves a good recognition among people i say give it a watch . "},{"Title":"Interesting biography movie on Bruce Lee.","Date":"21 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a interesting movie the details the life and death of martial arts star Bruce Lee. Dramatic and action-packed, it is good piece of action cinema that many action fans might find fun to watch.I thought Jason Scott Lee did a fine job portraying Bruce Lee, his moves and characteristics matching the late martial arts star's persona. Lauren Holly did an OK job portraying Linda Lee and I think she had good on-screen chemistry with Lee. Their relationship provided a strong subplot and kept the movie interesting.This movie really gives you the impression that Lee, in addition to his love for Kung-Fu and his hyperactive attitude, had a mysterious side to him, as depicted in the sequences where he is bothered by personal and inner demons. I thought this plot element was a little confusing in the movie in some parts, and one might have to watch certain segments over and over in order to understand it. However, I think it provides intrigue into the film overall.To cap it off, the cinematography was beautiful and the music score was uplifting. The pace of the plot is steady, and does drag in some parts. The story may not accurately detail Lee's life 100%, but it's still a pretty good action movie.Grade B- "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"21 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Supposedly based on a book by Lee's widow, this seems to me rather inaccurate and largely irrelevant. I hesitate to say artistic licence prevailed, because there is little art in this movie.I'm no expert but I have seen a number of martial arts films and researched the real-life characters, such as Yip Man with whom Lee learnt Wing Chun - a fascinating period of his life that is largely overlooked here.Jason Scott Lee is a decent enough actor who clearly works-out, but he demonstrates no mastery in this film. His movements seem clumsy and contrived. Bruce Lee was graceful, and JS is not.Two out of ten for at least making the film, because Bruce Lee is one of a handful of iconic 20th century figures that everybody should learn about. But it does him no justice and frankly is offensive to knowledgeable viewers. "},{"Title":"I'm no bastard. I'm Bruce Lee!","Date":"20 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Dragon The Bruce Lee Story is directed by Rob Cohen who also co-adapts the screenplay with John Raffo and Edward Khmara. It stars Jason Scott Lee, Lauren Holly, Robert Wagner and Michael Learned. Music is by Randy Edelman and cinematography by David Eggby.Based on Bruce Lee The Man I Only Knew by Linda Lee Caldwell (Bruce Lee's widow), Dragon is more tribute movie than biography. A big success on release, it's a film that still causes some consternation with a number of Bruce Lee fans. The reasoning is because in true Hollywood style it tinkers with facts, misses out other notable points and has some time line issues. Yet if you can accept it as a painted always in a positive light homage piece more than a definitive biography? Then you find the essence of the man and his short life is there in glorious splendour.In many ways it's an inspiring tale of a complex man, while it also plays out as a wonderful love story between two people of a different race making it work at a time when such a thing was frowned upon by the ignorant. Lee's skills as an artist and a human being are firmly portrayed, with Jason Scott Lee (no relation) proving to be admirable in his depiction of such. The fights are very well choreographed and perfectly OTT, but crucially they do not come at a cost to the story, it's the narrative that shines through even as the action appeases the action hungry hoards. While rightly there's iconography unbound, naturally.The production value is high as regards quality of colour photography, set and costume design and recreations of famous moments. Edelman's score is a heart swelling and heroic scorcher that avoids over dosing on Oriental strains, Cohen moves it along at a nice clip and Holly is fabulous in her sympathetic portrayal of Bruce's wife. It's not all perfect, though. Away from the issues the hard core Lee fans have, the Demon that haunts the Lee family dreams is more funny than scary and the finale feels rushed and not dramatically fulfilling. It's fair that Lee's wife voices over the end and tells us it's about celebrating his life, but his death remains a key issue and skipping over it is a mistake.In the year of the film's release, the Lee's first child, Brandon, would be killed whilst filming The Crow, aged 28. Thus as Linda Lee Caldwell helped craft a film about a husband who died aged just 32, she lost her son. There is added poignancy in that, it's something that undeniably makes Dragon even more of a moving experience, but rest assured, as a film tribute to Bruce Lee, it earns every one of its emotional and thoughtful beats. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Seems more of a fantasy than a biopic","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Bruce Lee was an amazing man and Jason Scott Lee was pretty convincing as Bruce even though he doesn't really resemble Bruce. He's a little bigger than Bruce and maybe even a little darker (Bruce was part German). His personality is very similar to Bruce even his voice. Besides his similar mannerisms to Bruce, the movie dramatizes the struggles Bruce Lee had to deal with such as racism. I don't know how much of the drama from the film actually happened in real life, but it seems so real that you really feel sorry for him. I know most of the film was made up and even the synopses about the film says loosely based on Bruce.Some of the reviews I've been reading seems kind of overly critical and harsh. I have to agree that the fight scenes for example were too long considering Bruce Lee's philosophy about fighting was to simplify and use the most effective way to come out of a fight. Bruce Lee after all was a street fighter. He started training when he was 13 and not as a young kid because he kept getting beat up in street fights as a teenager. Also, Bruce Lee was an actor since he was an infant. His dad used him in one of his plays. There were many black and white films of Bruce as a kid. So Bruce Lee was a child star and the film focuses more on his martial art abilities for some reason (I guess for Hollywood glamor). Besides ignoring Bruce as an actor as a young kid, I remember reading about his frustration when he was an instructor teaching his martial art style Jeet Kune Do. His students thought there was an ultimate technique but he tried to explain to his students there is no ultimate technique and that you are the one to figure things out for yourself. His students didn't understand it and at one point he closed his schools.Even though this film is a made up story about Bruce, this isn't the only biopic that's not accurate. Many biopic films focus more on the dramatization than actual events for artistic reasons. Filmmakers are artists as well remember. The soundtrack to this film is excellent. I enjoyed this film simply for the fact Bruce Lee was one of a kind man besides just a martial artist. He is such an influential icon that I can't imagine the movies we watch these days (especially with actions films) would've become without him. "},{"Title":"The story of Bruce Lee as told through his wife's eyes","Date":"6 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Generally I do not like biographical movies, and I wondered what could be so exciting about Bruce Lee's life. I would probably be lynched by saying that, but I am one that does say things that offend people such as Jesus being the only way to heaven. As far as I knew Bruce Lee was simply a Hong Kong actor, but after watching this movie I realised how wrong I was.The opening scene has Bruce Lee enter into dance hall when some Asians are being picked on by some sailors (with Australian accents) and he beats them up. This scene runs very much like a Hong Kong fight scene without the finese. It is trying to hard to be like a Hong Kong movie here. Even with this shortcoming, the film doesn't unfold like this. Now I cannot say how much I know about Lee's life, but after watching this film, I know a bit more.There are three themes in Dragon. The one that I see the most is Lee's struggle with white man. This ties in with another theme and that is facing one's fear. Fear in this movie manifests itself as a powerful Oriental Knight that is almost unbeatable, and even though I don't know that much about Oriental Mysticism, I feel that these demon scenes are over glorified. As you watch the movie, one begins to see how much Lee struggled trying to be accepted by white people. He goes to America with dreams in his eyes, and leaves disillusioned, after being denied by his own people to teach them their arts, and by being betrayed by other people, such as Hollywood, who took his Kungfu idea and gave it to another man. He also learnt what discrimination was, hatred simply because you were slightly different. Yet he did find comfort in a woman, an Anglo woman, who loved him for who is was, and this movie is actually told through her mouth, as it was based on her biography.I don't think Lee had that much of a hard life. He rubbed a few people up the wrong way, but he took chances and managed to pull himself through. He listened to his wife and opened up a Dojo to teach his forms of martial arts, and he defied his people by teaching it to the white and black man. It is interesting how he bonds with the Negro who first walked into his Dojo, and we see this bonding especially before he goes to fight the Asian, for it seems that the Negro has made Lee one of his own.The other theme was Bruce's desire to please his father. His father sent him away from Hong Kong because of a curse, and the weight always on his mind was that he had to let his father know that he had succeeded. When his father had died he had only made a dent, but it was that one trip back to Hong Kong that made him a filmstar. Yet his father said that Hong Kong would kill him, and even though he defeated his demon, the movie claims that he died after falling into an unknown coma. There are a lot of rumours around about how Lee died, but I am not willing to commit to one, and neither was the movie. As the narrator says at the end, they don't think about how he died, but rather how he lived. All I can say is that is important because decisions made in life can effect you when you are dead. "},{"Title":"Inspiring story and characters, excellent leads, decent action, rushed training, well developed teaching arc, thoughtful mysticism, fan candy, interesting racism","Date":"4 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I'm more a Jackie Chan fan than a Bruce Lee one but it didn't make Dragon less inspiring. Indeed even if it's only a fictionalized biographical film the story and its characters feel real enough. Jason Scott Lee is great as the legendary Bruce Lee and Lauren Holly perfect as Linda Emery, his future wife. In fact their romance is far much more interesting than the action scenes. Their choreography is over the top and weakens the humanist bond other sequences try to develop between him and the audience. Some are relatively good but the precious minutes wasted with the crazy cooks could have been spent on his training for instance. One minute he's a kid, the next he's a young adult and martial artist. It could also apply to the part covering the opening of his first school but the teaching elements are great. From his tragic accident to the writing of his famous book, The Tao of Jeet Kune Do, it can only warm the heart and soul. There's also something dramatic about the confrontation of his dream to reality. It's probably symbolized by the samurai who chases him in his nightmares. This mystic element is actually one of my favorite with the empathic Linda. Their connection is magnified by the cult labyrinth of mirrors sequence and such a strong and beautiful woman is every man's dream. So Holly did an excellent job and it also applies to the athletic Scott Lee because from the screams to the moves from beginning to end it's almost like watching the master. To entertain and appeal the fans there're also plenty of fan service, like the hilarious The Green Hornet stunt. It leads us to racism because the issue has a major element and witnessing Bruce struggling to succeed and change the way people see things, only in white or yellow, is quite moving and thoughtful. So it has a few weaknesses but overall it's a mandatory experience for martial arts fans. Moreover it can only convince you to learn more about Bruce Lee and appreciate the tremendous impact his life had on millions of people around the world. The Dragon is eternal and its constellation shines every night !Note  This review was first posted on Kritikenstein, my weblog. "}{"Title":"Instant Classic","Date":"22 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Lost track of how many times I have seen this movie. A multitude of times growing up and is still one of my favorites.Jason Scott Lee does an amazing job of portraying Bruce Lee. An epic tail, great story, the hardships, and love, making this a great all around film.Being an Asian male born and raised in the western world may be one of the reasons I have a certain connection to the film more than others but I can't see why others wouldn't be able to relate.None the less, this movie has given me lots of inspiration, and recommend this film for anyone else who is seeking some great vision or just wondering who Bruce Lee was; because this film does an excellent job of displaying his life. "},{"Title":"An Amazing Story of an Amazing Man","Date":"12 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I just watched the DVD I bought - based on John Nolte of Big Hollywood's recommendation. I knew just the bare outline of Bruce Lee's story.I have to say it is an amazing story. That being said I have read other reviews of people - fans of Bruce Lee, who say that the movie contains inaccuracies, such as the reason he left Hong Kong for America.His actual wife Linda (nicely portrayed by Lauren Holly) said that the movie captures his personality and while this movie is really the only thing I have to base my opinions on (unlike other reviewers who obviously have had other material) - the fact that his wife has endorsed this movie tells me that the main facts - are intact. She also said that Jason Scott Lee portrayed Bruce Lee perfectly. While he was not trained in martial arts (but was a gymnast from what I have heard) I think he channeled Bruce Lee. The movie shows the adversity Lee overcame - physical, spiritual and prejudicial in America - to become a world wide phenomena.It is an inspirational movie.ADDENDUM I just talked with a good friend of mine who emigrated from Hong Kong in the late 1960s, went to Delta College in Stockton, CA where he met Robert Lee, brother of Bruce Lee. Apparently Bruce Lee's mother lived in Stockton a short time, too. About 1970 he drove Robert & a few other friends down to Los Angeles one weekend where he actually met Bruce. A couple of stories Bruce had a good sense of humor and sang some Chinese opera with words rewritten by him, on the risqué side. Also there were a few people there who were martial arts enthusiasts and Bruce gave a small demonstration - he asked one of them to stand while he put his fist on his chest, flicked his wrist and the fellow fell went back a few steps just from the power of Bruce's wrist. Anyway from what my friend knows of Bruce from meeting him and knowing his brother he says the movie is pretty accurate as to the main events in Lee's life. And according to my friend, Bruce left Hong Kong because the police were looking for him,just as the movie depicts. "},{"Title":"Rob Cohen's best","Date":"1 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Dragon is a semi-fictionalized bio-pic of Bruce Lee, the most famous martial artist and one of the most famous film stars of all time. It tells the story of Lee's youth in Hong Kong, before going to America where he is a dishwisher, goes to university, meets his wife Linda, sets up a successful school, writes his book on the philosophy of material arts and becomes a successful actor in Hong Kong before dying at the age of 32.This film is based on Linda Lee's book and she was involved with the production, but this film does have a artistic license with the events of Lee's life, especially of the inner demons he has to fight and some of the fight that Lee fought.This is the only Hollywood film that I am aware of that looks at the life of Bruce Lee. As well as the fight scene which were done with relish, the film goes deeper then that. There is the obviously love story between Bruce and Linda, there is the philosophy of Bruce Lee and his style of material arts which he developed and there is the fact that Bruce Lee had to battle against racism in America and the politics of the film industry. There were moments of comedy as well, which were decent for a small laugh.Jason Scott Lee (no relation) and Lauren Holly both offer good performances in this film, but I think Rob Cohen, the director of later hits the Fast and Furious, xXx (terrible film) and the Mummy Curse of the Dragon Emperor, did his best work with this film. He shows that he could easily direct fight scenes and able that he could balance it out with personal drama.If you are interested in Bruce Lee or material arts this film is worth a look. "},{"Title":"Epic martial arts, powerful story, never get tired of it","Date":"16 November 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" This film deserves a 10 star rating from me, and so it has received one. It has just the right mix of action, comedy, emotion to grab your attention from the beginning and carry you through to the end, without ever getting boring or dry. In this film we deal with issues of racism. I never had the idea that Asian people faced so much racism in the United States. It's wrong that they were treated that way. But the way Bruce overcame it with humor and confidence is awesome. The fighting scenes are some of the best I have ever seen. And there is plenty of it as well. I think they should have said a bit more about his mysterious death at the end, because that was a very powerful scene, but the fact that they left it as it was made the ending a bit more positive, yet still emotionally powerful. In my reviews I usually find a character in the movie that needs a punch in the face, and this is either a tribute to good acting/writing, or to extremely poor film-making. In this film it's good acting/writing. That person is Linda's mother. The is a racist bigot that should be restricted from interacting with other humans. Her hatred of Asians is uncalled for, and her callous resistance to Linda's marriage is a manifestation of bigotry and evil. People like her need to be stopped. I am glad her ideas did not prevail in the story. You are left, after watching this film, with a sense that a positive attitude and a strong drive can overcome any obstacle. Bruce Lee had a dream and he made it happen. It is a shame he did not live longer. This film has incredibly high replay value and I think you will think so as well.Please see my profile to understand my rating philosophy. "},{"Title":"Missing Scene","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" My wife and I went to see this film when it was released and there is one question I have never found an answer to since. When the film hit VHS, there was a missing scene. Bruce and Linda at the posh swank uptown restaurant trying to get a seat. The manager was a snob asking the Lee's to wait at the bar. After a long wait and several other non Asian patrons were served and they were still waiting and being pushed off by the manager, Bruce ordered a glass of juice from the bar. Bruce makes it seem he is clumsy and spills the juice all over the book. He apologizes making comment on how important the book (which can no longer be read because of the juice) is to keeping track of their important customers and then proceeds to tell Linda they'd go to a good restaurant. I absolutely loved that scene. I have never seen it since. Every one I have spoken to doesn't recall the scene! Why has this scene of all scenes been made missing? I have my suspicions as to why and that shows you just how far we have come (or not). "},{"Title":"Dragon The Bruce Lee Story","Date":"18 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Just after the tragic death of his son, Brandon, on the set of The Crow, came this film telling the story of the world's most famous martial arts movie superstar, from director Rob Cohen (Dragonheart, The Fast and the Furious, xXx). Basically Bruce Lee (Jason Scott Lee - no relation) was taught martial arts at childhood, and got himself into quite a few scrapes, and his father (Ric Young) is told by his father to flee to the United States to make something of himself. There, he opens up a martial arts training school, and it is there he meets future wife Linda (Dumb and Dumber's Lauren Holly). It takes a while to get there, and he has a couple of fights before, but he is eventually offered a part on TV by Bill Krieger (Robert Wagner) as The Green Hortnet's sidekick, Kato. The show may have been cancelled, but it didn't stop him from being recognised to play the lead role in martial arts film The Big Boss, and then his defining role in Enter the Dragon. It is interesting to see him having some demons haunting him, and it is still a mystery as to how he went into a coma and died. Also starring Michael Learned as Vivian Emery, Nancy Kwan as Gussie Yang, Kay Tong Lim as Philip Tan, Luoyong Wang as Yip Man, Sterling Macer Jr. as Jerome Sprout and Sven-Ole Thorsen as The Demon. JSL does a very good job of impersonating Lee in the fight sequences, which seem not only like spoofs, but little reminders as to what made him a star, a good story worthy of a real Bruce Lee film. Very good! "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but never quite justifies the claims it makes on behalf of its subject","Date":"11 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" In the early seventies the West went through a period of fascination with the Chinese martial arts. (I use that term as it is the one Westerners are most familiar with, although I am aware that some Chinese, my wife included, dislike it as sounding too aggressive and militaristic; they prefer the term art of self-defence). There was a popular TV series called Kung Fu, a cartoon called Hong Kong Phooey (which featured a martial-arts dog) and even a pop song called Kung Fu Fighting. In fact, it was a little bit frightening! The whole cult was memorably sent up by The Goodies, a British comedy team, as Ecky-Thump, a Lancashire martial art which involves beating people over the head with a black pudding.At the centre of the Kung-Fu cult was the actor Bruce Lee, a household name in both Britain and America even though he made few English-language movies. Lee was born in San Francisco, a city which is home to a large Chinese community and also produced the best-known Chinese-American film star, Anna May Wong. His family went back to Hong Kong while he was a child, but he returned to America in his teens, and went on to become a leading expert in, and teacher of, the martial arts. He became an actor on both sides of the Pacific, making martial-arts films and television series in both Hong Kong and America. His best-known American venture was the TV series The Green Hornet in which he played the role of Kato. His last, and best-known, film was Enter the Dragon, filmed in English in Hong Kong, completed just before Lee's tragically early death at the age of 33.It is a common convention in showbiz biopics that success doesn't come easily. The star can only get to the top by battling either external forces or internal demons. Or in this case, both. In this film the external force which threatens Lee is that of racism. In the sixties and seventies there was widespread discrimination against Chinese-Americans, and Asian-Americans in general; in an early scene Lee is appalled by Mickey Rooney's patronising portrayal of a Japanese in Breakfast at Tiffany's. This discrimination affected Lee's career; he was originally to have been the star of the Kung Fu TV series, but television executives did not want an Asian actor in the leading role, so the character became mixed-race and a white actor, David Carradine, was cast in the part. Lee also faced racism in his personal life; in the film his future mother-in-law strongly opposes his marriage to her daughter on the grounds that she does not want yellow grandchildren. (Lee was married to a white woman). Of course, racism can be a two-way street, and we also see how Lee faced opposition from conservative elements in the Chinese-American community who objected to him teaching fighting skills to white and black Americans.As for Lee's internal demons, the film-makers seem to have interpreted the word demon absolutely literally. He is shown having recurrent nightmares in which he has to do combat with a mysterious armoured figure. Although this demon can be interpreted symbolically as a representation of negative emotions such as fear and anger, there are also hints that Lee actually had to battle against hostile supernatural forces.Jason Scott Lee (no relation) makes a convincing hero, but the film's main weakness is that it is never sure what attitude to take towards its hero. The tone of the fight scenes, especially in the early part of the film, is often jokey, reminiscent of the fights in a Jackie Chan comedy. This light, comedic tone, however, does not sit well with the more reverential attitude of the later scenes. Lee's mysterious death is not dwelt on; instead, the film ends with a voice-over in which the actress playing his wife Linda announces- There are many people that want to know the way he died. I want to remember the way he lived. The film clearly intends that we should remember Lee not only as a good man but also as an international cultural icon of lasting significance and a figure who played a major part in combating prejudice against Asian-Americans.Certainly, American society has become less racist, both towards Chinese-Americans and towards other ethnic minorities, since 1973; for example, Barack Obama's candidacy for the Presidency would have been virtually unthinkable 35 years ago. Whether one lone film star played much of a part in that change is debatable; the fact that Lee lost a major role to a white actor only a year before his death suggests that he did not make much headway in his lifetime. Even today, there are relatively few well-known Asian-American stars in the entertainment industry. Whether one considers Bruce Lee as a cultural icon of lasting significance largely depends on one's view of martial-arts based entertainment. Dragon is entertaining, both as an action film, and as a biography, but I felt it never quite justified the claims it made on behalf of its subject. 6/10 "},{"Title":"You can't change people with your fists!  A great tribute to Bruce and Brandon","Date":"6 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" After leaving China due to a fight with some Marines going horribly wrong, Bruce Lee is forced to attempt to find a new life. After failing to fulfil any of his potential while working as a dishwasher he goes to college and there learns that he could possibly do well as a martial arts teacher, and, by doing this, may be able to teach people more about his culture and open up the west to what China is and what it can be.We then witness a number of moments in his life that shape Bruce Lee the man and we watch him become the legend that we know, looking at his early movies in Hong Kong, his rapturous reception to the Big Boss, and his greater legacy. As a biography of Bruce Lee I imagine that this probably leaves much to be desired, however as a an action film and a metaphor for the rampant racism of the sixties that many minorities had to overcome, it works superbly well. The script is great and moves in such a way that when the action moments occur, they do not feel like inserts and instead seem to fall just at the right time, his recovery from his back injury whilst writing his book the art of Jeet Kun do (apologies to purists for the spelling) is handled well, as is the birth of Brandon and the effects it had on Linda's relations with her mother is just beautiful (especially when you bear in mind what a handsome man he turned out to be!) The performances are all great with Jason Scott Lee and Lauren Holly doing a splendid job as Bruce and Linda, giving a convincing portrayal of two people fighting against the odds to work together, Robert Wagner also excels in his brief role as the movie producer from hell. The score by Randy Edelman has since become one of the most famous ever produced and has been used in countless movie trailers for inspirational movie stories, every time I hear it, it seems to embody the very nature of triumph over adversity, just as much as Beethoven's ninth, which is high praise indeed. Overall, this is a good entertaining film that while not exactly true is always good to watch.Nuff said "},{"Title":"Great movie about a True Legend!","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" This enjoyable and touching biography of martial-arts film star Bruce Lee stars Jason Scott Lee (no relation), an actor with a lively face and natural intensity, who makes every moment of this film compelling. Directed by Rob Cohen, Dragon traces Bruce Lee's slow rise over myriad obstacles--most of them race-based--to become an international superstar in films. Lee's origins are oddly set in San Francisco instead of his real home in Seattle, but then again there is plenty of artistic license going on as Cohen explores the actor's psyche through some powerful fantasy sequences. Lauren Holly is good as Lee's wife, Linda (whose book about her late husband inspired this movie). A scene involving Bruce's rescue of son Brandon (who died in a film-making accident in 1993) from a murderous spirit is plain spooky. The special-edition DVD release has a widescreen presentation, director interview, featurette, screen tests, closed captioning, optional French soundtrack, and optional Spanish subtitles "},{"Title":"entertaining","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" while it's hard to say how accurate this depiction of Bruce Lee is,there's no denying it is entertaining.one thing that is probably depicted fairly accurately is the racism Lee faced from street punks to those in the entertainment industry,all of whom should have known better.but the movie also has it's lite side.there is some humour to lighten things up.the action sequences are done pretty well,but maybe a bit over the top.Jason Scoot Lee handles the role of Lee very well,even though he may not fit Lee physically.he is much larger than Lee was.Lauren Holley is good as Lee's love interest(and eventual wife)Linda Emery. Michael Learned is particularly good as the mother of Linda Emery who does not approve of the union of the two,because Lee is Asian and her daughter is white.no doubt there are things this movie leaves out,and many things which are changed to make it more appealing to audiences,if you look at it as entertainment,you shouldn't be disappointed.for me,DragonThe Bruce Lee Story is an 8/10 "}{"Title":"Hollywood can be sad when they try and make something truthful","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie is fun to watch but that is about it, the fight scene where Bruce Lee has to fight to be able to keep teaching to non Chinese is misleading, when Lee's true wife Linda was asked about it she stated that Bruce spent the fight chasing his opponent who was to scared to fight him and he received no back injury from the fight, instead he hurt his back buy not warming up properly, i'm sure everyone would like it better if it was the way Hollywood laid it out for us but Mrs Lee would have no reason to lie, if you have the chance watch the AMC special about his life, it does not have all the Hollywood glam but it is so much more accurate "},{"Title":"Highly inaccurate but entertaining enough","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" The film is not too bad for a nights entertainment but if you're looking for accuracy this is not it and could confuse some people into thinking it is real.Bruce Lee was the greatest martial artist and fighter of all time and it could have showed a bit more of that side of himself rather than focusing on demons and fights that never took place. The real story of Bruce is what i wanted, and he lived a great life to tell. The film also made out that without Linda Lee Bruce Lee wouldn't have become what he became. But Bruce Lees abilities made him a legend in his own lifetime so he would have achieved the things he did with or without her.Again, not too bad a film but i left the cinema feeling a little disappointed and i couldn't understand what Jason Scott Lee was saying sometimes with the accent at times. I left the cinema hoping someone else could take the mantle of making a Bruce Lee film. "},{"Title":"An Epic Waste.  Get the Music","Date":"5 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Only the music makes this bearable. A wonderful score, which deserves to be in a real Bruce Lee biography. This has an inaccuracy rating of over 90%, which probably gives it the number one spot of bio-cinema. What a waste.While Jasaon Scott Lee is OK, he physically too big to portray Lee; and his fighting 'style' is worse than the Lee rip-offs, whoooo! wah! wowwwwhh! What was Rob Cohen thinking of? Well, 1/ Lee doesn't deserve a realistic rendition of his life and / or 2/ his life wasn't exciting enough, let's spike it up. Of course, anyone with a passing knowledge of Lee knows that the real stuff was more engrossing than a screenwriter's dreams.An epic waste of money and of a talent (I'm not speaking of Jason Scott). Get the CD. "},{"Title":"Dragon-The Bruce Lee Story","Date":"2 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I do Karate...and watching Dragon-The Bruce Lee Story actually got started.Its a great way to clear the mind and center and ground yourself..which is what he used to do...We also do a lot of the styles and techniques as well.Bruce Lee and his son Brandon were both mentally and Hartley connected to Martial arts...When Bruce died and was a tragedy..but when Brandon got shot in the making of the Crow..it devastated everyone..his little sister,his mum and his family.This movie had touched so many people and i think that Jason Scott Lee did a great job of retelling his life! "},{"Title":"It's a movie, not a documentary","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" And if you consider the accuracy of M. Moore documentaries then Dragon is 100% accurate.But of course it's not, and it's not meant to be. Dragon is a fable based on an extraordinary man's life. How many oriental movie stars have flourished in America?? That's right, few. And had Bruce lived he would've been the first Oriental superstar worldwide exclipsing the success of Jackie Chan (who I like).I'm glad the film included the mystical elements of his life. People get bothered by the stuff that isn't easily explained by science. But Bruce's father believed it. Bruce believed it. And the deaths of Brandon and Bruce lend credence to the mystical elements. This film deserves a much higher ratingIf you don't conquer your inner fears, a life of a thousand years is a tragedy. If you do, a life of a single day is a triumph. from the movie.Bruce's (and to a different degree Brandon's) death was a tragedy. Their lives were triumphs. "},{"Title":"quite easily the best martial arts masterpiece since Bruce lee himself","Date":"23 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" unlike some people who tend to think that every movie had to be put into such serious seriousness in contrast to real events. the entire purpose of movies is not to be a history book with some strict codes to follow, movies are designed to be entertainment, not a history lesson. people always tell those who take a movie to serious, its just a movie well if you think about it thats all it is. since when does a movie say 'the absolute truth on the cover of the film. the answer is never. they may try to capture some of the events but i think despite that there could have been like one member had stated more of his personal reputations for being a doting father, a mystical fighter off the screen, etc. when it comes down to it i think how they captured each scene of combat in a different setting it beats some movies where every fight starts the same way with someone saying something to someone and one of them getting mad. in this case Bruce was never the aggressor but he was always the one who finished the conflict. who cares if he really injured his back in a fight or weightlifting. the film gives you an emotionally intriguing story of how he overcame such an injury whether it was from a fight or from lifting. aside from my disagreements on how people are so critical about the movies story i have no problems with the story myself. i think this film although like many could have been better i don't think that jet Li could have made this film any better than it was made. this film was made with absolute professionalism on the part of both Jason Scott lee, and Lauren holly. as this movie unfolded i was already interested by the title alone when i first saw the film when i was 8. it soon became my favorite action movie greatly surpassing blood Sport which was also a very good movie. that scene at the beginning where some British sailors show up and start harrassing a beautiful woman, you see this person walk up the stairs who walks up behind the leader who was roughing the woman. the guy gets tired of listening to him and he tries to hit him out of the blue but before the next two minutes have gone by he has dropped each one of them. later the same thing happens in a different environment. a woman who was attracted to him had a jealous admirer who started a fight where he and four others with meat cleavers tried to kill him. in the end each one of them goes back inside limping like they had been hit by a tank. while Bruce has merely a cut on his arm. the best fight in this film was this scene. the energy and the first glimpse of how truly masterful the front-man was at his portrayal of the legend Bruce lee. each fight gave you that i have to see it again feeling. combined with possibly the best soundtrack i have heard made for a movie, this film captures emotion, intensity, and every feeling i hope to get from a film. this is the best action film of the last decade. don't tell me that hero was the best action movie you ever saw. i couldn't sit through half let alone the whole film. the action in hero in comparison to dragon the Bruce lee story was completely without question inferior. i know i am not picky about a historical plot or some half A**ed story line. but i am picky about a good fight scene. hero was a flop because for one you cant fight a battle while running on water, you cant fly 20 feet in the air by bouncing on a tree limb and least of all one thats only about an inch thick. you cant jump in the air and run along the wall and slash your way through a bunch of bundles of anything and not touch the ground. this in contrast to the simply superior martial arts choriography that made dragon such a great film to watch. as far as things go from a simple stand point, dragon the Bruce lee story may not be completely accurate but it more than portrayed the mystical fighting ferocity that made Bruce lee the legend he was. i give this film a 9 out of 10 rating. a great film, a fan of Bruce lee or not rent this film and see for yourself. "},{"Title":"a thoroughly entertaining movie","Date":"19 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie in college b/c my friend had it lying around his dorm room. I didn't expect much and wasn't a fan of Bruce Lee - I actually prefer the historical kung fu movies over anything Bruce ever made, including Enter the Dragon - but this was just a great movie.While I'm sure creative license was taken, I'm still sold on how much racism Bruce encountered and had to overcome. This was a very inspirational story of a man who simply wanted to show others the beauty of his culture. I am still not a fan of Bruce Lee, the actor, but I now see why he is still in many people's hearts more than 30 years after his death. "},{"Title":"What A Wonderful Film","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is probably an all around perfect film.The story is of Bruce Lee's, his childhood, his indulgence in Martial Arts at a young age, his running from his *demons* and his love with his future wife. The themes in this exceptional movie contain, overcoming your demons or fears, diversity, and most of all passion and love. The acting was beautiful, especially by the two leads, I am so surprised that both of them are not acting in any major films, it would have been a great boost in Hollywood. Rob Cohen is an excellent director. The music by Randy Edelman is fantastic, truly inspiring. This film is wonderful and I recommend greatly on seeing it, you will enjoy your time. "},{"Title":"The Story of Bruce Lee, the Best Martial Artist Known to Man","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I and my sons appreciate the story that is depicted here and acted so well by Jason Scott Lee and Lauren Holly. Whether it is completely accurate I don't really care. I saw Bruce Lee as an Idol and I can accept the fact that Hollywood changed the details of Lee's life. I choose to see him as a hero. Jason Scott Lee and Lauren Holly had nothing to do with writing the script. I do think that they did a fantastic job of acting in this film. Prejudice was very powerful in the sixties and Bruce Lee was responsible for helping to break up some of the stigmas that were assigned to Asians. We had a war in Vietnam at the time and all Asians were referred to as gooks and dinks. That is very difficult to overcome. The fact that he made such a big noise in America is very impressive to me. His martial arts abilities will never be equaled or surpassed in my eyes. Good job Jason and Lauren. Thank you. I have seen this movie over and over with my teenage sons and friends and it is always a hit!!! "},{"Title":"Jeet Kun Do (the intercepting fist)","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" One of the most illuminating documentaries I've ever watched. This movie attempts to gracefully shed light on the idea that Bruce Lee was a revolutionary who possibly offended the traditions of the ancients and was mysteriously recompensed for the error of his ways. In this, his real life is far more intriguing than any martial arts film. According to this movie, Bruce Lee's accomplishments must be recognized for a number of reasons First and foremost, in that he was able to synthesize the martial arts and extract the best strategies from all known fighting systems, even western fencing and boxing. He challenged the martial arts, as they were taught, which he described as reactionary and unrealistic to effectively defend against the manner in which a true attack takes place An attacker's pattern (which he termed as broken rhythm). To accomplish this he utilized anticipating the assailant's moves and intercepting them with direct and accurate, first-strike advantage, forceful movements, sometimes even beating the opponent's thought transmissions to his motor reflexes. Secondly, Mr. Lee sought to improve relations between the East and the West and to open up the wonderful hospitality ruled culture of China to the rest of the world. Mr. Lee also attempted to bring more professionalism and excellence to the Asian movie industry, which he referred to as a little hokey. All in all, this movie only serves to whet the appetite, like sherbet in a small dish before the dinner is served, it leaves me asking, hmm... what is this? what more did this great man really have to say? what motivated him? can we harness such energy by studying his life and discipline? Where will time, Mastery, discipline and study take us from here? Will there ever be another? All questions we must intercept and answer for ourselves - this would be consistent with Mr. Lee's teachings. "}{"Title":"One of the best movies ive ever seen.","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Dragon A Bruce Lee Story was a great movie. It really made you respect Bruce Lee as a person and a martial arts master. Jason Scott Lee really should have gotten more attention for his performance as Bruce Lee. It was without a doubt an Oscar Performance. Yes, maybe the truth was stretched to some extent with this film, but that doesnt matter to me. This movie was just great for all reasons a film should be and it proves that Bruce Lee was a great person and most likely the best martial artist ever. "},{"Title":"Great movie!!","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie the other day on TV and it was very, very well made. First, Jason Scott Lee and Lauren Holly were perfect and the chemistry was amazing...easily her best performance.  The actress who played Holly's mother was terrific as well.  Wonderful love and tragic love story beautifully converted to the screen. "},{"Title":"Beautiful, the story of the Dragon","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  DragonThe Bruce Lee Story is one of the most beautiful movies I have ever seen. Jason Scott Lee was very convincing as the Dragon himself. Lauren Holly did an excellent job portraying Linda, Bruce's wife. When both are on the screen, they make a great couple. Sure, there were quite a few factual errors on the life of Bruce Lee but still, this film is highly enjoyable. Being a martial artist myself, I couldn't help but find this treasure of a film on the life of Bruce Lee more inspiring. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I thought this film was excellent! Honestly. I Loved the music it was top class from Randy Edelman(the composer) I also like the acting, especially from Jason Scott Lee who played Bruce Lee, it must have took a lot of guts to portray Bruce lee,because Bruce Lee is a legend,but he did it very very well, i take my hat of to Jason Scott Lee. There's not much in the story but it's enough. It also has excellent fight scenes, that makes you get in the mood to go out and fight like Bruce Lee. By the end you will think it was a great film and you will feel very sorry for Bruce Lee(the film nearly brought a tear to my eye!) Go out out and rent it now, it's worth it.  "},{"Title":"Hollywood style biography of the king of Saturday matinee kung-fu movies","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I'm a huge Bruce Lee fan.  As such, I approached this film with great excitement.  It took Hollywood producers twenty to make a movie based on the legendary Lee.  Was the wait worth it?  I think so.  Dragon does justice to the legacy of Bruce Lee.  Some parts of Lee's life are intentionally altered in order to make Bruce seem more super-human.  For example, in the film, Lee is shown to have defeated a powerful martial artist in 60 seconds at Ed Parker's annual martial arts invitational in order to prove the efficacy of his Jeet Kune Do.  In actuality, he only gave a demonstration of some techniques at the event.Dragon shows a side of Lee that is seldom seen in his movies.  Lee is presented as a man full of insecurities and disappointments.  It his heartbreaking to see the main role in Kung Fu, a series conceptualized by Lee, go to David Carradine because Lee was too ethnic for mainstream American television.  Bruce proves to be a resilient person in adversity. He gains the acceptance of his mother-in-law, an incredibly racist woman, through his optimism and perseverance.  Lee was unwilling to allow assumed limitations to prevent him from reaching his goals.Overall, this was an enjoyable and touching film, recommendable to fans and of Bruce Lee and those who have never seen his pictures.  "},{"Title":"Finally a modern day Bruce lee Biographic flick","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Finally, a story about Bruce Lee that doesn't totally devolve into martial arts cliches and stereotypes. Bruce Lee is portrayed as a 3 dimensional character and a larger than life individual. I have to say that this movie does Bruce Lee justice. Based on the accounts from his friends, family, and acquaintences Bruce Lee was indeed a very charismatic/energetic individual. I have to admit this is one of the FEW positive hollywood movies about an asian male. Unfortunately, it's a sorry reality that few asian males are ever cast in positive image roles in the U.S. Even fewer are shown as a romantic male lead such as Jason Scott Lee in Dragon. My one nitpick about this film was that they could have stayed away from the 'mysticism' and fictional accounts and focused more on the many real life attributes of Bruce Lee that made him such a fascinating character. Such as Bruce Lee's real life martial arts training with some of the biggest movie/sports stars in that era like Kareem abdul Jabaar and Steve Mcqueen. I give my highest complements to the Director Rob Cohen for broaching into the much ignored issues of anti-asian racism as well. All in all this is a must see flick for anyone with even an iota of interest in Bruce Lee and or famous asian americans.  "},{"Title":"Chock Full of Fiction; NOT the Bruce Lee Story","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I wonder why Lee's widow gave her okay for this flick. It WAS entertaining but had so many incorrect facts.For example, Lee started to learn wing chun at age 13, and the child depicting Lee in the film looked more like seven or eight. Second, Lee's severe injury occurred when he was lifting weights, NOT in the fight against a Chinese fighter. I really liked this movie until I found out about all the inaccuracies. Therefore, I must give this film two stars out of five.I hope another biopic on Bruce comes out, this time with more facts and an actor who looks more like the Dragon.. "},{"Title":"Wonderful movie based loosely on the legend","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This movie was amazing! It promises everything, drama, comedy and action and it delivers that and more. Jason Scott Lee is exceptional at portraying Bruce Lee, showing him as a loving father and also as the feared dragon of martial arts. The fight scenes are very well done and at times breath-taking. Dragon in it's entirety is very entertaining as it follows Bruce Lee from China to America where he won the heart of Linda Emery and overcame racism to rise to stardom. One of the best aspects of the film is the demon that is after Bruce. This adds a very mystical element to the whole film and shows Bruce as more than an actor but as an immortal man with incredible abilities. I have no doubt that a few things were stretched, being that Bruce Lee's real life widow Linda Lee Cadwell helped with the whole movie, including writing the book that inspired it all. It shows Bruce as very human while also showing us that he was an immortal action star. Dragon was very entertaining and a joy to watch. "},{"Title":"Funny story with a lot of clever lines","Date":"6 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie I saw on TV. It is the autobiography of Bruce Lee, a Chinese born-American karate man and actor. I had no idea that Bruce had to struggle through racism, even though that sounds a little naïve of me. I always thought Bruce Lee was just some judo Guy just doing KOONG FU!; but he was more than that. He was a man that just wanted to be accepted in American society-but since He was so suppressed by the racism of the whites, he couldn't. Also this movie has a lot of smart aleck remarks-----just read the `memorable quote' section, and there's plenty more Where that came from. The acting is good, I give all the actors---Jason, Lauren----two thumbs up. The plot, however just seemed inadequate to me, but that's just my opinion.  I give it a 7/10 only because I felt the movie maybe should have had more on the guy, and because of all the factual errors this movie caused. Like for one, Bruce Lee in the movie said that `Linda---you are my inspiration'(meaning opening up his integrated karate store) when in reality he had already opened it up and Linda had nothing to do with it. There are plenty more errors also. Too see them, go to the `Goofs' section. This movie is recommended to all those Bruce Lee fans out there, although I still feel the movie should have been more sufficient and accurate, but I definitely recommend it for the action and fighting scenes. KOONG FU fans  who admire Bruce Lee and couldn't care less about how `Sufficient' it is should definitely see it. Worth watching twice.    "},{"Title":"a movie for the rage in us all****","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  this film was simply radical ,jason scott lee was great .no he was better than that i love the way this movie unfolds. yeah i know not everything was 100 percent accurate on following the exact truth but its close enough for to enjoy this kick ass movie easily **** i just loved it "}{"Title":"fantastic music score","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Subject music scoreI have bought the soundtrack to Dragon The bruce lee story, and must say it is one of the best music score in movie history. If you don't buy it, it is your lost. The score was so good it has been used in other movies. Look out for the composer Randy Edelman "},{"Title":"Dragon The story as told by his wife then changed even more","Date":"24 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Jason Scott Lee is very good in the part, his mannerisms and way of walking and speaking are spot on.With such a good choice as star, it is irritating but very predictable that the film is full of rubbish. This detracts from it completely and gives us a hollow, plastic view of Bruce and an opportunity squandered.Things that annoy me the most1) Bruce did not leave Hong Kong because he beat up a relation of the governor - how silly. He left because he was running as part of a street gang and was growing uncontrollable. His family sent him to America because they'd tried everything else - a true mark of desperation.2) Restaurant fight - Sorry, the odds of every Chinese guy knowing kung fu are not very good, yet this movie seems to feel they all do.3) Punched in the back - Never happened. Bruce pushed himself constantly, especially with weights - even Bolo Yeung said that Bruce taught him about weights, not the other way around.Bruce almost paralysed himself by attempting a deadlift without warming up - bye bye spinal erector muscles.4) Fight on scene of Big Boss - Why is it that with all the media and fan attention on Bruce in the last 30 odd years, such events miraculously happen that no-one knew of before? 5) Bruce was in hospital before after chewing cannibis - a habit quite popular in Hong Kong where it's medicinal purposes have been known for hundreds of years. He almost died from an allergic reaction then. It's fairly certain this combined with a months-long punishing self-imposed schedule around the time of enter the dragon is what killed him.It would be interesting to really hear from Linda what he was like, what he thought ect - but I doubt we ever will. "},{"Title":"A story that vaguely resembles the life of Bruce Lee","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  On its own merits, this is an engaging, skillfully crafted movie Jason Scott Lee and Lauren Holly shine as Mr. and Mrs. Lee, and the fight scenes are top-notch. Those who enjoy stories of a likable couple whose love for one another must overcome great odds can enjoy the film on that level.But as a biopic of Bruce Lee, however, Dragon The Bruce Lee Story is not merely riddled with annoying inaccuracies, but it is inaccurate in ways that effectively downplay how determined the real Bruce Lee was. (For instance, the movie shows Holly's Linda Lee encouraging Bruce to open his first martial arts school, but in reality, Bruce had already done so when he first met Linda, who was one of his students.)Inaccuracies like these compound into what to this Bruce Lee fan is the film's biggest flaw its failure to convey to the audience that Bruce Lee attained superstardom precisely because that is what he worked so hard to achieve from the outset. "},{"Title":"An eerie prophecy indeed !!!!","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  For this movie to portray a demon stalking the LEE sons including Brandon was scary indeed. When I first saw this movie at the drive in Brandon Lee's death was just making headlines here in Australia. To see that his father thought that Brandon would meet his demon if he did not conquer it first was truly eerie. It is sad that 2 fine men should both have died at such young ages through misadventure.May the legacy of the Lee family live forever. A powerful docu-movie if ever I saw one. More powerful than Once were Kings!!! "},{"Title":"I really like this film!","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I know that this film isn't very close to Lee's actual life. It actually lies about a lot of things. It gets things wrong, but, it lies and makes it a hell of a lot more interesting. I'm not saying his life wasn't interesting. I'm saying that it was very entertaining. It didn't get the facts down-pat, but it was really really good. I really recommend it. It is a good movie for any Joe. But, it isn't a good movie for Bruce Lee Buffs.  "},{"Title":"One of the worst Biopics ever, and an insult to a great man.","Date":"5 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  If I was to give this insulting piece of crap even one star it would be for Jason Scott Lee's portrayal of Bruce Lee which is almost life like by showing Bruce's wit, charm and all round coolness almost to a T. If you wanna no why I despise this film check-out the goofs section for one. Two Director Rob Cohen (dragonheart, daylight) had bought the option to the book of Bruce's wife Linda Lee Emery and put a script together in 1 bloody month ! I'd read Linda's book and its nothing like the film/script for 1 its true. Three the film fails to mention anything about Bruce's early years in the states you no he did'nt just come to u.s.a and get married just at the snap of a finger there's nothing about his friends/students like, Taky Kimura, Doug Stone his close Friends the Oscar winning James Coburn and script writer Streling Sillaphant, his problems with Warner Bros. and Kung Fu. Truly an appalling Fabrication and an insult to Bruce Lee's great life. If you really wanna no about the man then read Bruce Thomas' Fighting Spirit  "},{"Title":"Maximum Bruce","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  As a documentary of Bruce Lee's life, this movie probably rates no higher than a C (just take a look at the goofs list), but as a testament to Bruce Lee's charisma and will to succeed, it's a solid A.  The filmmakers and Bruce's widow, Linda Lee Caldwell, clearly want to portray him in a positive light, but even if you look past the hokier fictional scenes, there's still a remarkable life to witness.  Jason Scott Lee and Lauren Holly are an appealing couple, and the supporting cast is solid.  It's a peculiar mix cartoonish kung-fu fight scenes, social commentary as Bruce fights racism to gain acceptance in white America, and most of all the central love story between Bruce and Linda, but together it makes for an entertaining and uplifting movie that I'm fairly certain will please just about any crowd.  "},{"Title":"Bruce Lee was NEVER beaten up by some guy.","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" He got a back injury from lifting weights and not stretching properly before that. Nobody ever beat him up, that's false. Also, I don't think he started Martial Arts as a little boy, he started when he was 13 after getting beaten up by a street gang. There's also another thing I have with this movie and that is Jason Scott Lee. He doesn't exactly fit the same Bruce Lee I'm used to seeing like in Enter the Dragon and Fist of Fury. This guy has muscle which is a way to start, but Bruce wasn't buff like him, Bruce was lean but still very muscular. This guy doesn't look like the clever Bruce Lee I know either. Well the movie was alright I guess, it's cool to see a lot of the stuff I read about him on screen, but a lot of it is false. "},{"Title":"The Worst Martial Arts Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" A complete embarrassment to Lee's legacy. Bad acting, bad music, contrived story, atrocious fight choreography....and a sickening display of political correctness. When I heard the line You would put your tongue in a Chinese's mouth? I had to end the misery there. This marked the first time I couldn't finish a movie in quite some time.And let's face it, Jason Scott Lee is no Bruce Lee. Rather than display the physical prowess of the legend, he does cheesy flips and sommersaults. Frankly I'm surprised this film got as high a rating as it did on this site. It definitely didn't deserve (at present) a 6.7. A huge let down, particularly for me, as a martial arts connoisseur. Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Haven't really learned anything about the real Bruce Lee","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" As you might guess, this is a film about the life of Bruce Lee (based on a book written by his widow, Linda). Like most Hollywood biopics, Dragon tends to over-glamorize its' subject. There's very little mention of Lee's dark side, such as his sometimes violent temper or his alleged affairs and hashish use. Which is a shame, really, because Lee's real story is a whole lot more interesting than your typical Hollywood romance movie -- which is what this ultimately boils down to. Both leads do a fair job, and Jason Scott Lee (no relation to Bruce) looks pretty good in the action sequences. However, after watching Dragon, one gets the sense that they haven't really learned anything about the real Bruce Lee. "}{"Title":"It's about the legend, not the man","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" My one-line summary couldn't have really stated it any clearer. Dragon The Bruce Lee Story is just that, a story. It's like a fairy tale you'd read to your kids at night before they go to bed. You could tell them about the legend of the greatest fighter who ever lived Bruce Lee.Bruce Lee is my favorite martial artist and one of my heroes (which sounds cliché by now, even 33 years after his death), and this movie makes me wonder that anything is possible. As an aspiring writer and (perhaps?) martial artist myself in Korean Hapkido, I always think, If Bruce could do that, then certainly so can I. I try to live by one of the aphorisms written down in his Striking Thoughts book on goals, Make at least one definite move daily toward your goal.Born Lee Jun Fan in San Francisco into a family of Chinese immigrants but given the first name Bruce by a nurse, Bruce Lee is moved with his family back to Hong Kong. His superstitious father (Ric Young) takes the young Bruce to Sifu Yip Man, who trains him in the ancient Chinese gong-fu art of Wing Chun. As a teenager, at this time now played by Jason Scott Lee (no relation), he gets into a fight with some British sailors and his father ships him off to America, to live in his hometown of San Francisco.Here, he washes dishes but has bigger aspirations to live the American dream. So he quits his job, attends college classes, overcomes racial prejudices when he meets wife Linda Emery (Lauren Holly), and teaches Wing Chun to fellow students after beating one of their peers in a gymnasium fight. He next opens the first Jun Fan Gong Fu Institute in San Francisco. The traditional Chinese masters, who already have an entrenched power base in America, aren't pleased with his teaching of their sacred art to foreigners. Bruce doesn't cave to their demands and a challenge is set up with a Bolo Yeung lookalike.The battle is long and brutal, but concludes with Bruce sustaining a severe back injury that puts him in the hospital recuperating for six months. During this time, Linda, with a pen and a pad, jots down his notes, the culmination which results in Lee's self-christened fighting philosophy Jeet Kune Do (when translated from Cantonese means the way of the intercepting fist) and the accompanying book Tao of Jeet Kune Do (which I own). She also gives birth to their two children, Brandon and Shannon.Once back on his feet, he meets the resentment of the martial arts community and seeks to promote his new philosophy and succeeds. Then the movie offers come and he makes four films Fists of Fury (1971), The Chinese Connection and his directorial debut Return of the Dragon (both released in 1972), and his only English-speaking American feature Enter the Dragon (1973). Lee was hard at work on his Game of Death project but would never finish it, as he would be dead at age 32 from mysterious circumstances (officially, a cerebral edema - a collection of fluids in the brain), just a few weeks shy of the Hollywood premiere of Enter the Dragon.It was at this time that Bruce Lee ceased being a man, and became a legend.Dragon The Bruce Lee Story, for all of its glaring factual inaccuracies, is still a bold testament to the myth of Bruce Lee and his following legacy. Directed by Rob Cohen and based on widow Linda's book Bruce Lee The Man Only I Knew, Dragon resonates with the myth of the man. The script seems to never rise above the generic Hollywood rags-to-riches storyline and the historical inaccuracies do tend to bug the hell out of me because I'm unsure of why they're included (but I'm just going to assume they are there for sheer entertainment value, not to whore Bruce's life and achievements for profit).Jason Scott Lee delivers a breakthrough performance as the Master, and I do think it's shameful he hasn't gotten better roles as a result from his work here, especially after training in Jeet Kune Do with martial artist Jerry Poteet, who is one of the real-life Bruce's highest-ranking students. What I admired most about Lee's portrayal of the Master is how he, well, became Lee. Though Lee's of Hawaiian origin and not Chinese, he still has Bruce's grace, attitude, brashness, and accent to a capital T. Interspersed with the action are some really chilling dream sequences in which Bruce must square off against a towering Japanese samurai demon.It is during these sequences that an eerie prophecy unfolds that seems to have real-life consequence and relevance. Bruce's father warns him of the demon as a young boy and in one of these dream battles, he furiously tries to protect son Brandon from it and from the looks of it, triumphs, but the glory seems short-lived since, apparently, the demon came back to get Bruce, and returned 20 years later for the son, and Brandon, too, would be dead in 1993 from an on-set accident while filming The Crow (1994). (On a side note Dragon The Bruce Lee Story was released a few weeks after Brandon's death, so events may now seem anachronistic.)Dragon The Bruce Lee Story still carries weight for those interested in learning about the myth of the Master, though don't look at it for a recount of the greatest martial arts legend ever. It's not about disrespecting his life, but is instead about glorifying the myths surrounding it. For a proper introduction to Bruce Lee, I'd suggest this film, not for factual accuracy but for the greatest proverbial kick to the head you'll ever experience. Perhaps after you've seen Dragon The Bruce Lee Story, you'll definitely want to learn more about the mystery, the life, the love, and most significantly, the legend.10/10 "},{"Title":"Before you run you mouth off (or keyboard rather..)","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I love Bruce Lee's films and I believe that this is a great movie and think that the legend himself is in Gung-fu heaven with a smile one his face due to the fact that someone had finally did what he had always sought out to do in his films...entertain!!! I would just like to point out that if you watch Dragon with Rob Cohen's commentary on, he will make note of all the things they changed and why!!! ( i.e. changing Ramond Chow's name to Phillip Chan because he initially wasn't sure if he would like the movie, but later stated that he loved it.) AND FINALLY it is a FILM BASED on the life of Bruce Lee, it never claims to be a documentary. "},{"Title":"A great movie, yet sad.","Date":"19 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  A thing you can learn from this movie is that no matter what life throws at you, do what's in your heart. No matter what happened, he was still there for his family, i really liked that. And its sad that his son died at the start of his career too. The fact that his mother-in-law had some issues about her white daughter marrying him then learning what she felt about him was wrong and it was wrong to judge him based on skin tone, that was touching.If more people could come to realizations like that, wouldn't it be soooo much better to live in this world? "},{"Title":"nothing like his life","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Having bought and watched the special edition dvd boxset i was watching the extras and listing to all the interviews i came to realise that this movie has nothing to do with actual events that happened in his life. It is a disgrace that hollywood has fictionalised this legends life for the purpose of making money. "},{"Title":"touching","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  this film touched my life in so many ways,for anyone that has doubts and fear about life the bruce lee story will conker these fears. bruce/jason scott lee potrays sevral different types of emotion to this movie and also there is good conflict in this drama. this film is very touching as it shows bruce ride his white wife linda. a very touching movie. "},{"Title":"Bio-pic on the kung fu legend","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  This highly-romanticised American biopic may be historically bulls**t and over-dramatic, but it does make for a highly enjoyable experience, packed to the brim with sentiment and kung fu and offering to the uninitiated a window, if a little frosted, into the life and times of the late Bruce Lee. Jason Scott Lee (no relation) plays the man as we follow him from his rough early years in Hong Kong, onto university in Seattle, marrying Linda (Holly), trying aimlessly to make it in Hollywood up to his groundbreaking success in movies like The Big Boss and Enter the Dragon, through to his early death aged 32. The main delight is Lee, superbly cast as the Little Dragon complete with mannerisms and philosophical speech in a role that had initially been offered to Bruce's son Brandon. Surprisingly, the action is gripping stuff, beautifully performed and highly intense, but with one major snag a convoluted and tedious supernatural sub-plot in which our man Lee continually confronts a spiritual demon in an attempt to forbid its passing onto his son (the cruel irony being that Brandon was to die in the same year). In the end we have a neat little package here that offers straightforward, mainstream excitement that's not too demanding yet worthwhile and very compelling. "},{"Title":"Decent biopic, and the star does well, but why watch Scott-Lee when you can watch the man himself?","Date":"6 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"    Taken purely as a fiction, this is a beautifully shot, well written and mostly well acted 'interpretation' of Bruce Lee's life.  Anyone looking for just hard facts and no artistic license would do better to look elsewhere.  I have a tiny problem with the makers claiming that this is 'the Bruce Lee story', couldn't they have just made a film that was inspired by the great man, rather than distorting events for their own ends and passing the result off as reality?   Anyway, Scott-Lee delivers an uncannily accurate performance as Bruce, but as the summary above queries, why should anyone choose to watch someone pretending to be Bruce Lee, when they could just as easily watch the man himself?  For those of you who wish to do so but have yet to see a Bruce Lee film, watch Enter the Dragon first.  Most people generally regard it as his best.  (If you can, get hold of the US version with the nunchuka use, can't understand why this is still banned in the UK after all these years!) "},{"Title":"The best Bruce Lee biopic so far.","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I wish someone would do another biopic about Bruce Lee without all the inaccuracies here and without masking all the unpleasant aspects of his life. But for now, Dragon is the best you can get. I was pleasantly surprised with Jason Scott Lee's performance.  Although he seemed boyish throughout, he captures Bruce Lee's zest for life, humor and screen presence. Lauren Holly is competent as the devoted wife who stands by her man (but then again this is based on Linda Lee's book). The movie skips a lot on the early childhood of Bruce Lee and touches little on the life he led while filming in the Far East. Lee's life is a touching tale depicting the struggle against a family curse of their sons dying young. It is said that the naming of Bruce Lee as Little Dragon -- Xiao Loong -- by his parents was sacrilegious and offended the gods (because Gods were also referred as Dragons in Chinese mythology). The release of Dragon and the retelling of the Chinese curse were given even greater poignancy and uncanniness as they coincided with the death of Brandon Lee, Bruce's only son, while filming the Crow. Isn't it strange? Both father and son die at the threshold of breaking through in their careers. Watch Dragon to understand how the greatest kung fu legend came to be. How he overcame every obstacle -- from racism to rejection from his own people -- and led a life of fullness until it was short circuited at the tender age of 32. Hail Bruce Lee, the greatest martial arts hero of our time. "},{"Title":"Could have been epic, but no","Date":"26 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" The story of the life of Kung Fu star Bruce Lee is no epic, but perhaps it could have been. For the most part though it is a journey into mysticism, both in Lee's study of the martial arts and in his endless battle against the demons that torment him.Jason Scott Lee is a very good choice to play namesake Bruce, and he does reasonably well with the role. The movie is sadly too slow in some parts, and too hurried in others. Rob Cohen needed to balance the drama a little better.And don't be deceived, for this is no action movie either, but rather a film about Lee's experiences in the U.S.Thursday, July 22, 1993 - Greater Union Melbourne "},{"Title":"superb treatment of a legendary subject","Date":"2 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I was engaged to my wife that summer Enter the Dragon was released. she lived near where Bruce's house was. (not difficult in tiny Hong Kong). suffice to say the fact humans can perform such remarkable feats as smashing a block of ice or kicking 15 feet in the air is testimony to the Chinese deeper understanding of the overlap between physical and metaphysical.Studying this overlap was a life long quest for Bruce.the film gives a very balanced view of his day to day trials and then also his long term increase in understanding of his art. the result was a brand new form of martial art, jeet kwon do. free of formal rituals and stultified tradition.Jason Scott Lee is the only actor who could have pulled this off. Bruce was actually a very slight man but the chiseled look was all his. Jason Scott Lee matched this and also mastered Bruce's mannerisms including that thing he did when a fight began unflinching glare at the opponent, fixing his eyes as he nodded his head back and forth in something akin to a 'radar' fix.pretty much everything depicted in the movie happened, including the incredulous reaction on the set of 'green hornet' the first time he did the role. he tore thru the set at blistering speed. he had the martial arts and acting background to do it.in an age of film making now when everything is blue screen overlap, digital and the same old stand-ins, Bruce was a pioneer in that HE was the one doing the fight scenes; HE was the genuine article.I truly miss the man and grieve over the loss of Brandon who would assuredly found a niche in acting to continue this remarkable entertainment gender. "}{"Title":"Pretty good biographical film.","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Rated PG-13 for Violence and Sexual Content. Quebec Rating13+(should be G) Canadian Home Video Rating14AI will admit there are many goofs in this film.If you look at the goofs section of the IMDb Page you will see that.However forget every single goof and that far-fetched Demon sub-plot and you have an excellent dramatic biography about martial arts legend Bruce Lee.Well the plot is the biography of Bruce lee.Its about Bruce Lee who trains in Hong Kong and goes to America and opens his Kung-Fu school and gets married and has kids.He starts making films and occasionally battling a supposed Chinese demon monster.THis film has pretty good fight scenes.If you're a Bruce Lee fan or if you don't care about goofs and are looking for a good biography then I suggest you watch this film.Runtime120min8/10 "},{"Title":"Decent attempt in portraying Bruce Lee.","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I grew up watching those Hong Kong TV drama serials (with those Mandarin dubbings) from the television here. It's just that as a young girl, it was the thing for me. After it had made me more exposed to the entertainment scene there, it's then I began to learn some of the famous names in the Hong Kong entertainment industry.Bruce Lee is one of those people. Though I had always remembered him most of the time by his Chinese name. Though born in America, he became quite an icon in Hong Kong (where his ancestors came from). Anyhow, I remembered seeing this biopic like last year or something on the cable here.Naturally for someone like me growing up to Hong Kong entertainment (before the 'arrival' of sorts of the Korean entertainment scene on our television here), it's interesting to see how an American director portray a hero like Bruce Lee himself. It's always like that.The struggles of how someone who can break into the competitive Hollywood scene despite his skin colour is always quite inspirational. Before there is Jackie Chan, it's Bruce himself.A decent attempt. "},{"Title":"Flawless if it wasn't for the incorrect storyline","Date":"31 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Don't get me wrong, I love this movie. There's a lot of great things in this movie The cast, the martial arts, the score (very good) and the sets (espacially the set of the Big Boss!). But why ooh why is the story so badly written. A lot of interesting things are not in the picture and a lot of fiction is. The inner demon story was great though, but most of the fiction plots were mainly to add more fight scenes. The fight scene with the chefs in the Chinese restaurant was totally fiction and very unimportant to the story. I understand that the makers of the film have to sell this movie and therefore didn't want to make a movie with more of Bruce Lee's philosophy than Bruce Lee's fighting. Ironically Hollywoods focus on marketing is the thing that had always worked against Bruce. Producers considered him an investment risk being Asian. Talking about the racism statement in this movie.. couldn't they have picked another movie instead of Breakfast at Tiffany's to make this point? I love that movie! ).Conclusion Everybody gets an applause except the scriptwriters. "},{"Title":"touching","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  this film touched my life in so many ways,for anyone that has doubts and fear about life the bruce lee story will conker these fears. bruce/jason scott lee potrays sevral different types of emotion to this movie and also there is good conflict in this drama. this film is very touching as it shows bruce with his white wife linda. a very touching movie. "},{"Title":"Seattle snubbed in the film","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Bruce Lee first taught martial arts, worked at a Chinese restaurant, attended UDub and met his wife Linda in Seattle. That's why he's buried in Seattle not in Hong Kong, San Francisco or Los Angeles. I've been there twice and will visit more (his son Brandon is buried next to him). In the movie, there's no mention about the city. At least there should have been an establishing shot of the city and the University of Washington with titles on the bottom of the screen. Probably the producers of the movie thought since Lee was Chinese, San Francisco was fine to shoot everything.C'mon! There's also a Chinatown in Seattle and the building where he taught is I believe still there. (Watch the documentary on TLC channel) Also, why is there no mention about Raymond Chow? Instead who is this Phillip Tan?The score by Edelman should have won an Oscar. Was it at least nominated? I can't remember.Folks! Remember the scene where Lee is lifted by fans after the premier of The Big Boss? That theater is in Macau, not Hong Kong. So in the movie, the theater's sign is in Portuguese. Should have changed that. Also, there were no three-point line in basketball when Lee was attending college. In the scene where Lee works out at a gym and is approached by some dudes who challenges him, there's a three-point line on the floor. "},{"Title":"Precise and straight to the point.","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  2 words spring to mind when I think of this film; .uplifting and inspiring!I recommend this film to anyone who wants to see a feel good movie about one man and his determination to fulfill his dreams. The individual elements may not be top notch but when combined they prove to be very successful and hit the nail right on the head!I'd give this movie a strong well deserved 7 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Goofball parody...","Date":"10 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Happening across the book THE TAO OF BRUCE LEE by Davis Miller brought back some fond memories memories of seeing THE GREEN HORNET teleseries when it first aired, and being amazed by The Hornet's sidekick, Kato, as he took out villain after villain with what seemed to be almost supernatural abilities (but which clearly were NOT the punches and kicks had a BELIEVABILITY about them, a verisimilitude lacking in most television and motion picture slugfests); memories of the hot summer days, not very many years later, spent slouched down in my seat watching this same Human Dynamo dispatch an assortment of villains up on The Big Screen, punctuating each kick and punch with an ear-splitting scream or his trademark howl. Soon I was lost in the thunder, writes Miller. I'd bathe in dreams and in lightning. Much has been made of Bruce Lee's alleged fighting ability; even Miller seems to climb atop the fence by the end of his book. (He recounts discussions with another martial artist, full contact heavyweight karate champion Joe Lewis, that would suggest another book might be a good idea if anyone's been overlooked long enough, it's Joe Lewis- and of Lewis's ring skills there's little doubt I saw him fight twice, and he was MOST impressive, even against much bigger opponents. I read somewhere that Bruce Lee himself once referred to Lewis as the greatest fighter on the face of the Earth. How's THAT for an endorsement?) This movie, however, is about as true to life as any of the other exploitation movies that literally followed in his wake. Lee was all too human (as his death attests) and had his flaws (unlike the rest of us) in the book HONG KONG BABYLON, it's revealed that the woman in whose bed his body was found was the girlfriend of a Triad boss. But the fact remains that Bruce Lee was- and IS- an inspiration to millions- myself included. This movie does him a great disservice. "},{"Title":"They shouldn't call it ' Dragon, The Bruce Lee Story'","Date":"19 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" But they should call it Dragon, The Stupid Story because it captured nothing of Bruce Lee. Lets see, the story is almost like a myth. The acting is horrible and there is no martial art whatsoever! This is movie is no tribute to Bruce Lee but only cash in on Bruce's name. This is truly embarrassing because Jason Scott Lee doesn't know a bit of martial art. What he does best is yelling and trying to make the Bruce Lee look in the whole movie. I wonder how did he get this role? And for God's sake, why CANT they find somebody that can do a DECENT kick?????? Do yourself a favor and avoid this movie at all cost. I give this movie the lowest rating possible. "},{"Title":"Worst attempt at biography I have ever seen","Date":"16 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" When the DVD started with the off-screen voice of Bruce Lee's widow, Linda Lee Catwell, explaining just how she wants her husband to be remembered, I became afraid that she might have exerted some control over the production of Dragon The Bruce Lee Story. When the opening credits finally started and I saw that the script was based on her own biography of Lee and actually co-written by her, I should have been wiser and spent the evening with something else. But some people never learn. At least, I am now able to warn everybody. Don't ever watch this thing.And here is why. If you hold political elections, you don't want anyone to manipulate the count. If you want to make a scientific discovery, you try to safeguard against your own prejudices. And if you want to write a biography of a legendary movie and martial arts star, YOU DON'T WANT HIS WIFE TO EXERT CENSORSHIP.Have I made myself clear? This movie is, in all honesty, the worst attempt at biography that I have ever seen. Its portrayal of Lee is so soft-focused, so white-washed, so sticky-sweet that it had me cringing in my seat.As judged from this movie, Bruce Lee was the cutest, most amiable, friendly, sensitive... (insert any positive adjective you like) person that ever walked the earth. There is not the slightest hint that this man might have had some inner troubles, some dark sides, some nasty habits, some human faults. Well, he MIGHT have been a nice person, I don't mind that. Very well. But he was probably no saint. (Besides, most saints aren't nice persons, anyway).I'm no expert for the life of Bruce Lee, but from the documentary material I have seen over the years, I perceived Lee as a slightly arrogant and even unintentionally comic person, e.g., when winding off his fortune-cookie philosophy in TV interviews. A person that was in the focus of public interest to such an extent MUST have been troubled by that. What about the constant strain of being a celebrity? What about the serious illness and overwork that led to his untimely death? Except for a ridiculously allegoric series of nightmare sequences whose visual style is shamelessly lifted from the then-recent Chinese Ghost Story, the movie obviously avoids so many questions that it evokes totally unnecessary suspicions. Why have the scriptwriters made the bizarre decision to relegate the most interesting part of his life (his filmwork, most people would think) to the last twenty minutes of the movie? His tragic death, with all the questions it raises, is even spared completely.So, it's badly written. What about the rest? As to the actors, Jason Scott Lee is completely miscast. He does not bear the slightest resemblance to Bruce Lee -- he is baby-faced, utterly incapable of the violent menace Lee could convey in his movies. Needless to say, his attempts at imitating the master's martial arts are also quite lame. Much, much worse is Lauren Holly, who plays Lee's wife. The wife is portrayed as such a cute, wide-eyed little spouse that it gets downright sickening, considered that she is playing the co-scriptwriter. Scriptwriters should never be allowed to write their own biography.Technically, the movie is pedestrian and completely uninspired. At some points, I tried to predict the next movement direction of the camera and was never wrong.To conclude, this is brain-washed Hollywood grease of the lowest type, rose-tinted, unhistorical, dishonest, and boring to the extreme. Avoid it at any cost. Rent a Bruce Lee movie instead!Still 2/10, because at least nobody looked directly into the camera. "},{"Title":"Dishwater","Date":"4 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I remember this as being more exciting than it actually was, a decade and a half ago.And also how this was lauded as a the new 'date movie' paradigm. It seemed obvious enough, with the allusion to another date movie within (Breakfast at Tiffany's). What's important is that this is the inverse of what we would get today instead of targeting female moviegoers, things are engineered here to draw a male audience with machismo and the martial arts wow factor.But if that's the central value, I'll eat my hat. Several things annoy.The movie can't walk two steps without tripping over itself on race issues. Every scene is geared to show how boorishly evil whites and their Hollywood machine are. The denouement really occurs halfway in when the 'good white woman' vanquishes the racism by shaming us when we laugh at Mickey Rooney, and then by becoming one with the Numinous Asian.By the way, the portrayal of Lee as philosopher is the unintentional joke. Physically and cinematically, he was a martial arts genius. Intellectually, he was nowhere -- his philosophy of fighting is a dull recycling of clichés from Taoism and American self-help books.Those who personally knew Lee marveled at his uncontainable energy. This movie had no hope of even approaching that. At least the star gave it a valiant effort. "}]