[{"Title":"strange, but lyrical, film","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"35 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Disarmingly strange film about a family of children fending for themselves after first their father, then their mother dies. Oldest son Jack eschews responsibility, leaving next oldest Julie to handle the everyday chores. In the midst of all these devestating changes, Jack and Julie begin to develop a singularly unusual bond, one that is threatened when Julie invites the outside world into their private domain by dating an older man.This film sparks comparisons to the similarly themed OUR MOTHER'S HOUSE, but the two films differ dramatically. While the children in OUR MOTHER'S HOUSE construct an elaborate fantasy world for themselves(based in part on the dead mother's fanatic religious beliefs), there's no such pretentious in THE CEMENT GARDEN. The children live in a cinder block house, with a cement garden out back, on a plot surrounded by a flat, desolate looking landscape. There are several scenes where the children sit around saying nothing, doing nothing, something that never happens in the other film's active household. The costumes and household furnishings are nondescript; you can't figure out if this film is set in the sixties or the nineties. The overall feel is one of banality, lethargy, and a total absence of passion or vitality. Perhaps it's only in a situation like this that the relationship Jack and Julie have can flourish, and Jack can transform from a petulant, self-absorbed boy to a responsible, loving young man. Strange atmosphere, but very rewarding.  "},{"Title":"A very strange and beautiful movie.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's a real pity that 'Name Of The Rose' scriptwriter Andrew Birkin hasn't directed anything since 'The Cement Garden' if this puzzling and disturbing movie is any indication of his talent. Birkin also wrote this superb adaptation of Ian McEwan's perverse and haunting novel. A hypnotic study of a family of children left to fend for themselves, while wrestling with their forbidden desires and obsessions, it crosses over into almost Ballardian territory. The casting of Andrew Robertson and Charlotte Gainsbourg as the androgynous older siblings is the main reason why this odd movie is so successful. To add to the incestuous overtones, Gainsbourg is Birkin's niece, and first gained notoriety duetting with her legendary father Serge on a pop ditty titled Lemon Incest while barely in her teens. The layers continue by Birkin casting his own son Ned as the younger cross-dressing brother. This is a very strange and beautiful movie. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Family intimacy","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The premise of offspring who try to hold their family together after parents' death or desertion has been done a number of times, most notably in Our Mother's House (1967), a little-known masterpiece directed by John Clayton. Here the emphasis is different though, concentrating on the developing intimacy between the oldest sibling Julie and her brother Jack. This is presented in a matter-of-fact and non-judgmental fashion, seeming to fit naturally, as Jack in fact says, with their increasingly weird circumstances. Be warned there is much adolescent nudity here, including a wild transcendental dance-in-the-rain performed very well by Andrew Robertson. BTW, that scene is reproduced almost identically in Edges of the Lord (2001), but with a much younger boy. Ned Birkin, whom I suspect of being director Andrew Birkin's close kin (an irony unintended I'm sure) plays the cross-dressing younger brother, and his sub-plot is not developed, which is probably just as well since he exhibits little talent. I suppose this is included to emphasize the point that in a family untrammeled by conventional moralities, each individual is accepted with whatever modus operandi works for him or her. Not an altogether bad idea when one considers it&#133; "},{"Title":"For let the shape of an object be as they may light, shade and perspective will always make it beautiful","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Andrew Birkin's Fantastic The Cement Garden (based on Ian McEwan's controversial Novel of the same name.) follows awkward and feminine looking Teenager Jack (Andrew Robertson) and his family that live in a council-house surrounded by ruins somewhere in England.Jack is a hard to like character at first, spending most time either looking at himself in the mirror or roaming the ruins to read and masturbate. In contrast to narcissistic and rebellious Jack we have his sweet, reliable and compassionate sister Julie (Charlotte Gainsbourg) who appears to be wise beyond her years. There's also youngest brother Tom, who wants to be a girl (and gets bullied as result in school) and younger sister Sue, who is rather quiet and internal and keeps a diary. Jack's father is strict and eager to criticise all of his kid's actions.Jack's father is sick of keeping up with the garden and plans to cover it up with cement, asking Jack to help him out. Jack soon leaves the old man alone after getting a glimpse of his sister Julie's legs and disappears to the bathroom to masturbate to his own reflection. In a wonderfully edited scene, his father dies of an heart attack and lands with his face in the cement just as Jack is about to cum.Jack first seems careless over the death of his father and continues perving over his sister, and nearly rapes her following an erotic tickle fight.Soon after the death of the father their mother falls sick and is unable to get out of bed, since Jack is to lazy; his sister takes over doing most of the duties in the house. and more games start between the two siblings; after she bosses him around on his birthday she purposefully teases and arouses him with a handstand. (revealing her knickers to him) Julie seems to be very aware of the control she can have over her brother. And despite her motherly and mature nature might not be as sweet as she first appeared to be. It is impossible to take your eyes of Charlotte Gainsbourg, Crossing lines between Tomboy and Femme fatale.The mother passes away from her illness only months after the death of the father and the 4 children are now all alone. Afraid that they will be split up and put in orphanages they hide their mother's death by burying her under the cement. (Loved this scene when the cement ran over her dead body, simply beautifully shot and then followed by a flash-back of the kids burying their then living mother in the sand during a Family vacation)The photography overall is superb, from the agoraphobic eagle-eye views of ruins, grey skies, big black shadows and almost monochrome images that create a hostile and dead world where it would almost seem like the kids are the last survivors of a nuclear blast.Despite grief and alienation from the world, The kid's are in a way liberated; youngest boy Tom starts openly wearing dresses and a wig, while Julie starts dating a 30 year old, much to the jealousy and dislike of her brother Jack.I started to warm up to Jack, who despite spending so much time looking into the mirror actually seems like he never quite feel well in his skin, Andrew Robertson subtle performance is wonderful and as the film progresses all characters are extremely well fleshed out on screen, the dialogues feel natural (even if sometimes deliberately awkward) Also loved the tone and pacing; a hauntingly beautiful, sensual and gripping film. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Fascinating and surreal drama","Date":"14 July 2009","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Cement Garden is based on a book by Ian McEwan and follows a group of siblings as they try to cope with the loss of their parents. However, there is much more to this film than merely the basic plot outline; through interesting character design, surreal locations and a gentle stream of shocking happenings; writer-director Andrew Birkin has created a truly unique and fascinating piece of cinema. Of all the films I have seen, I can't think of a single one that is really anything like this one. The film takes place in and around an isolated house surrounded by concrete (presumably on the edge of a town). The house is inhabited by two adults and four children; until the father dies of a heart attack, and the mother's health deteriorates until her eventual death shortly thereafter. This then leaves the four children to fend for themselves. The eldest siblings, Julie and Jack, decide to hide the mother's body in the basement rather than allowing themselves to go into care. The event affects each of the children in different ways.The Cement Garden is characterised by its setting; a large and morose house stands amidst a landscape made purely of concrete. This location serves the story as it creates isolation and separates the central family from the rest of the population. The film's colour scheme is based on grey and the gloominess of it helps to enforce the melancholy nature of the story. The film features plenty of shocks and breaks many taboos; but everything is presented in such a gentle manner that most of things featured actually seem quite normal, and that in turn makes them even more shocking. The film really is quite daring, and even more so for the fact that the central cast is so young. The dialogue can be quite awkward at times but the actors make the best of it. The film does become more surreal as it moves along, and while the ending of the film is not really a surprise; it still does manage to provide a shock. Overall, The Cement Garden is an excellent adaptation and well worth a look. "},{"Title":"Well shot, acted, and written despite what others may say...","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have heard people writing comments about being shocked by the sexuality in this movie and about being shocked by who was involved in producing it (i.e. relatives). Consider this the actress who plays Julie was not 14-15 years old when this was shot, she was 22! It's called acting. And, her older brother, an actor who was no relation, was 19. So, get over it folks. It's a movie, a slow moving but very well done movie.Truth is, I'm sorry if this movie offends some people. But, for goodness sakes, it's a story on a screen that is not even that racy. The movie is actually paced quite well to fit the somber mood and really, who can complain about the acting. I think some who have found any serious fault in the production are just trying to justify their uncomfortable feelings about the subject matter.Anyway, read the other comments, choose for yourself whether or not you care to watch it. But, if you are not put off by the subject matter, you will find a beautiful and sad story. "},{"Title":"Put mom in a can and share the bed with siblings","Date":"26 June 2000","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I like Ian McEwans writings, especially his early short stories, and this is a generous contribution to the haunting quality of his work (much better than Comfort of Strangers or A Good Son). Charlotte Gainsbourg is wonderful as the impish sister and Andrew Robertson does very well hiding behind his shag cut and masturbating in his private bunker.  Camera work is wonderful in a fantastic location in middle of English dump sites with broken houses and bricks. Film´s strength rests not on incest but on superbly explicating a child´s value that it places on it´s family over the rest of the world. Reminds me of long ago isolated family vacations fighting and playing with siblings and forgetting everyone else, just stuck in time. Ignore the poor shock value trailer (``...but he is your brother!´´´) and dip your head into this haunting world of adolescence. Very sad and beautiful.  Don´t see with siblings or Mom, I did (an uncomfortable mistake). "},{"Title":"I can't believe more people haven't seen this flick.","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies that is disturbing because it seems like a scenario that could happen in real life, and probably does. I won't go into details because almost anything that I could write about this film would be a spoiler.Suffice to say, that a family of youngsters makes is forced to make a rash decision out of desperation and then deal with the consequences of their actions. The viewer is then forced confront moral issues that are both difficult and troubling in a complex way. Unlike, the standard Hollywood film - or even the standard English film for that matter, this film is about shades of grey instead of blacks and whites. It is filled with compassion and pathos. A real throwback to the kind of movie that marked the great English cinema of the mid 60's. You can almost see a young Tom Courtney starring in this film if it had been made 3 decades earlier. A wonderful film! "},{"Title":"It's a family affair","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"24 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There's an almost heroic honesty to this urbanized, co-ed Lord of the Flies-ish love story. A square stone house serves as the isolated island while the jungle is the familiar setting of urban sprawl and other people. Director Andrew Birkin, in adapting Ian McEwan's novel (The Comfort of Strangers) to the screen, doesn't try to shock us. He just ignores our prejudices and lets fall away our preconceptions. What emerges is a sense of liberation from the usual hypocrisy.The love story is an acting out of sister-brother incest, almost a celebration of it. Seems natural to me is what fifteen-year-old Jack (Andrew Robertson) says while in the naked embrace of his older sister Julie (Charlotte Gainsbourg). I could almost buy it, but I know of the kibbutz effect in which it was found that unrelated children growing up together virtually never married one another. If sister and brother grow up separately there can be sexual excitement between them, but if they grow up in the same household they tend to find each other sexually boring. Family members usually work out the sexual tension through play at an early age so that by the time they are sexually mature, they are looking elsewhere. That's how the incest taboo works. Its purpose is to channel the sexual drive outward, the better to mix the gene pool. For the individual, incest is not an attractive option socially or economically because it is so much better to increase one's family and influence by joining with someone from another tribe or band. If you marry your sister, you don't gain any brothers. Consequently the average person recoils at the mere suggestion of incest, and it is this mindless, knee jerk reaction that this film attacks.Consider isolated families in the pre-history. What other reproductive choice would they have? Certainly it is better to reproduce in the hope that the next generation might find partners. This evolutionary wisdom is what is captured here. The sexual drive is seen as stronger than society's ephemeral prejudices, and rightly so since our genes must survive even when the society is stupid and self-destructive in its mores.Birkin's direction lacks focus in the beginning and the editing seems brilliant and disjointed by turns, but Birkin eschews even the hint of a cliché and ends up with a slightly flawed, but engrossing, strikingly original work of cinematic art.I'm disappointed that the sound track did not include the seventies Motown tune, It's a Family Affair.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Odd & gripping film about the brewing attraction between a brother and sister.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to admit the film is disturbing, and frank.  The subject matter is dark, yet there are moments of honest humor.  The performances by Charlotte Gainsburg and others are so impressive I became lost in their world.  It's a world where a small family can exist surrounded by nothing but concrete and rubble.  It is very troubling, and thought provoking... and the end is not one of hope nor hopelessness..  A very good film!   "}{"Title":"The irreplaceable sibling - incestuous love","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Cement Garden Andrew Birkin's film has it all intense characters, controversial situations and unusual concepts, which shouldn't come as a surprise if we keep in mind that it's based upon a novel by Ian McEwan. The protagonists are Jack, a 16 year-old boy and Julie, his sister, barely a couple of years older; then come the youngest sister and the youngest brother. The four of them live with their parents, in a somehow bleak house, completely isolated from other neighborhoods.Jack spends most of his time avoiding his home duties, such as cleaning up his room, and instead devotes most of his hours in a secluded spot in which he hides a worn out adult magazine and toilet paper. His mother actually confronts him and tells him, following the pseudo-scientific approach from Victorian age (which Foucault so aptly analyzed in his History of sexuality), that his moodiness and messiness is a direct result of self-abuse, and that should he continue practicing that he would end up extenuating his body.One afternoon, the father is pouring cement into the garden and asks Jack for help, but while the father keeps working on the garden, the young boy is in the bathroom masturbating enthusiastically, with precise visual transitions, the director manages to apprise the moment of Jack's orgasm with the last breadth of the father, as he succumbs to a heart attack. Later on, Jack will tell to his sister Besides... not my fault he died, answering a question that no sibling had dared to ask up to that moment.The absence of the father marks the downfall of the family. The mother is unable to step out of her room, depressed as she is, and order and discipline soon turns into chaos and disarray. It's in this context that the constant taunting between Jack and Julie turns into something else. What at first begins as innocent flirtations soon brings up more tantalizing repartees. In one occasion, while Jack is on top of Julie, tickling her, she starts grabbing him in a very distinct manner and comes to an orgasm.As the mother falls deeper into depression and illness, the fear of being discovered is diluted and thus the incestuous fantasy acquires a firm grasp on reality. As Lacan analyzed in his Antigone seminar, the death drive moves the Greek heroine towards the desire invested exclusively around the body of her deceased brother. In The Cement Garden, the protagonists start cajoling themselves around this death drive that disappears and leaves only a very real desire and a very real erotic drive. My brother is what he is would say Antigone, and in a similar way Jack will tell her sister that if people love him then they will take him as he is.In Ancient Greece the term autadelphos (autos same; adelphos sisterly, related to delphus womb) would mean something irreplaceable. As Antigone says in Sophocles' play, if she would lose her children she could always get pregnant again, if she would lose her husband she could always find another man, but if she loses her brother, who could possibly replace him? They are, after all, creatures that have shared the same womb and nothing can compare to that. In a similar fashion, the passion between Jack and Julie defies all social norms and regulations. They are irreplaceable for each other, and as the house starts falling apart, they start getting closer and closer.The absence of the father also means the absence of the nom de pere, the ultimate authority that inscribes the subject into society, that commands his offspring to occupy the male or female position in the symbolic order. Without this authority, male and female positions are interchangeable whether ideologically or practically, as it's made evident by the authority invested upon Julie, who has the full responsibility of being in charge of the house (a role that would be traditionally ascribed to a male), or by the youngest brother's obsession in wearing wigs and skirts, not only dressing up as a girl but also sleeping on the bed with another boy his age, pretending to be Julie and Jack. When Jack intends to stop this peculiar practices, Julie has but one answer for him You think that being a girl is degrading but secretly you'd love to know what is it like, wouldn't you?, and in a very tantalizing way places a most effeminate ribbon on his brother's neck.Crossing all boundaries, subverting the heterosexual normative and assuming incest as something that feels natural and real, Birkin's film announces from the very beginning a dreadful end; perhaps it would be interesting to compare the novel's ending with the one in the film, because after all, once all is said and done, as Lacan would phrase it &#x85;is important to note that one only has to make a conceptual shift and move the night spent with the lady from the category of pleasure to that of jouissance, given that jouissance implies precisely the acceptance of death &#x97; and there's no need of sublimation &#x97; for the example to be ruined. "},{"Title":"A Midsummer Nightmare","Date":"25 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Cement Garden, based upon a novella by Ian McEwan, deals with a similar theme to that of William Golding's Lord of the Flies, namely the behaviour of children and adolescents when free of the constraints of adult behaviour. Four siblings from a working-class family - Jack, his older sister Julie, younger sister Sue and the youngest, Tom- are orphaned by the death of their mother, their father having died earlier. In order to stay together and avoid being put into the care of the local authority, they conceal their mother's death by hiding her body in a trunk, filling it with cement and leaving it in the cellar of their house. The story takes place during a hot summer in a bleak, impoverished district of an unnamed British inner city. The children's house, a grim Modernist building, is one of the few remaining in an area marked out for redevelopment, and is surrounded either by soulless tower blocks or by derelict, rubble-strewn wasteland. Their father dies while trying to lay concrete over the garden, one of the few islands of green in the area, hence the title. The book was published in 1978 and in many ways reflects the mood of Britain in the late seventies, a time of economic recession, of industrial unrest, of unemployment, of concern about declining public services and the condition of the inner cities. (The period also saw some of the hottest summers of recent decades). The book was also highly controversial because of the incestuous relationship which develops between Jack and Julie, something which possibly explains why it had to wait until 1993 to be adapted for the screen. Although the seventies were a period of increasing permissiveness in Britain, there was a limit to what the British Board of Film Censors would permit, and incest still seemed to be off-limits. This relationship, however, is an important part of the story; it can be seen as both the ultimate expression of family solidarity and as a conscious rejection of the taboos and conventions of the adult world, so an adaptation which omitted this relationship would not have worked. Another controversial theme of both book and film is what might be called the confusion of gender identity. Tom, who loves to dress as a girl, is presented as a budding transvestite, and both Charlotte Gainsbourg and Andrew Robertson are here made to look remarkably androgynous; her hair is short and his long. Although their characters are named Julie and Jack, they could just as easily be Julian and Jackie. The film was directed by Andrew Birkin, the brother of Jane and therefore Gainsbourg's uncle. (Another family member, Birkin's son Ned, was cast as Tom). Birkin is better known as a screenwriter than as a director, and this is one of only two feature films he has directed. Nevertheless, it is an accomplished piece of work, and the director is able to elicit some excellent performances from his young cast. McEwan's book, despite its desolate urban setting, is not a work of social realism. It can be seen as a modern development of the Gothic tradition, abandoning the supernatural elements and exotic settings beloved of Georgian and Victorian Gothic authors, but retaining their fascination with death, decay and the macabre and their emphasis on the darker side of human nature. It is a highly atmospheric piece of writing, and Birkin succeeds well in capturing its eerie, hallucinatory quality; not so much a midsummer night's dream as a midsummer nightmare. This is a film about British working-class life which stands outside the mainstream kitchen sink tradition. 8/10 "},{"Title":"A piece of art","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Simply a piece of art. More than this a magnific, dark and lonely piece of art in the middle of a desert. The cement is hard and hide things that must to be hide. In this film the past time is erased, digged in the deep under 10 feets of cement. One of the characters says (in the final of the movie) - You are sick!-, but he don't know that the sick was himself.10/10 - So far the best cinemaThanks for your art, Andrew Birkin "},{"Title":"Daring and alarming drama","Date":"10 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Based on the 1978 novel of the same name by Ian McEwan, Andrew Birkin's' screen adaptation of The Cement Garden is about masculine and social decay, and the power of female sexuality against the fragmentation of masculine dominance. Contained within the backdrop of a crumbling concrete landscape on the outskirts of town, a family home, block-like, grey and characterless seems to erupt from the ground which only sees plant life protruding from small cracks in the manufactured ground. In the opening the father (Hanns Zischler) of the isolated family is concreting over what plant life exists in their garden, but his evident ill-health (represented as a spluttering pipe-smoker) causes a heart attack, killing him. During this scene the film cuts from the impending heart attack to the increased masturbatory climax of eldest son, Jack (Andrew Robertson), a 16 year old who is clearly sexually frustrated, and is detached from the rest of the family. Just weeks later the mother (Sinead Cusack) dies of a mysterious illness, but on her death bed she speaks of orphanage's and fragmentation of the four children to her eldest, Jack and Julie (Charlotte Gainsbourg).Not wanting to comply with the social structures of adoption and social services, Jack and Julie decide to bury the mother themselves in a block of cement in the basement. The eldest two vie for control over the siblings, acting as surrogate parents, but Julie, also at the stage of teenage-era where she is learning to use her sexuality to control and influence men. She plays against Jack's frustration by teasing him, sexually luring him to gain female dominance over the family. This idea of female sexual dominance is presented in the cross dressing whims of youngest child, Tom (Ned Birkin), who plays at being Julie with his friend (who consequently play-acts as Jack. Tom wears his mothers dress and a blond wig. After the death of the parents, the only adult presence is a slimy, business-dress, convertible sports car driving, Derek (Jochen Horst). A friend of Julie's, Derek is another masculine object that Julie is attempting to break down with her sexual teasing, but he becomes increasingly suspicious of the smell coming from the basement. After a confrontation, where Jack step up to become the man of the household, Derek is sent away, and Julie has her brother where she wants him.The Cement Garden goes into some incredibly dark places, touching on incest and young sexual control. The film is also self-contained in its setting, and this isolation, and the very man made environment give the film substance and depth. This backdrop also juxtaposes the characters ideas of what natural is. Nature in this place is absent, so Julie and Jack's own perception of nature is skewed. Outside and inside the house everything external to their emotions are falling apart and rotten, and inevitably this decomposition (also of the mothers dead body) influences their ideas of natural acts - culminating in incestuous activities. The acting is superb, with Gainbourg's sexually promiscuous, flirting character she is seduction incarnate, and Robertson's detached, w*****g teenager, is rife with sweaty, greasy complexion and brooding, on-the- edge-of-explosion sexual charge. It is not a beautiful film, but the culmination of all these elements creates a daring and alarming drama that highlights the symbiosis of place and human nature.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Why it all actually works","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As aimless-46's big wow review states, the set is fantastic. As is the overall look of the film. The only difference is I actually liked the movie, primarily because it plays as an incredible piece of imagination rather than as any kind of shocking, deep philosophical statement.The film works best as this is our world rather than forbidden love. The sense of isolation, of familial insularity is all-pervasive, probably due to Derek being the only adult character of any consequence. Both mother and father are so faintly delineated that there's no real sense of loss when they both die. Scenes where the children reflect back on them have no real power since the parents were hardly there to begin with. In fact, the film works better if you start it around 11 mins. This creates the feeling that the father has been dead for quite some time rather than very recently. The characters lack of emotional reaction to his being gone makes more sense then. Likewise the mother's illness becomes something that has been going on for a significant length of time, so that when she too dies, it doesn't change much--the children have already adjusted to living w/o her.I could go on in a similar vein as there's so much which doesn't really make a lot of sense when looked at too closely. What makes it work is the kind of otherworldly shimmer Birkin gives the story. It frees the viewer up from having to parse it for cues to deeper meaning in the real world, so that we can get a feeling of what it's like to live in a very obsessive, very small world where your older sister is a disturbing little tease and your brother is a 15yr old version of Jim Morrison.Aimless-46's review touches on Birkin's artsy pretentiousness, and yeah, it's definitely there. Fortunately, Birkin is so inept when it comes to symbology that it works in the film's favor. The flashbacks to the beach scenes were probably meant to be something very specific, but they're presented in such an uncoordinated manner (and at such random points in the narrative) as to be utterly mysterious, heightening the sense of disconnection from reality. Then there's the voice-overs (in a Saturday morning cartoon announcer's voice) of the cheesy space novel Jack is reading, which should be really weak attempts at ironic commentary, except for the quoted passages seem to have nothing to do with the Jack/Julie storyline. Or, in fact, anything in the movie at all. And, of course, there's the Naked Jack in the Rain scene, possibly intended as ...well, I have no idea. Something metaphysical, I suppose, although the way it's shot it seems like little more than cooling off in the rain on a hot sweaty night.Birkin (following Macgowan's lead in the book?) appears to be trying to say something profound about gender, but it's laughable, which gives the movie some needed levity at key moments. By striving (one imagines) to depict the universal, Birkin ends up adding character depth. Julie dressing the youngest boy Tom up as a girl comes off not as a statement about gender identity, but rather as a hint that Julie has an actual sense of humor. Jacks's discovery of Tom, wearing a ridiculous wig and playing at husband and wife with his friend William, underlines Jack's essential cluelessness. Even after Tom informs him that they're playing at being Jack and Julie, Jack doesn't seem to get it. Or care.The only thing keeping me back from handing out a 10 for this one is the intrusive subplot of Derek. Nevermind that there's no particular explanation for why a successful 33yr old is perving around trying to score with a barely legal teenager, or how in hell he figures out that a locker down in the basement of a very large house contains the cement-entombed body of said teenager's recently departed mother. The guy is just annoying, popping up at all the wrong moments. His he's your brother! scene is aggravating. It's like yeah, we know, OK? That's kind of the point of the movie. Derek is unwanted voice of sanity in a movie that really doesn't need one.The whole incest angle would be icky if it were presented in anything like a realistic context. Since it's played out in a world so completely imaginary that we can't even tell what decade it is, it succeeds in being erotic--a glimpse into a world so private and self-contained that it succeeds in being its own self-generated heat source. "},{"Title":"Haunting, Hypnotic And Surreal, A Real British Classic!","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This amazing ground breaking film is based on Ian McEwan's award winning novel about four children (2 who are in their late teen's) who after the death of their mother fear foster homes and separation and as such keep the death a secret and withdraw into their own shadowy world and whilst that novel is an excellent read, this film offers so much, much more...For a start it features excellent actors including Sinead Cusack who expertly plays the mother, but the real stars of this film are the children Jack, Julie, Sue and Tom with Jack played by Andrew Robertson and Julie played by Charlotte Gainsbourg both being the main focus of the film and who are both incredibly photogenic and simply steal the show proving what fantastically accomplished young actors they really are.Then there's the films musical score which is absolutely astounding, it's haunting for the best part of the film and tears at your heartstrings at times but it simply oozes atmosphere throughout and just adds to the overall surreal effect of this movie and is the best orchestrated score I have ever heard.Then there's the film itself, which will be familiar if you've read the book, it's commonly thought to be set during the long hot summer of 1976, hottest summer on record being mentioned during the course of the movie but the fashions/styles are more of a 1960's/1970's pastiche. But this is of course a movie for adults and justifies it's 18 rating as it does contain a few shock moments, most notably the ending which although breaks a taboo is handled quite beautifully. Nevertheless there is so many visual treats shown throughout this movie, from the dark atmospheric reaction close ups on Jack's face which are accompanied by that heart string tearing music, to Jack's surreal seaside past dreams/flash-back sequences and not to mention the mothers death, which is upsetting enough to see and feel the youngsters loss, but when Jack and Julie have to move her body it's hard to keep a dry eye at the sight of Jack's despair and as always the movie score builds to see that. There's also the excellent camera work used to highlight the urban ruin that is their home/surroundings and the long shots of the children (notably Jack) walking to and from school are awe inspiring. OK I could go on but that would be a spoiler and you need to watch this movie to really appreciate it anyway.So overall this movie does much more than bring Ian McEwan's novel to the screen and although it has some uncomfortable to watch scenes it is on the whole a very beautiful film which has the effect of growing on you and becomes more enjoyable with each viewing, something you can't say for many films made nowadays. It also truly deserves to be given the label of British Classic as it's been made with such care and to such a high standard with the excellent actors, the astounding musical score, the awe inspiring camera-work and of course the award winning story itself, I really can't praise it highly enough.The only disappointing aspect of this release by Cinema Club is the lack of extras offered, it would have been nice to have a commentary from the main cast as would seeing them reunited to offer their views and memories of the movie. A feature on the making of the movie would have been great, perhaps showing the location used in London and how it appears today and a music only option highlighting the awe inspiring orchestrated musical score would have been a treat too. There's also a rumour that a large scene was deleted from the movie, so having the option to view that would have been nice. Then there's the picture quality, which is of a good standard even when viewed on a large wide-screen TV although it does appear slightly grainy if viewed close up so I doubt it got much of a digital re-mastered makeover and the soundtrack is also good here offered in Dolby Digital Stereo but it would have been so much better if it was in 5.1. OK maybe I'm nitpicking and a second disc full of extras might be a pipe dream but that would have been excellent all the same and who knows maybe one day that will happen.In any case for now it's an absolute treat that Cinema Club has made this movie available on DVD and so don't just take my word for it, buy it and let it attack your senses too, you won't be disappointed and if you don't feel touched by the visuals and music of this powerful drama then your not human. "},{"Title":"Strangely compelling...","Date":"21 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I wasn't too sure about this one at first, but as it went on I found it more and more compelling. The sexual tension between Jack and Julie comes across really well and this really gives the film an edge. I did find it quite gritty in places and I was a bit surprised at the way the kids reacted when their mother suddenly died. It's not perfect by any means, but even so, if the themes don't put you off, it's still a worthy watch&#x85; Recommended.My Score 7.9/10IMDb Score 7.1/10 (based on 2,349 votes at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Tomatometer' Score 100/100 (based on 7 reviews counted at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Audience' Score 57/100 Want to see (based on 2,262 user ratings counted at the time of going to press).You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "},{"Title":"Solid acting and disturbing visuals set the tone in this mostly dark film.","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The character played by Gainsbourg is magnificent, and really brings the film alive.  Without her, I feel, the film would be drab and be somewhat pointless but the way she plays the sister brings a hope of redemption, little as it may be. The movie comes across as a good short story, rather than an engrossing movie.  Now, I know this is probably the case for a lot more of the Euro films instead of American, but being in the United States a film rarely leaves me with a feeling a book does.  This film is highly interesting, and if you're in the mood to wander into that dark, dysfunctional area we all hide so well, check it out.  Not a bad way to spend 105 minutes. "},{"Title":"What if movies. Not for Home Alone kind of movie lovers.","Date":"21 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I get fascinated by the human condition movies. What can happen in some unusual condition, how may we react? How others came across it, in real life cases or in fiction. What could happen if both parents die and you don't want your family to be separated. This film remind me The Lord of the Rings, B&W version, where chaos is the norm. Please don't expect the kids to behave as in Big Daddy where the kid is bathed with swimming suit, or as in Home Alone cute boy and clown thieves, these 2 movies are far away from reality than some kids sleeping in the nude and running in the backyard in a summer hot night. Home Alone and Cement Garden are two opposite movies coming from two different human minds performed by actors who were not harmed, one created for the children audience and North American people an the other to the European adult mature audience. "},{"Title":"Life,  Love, Brothers and Sisters","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Cement Garden is a remarkable film which establishes itself as first among dark classics. Filmed in black and white, it's stark sexual imagery and brutal realism is both disturbing, and equally powerful in it's subtle erotic message. The story relates what can happen when parents unexpectedly abandon their emotionally deprived, and woe-fully neglected children superbly played by Andrew Robertson as Jack and Charlotte Gainsbourg as Julie. With their parents dead, it is the older sister and the sexually curious younger brother who adjust to the certainties of social rules and regulations which demand the dissolution of the disintegrating family. Faced with the social erasure of their tiny family, Jack and Julie assume the role of parents. However, their acceptance promotes sexual privileges and not parental responsibilities. Eventually, the older sister's involvement with an admirer threatens their secret but developing illicit relationship. All in all, this film is exquisitely constructed to elicit the deepest emotions within all of us. **** "}{"Title":"A dark film about the unnatural maturing of a brother and sister after their parents die.","Date":"1 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A dark film about the unnatural maturing of a brother and sister after their parents die.  The boy (Jack) struggles with his own identity, while his sister (Julie) tries to look after their unusual family.  The film has a Lord of the Flies sense to it, as normal behavior is replaced by, sometimes strange, instinct. An odd but compelling movie. "},{"Title":"In a dark and nightmarish world...its not that bad actually","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this on Filmfour last night, and thought it was quite interesting. Do not wanna give away too much spoilers, but basically both parents in a family die, and the kids decide to make a go of it on their own. You are not given much hints as to the passage of time, but you can see the house, and the garden from the title, falling into greater disrepair. None of the kids have jobs, so you wonder how they are surviving. And through it all a series of bizarre events and things they would not get up to with their parents around happen. There are also a few elements of escapism, for instance cuts to grainy 1970's-looking cinecam film of the family in happier days at the seaside, and the (beautiful) main character (i will also add you get to see him topless and naked a lot..heh) reading a sci-fi story book, which is narrated out loud by the kind of voice that would have been used for old Flash gordon episodes. All else i can really say is SEE IT!Tally Sex 6/10 (quality not quantity!), Drugs 0/10, Rock 'n roll 2/10, Classic cars 6/10 (see sex), Zombies 0/10, Gore 0/10 "},{"Title":"Disturbing and Entertaining!","Date":"17 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this movie switching through channels and saw the whole thing,it´s a very interesting film,it portrays the life of a semi-rural and outsider family that starts to rot slowly,brother and sister love turns different from what everyone expects and when incest come by it´s taken the way it should,it´s a dark and sometimes funny film that talks about isolation and despair,it resembles to me to that movie New Hemisphere Hotel and The Shining see it and give your own comment. I´ll give it a good 10 on weird films. "},{"Title":"Not as Good as the novel","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having read McEwan's haunting and beautiful novel some years ago, I anticipated the film and recently found it in my university library. Sad to say I was hugely dissapointed.Birkin has taken away the novels macabre humour and charcterisations and replaced them with sign posts which direct us to the reasons why they have their affair (parental loss, burgeoning sexuality) rather than letting the feelings and jealousy fester as they did in the novel. Also he has altered Julie's older lover Derek to the point where the funniest scene in the book (Derek taking the bemused Jack to a pool hall) has been completely erased and the charcter is now foreign and middle class as opposed to working class and English.Having said that it contains the most hilarious line of dialogue I have ever heardJack (to Tom) when you look at William, do you get a funny feeling in your dinky? "},{"Title":"Big Wow","Date":"3 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Aspiring production designers and location scouts should take note of The Cement Garden (1993) as an example of especially good use of an available on-the-cheap location. Like the equally low-budget Carnival of Souls, the film owes much of its effectiveness to the creative use of an available location. The Cement Garden's outdoor shots should look familiar as Stanley Kubrick used the location back in 1987 for the main battle sequence of Full Metal Jacket. He used the abandoned Beckton Gasworks just across from the Royal Docks area (Beckton-Silverton London). The area has now been transformed into London City Airport. As a film, The Cement Garden could best be described as pretentious (marked by an unwarranted claim to importance or distinction). It is a movie that tries embarrassingly hard to be more than the sum of its parts. The strategy is to introduce shocking and scandalous elements in such a casual way that it will amp up the effect of breaking taboos far beyond what they would otherwise merit. This too owes much to Kubrick (insert Lolita here). The Cement Garden is what you would get if Gregg Araki remade Our Mother's House on a shoestring budget; although it is safe to say Araki would have done a much better job of acting for the camera direction. It is an adaptation of Ian McEwan's controversial novel, but as the adapting was done by Director Andrew Birkin (later to be blamed for The Messenger The Story of Joan of Arc script), the result is likely to be disappointing to readers of McEwan's book. I recommend the film, although some viewers will not enjoy it most will be mildly shocked and entertained by it. I found viewing possible only in 20 minute segments (not so much because it was painful but because it was not involving enough for me to ignore household interruptions). Since the macabre elements aren't particularly shocking (just a couple of stylish Blue Velvet type shots), Birkin must fall back on incest and gender identity. It is one perversion too many and there is no logical connection between the two. The story is about a family of six (mother, father, two daughters and two sons). The older son is meant to look like a girl, the older daughter is meant to look like a boy, and the younger son wants to be a girl. The mother's death occurs a few weeks after the father, and the children conceal her death in an effort to stay together. The story is told from the point of view of the oldest boy, who is turned on by his own reflection and by his tease of an older sister. Since he looks so much more feminine than her, his sexual orientation may actually be straight. The younger sister (who is not involved in any of this) looks perfectly normal but spends a lot of time writing letters to her dead mother. Like Our Mother's House (a far better film), an older man is inserted into the story in an effort to make something happen. While a little hard to decipher, the basic themes concern the problems associated with assuming responsibilities before you are emotionally mature enough for them. In fairness, an attempt is made to insert an allegorical element into the film, as the older boy frequently does a voice-over reading of a science fiction story. This is meant to reflect his internal moral struggles but the connection with the events of the story is rather fuzzy. Not surprising since the weak direction builds neither suspense nor convincing characters. But at least there is that great production design. Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "},{"Title":"In a dark and nightmarish world...its not that bad actually","Date":"13 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this on Filmfour last night, and thought it was quite interesting. Do not wanna give away too much spoilers, but basically both parents in a family die, and the kids decide to make a go of it on their own. You are not given much hints as to the passage of time, but you can see the house, and the garden from the title, falling into greater disrepair. None of the kids have jobs, so you wonder how they are surviving. And through it all a series of bizarre events and things they would not get up to with their parents around happen. There are also a few elements of escapism, for instance cuts to grainy 1970's-looking cinecam film of the family in happier days at the seaside, and the (beautiful) main character (i will also add you get to see him topless and naked a lot..heh) reading a sci-fi story book, which is narrated out loud by the kind of voice that would have been used for old Flash gordon episodes. All else i can really say is SEE IT!Tally Sex 6/10 (quality not quantity!), Drugs 0/10, Rock 'n roll 2/10, Classic cars 6/10 (see sex), Zombies 0/10, Gore 0/10 "},{"Title":"Beautifully bleak","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Cement Garden follows the behavior of four children living in an austere semi-rural house on the fringe of society after the death of their parents. The kids include a young adult daughter, a late teen son, a pubescent daughter, and a prepubescent son. The film spends its time pouring over their daily routines as the family behavior becomes increasingly odd threatening to slip into the realm of the bizarre.Uneventful, intentionally bleak with a narrow range of emotion and limited dramatic excursions, this dreary, melancholic psychodrama focuses on the pair of older siblings as their familial loyalty and love inches beyond the edge of normalcy.A solid watch for the serious drama enthusiast, this Brit flick manifests excellent auteursmanship with limited production value. (B) "},{"Title":"Consider the making of the move.","Date":"29 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Artful? Maybe. But consider what went on to produce The Cement GardenWhen it comes time to cast the script (that he has also co-written), the director chooses his son and his niece and two other youngsters. Put yourself in the girl's place Your uncle is leading you through the filming of a sexually loaded screenplay (over which, as the director, he is hovering). It culminates with you nude in bed getting down to basics with your nude brother &#151; and don't forget the director's young son confusedly wandering about dressed like a girl.That's what went on behind the art. Was it good for the kids? I doubt it. Bunny-31 (6/26/00) liked The Cement Garden, but says that you shouldn't see it with family. Small wonder she felt that way. The four sibs may be actors, but they are no different from other kids trying to make sense of a highly sexualized world. Was it good for the director? Well, let me take a wild guess and say that children's welfare was not heavy on his mind and that there was more going on in his psyche than the art of it all. "},{"Title":"Strange, bizarre, disgusting and perverted at the same time.","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  *A few spoilers, if you care*What sort of a man decides to write a book about a death within a family which sparks off a romance between two siblings. Surely only somebody disturbed. Because thats the feeling I got when I watched this weird film. It had no meaning, no moral and certainly nothing to relate to, well unless there are other people out there who feel attracted to their siblings from time to time.A family who live in an isolated suburb are attempting to cover their weed filled garden with cement, (well all but one who is in the bathroom doing other things!) when the father suffers from a stroke and dies. Being within the first five minutes it's hard to feel truly sorry for the family because you don't know any characters properly yet. The next 110 minutes consists of another death and an ongoing attempt to cover it up.For this reason I cannot recommend this at all as it is completely boring and will leave you wishing you'd rather not bothered. Some people have compared it to The Shining as it deals with what happens if you left.......alone in isolation, but I see a greater resemblance with Casino Royale to be frank they're both crap.P.S - if anybody out there knows why the teenager in the family feels the urge to run outside in the rain 'commando style' half way through then please email me and let me know, its been bothering me for months. "}]