[{"Title":"Appears to be Disnefluff, but isn't.","Date":"20 October 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Say what you will about Mark Twain, but the story of Huckleberry Finn and Jim was truly his best. Forget Tom Sawyer and his fence - the tale of a mischievous child from an abusive home escaping with a runaway slave capable of enlightening said-child's perspectives on freedom gets my vote. At the height of the popularity of Bart Simpson, Disney released another adaptation of the classic starring a new up-and-coming child actor named Elijah Wood as Huck and a Yale graduate named Courtney B. Vance as Jim. But wait! The stars just keep on coming; Back-to-back Oscar-winner Jason Robards as the King, pre-Harry Potterized Robbie Coltrane as the Duke, Ron Hellboy Perlman (I could've sworn it was Tom Waits!) as Huck's drunk pappy, and Anne Heche (still hiding her cuckoo) as Mary Jane Wilks. There are also cameos by Six Feet Under's Frances Conroy, Curtis Booger Armstrong, and Pete's younger brother Pete Danny Tamberelli. There are quite a few dark moments for this PG-rated film, but maybe that's a big part of why I support it; Huck's gun-wielding confrontation with his father happens to be my favorite scene, though it's certainly not the darkest (That would be Billy's big scene.). The end of the movie is quite different from the end of the book - of course, they took the happily-ever-after approach - which sucks and ultimately makes a film filled with beautiful scenery and an unbelievably terrific score by Bill Conti seem like just another piece of Disnefluff. I know a bad ending can slay an entire movie, but one can't deny there's some good stuff in this one. "},{"Title":"I've yet to see a perfect film version of Twain's excellent story, but this version is still quite alright","Date":"28 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have read the popular novel The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn by Mark Twain and I found it to be an instant classic and a book definitely worth my time. When it comes to movie adaptations, I've seen very few. The 1993 version titled The Adventures of Huck Finn stars a young Elijah Wood as Huckleberry and Courtney B. Vance as Jim and also featured in the cast are some other well-known faces such as Ron Perlman, Jason Robards, Robbie Coltrane, and James Gammon. Overall, with this star-laden cast, the movie is quite entertaining in its own way. Like other films I can think of, it's beginning made little sense and happened a little too suddenly with no room for proper pacing or development. But once this had gone by, I did find myself enjoying the movie quite a bit.Wood was, and still is a fine young actor and his performance as Huckleberry was noteworthy. I did like Courney B. Vance's performance as Jim and I think he rendered and portrayed the character with absolute perfection. After him, I did like Jason Robards and Robbie Coltrane as the bumbling con artists who call themselves the king and the duke. Ron Perlman was also a good choice to play Huckleberry's deranged father, unfortunately he wasn't given enough screen time to show his quintessential talents for the role and he wasn't quite involved in the story enough as he was in the book.One thing that did disappoint me was that the screenwriters wrote out the character of Tom Sawyer, probably due to concern of containing too many characters for a 108-minute film. So I can understand the filmmakers' decision and accept it. Maybe the inclusion would have slowed the movie down, maybe not. But all and all, I did very much enjoy The Adventures of Huck Finn and although it is not a perfect adaptation of Mark Twain's excellent book, I still enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"One of the best live-action version of a classic children's story.","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I consider this film to be one of the top five best versions of a classic children's story. In some film adaptations, you get the impression the writer has put the characters on pedestals, and the actors are playing them like they're afraid of falling off. This film isn't like that at all.When I was going to see this film, I thought I bet they chicken out of the feud scene, and I bet they have Huck say something at the end like 'Y'know, I sorta had a funny feeling my whole life slavery's actually a very bad thing' (or something equally corny). I'm happy to say I was wrong on both accounts. The feud scene is handled very intelligently for a family movie, capturing the emotion without resorting to SAVING PRIVATE RYAN-style blood & guts (which I don't think would suit a world-famous children's story). And the slavery issue is dealt with head-on, being one of the prime dramatic themes of the story. One of my favorite moments is when Huck is asked by some river folk whether the companion on his raft is black or white. Huch thinks for a moment, and then replies He's white! That scene makes up for the famous letter writing scene in the novel, which other versions have included.Elijah Wood really makes his character shine with impish personality and a casual chatting delivery (and this is still my all-time favorite role of his). He is ably supported by Ron Perlman as Pa, as well as Jason Robards & Robbie Coltrane as the rascally King & Duke. Heck, even Anne Heche looks classy. I am very impressed with a film when it does a scene which I'd actually forgotten about, in this case it was the Missy Finn bit. My only disappointment was that Tom Sawyer got reduced to a one-line cameo at the beginning (and it doesn't handle any revivalist preaching satire).FYI, I haven't seen the Mickey Rooney, Jackie Coogan or Jeff East versions yet, but this one is going to be hard to beat. The only other films that I've seen which come close to this are the Ted Turner & Disney versions of TREASURE ISLAND, and David Lean's OLIVER TWIST. Also the later PETER PAN (2003) is right on par with this in excellent classic storytelling. "},{"Title":"A worthy film adaptation of a great book","Date":"19 March 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you haven't read Mark Twain's book already, I highly recommend you read it, for it is a truly great and compelling read. While not 100% perfect, this is a worthy film adaptation. As people have pointed out, the film is true in spirit if not in the details to the book, but it is really not bad on its own merits. For one thing, it's beautifully filmed, with crisp cinematography and beautiful scenery. Then there is a wonderful score, very fitting with what was going on on screen. Also a decent script, good direction and even better performances. Elijah Wood does a good enough job in what I consider one of his best performances in the title role, while Courtney B.Vance plays Jim with such feeling and finesse he was perfect. Ron Perlman is suitably brutish, while Jason Robards and Robbie Coltrane come close to stealing the film as the roguish King and Duke. Plus the ending was heart-rending. My only problems were some parts that were too overly-modernised, its length and how Tom Sawyer was written but other than that this is a worthy film and adaptation. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"11 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I've watched the movie several times and each time , it brought the same emotions. Not one of the movies, that you'll watch just once. I read the book many years ago, when I was 10 years old and the first time I watched, the movie brought out nice memories and emotions in me . I couldn't help but smile throughout the movie. Definitely one of the best adaptations of children's books. It made me want to go through the Adventures of Huckleberry Finn again. Movie doesn't follow all the chapters, some details are left out but it leaves up to the book's spirit. Elijah Wood's performance is noteworthy. He expresses Huck Finn's personality and characteristics perfectly. It is considered a children's book and a children's movie, but in fact, it's pleasant to watch for all the audiences, regardless the age. Like the book, you'll enjoy the movie at any age! "},{"Title":"A perfect movie with a perfect ending.","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  True, Elijah Wood may not match the look and feel of the character Twain had in mind, but in this movie he works well as a young boy learning that friendship, love, and human rights mean more than tradition. Jim, a wise but uneducated runaway slave longs to find freedom so he can earn enough money to buy his family.  Huck, a street-smart kid running away from his abusive father, is torn between breaking the law or betraying a freind.  Which is the greater crime? Wood's age is put to good use in allowing more immaturity in the character.  He can't understand why he can't bring himself to turn Jim in, even though he knows it's the right thing to do.  In a heart-wrenching scene in which Huck's selfishness causes Jim to be whipped by a cruel overseer, Huck tries to convince himself that it wasn't his fault, only to realize how much he and Jim actually love and need each other.  All of this takes us full-speed into an emotional climax that is quite honestly the best ending of any movie I have ever seen. Huck Finn is perfect. "},{"Title":"Decent adventure-film but lacks something","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" First of all, this movie (which I didn't know was Disney's) has a decent amount of adventure that should please the majority of those who appreciate good adventures. Cinematography is another strength, thanks to the beautiful landscapes and sceneries. On cinematography, it is guaranteed to delight anyone who gives importance to that detail. On the other hand, although not all of the characters are likable, Huckleberry Finn (aka Huck Finn) and his pal Jim are.I never read Mark Twain's novel on which this motion picture is based, so I'm not the guy to make that kind of comparison. Although while I was watching the movie I didn't know where it takes place, I suspected it was on Mississipi. Where else can you find those characteristic river boats but in Mississippi?Courtney B. Vance is pretty good as Jim. Elijah Wood's energetic acting as Huck Finn deserves my best approval. The character captivates thanks to his angelic, innocent face. And yet behind that cuteness he has a smart mouth, a confident personality and the spirit of a true warrior. Speaking of smart mouth, what kind of line is «Ah, Hells Bells, Jim, I almost puked up my livers!» ?? Where did he get that ?? LOL!Those large blue eyes of his tell everything, they're that expressive! His facial expressions are often very hilarious, but he is also every bit as convincing in the dramatic/touching sequences between him and Jim. Nevertheless, one can't deny that Elijah Wood was not only a very cute kid but also a very bright one.The story is basically the adventures of Huck Finn and his friend Jim. Together they travel and cross the Mississippi River and face obstacles and encounter adventures.In my opinion, the movie gets off to a great start, then it goes through a lesser good phase when Huck Finn confronts that creepy Ron Perlman's character. Then it improves considerably and goes like that until after the middle. But after that it becomes less involving and intriguing, with too many unlikeable characters and dull scenes, only sort of redeeming itself near the ending, when Huck and Jim runaway and Huck is shot. And he's gotta be pretty tough to get shot and say «I just tripped!». Our story has a happy ending, as Huck survives the shot and gets well and as lively as before. "},{"Title":"Not a Favorite of Mine","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I, for one, am unenthusiastic about and really disappointed in this Disney-distributed live-action feature film adaptation of the Great American Novel, but I don't really think it's horrible. I just wish it was distributed by a studio other than Disney, because they have to make their movies kid-friendly and Mark Twain's The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn is not kid-friendly in all its aspects.I saw this movie in my literature class in the 11th grade after reading the novel and both my teacher and my peers were just as displeased as I was. The movie skips over some interesting parts from the book and the scenes Disney chooses to include, they're quick, dull and without atmosphere, which the movie doesn't really have. I also think Elijah Wood was a careless choice for the part of Huck Finn, and they did it just for the sake of stardom. One thing that I was pleased with in this movie however was Ron Perlman as Huck's father, but even he can't save this movie.I'm pretty sure if Mark Twain were alive today and saw this film, he would be exasperated not only with the film itself, but with the way it's being told to today's generation. It does compare to the original source material, but in a way that is unsatisfactory, unlikeable and, dare I say it, embarrassing. But if you want to introduce yourself and/or your kids to the Great American Novel as a censored, pandering, shallow, and bland as heck version, don't let this review stop you. "},{"Title":"Good Life Lessons","Date":"25 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Adventures of Huckleberry FinnAlong the Mississippi River heading North, Huck, Elijah Wood, and Jim, Courtney B. Vance, are on the run. The movie The Adventures of Huck Finn takes place between 1835 and 1845. This film is an adventurous, comedic, drama. Some of the prominent stars of the film were Elijah Wood, Courtney B. Vance, and Ron Perlman. Huck and Jim, Elijah and Courtney, leave their Missouri town and start to head north. They meet some people named The Duke and The King. These new people take Jim and Huck away from their original destination and get Jim put in jail. To get Jim out of jail Huck pulls a con on the two liars, The King and The Duke. One aspect of filmmaking that I noticed was the background music. The music lets you know ahead of time if something bad was going to happen or if something good was going to pass. Another thing that the music does is it gives the movie a slight happy mood to it. Another aspect is the acting. The acting by Ron Perlman, Pap Finn, was really good as was the acting by Courtney B. Vance and Elijah Wood. The Duke and The King could have been portrayed by different actors but the actors used were okay. They made the movie funny and enjoyable. My overall review of the movie is that it is a must watch if you don't want to read the book. This movie is really good and it gave me a different view on how people were treated back in the 1800's. I got a good feeling from this movie and it was really inspirational and moving. I would give it 6 out of 10. Joseph Duran American Literature Student 3rd block Mr. Mauzey's Class Written May 24th, 2012 "},{"Title":"The Great Huck Finn","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Huck FinnHuck Finn is a movie based off a book called Huckleberry Finn written by Mark Twain it's based on a runaway slave named Jim played by Courtney B. Vance and is saved by a young boy named Huck Finn played by Elijah Wood which took place in the 1950's in Mississippi. This film is very adventurist movie that has lots of foreshadowing. Huck Finn is a young 10 year old boy that has an abusive father and his name is Pap and is played by Ron Perlman. Finn lives with a lady that is named Widow Douglas played by Dana Luey, and one day Huck fights this young boy down by the river and sees this fathers foot print in the dirt and runs to go see the physic Jim. And that night Hucks father kidnaps him and takes him to his house where he starts to beat him, and the only way he can escape is by faking his own murder. So then Huck runs to the woods and that's where he finds Jim. They run off together and go on their adventure and then they catch up with two men named Duke and King and they pretend to be people they aren't so they can get a lot my money. In the end Duke and King get tared and feathered. And Huck and Jim run away. Mark Twain wrote Huckleberry Finn in the Age of Realism, which in time was when slavery was very popular and blacks were treated poorly, and this is why it was a good idea that Jim traveled with Huck because he was white and Jim couldn't make all the decisions on his own because he was treated so poorly because of his race. So this shows a white 10 year old boy is superior to a elder black man. In this movie Disney has a way of switching things around in the movie, for example they make it look like slavery is so easy to get out of if you get caught but in reality its not. Also in the end of the movie Mary Jane stops the towns people by saying leave them alone! but really it took over 200+ years from them to embolism slavery in the real world. In my opinion I would give this movie 4 out of 5 stars. My reaction to this film was actually a lot better than I tought it would be I thought they did a good way of showing how slaves were treated in the time and also making it funny in some parts so it switched up the mood of the watcher. I would recommend this movie to anyone that is interested in the Age of Realism. "}{"Title":"A young boy who encounters multiple problems and overcomes them with his best friend that is a slave","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Elijah wood plays Huck Finn in the movie as a young boy who likes adventure and meets a runaway slave. Courtney B. Vance plays Jim as a runaway slave who is looking for freedom. They go and try to get Jim freed, and as they go they encounter multiple problems throughout the movie. Ron Perlman plays Huck's father, and in the movie he is the reason on why Huck goes on the adventure. He goes on this adventure to try to get away from his alcoholic dad. This movie was in the 1850's and the place is in Mississippi. The film is comedy mixed with adventure. In the movie the adventures of Huck Finn, Huck is a young boy in the 1850's who runs from home to get away from his alcoholic dad. He meets a runaway slave named Jim and from there the two undertake a series of adventures throughout the movie. Jim gets caught up in Huck's problems as he drags Jim into them. Huck and Jim meet two men who are pretending to be the Wilro brothers and once again Jim gets involved in this situation. When the real brothers arrive in the town, it creates a problem that Huck and Finn get involved. The towns people ask questions, like who are the real brothers and the four guys start asking each other questions about England and that doesn't help because the towns people have no information about England. Jim on the other hand is in jail because he is wanted for murder. When Huck helps Jim escape from jail they are running for their lives when one of the towns people shoots Huck and they miss their chance to escape from that place. You will have to watch the movie to see what happens next. One aspect of filmmaking that I want to talk about is the background. Throughout the movie the background is one of the most important piece to make a movie. I think it is that because the background has to match the problem/plot of the movie to make it more interesting. It gives it image and it plays a big part in filmmaking. I haven't really thought about the background being an important aspect in filmmaking, but now that I researched bout it I do believe that it is very important. I can actually guarantee that if you take out the background movies wouldn't be that exciting to watch.Next I'm going to compare stereotypes of characteristics of the age of realism. Each character in the movie has a last name except for Jim. I think its because he is a slave and during that time period slaves weren't that important. Another example is in the beginning of the movie Jim was performing a magic trick to other people and many people were surprised because they wouldn't think that a slave would be educated. Also when Huck and Jim arrive to America, there is a fight that breaks out and an American pulls out his gun and shoots the guy and says welcome to America. That's a stereotype because the movie us tying to portray that all Americans are stubborn and arrogant. This movie shows a lot of stereotypes and these are just a few examples I talked about. I think the movie did a good job showing what was going on in the 1850's. There was abolitionism and stereotypes. The movie actually showed optimism instead of realism. People didn't really overcome racism in a short period of time, in the real world it took hundreds of years to overcome and in the movie racism is overcome in the end of the movie. My overall reaction to this film is, it was a good and interesting movie. I loved it because it had some funny parts that made me laugh. It also had drama in it, which makes it interesting to watch. My mood was overall the same, I loved it. I would recommend people to watch this movie. I rate this movie 5 gold coins. "},{"Title":"I really enjoyed this movie, I'll give it a 7.5","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" THE ADVENTURES OF HUCK FINN This movie was set in the 1800's in St. Pitturgburghs Mississippi. It is about a boy named Huckleberry Finn (played by Elijah Wood), who lives a very rebellious life. He had a slave friend named Jim (played by Courtney B. Vance), who escaped. Huck and Jim set on a journey to Kayrow to try and free Jim, so he can raise money to get his family out of slavery. In the beginning of the movie Pap Finn (played by Ron Perlman) was a drunkard who tried to kill Huck, but he ending up dying on a boat later in the story. Huck however, faked his death caused by Pap so no one would know his identity, while he was on the road. During Huck and Jims journey they meet Duke (played by Robbie Coltrane) and King, they were thief's that were on the run from stealing a lot, the Duke and King (played by Jason Rebarbs) capture both Huck and Jim and force them to with them to get Mary Jane Wilks (played by Anne Heche) fathers money as they pretended that they where the brothers of Peter Wilks, if they refused, they would in Jim as he was accused of being a murderer and a runaway slave. Later in the story, the village actually finds out that Duke and King are impostors, so Huck uses this chance to free Jim as he was arrested during this event. As Huck and Jim running away from the village, Huck gets shot. They capture Jim again but Mary Jane sets them free because she knows Huck and Jim are on the run for a good reason. In the end Miss Watson (played by Mary Louise Wilson) wish came true, Jim became a free man but Huck still continued his rebellious life, which Widow Douglas (played by Dana Luey) was not very happy about. One aspect of filmmaking that I want to talk about is the costume and set design. It corresponded well to when and where the movie was set. The poor dressed like the poor and the rich like the rich in those actual times. Costume and set design is very important in this movie because it shows the audience of the movie when and where the movie was set, also it gives the audience a feel of how life was back then. The stereotypes I would like to talk about are the actual use of realism in the movie. Every character in the movie has a last name apart from Jim, this is because he is a slave, another stereotype is that Jim is a tall, black strong man who is inferior to a small, short white kid, and this is a stereotype because adults are not inferior kids, but Jim is to Huck. Another stereotype is that Jim performs some magic tricks in the beginning of the movie, and this was surprising for others because they thought slaves could not be taught anything else but to work. I really enjoyed this movie, it had funny, sad, adventurous, heart pumping and thrilling moments, I recommend it to other classes because of the morals it teaches, I give this movie 7.5/10. David Lawanson. "},{"Title":"Young Huck Finn and his adventures with his friend Jim, a runaway slave, is told in this tale based on the novel written by Mark Twain","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Huck Finn (Elijah Wood) has a knack for getting into trouble. He spends the majority of his days playing hooky from school, getting into fights, and lying to his guardians Mrs. Watson (Mary Louise Wilson)and Widow Douglas (Dana Ivey) about how he got black eyes. One day, Huck's drunken, abusive father (Ron Perlman) arrives and takes his son away with him, looking for a way to get his hands on $600 left to Huck by his mother who is deceased. Huck escapes from his father's cabin, after a night of fighting for his life, and, in the company of a runaway slave named Jim (Courtney B. Vance), the duo sets off on a journey by boat down the Mississippi with the goal of getting Jim's freedom. Along the way, the pair meets a number of interesting people and become dragged into several adventures that don't always lean towards their favor. Disney has a rep. for watering down things that may cause a social argument. Huck Finn deals with a single major issue slavery. In the book, Mark Twain never holds back punches which are good when using a type of fiction realism since The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn was the first book to be wrote in full dialect. Although the movie never uses the word nigger, that's about the only thing that has been sanitized because it is meant to be a children's/Family movie. The evils of slavery are still shown, rather graphically, at times and it would be wrong to assume that The Adventures of Huck Finn doesn't have a social agenda. Family films are hard to find, and those that fit into the category of good entertainment are even less common. The Adventures of Huck Finn is a great exception, although young children may be a little frightened by some of the violence. Same as the book, there are many levels on which the story can be appreciated. Children will enjoy the adventure, but the sarcasm and funny wit is mainly for adult consumption. The Adventures of Huck Finn is a great movie and Disney has produced a film of some quality. It's not a 5 out of 5 , and it can't be considered the real version of Twain's work but it deserves some recognition and credit. I give the movie 3 out of 5 because it was entertaining and the wasn't really and crappy animation like some of the other movies of that time period. "},{"Title":"a white lie","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Huck Finn shows how an adventurous boys life, the lying, running away and tricking people. through everything he becomes friends with someone who is just as disliked as him. He also reaches out to a woman about the wrongful actions of his kid nappers as they attempt to impersonate two brothers. Huck finn's way of life was anything but normal, but in the end being honest ended up helping not only him but everybody else. this story has taught me that a little white lie can cause people a lot in the long run because it doesn't affect only you but everyone around you, and it could end up costing you more in the long run rather than gaining what you thought you would. "},{"Title":"The Adventures of Huck Finn - Great Movie","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Adventures of Huck Finn is an adventure movie based off the classic story Huckleberry Finn by Mark Twain. Elijah Wood played the adventurous young boy Huck Finn. Huck runs away with a slave, Jim, Courtney B. Vance, and their goal is to make it to freedom for Jim. This is a dangerous journey through Mississippi for a slave in the 1950s.Huck Finn is a young boy who lives with two old woman because his father, Pap, is not a nice man. Pap decides to take him out of his home one night and brings him to his own house. While at his dad's house, Huck has to be careful because Pap is scary when he is drunk. In order to escape from Pap's life, Huck fakes his own murder. He starts out on a journey but on the first day he comes across Jim in the woods. They decide to travel together but they have to be extra careful who they run into because Jim is blamed for Huck's murder. Eventually, they run into two thieves, Duke and King, who bring them along with them to pretend to be people they are not. Their lies finally catch up with them and they have to carefully find their way out of the situation. Watch the movie to find out what twists this movie takes at the end.This movie does an excellent job of staying in the 1950s time period. The way the slaves are treated and enslaved was really how they were treated. The two boys get stuck on a plantation and Jim is enslaved. Huck sees how Jim is treated and wants to leave. The dialects of the people tell that they are from the South. The way the people dress also keeps with the time period. The ladies wore big dresses and men wore suits and hats.I thought that this movie had excellent acting. Elijah Wood is a young actor and is really great for his age. The other actors are good at playing the roles that they got. They are very realistic and act with the time period.I found this movie really enjoyable and it even had some humor in it. I would defiantly recommend this movie for an age of person because it is classic literature but has a Disney spin on it. I give this movie 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"The Adventures of Huck Finn","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" In the film The Adventures of Huck Finn made in 1993 is the story of a boy who does as he pleases and has one true friend, his slave. The film is based in the time period of the mid 1800's and is a comedy/drama. Prominent stars of the film include Elijah Wood as Huckleberry Finn and Courtney B. Vance as Jim.Huck Finn is the son of a drunken man who lives with two older women who are sisters, Miss Watson and Widow Douglas. His father kidnaps him from them and then takes him back to his place, his father leaves and Huck realizes this is his only chance to escape and do what he wants to do. He reunites with his old slave Jim, and they venture off to different adventures. They come across trouble here and there and meet interesting different type of people, despite the troubles they come across they make it because they have each other. They both learn a lot from one another and live happily ever after.The way that Mark Twain characterized the characters relates well to the time of setting because with the dialect he gives them it gives you a feel of how people talked back in time. Some of the characters had a southern accent based on where they were from and it was apparent they were southern and Twain did a good job of incorporating that in there.The costumes in the film pertained to the time of the film well because for the people who were poor, looked poor by wearing filthy clothing and the wealthy has nice oxford shirts with khaki's. And as in the film, when Huck was with Miss Watson and Widow Douglas they gave him the best of clothes, but when he would venture off on his own he wore clothing similar to rags. As for the slaves in the film, they wore basic clothes that looked old and dirty, and that's exactly what would be imagined for that time.For the film being in an old setting the message that slavery is bad still relays to real life today, and because of that I think the film was well done. I recommend this film for potential viewers because it has a lot of messages that people can relate to. I would give this film 3.5 stars. "},{"Title":"Elijah did a good job","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film, The Adventures of Huck Finn, comes from the novel with the same name. It stars Elijah Wood as Huck, and Courtney B. Vance as Jim. Whether it's on a raft or in town running from trouble, there is always adventure happening in this movie.Huck was a boy in the 40's who ran away. He meets Jim (a runaway slave) and goes down the Mississippi River with him. Along the way, they run into the King & Duke. They change the direction of the story, but leads Huck to realize right from wrong. He's faced with a moral dilemma between what is seen as right and what is truly right.Elijah Wood was a great role for Huck. Or rather, vice versa. He was very good at mimicking us Missourian's, for that is just how everyone sounds here. Joking aside, he captured the character similar to what I would have imagined. He could have done his accent better, that the only criticism I have.The King and Duke weren't very believable characters. They both seemed overly dramatic in every scene they appeared in. Always getting clearly scared trying to hold a poker face. Words cannot explain the awful things I saw from them.That being said, it wasn't a horrible movie, I suppose. I would give the movie 3 out of 5 stars. It was good, not great. "},{"Title":"4 out of 5 Popcorns!!","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The film, The Adventures of Huck Finn follows a boy named Huckleberry Finn and an escaped slave named Jim, who traveled the Mississippi River in the 1840's, and overcome obstacles throughout their trip. This adventure movie is a 1993 Disney adaptation starring Elijah Wood as Huckleberry Finn and Courtney B. Vance as Jim.The story begins with an exciting escape where Jim, the slave, flees from his slave holders. Shortly after, Jim meets Huckleberry Finn, the troublemaker of his small town. Jim and Huckleberry Finn go on an adventure to try to free Jim from slavery. Jim and Huck find a raft and travel down the Mississippi River to find freedom. Along the way, the duo encounter adventures with colorful characters like the King and the Duke, two men who impersonate British visitors in order to swindle three sisters out of their fortune. They get caught many times and somehow they always seem to get away. One aspect of this film that stood out to me was the acting. Elijah Wood played an excellent Huckleberry Finn. It seemed that he got into his part. He did a great job of playing the mischievous troublemaker. I enjoyed when Huck pretended to have the pox disease on the river. Wood played this part in a convincing way that almost seemed real. The supporting actors also played their roles well. Their acting balanced each other nicely.Another aspect that stood out was the costume and set design. The western costumes were very believable. They were very appropriate for the time this movie took place. Something I enjoyed was that the costumes were great for everybody. It did not matter if you were looking at Huck or a background character, everyone looked fantastic. The set was also very believable. The town in this story was great because it was actual buildings outdoors. It was not just a back drop. The river was also awesome. It felt like we were actually at the river.This movie was very fun to watch. Huck and Jim got into so many adventures that this movie was exciting and never boring. This movie is great for families to watch because it is family friendly and appropriate for children. I would recommend The Adventures of Huck Finn to fans of Disney movies and to any people who enjoy adventures. I would give The Adventures of Huck Finn four out of five popcorns!! Alan Chandler American Literature Student 3B Mr. Mauzey's Class Written May 23, 2012 "},{"Title":"Review of Huck Finn","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Huckleberry FinnThe movie Huckleberry Finn is a very adventurous film based off the book The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn By Mark Twain. Some main stars in the film are Elija Wood as Huck, Courtney B. Vance as Jim, Robbie Coltrane as the Duke, Ron Perlman as Pap Finn and many more! During the journey the setting is taken place along the Mississippi river during the 1800's.The Movie Huckleberry Finn was about a young boy that gets kidnapped by his abusive drunk of a father. Throughout the movie, Huckleberry tries to escape and brings along one of his friends that happens to be a slave. On their journey they happen to run into two thieves that hold them hostage and tell them what to do. Along the journey with the thieves, Huck finds their bag of gold they have hidden in a closet. Sooner or later people started finding out that Huck wasn't who he said he was. So they started to come after the both of them since Jim was wanted and Huck was a runaway.Throughout the movie the set and clothing matched exactly what people would think the 1800's would be like. It wasn't like most movies where they don't have the same hair styles and clothing for the time period, but this film did. Also the background music had matched the action scenes very well to go along with the movie.In the movie the character used realism by talking the same way people did in that time period. They also used realism in the way they dressed and how they try to match the life style of the 1800's. This film did a very good job on making you feel like you got a great image of what the 1800' was like.In my opinion I think the movie is very good. I would put it as a four stars because they did a great job on following the book version. I feel like there could have been some more things that should be better compared to films in present day, but for when this came out it is very good. Nelson Allsbury American Literature Student 3rd Block B day; Mr.Mauzey's Class Written May 23rd, 2012 "},{"Title":"this movie had a lot of emotion and action i liked it","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mark Twain, the author of the bestselling novel, Huckleberry Fin, was the author of the book that has been made into the adventurous film in 1993. This is a Disney movie that took place in a fictional town called St. Petersburg. The main character, Elijah Scott, played the role of Huckleberry fin. Huck's best friend is a runaway slave named Jim that made it out of a plantation and found Huck. This is where this crazy adventure starts. This movie is a fun film that the whole family can enjoy.Huckleberry grows up in a well civilized family, except for his dad. This guy is one crazy drunk man. He abuses Huck so Huck decided to sneak out. Little did he know that this decision would change his whole life. When Huck returns, Hucks dad decided to kidnap Huck and take him to the other side of the river to stay there. This is where Hucks adventure starts. Huck breaks free and runs away. He meets a slave named Jim that becomes his best pals. They both escaped so they had to make up names for each other to keep their identity a secret as they travel down the Mississippi river.The director did a great job making the characters fit in with the film. The props sets and clothes were perfect. Hucks clothes that he wore matched perfect with the 1800's. Jim's clothes matched as well making him look like he just escaped out of a plantation. The characters of the town had good costumes. The sheriff wore a cow boy hat, ragged clothes, an old western hat, and a nice badge. I couldn't image it any other way.The background music matched perfectly with every scene that came on. When Huck was being kidnapped by his dad, they played a frantic scary up going song. When Jim and Huck were on the river talking about their lives, they played a slow sad song. I think songs play a big role in movies because they give the movie more emotion. Without music or the right props these movies wouldn't be as successful as they are today.Personally I enjoyed this film because is had a lot of emotions and they expressed them at the right times. This movie is a real adventurous film that the whole family can enjoy. I would give this movie four and a half stars out of five. "}{"Title":"Great Adventure Tail","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A Mark Twain classic novel Huck Finn turned into a Disney phenomenon. This is a 1993 remake Disney movie that took place in a fictional town of St. Petersburg. Elijah Wood played the lead role of Huck Finn; his runaway slave best friend was played by Courtney Vance. Was a great adventure movie that the whole family would enjoy to watch.Basically Huck Finn is a young boy that is very good at lying and is not only sneaky but very smart. His runaway best friend slave Jim went on a huge adventure with Huck going places they never thought they would end up, when I say that I mean they had a certain place they wanted to end up so Jim could be a free man but along the way they got in a lot of trouble and always found ways to escape. Eventually they reach a small town right out of St. Petersburg where they get in the most trouble they get in throughout the movie, but there are hilariously funny parts throughout this town that they go through.One key aspect of filmmaking from this movie that I want to aim towards is acting. Elijah Wood the star actor plays as the lead role of Huck Finn and he does a phenomenal job of being a sneaky, fantastic, mature, little liar. They did a great job by picking him to play that role. There isn't a specific event from the movie I'm aiming towards, just throughout this film he constantly had to lie to keep him and Jim out of trouble. Not to say Courtney Vance didn't do a fantastic job playing Jim the runaway slave. All and all they both did an amazing job playing their roles though the movie.Another aspect of filmmaking for this movie would be the writers or creators of the movie Huck Finn. They did an amazing job writing this movie. It had such a great story line, it had me up on the edge of my seat at times, and other times I would be laughing hysterically. You could tell it took some time to put this movie together, it has such a wide variety of viewers ageing anywhere from a baby to an old man. This movie would be a great sit down with the family and even Dad would have a great time watching it.This Disney remake had to have been one of my favorite Disney movies of all times. Just to see a little boy who could do or act as Huck Finn was a pleasure to watch. In my point of view I would give this movie a 5 out of 5 popcorn bags. I would give a lot of credit to the actors that did a great job, the writers or creators of the movie, and the director they all did such a great role in and out of the movie. To say the least if you haven't seen this movie it would be a great idea to watch it ASAP! "},{"Title":"Review of Huck Finn","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Adventures of Huck Finn Review This movie is about a boy named Huckleberry Finn who is kidnapped by his dad. His mom had given his dad a trust fund, but was not able to receive it until Huck was 17. Huck did not like is Pa, as he called him, and was afraid of him. Huck escaped from his dad and met up with his friend, Jim, who is a black slave. The two go on different adventures dealing with several conflicts in their social era.At the beginning of the movie, you see Huck being kidnapped by his father. His father is a drunk and does not seem to care about Huck. While Huck's Pa is out, he plans out his fake death and runs away from his father's house. He then finds his friend Jim, who is a black slave, and start their journey down the Mississippi. They first stop on Jackson Island to sit down and set up camp. They are quickly run off the island because someone had spotted their campfire. Racing down the river, they find a different town to stop in. They realize that they need food and figure out a way how to get it. Huck dresses up as a little girl and pretends to be needy. He walks into a stranger's house and tries to steal food from them. When the stranger realizes that Huck is a boy, he runs away from the house back towards the river. He notices a wanted poster for $400 with Jim's picture on it for the murder of Huck. Knowing the truth about Huck, they continue anyway down the river. Going through various other towns, they meet up with the King and the Duke. This event changes their whole journey and they are now forced to follow them. The two men try to inherit money from an unknown family pretending to bet the heirs to the fortune of a death in the family. When the family realizes that they are not the real heirs, they tar and feather them and Huck and Jim escape. They start running away until Huck gets shot and falls. Jim brings them both back into town which causes Jim to get captured for hanging. The girls of the unknown family save Huck and Jim and help Huck get better.The acting is this movie plays a big role in how this story plays out. The characters feelings towards the other characters show the kind of connection and foretell how the characters will make their decisions on their friends. For instance, Huck and Jim's relationship shows that they stick together no matter what. When asked if Huck had seen a slave, he said that he had not seen one to save Jim. Also, when Huck found a new family and was selfish for what he was given, he left Jim to become a slave for the family, until, he saw that they had whipped his partner in crime. He leaves the family and saves his friend. Jim returns the favor at the end of the movie by saving him and bringing him back to safety after they had shot Huck.Another great aspect of this movie is the overall setting. The setting of 1800s would play a big role in Jim's character because he was a slave. They were not allowed to be out and about, let alone with a white boy. This shows the connection as well by showing even though Jim was a slave, Huck still had his back. The scene when the King and the Duke get tar and feathered also shows the setting of this movie because we do not tar and feather anybody anymore. Some of the dialects used in the movie were good clues as to what time line they were in as well.My overall reaction to this film is that it is a great lesson to be learned from it. The story shows friendship and non-discrimination between races. I feel like the movie shows a realistic boys dream of going around the world adventuring. The main thing I like about this movie is that the main characters always find each other and always stick together and I give this movie 2 thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Review of Huck Finn","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Michael Kuhn 5/23/12 My view of Huckleberry FinnThe Adventures of Huckleberry Finn was written by Mark Twain during the realism era. The story kicks off with Huck Finn (main character, very mischievous) messing around with some other boys when he sees his Pap's shoe print. This really scares him and he runs to tell his friend Jim. Jim is a slave that is about thirty-five years old and he tells Huck that he should go and hide from his Pap. Huck runs off to his house where he lives with two older women who appear to be his foster parents. His pap comes later that night and kidnaps Huck so Huck fakes his death and runs to a deserted Island called Jacksons Island and it turns out that his friend Jim ran away to become he was going to be sold, and so the adventure began.Huck and Jim were discovered on the Island shortly afterward and grabbed a few supplies as they made their way out of the town. On the way to Cairo (a fictional city where the Ohio River meets the Mississippi) they ran into a few issues. Huck and Jim were traveling mainly at night so it was hard to tell where they were going and to see. One night a ship ran over their raft and they were forced to climb aboard. They decided to loot the ship for supplies and Jim came across Huck's Pap, but he was dead. He decided not to tell Huck because he was afraid the he would run back to their town if he did. They boarded another raft and set off towards Cairo once again. They traveled further south and ran into a couple of strangers who told them they were south of Cairo. They traveled with the strangers to St Petersburg where the townspeople were waiting for the arrival of two brothers to listen to the will of a rich man in the city. The strangers claimed that they were the brothers and inherited all the money but are later discovered to be frauds.The acting in this film was spot on. I think the director made an excellent choice for all the characters, especially the leads. I don't know how the characters relate to the characters in the book but I reckon they are similar. Huck reminds me of a kid who causes a lot of trouble and it shows perfectly in the first scene of the movie when he gets in a fight with the other boy.I really liked the plot of this story. It was funny and adventurous but also showed some really good morals. Jim showed us just because everyone is doing something that doesn't make it right. Huck is adventurous and funny throughout the whole movie. The story flowed very nicely and didn't waste time with useless information and got straight to the point.I was surprised that I actually learned something from a silly Disney movie. The lesson that was taught in the story was very valid and important to everyday life. For example just because everyone in high school drinks and parties every weekend doesn't make it right so I think everyone can learn a lesson by watching the movie. My rating on the film would be five out of five stars because the acting, script and plot were all excellent. I'm glad that I watched this movie and plan on reading the book soon! "},{"Title":"Huck Fin","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Huckleberry FinThis story starts off in pre-civil war era. Huckleberry Fin is a great story produced by the legend Samuel Clemens also known as Mark Twain. The excellent actor Elijah Wood plays Huckleberry Fin, Elijah is more known for his later years for being the star in Lord of the Rings. Huck's main buddy Jim is played Courtney B. Vance. These two are together most of the story and they go on a comedic adventure that leads to a little trouble at times. The story unfolds nicely into a drama filled ending.Let's start this story from the beginning where Huck's drunk of a father Pap kidnaps him from his foster parents to take the trust fund his mother left him. Huck escapes from his Pap's cabin by faking his death and accidentally meets up with Jim, who is a runaway slave, at Jackson's Island. Since men of the town think Huck is dead they assume the runaway slave Jim killed him. During this time period it isn't much of the fact that he supposedly killed Huck more of the fact that he is a runaway slave which was a very large penalty at this time. Then from Jackson's island Huck and Jim's satire adventure begins.Now that Huck and Jim are on their adventure it starts to become this great story. Elijah Wood's acting was phenomenal. Even at such a young age he puts on an excellent show. This movie really showed Elijah's strengths of humor and a strong attitude. These are showed when Widow Douglas dresses him up and he runs away throwing his clothes off and messing up his freshly cleaned hair. Courtney B. Vance did a fantastic job with his ambitious mind to be free slave and his frightening of getting caught. He truly shows these skills once Huck floats across the river top turn in Jim for being a runaway slave. At this time, Jim leaves the raft and is about to take off then Huck uses satire and lies about his family being deathly ill on the raft which probably saves Jim's life and helps these two become closer. The costume design for this movie fits the pre civil war era perfectly. Most middle lower class wore roughed up dress clothes like Huck during most of the movie. Since Jim was a slave and a runaway slave at that he wore these torn up clothes that no one would want to be caught dead in during our time period, but this all changes once Jim is set free from slavery. Then he acquires some puffy dress clothes that the upper class would wear during this time period. I have seen many a lot of movies in all my years of being a movie critic and this is one of the best in its class. Elijah wood did such an amazing job to make this movie such a great production. If you plan on seeing this movie you should read the book first or learn a little on Mark Twain's writing style. This will you understand this film and make your overall experience better while watching this film. I will give this movie 4 ½ popcorns out of 5. This movie made me laugh, really get involved in the story, and tear up a little. The director and producer did a fantastic job to create such a great story. "},{"Title":"life lessons","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The setting of this story is in a small town in Mississippi. it is an adventure film with some comedy mixed in with it. it was during the civil war era, when blacks were still being used for slavery. Some of the stars were Elijah wood as Huck, Courtney B. Vance as Jim, and Ron Perlman as pap Finn. Elijah Wood or Huck is a thirteen year old boy who comes from a poor background and has been raised up to this point, by his uneducated, uncivilized, drunkard father. The story takes place in Mississippi during pre-civil war times. Widow Douglas and Miss Watson have taken him in and are attempting to civilize him. Courtney B. Vance or Jim is a black slave that ends up running away with Huck when he runs away because he caused his fake death to get away from his father. Jim is caring, One of Miss Watson's household slaves. Jim is superstitious and occasionally sentimental, but he is also intelligent, practical, and ultimately more of an adult than anyone else in the movie. Huck's father, the town drunk is a wreck when he appears at the beginning of the movie, with disgusting, ghostlike white skin and tattered clothes. but he sure did act like he cared when he went looking for Huck's fake killer after Huck had put pig blood all over and trashed his pap's house to make it look like someone had brutally murdered him. and that is when the whole adventure begins, when he runs away with Jim he finally has a way to to leave without having to worry about anyone looking for him. he is finally free to do what he wants. i choose to discuss acting as my aspect of filmmaking, because i think that it is a very well done act. when Huck had gotten shot but he acted like he was fine when Jim asked him why he was being so slow, another example is when he told that big long lie and the doctor did not believe him and he just thought he was a good liar. My overall reaction to the film is that it was a very well thought out and well wrote movie that always had new surprises planned for the viewer. I think that the quality of the movie was really good it had funny parts to it and a few sad parts. the graphics were pretty good and i think that it would be a great movie for a family looking for something to do to watch. I give it 4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Huckleberry Finn and Jim meet on the plantation of Widow Douglas they become friends and runaway and go on many adventures together.","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Huck Finn Movie Review By Chloe Hudson 3BThe story Huck Finn was originally written by Mark Twain. Disney remade Huck Finn into a movie around 1993. The main character in the movie is Huck(Elijah Wood) , Jim (Courtney B. Vance) , The Duke (Robbie Coltrane), The King (Jason Robards), Papp Finn (Ron Perlman), Widow Douglas (Dana Iwey), Mary Jane Willks (Anne Heche) Depty Hines (James Gammon), Harvey Willks (Paxton Whitehead) and Dr. Robinson (Tom Aldrege). The movie took place in St. Petersburg, a fictional town. The movie is an action movie. Huckleberry Finn is a young boy that lived with Widow Douglas in the beginning of the movie. She took him into her plantation and gave him a place to stay and plenty of food to survive. But then Huck decides that he wants to go out in the world and be a free boy. As he escapes from the home he meets a boy named Jim, a runaway slave in the woods. The two had many adventures together as they floated down the Mississippi River. In order to learn more about his journey and find out what happens in Huck's life, read the book!In this film stereotypes were pointed out many times. During this time period a lot of segregation was going on. You knew when a person was a slave because of the color of the skin not their personality or how they acted. In the movie Huck Finn, Jim, an African American slave gets caught leaving the plantation. He only gets caught because he was a slave on this plantation and couldn't be free and do whatever he wanted unlike Huck. The movie was set to be back in the 1800's but was actually filmed and made in 1933. Because it was supposed to be from the 1800's things could become very difficult. They had to work around a lot of things such as the appearance of everyone, the appearance of the sets, and how things turned out. To make the movie more real and believable that it was in the time period of the 1800's the actors had to actually act like they were in that time period which would be hard because they were living then in a more modern life and there was no slavery or segregation going on as much. The movie Huckleberry Finn was a classic movie. It was enjoyable and never really got boring to me. I don't think I could ever live in the time of segregation because I believe that everyone deserves equal rights and life should have never been that way. Even though people may look different on the outside we are all the same on the inside. Rating this movie with 10 being the best and 1 being the lowest I would give it an 8 because it really brought forth the message and was a classic film. "},{"Title":"Huck Finn, a young boy, and Jim, a black slave, go on many adventures while helping many people to achieve freedom.","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Huck Finn was originally wrote by Mark Twain, but then remade into a movie by Disney in 1993. The main characters in the film are Huck (Elijah Wood), Jim (Courtney B. Vance), The Duke (Robbie Coltrane), The King (Jason Robards), Pap Finn (Ron Perlman), Widow Douglas (Dana Iwey), Mary Jane Wilks (Anne Heche), Deputy Hines (James Gammon), Harvey Wilks (Paxton Whitehead), and Dr. Robinson (Tom Aldredge). The setting of this movie was in St. Petersburg, a fictional town. This movie is an adventurous/action movie.Huck Finn lived with Widow Douglas in the beginning of the movie. Widow Douglas brought Huck in to give him a place to live, things to eat, and a family that cares. But after some time of living with her, Huck decided to run away to escape society and go off into the wild. At the same time, Jim, a slave on the plantation owned by Widow Douglas, ran away too. Jim and Huck met in the woods and decided to venture on together even though Jim had real things he was trying to achieve by leaving, and Huck was only coming along for the adventure. At the end of the movie, Jim had achieved his goals of becoming a free man and buying his family into freedom. But, Huck hadn't achieved anything and was in the same position he was when the movie began. So, Huck then decided to go on another adventure by himself.In this film, stereotypes were used against Americans. One was how they portrayed themselves. As Jim and Huck reached one plantation they stayed at for a little while, Watts shot one man working and then turned to Jim and told him, Welcome to America. This showed that Americans were very ignorant and rugged, and also that they didn't think much of what they did to others. Another stereotype was the segregation that occurred between the two races. Blacks were used as slaves, and whites had all the advantages they wanted.This movie was set to be back in the mid 1800's, but was actually filmed in 1993. This could make the filming process more difficult because of the many set, appearance, and acting characteristics that would have to appear like they were set in the right time period. The actors themselves would have to understand how to act like they lived in the 1800's, and also look like they did as well. Sets would need to be older looking, instead of more modern. If these things were not done right, the movie would be not as believable.I would give Huck Finn a three star rating. I recommend this movie for people who like old, classic movies. This movie was easy to relate to and understand, so watching Huck Finn would be very easy to understand to any teenager. "},{"Title":"tims review","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The Adventures of Huck Finn This is another adaptation of Mark Twain's timeless classic The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn. This movie was created in 1993 and the setting is at a stretch the Mississippi river. Mark twain picked that setting because he lived in Missouri which are close by each other. It was easy for him to show the region as a whole from their dialect to how they dressed. This all played a big part in making it such a good story because of how it was realistic to the time period and the even the setting. Huckleberry Finn (Elijah Wood) is about a young boy who tries to do the right thing when most people didn't agree. He frees a slave named Jim Courtney B Vance. Huck has a lot of conflict with society and himself and just conflicts within himself. Such as when they are trying to follow through with Jim's plan to free himself and his family. Huck tries to ask for directions and instead of turning him in as Huck originally planned he thinks about Jim and how he really just wants to be with his family. This was hard for him to relate to because he is a son of a drunk Pap Finn (Ron Pearlman) who tries to kidnap his son and actually almost kills him while in a drunken rage. Huck seems to run into a lot of people who aren't really good influences throughout the whole movie such as the con men they meet in a town. The con men blackmail Huck and Jim by finding out about the wanted posters for Jim. They end up joining a con on a family to try to get money they would have inherited from a death but Huck foils it for them in the end. The story has many twists and turns and always keeps you guessing. Also with the realism that is portrayed in this movie such as Huck being a young abolitionist and the regional color in it just adds to the realistic feeling of it all. One of the most important things about a adult book that is turned into a children's film in the film making process is portraying the book without taking out a lot of the book. I think they did an okay job in changing it into a film. Some of the biggest problems was it took out a lot of characters that explain why Huck did some of the things he did like in the book I know Tom Sawyer influences him a great deal but yet they didn't mention Tom Sawyer once throughout the whole film which I think took away a lot for people who read The Adventures of Tom Sawyer and The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn. Aside from some characters missing and important parts they did take out little things from the book to make it appropriate for children by taking out some of the vulgar and dirty language. You could see a lot of points the story was making especially doing the right thing isn't always what everyone else thinks is right. Realism is the writing style that was used when this book was written and I think was really shown in the film too. They showed the regional color extremely well with their dialect and particularly in the movie their clothes. Mark Twain showed color so well because he lived there, his dialect and the way people acted towards things like slavery. Throughout the book it had events that were with the time period like slavery and how there were abolitionists. Even it showed how the slaves were treated poorly by most and even got separated from their families. He even shows how great of a difference it was between people who supported slavery and the few that were against it. The movie doesn't show as much realism because it's censored for children so you lose some of the effect. Last but not least I rate this movie 3 stars for people who haven't read the book and 1 star for people who have. The difference between the ratings is because if you have read the book you will be missing so much of the story that you hate it and the way you imagined the characters could be portrayed differently in the movie. This movie wasn't a bad movie to me I liked it a little at times I felt confused because I haven't read the book but overall the movie had a good story. The theme of the story adds to the movie greatly and really makes you feel sorry for slaves and you realize that some people just didn't know any better. I think the censorship took away from the movie a little and it would have been better if it was created in to an adult movie. "},{"Title":"A fantastic adventure of fun, freedom, and friendship","Date":"4 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I found this movie to be outstanding. They took a story as old as time and truly recreated the times of slavery and racism just the way that Mark Twain depicted it. Elijah Wood played an absoulutly phenomenal Huck Finn showing the street smart,warmhearted but troublesome young boy he was created to be, while creating a true grasp of childhood innocence. And Courtney Vance truly did a great job of the noble and kind hearted slave Jim showing the troubles and hard times that slaves have gone through for centuries and depicts the friendship of Huck and him although the struggles they have gone through in the duration of the film. Although the movie wasn't kept in its absolute exact form as the book, the small changes added were smart and just as entertaining. This film is so great, i have watched it at least 5 times, and two days in a row and I am currently considering watching it again at the moment "},{"Title":"Completely different from the book","Date":"13 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie was so far off from the book it's not even funny. As another reviewer explained, Jim is represented completely different than in Twain's book. The movie moves along fast without much explanation of any important events. It also just leaves out many events (important ones too). At the end of the book Huck runs into the Phelps family, and right then he runs into Tom Sawyer - this is the best part of the book and it takes you to the end. Unfortunately, Disney decided not to include Tom in the movie. Instead, they just quickly ended the story while Huck was with the family at the funeral. It was a terribly made movie. It was a quick skim of most of the book at best and it wasn't nearly as entertaining. I recommend reading the book and not watching the movie - you will be disappointed. "}{"Title":"Disney movies are pretty boring.","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A young boy runs away from his abusive father after making it look like he'd been killed. A runaway slave gets blamed for the murder, but the two are actually together and good friends. They find themselves in many adventures along the way, including caught in a family feud and being used as characters in a gold heist. Young Huck must learn why slavery is so wrong along his journeys too.I find this story to be one thats been told way too many times, I hate when literature is done dozens of times and although changed here and there, still the story is too familiar.I do not like Disney live action films much either. I can say I could've done without this movie. It is a kids movie, but I think it needs heavy parental guidance. The language is a tad colorful at times and also the racism subject should be explained in great detail to younger viewers.I don't like movies set in this era period, I hated how Elijah wood had to lay on this heavy southern accent. I hate Bill Conti's music here too and think it was way too produced.Stephen Sommers direction did little for me and the production was rather tame altogether. Acting wasn't too bad, but wasn't too great either. I don't like Ron Perlman but thought he did a great job. Elijah is a bit too cheesy in all his roles. I did enjoy Dana Ivy as well as the funny Jason Robards and Robbie Coltrane partnership.I guess I have to say the movie isn't horrible, its just not my thing. It is a story thats been done to death and although aimed more at kids, I think anyone should watch it with their kids and explain many things.3/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Overview on Huck Finn","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I have read the novel Huckleberry Finn by Mark Twain and now watched the move Huck Finn by Elijah Wood. I feel that this is a great movie for a younger child who likes adventure novels and whose parents are willing to watch the movie with them to help them interpret key parts. It teaches many values of life, and one of the most important told by Jim the slave himself was to not always think that something is always right just because other people tell you it is. It is a good movie and I would recommend it to young children and adults alike especially after reading the novel. The novel by Mark Twain shows the relationship between a young white uncivilized white boy and a black runaway slave named Jim. Huck is living with a Widow and he likes to go on adventures and play pretend games with his friends especially his one friend Tom who has quite the imagination. Huck's harsh Pap comes to get him because Judge Thatches has a large lump sum of money that is supposed to be Huck's someday and he is after the money. He takes him to a secluded log cabin in the middle of the woods and Huck has to live with his alcoholic dad for all this time and he treats Huck Finn poorly.Eventually Huck finds a way to escape and he takes a boat and gets to an island where people seldom visit. He finds Jim who is the slave of the widow where Huck was previously residing. Jim tells him the secret that he ran away because he didn't want to be sold into slavery into the South he is on a hunt for freedom and wants to buy back his family. So Huck agrees to help Jim on his journey to Cairo and then go back up the river to the free states and earn money to buy his family back from slavery.In this novel Huck learns that just because the majority of people are doing something that it doesn't mean that it is the right thing to do. He learns that African Americans are people too and the color of their skin doesn't change that. He learns that Jim has feelings for his family and he sees just how much Jim cares for him when he shows how excited he is to see Huck. The movie shows all of the main scenes with some twists to keep the viewers attention and understanding, but it still portrays the same feelings and morals. Overall this is a great novel and movie and I recommend both to anyone. "},{"Title":"The Perfect Huck Finn","Date":"20 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Master Wood is the absolutely perfect Huck Finn, just like he's the perfect Frodo Baggins. This was the first movie I had ever seen Elijah in, and he was incredibly talented even when he was 11!He has such a sweet, innocent, baby face in this movie, and yet, he isn't all that innocent! People fall for his fibs all the time, and it's rather hilarious to see!Now I know this doesn't sound like it would be appropriate, a 12-year-old who makes a habit out of lying, but he does learn a lesson. The best movies are those that have a moral to them.This version of Huck Finn reveals his coming to realize that slavery is wrong! He matures in his thinking, and that is a wonderful lesson!I highly recommend seeing this movie. Now it isn't appropriate for everyone; there are some scenes that could be scary for little kids, but it will be well worth it for older kids! This is one of my favorite movies! "},{"Title":"Not the book, but it doesn't have to be","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I am a big Mark Twain fan. I love his writing, his stories, and his humor. I used to watch this movie when I was a kid, and I recently rented it for old time's sake and fell in love with it all over again. If you're looking for a movie that's parallel to Mark Twain's novel, this isn't it. But that doesn't mean that this movie isn't fun-loving, creative, entertaining, and an overall great movie. I love this movie. I think it's great for kids as well as adults. It's an adventurous tale of freedom and friendship that leaves you smiling in the end and rewinding the movie with a slight sigh of wistfulness. I recommend this movie to a wide range - but not to someone who's using it instead of reading the book or expecting it to to BE the book. It isn't. It's something different, but still just as wonderful as it should be. "},{"Title":"Okay Movie of Huck Finn","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Huckal Barry Finn Movie ReviewHukal Barry Finn is a movie of a young boy's adventure on his own and the problems he faces on the way. This movie takes place in early America when slavery was popular in the south. The young boy goes by the name of Huck (played by Elijah Wood) who later meets up with a slave named Jim (played by Courtney B. Vance). Huck is kidnapped and abused by Pap Finn (played by Ron Perlman). Before he was kidnapped Huck stayed and was parented by Widow Douglas (played by Dane Ivey). On Huck and Jim's adventure to the free states they face problems like Jim being recaptured as a slave and both of them being held captive by two con artist.Huck lives in a small town with Widow Douglas but is miserable. Huck is in his room one night when his pap comes to kidnap him. Huck is at his pap's cabin when pap goes to town to get a few goods. While pap is gone Huck tries to fake his own death to escape form Pap. Huck then runs to Jackson Island and meets up with Jim, a runaway slave. They decide to get on a raft and head to the free states but to do that they must go south first. When they are floating down the river the two con artists invade their raft. Because Huck is so young and Jim is a slave they had no choice but to listen to the two con artists and do as they say. They decide to dress up and act like two brothers from England and rob a rich family of their dead brother's riches. There is when Jim is captured and put in jail. Huck is determined to get Jim out of jail and on to the free states.This movie takes place in the older setting, so there is not much you can really do in the aspect of editing. All the movie needs and has is soft background music to transition from seen to seen. The music just makes the scene changes smoother so it does not seem like it jumps from scene to scene too quickly. Without the music the movie would have no emotion, would seem unprofessional, and would be rather boring. The actors in the movie can really seem to get into what they're doing. There is more that could have happened with the emotion of slavery. But over all they have seemed to get the fact that the movie was taken a while back and understand how to apply that to the acting. Over all I see the movie as a good movie if you wanted to see what the past was like. This movie is in no way an entertaining movie. This movie is slow movie and does not have much going on that will get the viewer really involved in it. If I were to rate this movie I would rate it two out of five stars.Matt Mummert American Literature Student 3rd Block Mr. Mauzy's Class Written May 23, 2012 "},{"Title":"Too Many Untied Adventures","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mark Twain wrote the book The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn and Disney remade it into a movie in 1993. The adventurous, action packed movie, The adventures of Huck Finn takes place in the fictional town of Saint Petersburg, Mississippi. The main characters were Huck played by Elijah Wood, Jim played by Courtney B. Vance, The duke played by Robbie Coltrana, The king played by Jason Robards, Pap Finn played by Ron Perlman, Widow Douglas played by Dana Ivey, Mary Jane Wilks played by Anne Heche, and Deputy Hines played by James Gammon. I think the cast of the movie was bad at acting because, for the most part, they didn't really own their roles. In the movie, Huck was talking to a black man named Jim who could see the future, and the man told Huck that Pap was coming back to town and told him he needed to run away that night. Instead, Huck decided to sneak out with his friends one last time and when he got back Pap was in his room and grabbed him and ran off taking him back to his place. Pap got drunk and tried killing Huck and when he woke up the next morning Pap left to go into town and Huck climbed through the fire place and went and killed a goat and dragged it through Pap's place and to fake his own death. Then Huck ran off to Jackson County because no one lives there and he runs into Jim. They start to swim in a pond and Jim tells Huck he's running off because he found out Widow Douglas was going to sell him to someone in New Orleans, so he was going to run down the Mississippi river to become a free man and earn money to buy his family back. On their way down the river Huck and Jim run into a lot of adventures. These two men hopped on Huck's and Jim's raft and at their next stop the two men found out that Jim was a runaway slave and they blacked mail them by saying they would tell the cops on them or kill them, unless they did as they said. You need to watch the movie for yourself to find out the rest. In the movie I thought the directing wasn't very good. The directing just kept going from one thing to the next. For example after Huck and Jim started down the river Huck changed his mind and wanted to tell on Jim and they run into police then he changes his mind and doesn't want to tell on him so he makes up a huge story about his mom and sister having pox. Then that night a steam boat crashes into Huck's and Jim's raft and then some men grabbed Huck and took him back to their house where the mother and son said he could stay as long as he wanted. In this movie I think the director should have added a few more scenes that showed the building of the friendship between Huck and Jim because I never got to really actually see that between them in the movie. Mark Twain started the realism era in literature. Realism is the use of everyday life and putting it into prose. He showed slavery and how some slaves would run away to free land. Jim ran away from Widow Douglas because he overheard that she was selling him to someone in New Orleans so he left and started down the Mississippi river to free land. Mark Twain also showed stereotypes and how everyone believed slavery was a good thing. Since Disney likes everything to have a happy ending the only real part in the movie that made us feel bad about slavery was when Jim got whipped and they showed the slashes on his back. If you want to know what Huck learned about Slavery at the end of the movie you will need to go watch it for yourself. I would give this movie one star, I think it's a boring movie and doesn't have good directing. It's just about a boy who runs into the wrong people and what he goes through once he meets them. It also just goes from one thing to the next and doesn't really have a calming point or show the friendship of Huck and Jim. The only way that I would rent the movie is if I read the book and wanted to see it to understand it better, otherwise I would advise you not to go see it. "},{"Title":"I don't recommend this movie.","Date":"23 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" During CA this year, my class watched The Adventures Of Huck Finn. The movie takes place in the 1800s. I think the movie was classified more as a drama than any other genre. Even though it had some comedy parts. The movie Huckleberry Finn is about a little boy that gets kidnapped by his abusive drunk of a father. Throughout the movie Huck tries to set his friend, that's a slave, free. At one point they come across this thief's stash of gold. They pretended that they were sent from London and were high class people. Soon people started realizing that they weren't who they said that they were. So the thief's went after Huck and his friend. I thought that the set and the costume design matched the story line really well. It wasn't like most movies where they don't have the same hairstyles and clothes as they did back in the 1800s. Also I thought that the background music matched the action scenes really well. In the movie the characters used realism by talking the same way that people did in that time. They also used realism by the way they dressed. In the background they showed realism by using real people and real places. My personal opinion on the movie was that it was terrible. The story was dry and it wasn't very interesting. I wouldn't suggest this movie to any high school student. I would rate this movie 2 out of 10. Alyssa Hanes American Literature Student 3rd block, Mr.Mauzey Written May 22, 2012 "},{"Title":"Splendid Adaptation!","Date":"28 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn' has always been a controversial book. It still remains banned by some libraries and public schools too ignorant to see past the outward portrayal of Jim, and the many uses of term n----r. (As of 2009, it was placed at #14 on the ALA's (American Library Association) list of Banned/Challenged books. (Although this is significantly lower than its 1990-99 listing of #5. And I must say that after reading the list, I am unsure of its reliability.) While director Stephen Sommers eliminates some of the novel's controversial content, like the racial slurs, and Jim's strong negro dialect (which started to get on my nerves after the first three or four pages), he made the very un-Disney-like choice to keep the dark tone the novel had. He also included several violent moments, without toning them down. So if you're reluctant to see this film because your afraid of it being too Disneyfied, you're in for a pleasant surprise.Much of the complaints about the film spring from it's lack of Tom Sawyer. In truth, Tom did have a brief appearance near the beginning (Go for the glory, Huck!). And the only time Tom was relevant to the plot was the book's (arguably) anti-climactic (and quite frankly bizarre) ending. (I say arguably for that remains one of the most debated issues in the world of fiction. Some feel the original was tacked-on, and disappointing, others claim there was a deep meaning beneath it all, and even go as far as claiming it to be a social analogy. I personally disagree with the latter. For one, the book begins with a notice claiming Persons attempting to find a motive in this narrative will be prosecuted; persons attempting to find a moral in it will be banished; persons attempting to find a plot in it will be shot. And while that is obviously not entirely meant to be true, I doubt if Twain would have put it in if he meant for us to ignore it completely. I also heard Mark Twain himself was disappointed with the ending, but I couldn't find any proof to support that statement.) All of the essential dialogue, events, and discussions remain, and the film is able to keep the spirit and heart of the novel; something not many adaptations can do.Overall A Brazen 10/10 Stars. Highly recommended to those who enjoyed the book, those who did not enjoy the book due to its ending, and/or those anyone who is looking for a rousing, humorous, and emotive rendition of Mark Twain's American classic. So Kick off your shoes, if you're wearing' 'em. And get ready for a spit-licking' good time. "},{"Title":"Whitewashing the Sense","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" Nineteenth century Mississippi River boy Elijah Wood (as Huckleberry Huck Finn) may be tiny, but he has a lot of spunk. In the opening sequence, he beats up a bigger boy and bloodies his nose. This may be filmmakers' way of drawing a connection to young Wood's own abuse, as we quickly learn he is being beaten by his father. The opening fight ends when Wood sees the distinctive footprint of his abusive father Ron Perlman (as Pap). Wood escapes the madman's clutches and joins forces with runaway slave Courtney B. Vance (as Jim). They have several adventures together, and learn about freedom...This adaptation of Mark Twain's superior novel is probably going to be most successful with young primary or elementary school children; most others will find it insufferable. It can invite discussion of - and comparison with - the original work. Letting youngsters know The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn is a banned novel they should not read can also promote reading. This film has bright, colorful locations. The part where Wood plays Huck as Charles Dickens' The Artful Dodger is telegraphed before he assumes the British accent. Tom Sawyer is given no opportunity to steal scenes.*** The Adventures of Huck Finn (4/2/93) Stephen Sommers ~ Elijah Wood, Courtney B. Vance, Robbie Coltrane, Jason Robards "},{"Title":"a liturature lesson minus the book","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The movie does great at showing the hardships of slavery, yet throwing in tons of humor, adventures(duh), and morals. Great performances all around, especially by Courtney B. Vance,Robbie Coltrane, and Elijah Wood. Suitably filmed on the missisippi river, the gorgeous landscape provides a beautiful backdrop for the story of freedom, frineds, and new beginings. Bottom line its cool- something grandmas and 13 year-olds agree on. "}{"Title":"Consider the movie as totally separate from the book.","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" A movie is a movie and a book is a book and nowhere is this more apparent than in Disney's adaptation of The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn. Anyone who is looking for Mark Twain's story to hit the big screen as Mark Twain envisioned it is likely to be disappointed by this film. If, however, one recognizes the vastly different context of Twain's writing and Disney's production, the movie can be enjoyable.Twain wrote circa 1884. His world was not concerned with the politically correct. Though it may have been self-aware, it was certainly not self-obsessed. The idea of consciously shaping America's social conscience through literature in the specific or media in the general, wasn't. Twain didn't blush at Huck's use of the word nigger. It simply was Huck's language. Today, our social conscience deems that word among the most loathsome and its utterance is forbidden. Twain also didn't blush when he borrowed the popular, black minstrelsy image of coloreds to create--and then differentiate--Jim. Today, we recognize Twain's source material, the blackface minstrelsy, as an abhorrent perpetuation of negative stereotype. I point this out only to provide context and how much this nation has changed (outwardly, at least).Enter Disney and its 1993 production. More than anything, the film seeks to reform Twain's story to fit contemporary social conscience. That is, you will not hear the n word because it is antithetical to the purpose of the film. Where Twain's Jim once participated as an uneducated, unsophisticated dupe in minstrelesque exchanges with Huck, Disney's Jim best's Huck's interlocution through sustained argument. In Disney's film we do not see Jim grow because we cannot be allowed to.... If we do, if we see Jim as possessing at any time any less dignity than that of a contemporary African-American, then Disney fails. For Disney, Jim is not a man but an incarnation of American Guilt and Apology. Jim is moralpatiencevirtueinnocenceperfection, sent to earth from above to instruct.In short, Disney's version is as revisionist as it comes, for better or for worse. "},{"Title":"You Can't Help But Love This Movie","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is definitely one of my favourite movies, and although I am inclined to be a tad biased as Elijah Wood is one of my favourite actors, I can tell you that that has nothing to do with it. The essence of Mark Twain is always present in this film, which comes from the mastermind of the Mummy movies. Elijah Wood plays the role of Huck Finn superbly, his performance is so accurate that avid Twain readers will not be offended. Courtney B. Vance also plays the role of the lovable crook Jim - the two make an unlikely but unforgettable pair. This movie will make you cry and make you laugh. I will not bother recommending it to the fans of Mark Twain out there - because there is no doubt that they have already seen it several times! But even if you have never read a sentence Mr Twain has written, you will love this movie - you'd have to be pretty cold-hearted not to. "},{"Title":"Children's story","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I'm sorry but your mistaken.  Huck Finn is not at all children's story. Twain uses satire throughout the novel to deliver very serious messages. Satire makes on look at themselves and change.  You may have thought this because Tom Sawyer is children's novel, but Huck Finn is a totally different type of book. "},{"Title":"Fine performances all around","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I may be a little ignorant when it comes to comparing this film against other versions or the book, as I have only seen this version as well as Disney's take on the other Mark Twain work, Tom Sawyer (Tom & Huck - 1995); and I personally feel that Disney did a better job with this story than they did with the Tom Sawyer story.A lot of people seem to have mixed feelings about the performances in the film, particularly Elijah Wood's performance as the title character. Having not read the book or seen other versions of the film, I think that Elijah Wood did an outstanding job.  He brought a certain joie du vivre to the part.  His age allowed him (and the writers) to pull off both childhood innocence and mischievousness; and find a balance between the two.Courtney B. Vance does a fine job as Jim, playing the part with real determination to gain his freedom and real loyalty to Huck despite a few conflicts in their friendship.  He also brings a certain innocence to his character.  He expertly portrays a real sense of wisdom, despite his character's lack of education.Jason Robards is simply wonderful in everything he plays.  This is no exception.  Along with Robbie Coltrane, the two deliver wonderful comedic performances as The King and The Duke.  Ron Perlman is also wonderfully scary is Pap Finn.This film is great for kids 9 through 99 (younger kids might find certain scenes a little too frightening). "},{"Title":"Despite Elijah, this Movie Fails","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I think that Elijah Wood is one of the best young actors out there, but he just isn't Huck Finn.  Another actor would have been better in this role and the movie suffers for this.  The 1960 version is much better in part because of the casting. "},{"Title":"Not as good as Tom and Huck, but good","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Disney's 1993 adaptation of Mark Twain's Adventures of Huckleberry Finn is a fun-spirited adventure. Elijah Wood stars as the title character, and his charm and charisma serves the film well, as it did the other good films of his youth (North, Radio Flyer and others). Courtney Vance does a fine job as Huck's friend Jim, the runaway slave.Stephen Sommers (The Mummy, The Mummy Returns) wrote the screenplay and directed this version, and he does a good job at capturing the spirit of the South. The cinematography is first-rate, too, as it is in Tom and Huck. It's slightly too long (as is Twain's novel), and as a result loses a bit of steam in the final act, but there is enough power and charm to keep you engaged and caring for these colorful characters.Two years later, Disney would adapt Twain's Adventures of Tom Sawyer in Tom and Huck and that was an all-around classy production. Many of Tom and Huck's good qualities are present here in this movie, including powerful performances, wonderful photography and music, and plenty of spirit and charm. "},{"Title":"I almost puked up my livers!","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" I was supposed to read this book a long time ago in high school, as I was not one for reading, I never did. But if this movie is just like the Mark Twain classic, perhaps someday I'll take a look. The movies tells the adventures of Huck Finn (Elijah Wood in his pre-Frodo days), a semi-literate, wonderful liar of a kid in Missouri who runs away from home. Along the way, he meets up with a run-away slave and friend, Jim (Courtney B. Vance), and raft up and down the Mississippi River, evading the hoards of people trying to chase them down. Along the way, they run into a rich family involved in a feud with their neighbors, robbers, thieves, and a pair of gentlemen who are even better at plotting and acting than Huck Finn, played by Robbie Coltrane and Jason Robards. The folksy dialogue that is the staple of Twain books is reproduced perfectly by the actors, and the offbeat stories are paced well. There are 3 main stories in the movie, each taking about a third of the movie, so no lingering on one story at the expense of others. The film also has a good look to it, the idea that it is 1850 Missouri is easily bought. The costumes and set designs are solid. For good, solid, family entertainment, you can do much worse than The Adventures of Huck Finn. "},{"Title":"A summary is not worth the effort","Date":"8 September 2006","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film was a typical Disney butchery of an immortal piece of literature. This film manages to rip apart Twain's masterpiece and paste it back together in a totally unflattering form. Several key issues are overlooked, and Huckleberry is presented in a way that is totally arbitrary to the way that Twain presented him. Disney has taken a work that was never intended for children, and watered it down to a sappy melodrama. The result is, a movie that is serviceable for children, but has absolutely no appeal to an educated adult. For one who has never read the novel, I would imagine that this film would be tolerable. I would recommend, however, that one read the book beforehand. "},{"Title":"Boy and slave travel down the Big Muddy","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Well done version of Mark Twain's classic about a carefree boy and his misadventures during the 19th century. I enjoyed the updated style used in this rendition and the flawless performances. The crooked antics of the 2 con men stole the show as far as I'm concerned. "},{"Title":"Elijah's character didn't match","Date":"8 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" The movie had plenty of violence and action for a Disney movie, like Huck's brutal, drunk pap Finn, who I can still remember making me recoil in shock seeing when I was little, but particularly when Huck's new friend gets shot in a fighting sequence. Elijah was sweet looking for the role. Plus his sensitive, all-in-all nice, gentle kid, like Frodo Baggins, doesn't match the rebellious boy who doesn't have to go to school, and gets into such mischeouf. Don't get me wrong they made it seem real, and I liked the movie, it was just one of the most ironacally chosen roles. Brad Renfro did a much better job as Huck Finn in Tom and Huck, released two and a half years later. Elijah Wood just has the versatility to play just about anyone. "}{"Title":"At least it's better than Tom And Huck","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In this 1993 version by Walt Disney Pictures of Mark Twain's classic boyhood story, Elijah Wood takes on the role of the story's hero, the mischievious and adventurous Huck Finn and in the end, his performance meets with so so results. Most of the film's best scenes come from Courtney B. Vance as Jim, Huck's runaway slave friend. Why couldn't the film have been more about him instead? Still, it's a good attempt even though Wood's performance in the title role is mostly wooden. Two years later, Walt Disney Pictures filmed the story again (with different actors) as Tom And Huck but that film featured a miscast Brad Renfro as Huck. See this Elijah Wood version instead.  "},{"Title":"Good Adventure But I Didn't Care For Woods","Date":"18 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This was a very entertaining film with lots of adventure but the lead kid, played by young Elijah Woods, got on my nerves. The sneer on his face is very annoying, although, to be fair, he could have been worse. In Mark Twain's famous book, Huck is worse than he's shown here. Sorry, but I just didn't like him. At least he cashed in on his srange looks a decade later with LOTR.Speaking of the book, Disney gets in its typical anti-Christian cheap shot by having Jason Robards dress up as a fake minister, even though that was NOT part of the book.Racism is a key part of this story, too, and Courtney B. Vance is very likable as the slave. He's just one part, however, of a number of characters and adventures in here. The movie is nicely filmed, too; very colorful. It was good for one viewing, but that was it for me. "},{"Title":"One of The Best Movies Ever","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film was one of the greatest children's movies I have ever seen! When you watch some film adaptations of books, e.g. Harry Potter, the director cuts out chunks of the book. This film is about a boy named Huck Finn (played by Elijah Wood) who helps a slave named Jim (played by Courtney B. Vance) down the river Mississippi in South America to set his family free from slavery. My main interest in the film was the part where Huck got shot by people that were hanging Jim. This is because it was a very emotional moment. Wouldn't you be interested if the director can use emotion that well? Another interest I had was the message that was being sent across, the message was that slavery was not a great thing and that many people suffered from it. The film was well adapted from the book and it's stunning use of drama made the message very serious. In my opinion the best bit dramatised was the part at the beginning where Huck and Pa were in the house and Pa was trying to murder Huck. The way the actors performed was just outstanding, they really used that sense of emotion, like where Huck had the Fight with Tom Sawyers and their sense that they were actually getting hurt was really realistic. The film is really realistic and has a great message, so I would recommend this film to anyone who likes a good adventure story (even adults). So watch the film to find out whether Jim manages to set his family free. "},{"Title":"no matter what, we can still talk about moral nihilism","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Drama","Review":" While it seems fairly common for book-to-film adaptations to change things in the process, I've heard that The Adventures of Huck Finn went so far as to change what happened at the end. But I've never read the novel, so maybe I shouldn't comment on that. The truth is, Mark Twain intended for his work to be serious (not to get adapted by Disney).But one point that they certainly kept was something that we talked about in an ethics class that I took two years ago. In one scene, some people ask Huck (Elijah Wood) whether Jim (Courtney B. Vance) is black or white, and Huck says white. You must understand that Huck was raised to believe that slavery was correct and that he should return escaped slaves. According to that, it was immoral for him to lie about Jim. But since slavery has now been mostly - unfortunately, not totally - discredited, it looks perfectly moral for Huck to lie about Jim. Therefore, Huck is a moral nihilist, subscribing to neither approach.But otherwise, the movie's OK as a simple adventure story. Just not the sort of thing that I necessarily recommend as a history lesson. Also starring Robbie Coltrane (Hagrid from the Harry Potter movies), Jason Robards, Ron Perlman, Anne Heche, Curtis Armstrong (Booger from The Revenge of the Nerds) and Frances Conroy (Ruth on Six Feet Under). "}]