[{"Title":"A film that deserves far more than it's given credit for","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"38 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Somewhere in the dark recesses of over-fluffed and processed Stephen King movie adaptations, there lies this jewel of a film The Dark Half. After having it watched it about three times, I'm still quite at a loss as to why this movie has been, more or less, forgotten or simply passed over by the horror movie community. Not only is it a fairly neat adaptation of a great King novel, but it's also directed and written by a true horror movie icon the one and only George Romero. Isn't this the kind of team-up that fans would, under normal circumstances, go absolutely bananas over? I know that I did.Anyway ... the movie is about a writer, Thad Beaumont (Timothy Hutton), whose past - quite literally - comes back to haunt him. As a young man, he wrote pulpy crime novels (that I can only imagine were directly inspired by Richard Stark's hardboiled, master thief, Parker) that sold well ... though his literary yearnings tended to veer toward a much less marketable direction. We learn that when he was writing those pulps, his personality suffered. He drank, yelled at his wife, probably slept around, too. Having successfully exorcised that particular demon, when we meet him, Beaumont has a couple kids and an office at some New England university, teaching - you guessed it - creative writing. But when the bodies of folks close to him (i.e. his agent, biographer) begin cropping up, the small-town police fun finger is pointed at Beaumont. But ... there's a much more sinister twist in this jet-black yarn. We learn that Beaumont indeed has a dark half.The direction is perfect, the writing is perfect, the acting is perfect. What more do you want in a film? I'm not exactly certain what King's response was to this film ... I've heard rumors that if he's not directly involved in the production process, he generally scoffs at the final film product. (For example ... he's all but urinated on all the goodness that was Stanley Kubrick's adaptation of The Shining, which not only marked a substantial turning point in horror cinema, but it's also one of my personal favorites.) Then again ... from what I understand to be true of King and Romero both ... they're friends. Hell, they made Creepshow together ... which is another favorite of mine, though I'm more than just a little bit guilty about it. The Dark Half also does one hell of a job at creating a genuinely creepy atmosphere. And who could listen to Are You Lonesome Tonight again the same way ... after hearing its soft melodies during a particularly uncomfortable dream sequence?All of this, compounded with the fact that Timothy Hutton is a damned fine actor (albeit sinfully unknown by most these days) ... makes The Dark Half an explosively well made horror/thriller. The proverbial mind meld of King and Romero made Creepshow an instant cult classic. So, I ask again ... why was The Dark Half a blink-or-you'll-miss-it flop? Maybe these horror titans just can't share the same marquee, anymore.I dunno. "},{"Title":"The sparrows are flying again.","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Dark Half is one of the finest Stephen King adaptations.  It's also one of George Romero's most under-appreciated works.  The two of them have collaborated on many occasions to produce nothing but good things, but this takes it to a new level.  Romero is known for casting unknowns for his leads.  This time he went against the grain.  He used the amazing Timothy Hutton.  Hutton, in a dual role, plays both mild-mannered Thad Beaumont and mean b*stard George Stark.  But when he's Stark, he really comes to life. He's both cool and creepy.  The sparrows are also a crucial part of the overall eeriness of the movie.  Although he will always be known for the unforgettable Dead trilogy, this may be Romero's finest, most high-brow picture to date.  The production values are the cleanest I've seen in any Romero flick, the acting is top-notch, and story is solid.  Getting a scare at the theater is fairly easily achieved.  Getting me to jump in the privacy of my own home in another thing altogether.  Romero made me jump while watching the movie on a crappy 19 inch television.and I've seen the movie before.  That's saying something.  Royal Dano and Michael Rooker co-star. "},{"Title":"You'll like this one, Hoss","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Dark Half is great. Put two of the masters of horror together in a box, shake &#145;em up, and you get this very entertaining and darkly humorous story. Can you believe this is the latest film from George Romero? 1993? It's a crime that this man isn't doing movies on a regular basis anymore. I hear he has a couple of projects on the horizon, but seven years is just too long, George! Stephen King movie adaptions can be pretty damn good, or really, really awful depending on who's behind the camera. Well, no worries here, King and Romero have had a great working relationship in the past (and I expect good things in the future). But give credit where credit is due, it's Timothy Hutton's outstanding performance that really makes this film special for me. He's good enough as ordinary Thad Beaumont, with just a hint of evil underneath his nice husband and father persona, holding back the nasty as best he can. Then Hutton is George Stark, and he doesn't even look like the same person. That's why Hutton is so damn good. With just a few minor changes, slicked-back hair and some facial stubble, he's a completely different person. You have to see it to believe it, he's that good. And he delivers the films darkly humorous lines perfectly (What's going on out here?, Murder. Want some?). I know, the murderous joker has been done to death, but Hutton's good enough that we can forgive it. I love, love, love horror movies and this is one of the reasons why. 8/10 stars. G'night!  "},{"Title":"just okay","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Sadly a rather bland version of King's sadly rather bland novel. Romero had apparently been slated to direct Pet Semetary before commitments (Monkey Shines) pulled him off - now that would have been worth watching. This on the other hand is a rather tepid slasher flick punctuated with a few inspired moments (the dream sequences and the whole sparrow things in particular). It's hard to know who is a fault here - certainly Dark Half - despite its intriguing premise - is one of King's weaker novels - but Romero's screenplay is little more than a rather one dimensional collection of deaths. There is some suspense and some good effects but overall a rather dull affair. "},{"Title":"One of the Better Stephen King Movies","Date":"16 May 2009","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Dark Half is a very good horror movie which is not surprising considering the novel was written by Stephen King. George Romero a man who has done a wonderful job with horror movies is the man in charge of taking this from a novel to a movie and he delivers.The plot revolves around author Thad Beaumont. Beaumont had written several best selling novels under the pseudonym George Stark. However a law student makes the connection and threatens to reveal it to everyone. Before this can happen Beaumont goes public and tells everyone he is Stark, essentially killing off his pseudonym. Stark isn't content with being dispatched and he comes to life determined to stick around. Stark then goes around killing those responsible for his demise. Beaumont must fight Stark because only one of them can survive.Timothy Hutton does a spectacular job as both Beaumont and Stark. He really makes you believe the two are separate people but are tied together. The plot is suspenseful and full of unexpected twists. There are also supernatural elements such as the sparrows or bringers of the living dead.So to sum it up The Dark Half is one of the better adoptions to Stephen King's works. It follows the story accurately and succeeds in scaring the audience which is the aim for horror movies. "},{"Title":"Promising Story with a Disappointing Conclusion","Date":"7 May 2013","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" In Castle Rock, Maine, the respectable writer and professor Thad Beaumont (Timothy Hutton) lives a comfortable life with his wife Liz Beaumont (Amy Madigan) and his two babies. Out of the blue, he is blackmailed by a punk from New York that has discovered a hidden secret about Thad before writing serious novels, he had written cheap literature using the pseudonym of George Stark and has become a successful writer of the genre and made enough money to raise his family. Thad and Liz discuss the situation and Thad calls his editors telling that he would tell the truth about George Stark to the press. The editors like the idea and prepare a promotional event, with That Beaumont burying George Stark in the cemetery. When the photographer is murdered, Sheriff Alan Pangborn (Michael Rooker) comes to Thad's home and tells that he is the prime suspect of the crime. Thad believes that the blackmailer is the responsible for the death but soon he finds that the man was murdered. Soon there are a crime spree incriminating Thad and he claims that George Stark is the responsible for the bloodshed. How can his violent alter ego be responsible for the homicides?The Dark Half is a horror movie with a promising story by Stephen King but unfortunately with a disappointing conclusion with the sparrows destroying George Stark and leaving Thad Beaumont without any evidence to prove his innocence. The explanation of Reggie that George Stark is a conjuration, an entity created by dark half of Thad that brought his alter ego to life, is weak. I saw this movie for the first time in the 90's on VHS and I have just watched again on DVD. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) A Metade Negra (The Dark Half) "},{"Title":"Very Scary And Unique!!","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the few horror movies in which I was truly frightened. Unlike most horror movies these days, this one was serious from beginning to end. I saw this movie before I read the book and knew very little about it. I was on the edge of my seat all night. Timothy Hutton is wonderful as the evil George Stark and the good Thad Beaumont. Amy Madigan was good as his confused wife, too. This movie is a wonderful adaptation of the Stephen King book. Very little is left out. If you haven't seen this movie, which many people have not, you should rent it. I give it a ten out of ten. "},{"Title":"Good adaptation from a great book.","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I saw this movie after i read the book and i have to say pretty much of the book was also in the film, although not all. Some parts with the sparrows for instance weren't in the film, probably because the budget wouldn't allow special effects that elaborate. And the murders, although violent enough in the movie, were particularly more gruesome in the book.Ultimate conclusion great acting from top notch actors/actresses who usually are nowhere to be found in horror (if you discount Michael Rooker's performance in Henry), pretty good special f/x and direction from a director who has made his mark in horror.  "},{"Title":"Underrated King adaptation pick a number","Date":"15 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" George Romero didn't translate King's book to the letter when he made this screenplay; perhaps for the better because his version is an equally interesting take.Starring Timothy Hutton as a famous pulp novelist writing under the name of George Stark, the main character works; Thad Beaumont is clumsy, intelligent and quite the family man. Married to Amy Madigan and a father of twins.When someone threatens to expose Thad for the pulp writer he is, Beaumont decides to let the world know he is George Stark. Good call you'd think, but George disagrees.Thad's friends and family become the target of a guy going by the name of George Stark. Like the characters in the books he has a taste for underground killings and a flair for rock 'n' roll one liners.As the killings continue, Thad becomes entangled in an investigation directed at him.This material is at fist glance unknown territory for George Romero, having spend too much time writing dialogue for zombie victims. Sure, Martin and Monkey Shines were proof the man could write a good script, but the dark half is as clever in its writing as it is to the point.Add to that a wonderful score by Christopher Young (you haven't lived until you've heard the main theme, reprized at full glory in the end credits) The American DVD is full screen, the European (UK) has the widescreen, so avoid that US edition.Dark Half is an inventive thriller that relies very much on the steps of belief (it builds the fiction, which few horror films do). "},{"Title":"Fairly good for coming out in the early 90's.","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The diabolical alliance of George A. Romero and Stephen King quietly delivered expectations but it's not certainly a great horror film.The Dark Half is pretty interesting and well directed but it's something you've seen before.  There's a decent amount of gore, suspense is well crafted, an effective score and regular acting.  Maybe the fact that I grew with the 80's Slasher movies made me think every minute about Basket Case and compare it with The Dark Half.A decent horror movie with a thrilling ending.  Deserves a watch.6/10.  "}{"Title":"The Dark Half is a dark and creepy tale.","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" A writer's fictional alter-ego wants to take over his life...at any price. When Thad Beaumont was a child, he had an operation to remove a tumour from his brain. during the operation, it was discovered that far from being a tumor, the growth was a twin brother of Thad's that never developed. Years later, Thad is a successful author, writing his serious books under his own name, and his pulp money- makers under the pseudonum George Stark. When blackmailed by someone who has discovered his secret, Thad publicly buries George Stark. From that point on, Thad increasingly becomes the prime suspect in a series of gruesome murders. Roger Ebert wrote I'd like to know more about the evil twin. Is he a figment of Thad's imagination? Some kind of psychic projection? Did he grow like a tree out of the bits of tissue buried in the old family plot? Is he an imposter? Can he read Thad's mind? Did he have a childhood? Is that the original eye? There are three or four inconclusive, half-baked suggestions dropped here and there in the movie, as if the authors themselves were sorting out the possibilities, but by the last half-hour this movie is essentially no different than if the eyeball had never blinked, the twin had never been discussed, and Thad was simply being persecuted by a routine mad slasher. Too bad. That means the end essentially comes down to a hackneyed fight to the finish, when a resolution of the weird premise would have been much more interesting. Another disappointment is that so little is done with the George Stark character, who is also played by Timothy Hutton, in a dual role that allows him to definitively shed his nice-guy image. Isn't there something wonderfully macabre (or darkly funny, anyway) about a creature who starts life as an unfinished embryo, ends up as a mad slasher, and would really rather be writing pulp fiction? So to sum it up The Dark Half is one of the better adoptions to Stephen King's works. It follows the story accurately and succeeds in scaring the audience which is the aim for horror movies. The Dark Half film achieves what is necessary to make a great Stephen King movie. It's dark, gruesome but also creepy, there is just this strange aura around it and everything unfolds perfectly. "},{"Title":"Tapping the Robert Louis Stevenson vein...","Date":"5 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" THE DARK HALF opens with a scene worthy of David Cronenberg during a brain operation, the doctor discovers an eye and some teeth growing inside writer Thad Beaumont's grey matter. Beaumont, like author Stephen King, has a pseudonym under which he writes horror novels and it's this alter ego who eventually manifests himself as a malevolent entity out to do his creator no good. Although I tend not to like doppelganger stories, director George Romero makes this one work by dint of some outstanding craftsmanship. Says Stark (the Evil Twin) to Beaumont You will die like no other man on Earth has ever died before. Later, when Beaumont and Stark square off in a story-writing contest and Stark falters uncertainly, Thad says You know the only way to do it is to do it. That could very well sum up this one Romero gets the job done. It's not his best work- by a mile- but it showed at the time that he was more than capable of handling bigger budget films with big name stars. "},{"Title":"We all have something of a beast inside us.","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This is one strange, surreal literate piece of psychological horror pulp in the tradition of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde by film-maker George Romero who adapted it from novelist Stephen King. Thad Beaumont is a successful novelist who decides to literally bury his alter ego George Stark, who he used as a pseudonym for his overly violent pulp novels. This occurs because someone tries to blackmail him. But after putting an end to this alter ego, people are starting to be killed off and these are people who are somehow tied in to seeing George Stark finish up. However the evidence at every murder scene points to Thad and something is happening to him that he hasn't experience for almost twenty years. The sparrows are calling. Underrated work from Romero, which can be atmospheric in its vivid visuals, computer effects are ably done, the jolts are nastily macabre (the graphic climax of when sparrows attack) and the steadfast narrative gradually builds up its dread-filled suspense and stinging matter with precise control. Timothy Hutton plays the dual roles with outstanding ticker. Then there is solid support by Amy Madigan, Michael Rooker and a tiny part for Robert Joy.We shouldn't be writing trash. "},{"Title":"Not great, but worth seeing","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This was a good movie.  It is one of the better Stephen King adaptations in my opinion.  It wasn't anything great, but it's enjoyable.  I think it stayed pretty close to the book, but it's been awhile since I read it so I don't really remember.  All the basic stuff from the book is there though. I think people who haven't read the book would like this movie more than people who have.  Timothy Hutton was great in this.  The ending was just like the ending to the book.  This is a good movie, but it's no Green Mile. "},{"Title":"good idea, OK execution and a couple of problems","Date":"10 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" In 1968, young Thad Beaumont has a brain tumor removed. It turns out to be an undeveloped twin. The sparrows swarm supernaturally. 23 years later, Thad (Timothy Hutton) is a college professor and a successful writer under the pen name George Stark. He's married to Liz (Amy Madigan) with young twins. Fred Clawson discovers that he's the secret pulp novel writer and blackmails him. His publishers accept killing off George Stark even with a fake tombstone. They try to publicize transitioning to the safer Thad Beaumont writing. Then the people involved start getting killed off by a mysterious figure and Thad is the prime suspect for Sheriff Alan Pangborn.I like the basic idea and I think the movie is well made. However, a couple things keep bothering me. First, the whole idea of 'killing' off Stark doesn't make sense. Clawson's blackmail is based on the fact that it would hurt business. Yet they close up the Stark business themselves. A better reason has to be written to explain killing off Stark. It may be as simple as Thad being tired of the violent imagery.The second is that I don't understand why the sheriff doesn't arrest Thad on that first night. It seems like he has enough evidence. It would be more compelling if he had less evidence. It would be more tense if the killer's face isn't revealed so early. They should stretch out the questions until the third act. The overall work is good. Timothy Hutton is a compelling lead. If only the movie could fix my concerns, this could be great. "},{"Title":"Underrated King/Romero effort","Date":"24 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Deciding to move on in his career, a writer's decision to put an end to a vile alter-ego sets off a series of vicious deaths around him and must find out how to stop him before his family is targeted.This is a pretty decent and overall exciting effort. One of the better elements in here is the rater ingenious way it builds up the alter-ego's identity and through this adds a rather haunting touch by keeping the mystery of it being alive rather well. The first half plays the murder mystery of it pretty well as they set up whether-or-not he's crazy or really did those murders before, and that leaves a pretty big impression here. His actions, from the stalking to the way he's committed to the idea of how he came to exist in reality all makes for quite an enthralling mystery. Once it's all revealed and the body count begins to grow this does kick into a higher gear as the race to stop the rampage as well as trying to clear his name amongst the slew of brilliantly-orchestrated scenes that really hold this one quite nicely into the finale. This is quite fun as there's a lot to like about the finale and how it goes about finding a resolution to their battle as it deals quite nicely with the gore brought in along with the action for the scene which really helps this quite well by providing an ecstatically fun ending. That does help to even out the few flaws here, from the fact that the killer here is a complete joke who's never in the slightest bit scary since he appears as a lame greaser-type with a straight-razor for a killing tool which is quite lame all around so it's really hard to get any fear from him. This really has a toll on the beginning as it wanders around in so many extraneous scenes of him ending the ruse that it loses all meaning and drags this out probably about ten minutes too long. It's got a few too many story lines than it needs to have, and it at times can be a little confusing. It also seems just a little bit repetitive in the middle, which is no doubt due to the too long length. The same three general sequences of events play out several times over, and it gets a little tiresome. It's not all bad but does make up for enough to be watchable.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language and children-in-jeopardy. "},{"Title":"A decent Romero effort, falls short though!","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Inspired by Stephen King's pseudonymous adventures as Richard Bachman, George Romero's adaptation of the bestseller stars Timothy Hutton as mild-mannered literary failure Thad Beaumont who is exposed as pseudonymous bestseller George Stark, author of nasty thrillers about razor-slashing mobsters. When Thad reacts by killing off his pseudonym and posing beside a gravestone with Stark's name on it, his alter ego manifests himself in the real world. Having crawled out of his grave and generated a body from the buried remains of an unborn twin once removed from Thad's brain, Stark goes on a rampage, slashing up all those involved in his murder and leaving Thad's fingerprints all over the shop. Sounds good, no? King's novel discusses fascinating personal material and questions the responsibilities of the popular artist, but it's also a bloated pretend-horror freak that fails to make any plot sense and goes on about 250 pages too long. Romero does his best to streamline the flabby storyline and gets some extraordinarily subtle performances from a great cast, but King's malformed original keeps hobbling the film.This is too well-made and acted to be a total failure, and even the formulaic slasher scenes are handled with creepy aplomb(the first 40 mins or so are genuinely creepy). Hutton, in two complicated roles, digs deeper into the characters than duty calls for, and manages to make some of the quieter moments far more upsetting than the big shocks. You also get the excellent Madigan as Thad's devoted but apprehensive wife, Henry Portrait Of A Serial Killer's Rooker as a bewildered Sheriff, and a genuinely haunting use of Elvis' Are You Lonesome Tonight? Certainly not one of the better King adaptations although i didn't think much of the book and it does do the book justice. If you are a fan of the book you might like this. "},{"Title":"I Liked This More Than Everyone Else Did","Date":"10 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Thad Beaumont (Timothy Hutton) had a brain tumor as a child that was an undeveloped twin. Now, as an adult, the twin returns, fully formed and violent. The source is a bit supernatural, but real enough to kill.The story goes over ground that should be familiar to Stephen King fans. The idea of a child growing up to confront something from his childhood. The theme of a writer, explored numerous times (Misery, The Shining) but most closely to this in Secret Window. Howard Maxford calls it a cross between Misery and The Birds, which I do not fully accept but see his point.Interestingly, Stephen King is not known for good movie adaptations, and George Romero has had his slew of below average films (though, if you stray from his zombie films, you will find an assortment of goodies). But together, they seem to have made a decent movie here. I really enjoyed it. I also enjoyed Creepshow -- maybe these guys bring out the best in each other? Michael Rooker is here (with hair) playing the role played by Ed Harris in Needful Things. I would have liked to see some consistency in casting, but how do you choose between Rooker and Harris? Both top notch. Another Harris, Julie Harris, does appear, though... And the music is from Christopher Young, perhaps best known for his Hellraiser score.Some of the factual information I found to be a bit questionable. Does a military service record really go into an FBI fingerprint database? I suppose it might, but the idea struck me as odd. And the idea that one in ten people start off as twins seemed too exaggerated (and then they said that was at the very least). I would like to know the truth on that.Overall, though, a really decent film. It is not Oscar or Golden Globe material by any means, but a horror fan should enjoy the mix of gore and dark humor. Rue Morgue has called it a middling Romero film based on a middling King novel, which really sells it short.Unfortunately, the film did not get the proper respect in 1993, because its distributor (Orion) was fighting a bankruptcy battle and promoted it poorly. But now (2015), it has a second chance thanks to the fine folks at Scream Factory who have loaded up the Blu-ray with everything possible, including the kitchen sink. "},{"Title":"A Lesser King Adaptation","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" There are only a small handful of films based on works by Stephen King that can without a doubt be classified as 'great movies.' They are 'Carrie,' 'The Shining,' 'Misery,' 'Dolores Claiborne,' 'The Dead Zone,' 'Stand By Me' and 'Cujo.' All the others range from 'flawed' to 'awful.' Despite it's decent cast, and respected horror director Romero at the helm, 'The Dark Half' lies more towards the awful end of the spectrum. The filmmakers gave it their best shot but things just didn't work out. It fails as a horror film in terms of suspense, plausibility, and narrative.When Thad Beaumont (Hutton) was a child, he had an operation to remove a tumor from his brain. During the operation, it was discovered that far from being a tumor, the growth was a twin brother of Thad's that never developed. Years later, Thad is a successful author, writing his serious books under his own name, and his trashy money-makers under the pseudonym 'George Stark.' When blackmailed by someone who has discovered his secret, Thad publicly 'buries' George Stark. From that point on, Thad increasingly becomes the prime suspect in a series of gruesome murders.Of all the King adaptations I've seen, this is one of the dullest. The main character is unsympathetic, his alter ego is two dimensional and totally hammy, you don't care about any of the victims (much less even know who they are at some points,) and there is hardly any horror and next to no tension.However, there is some good production design and cinematography on display here, as well as some striking images. Huge flocks of sparrows gathering as an omen of doom is a haunting sight. But that alone can't save this film, which is just another King adaptation from a period where almost everything he'd write would end up being made into a movie. "},{"Title":"Um...The Birds part two???","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Not a bad thriller, but surely you expect more from a collaboration between Stephen King (the story is based on his novel) and George A. Romero (who wrote the screenplay and directed the film). The Dark Half at times is an intelligent and well-constructed thriller but eventually it raises more questions than the format can cope with. The concept isn't exactly new but it's creatively presented, with a good balance between visual shocks and atmospheric tension. Timothy Hutton plays one of the most prestigious roles in his career as the tormented author Thad Beaumont who's forced to kill off his successful alter-ego, when he's blackmailed with exposure. Right after the figurative burial of George Stark, people close to Thad die violent deaths, seemly caused by the fictional doppelganger that isn't supposed to exist&#133; Especially the first hour of The Dark Half is excellent fright-material with an obscure sequence about Thad's childhood and a delightful supernatural element involving sparrows&#133;.millions and millions of sparrows!! The second half is a lot less appealing and I wish Romero cut a few tedious sequences. The story begins to show a few holes and Romero attempts to camouflage them by adding more action and gory footage. The climax in particular is quite gruesome and not really satisfying in case you were hoping for reason or logic. All this probably is the reason why this film isn't mentioned more often. It features big names and clever ideas, yet it's an overall shortcoming project. Too bad for George A. Romero who'll still always be one of the most important writers/directors of the horror genre. "}{"Title":"King Adaptations Some Great-Some Awful-This Half-Way In-Between","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Stephen King Adaptations are Plentiful and Range in Quality from God-Awful (Thinner 1996) to Great (Carrie 1976). Some Fall Somewhere in the Middle and This One is Right There Despite Romero Writing and Directing.Most of the Problems Lie With Explanations. It Never Really Explains or Pays Much Attention to Exactly Where the Doppelganger Comes From. Obviously, He is the Alter-Ego, Dark-Half, of the Writer. But Exploring the Methodology of the Psychological Manifestation, is He-It a Conjured Spirit, an Unwelcome Intrusion of Ancient Practices that Linger Today, etc, is Lacking. These are Touched Upon but Never Really Fleshed Out. Weak Expositional Dialog from the Cop (Michael Rooker) About the Writer (Timothy Hutton in a Dual Role) Being Allowed to Roam Free While Damning Evidence is Everywhere and There Are Others.But These Weaknesses Do Not Make the Film Awful, Just Not as Good as It Could Have Been with a Deeper Script. The Acting is Passable with Hutton Maybe Straining a Bit Here and There and Amy Madigan as the Wife in a Thankless Role is OK. But The Twin Babies Performances Steal the Show in that Department.There are Some Romero Flourishes that are Graphic and Work Well, but the Film Overall Seems to Lack Any Energy or Style, and the Pacing is Off. Worth a Watch for Stephen King Fans, Horror Movie Buffs, and Romero Completest. Others Might Want to Take a Chance but be Advised...It's Not Great Stephen King and it's Not Great George Romero and as a Stand Alone Genre Piece it is Just Average. "},{"Title":"One of the best King film adaptations ever.","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I am floored by all the lukewarm and negative reviews of The Dark Half! This film and the book are what got me to read Stephen King. I starting it, I was amazed. Inspired, I wrote a drama heavily inspired by King's use of his surroundings to craft horror out of the ordinary lives of New Englanders. When I saw the film, I was hooked, and went on to read other novels such as Dolores Claiborne (also an excellent film adaptation). One fascinating theme, besides the split between a writer's light and dark halves, is that of domestic violence. I realized that this permeates King's work (witness the abusive, drunk husbands in The Shining and in Dolores Claiborne). It seems that King finds this real form of violence more horrifying than zombies or ghosts. I agree. The main character of The Dark Half, Thad Beaumont, is not an alcoholic, says his wife, Liz, but his pseudonym, George Stark, IS. She insists how mean Thad gets, drinking and smoking, when writing as Stark. It's worth asking if he would ever have quit these novels, had not a snarky blackmailer accosted him after his college class and demanded money for silence. Spoiler Alert! Thad's response is chilling. You know what George would do? He'd cut off your p***** and feed it to you. Of course, this is exactly what happens to the snitch, after George Stark comes to life and begins killing everyone who tried to kill his character. The murders are far more gruesome, in a very psychotic, human way; than other King stories that involve supernatural deaths. People have complained there is not as much gore as in Romero's other films. That is what makes The Dark Half so great. We are still horrified, such as after the photographer who documents George Stark's burial, is found bludgeoned to death with his own wooden leg. This comes on the heels of the grave-digger's discovery of a hole at the fake grave, as if somebody was IN there and lifted hisself out! This supernatural element adds a nice twist to Stark's cold-blooded murders. Though Thad's fingerprints are all over the dead man's truck and the blackmailer's apartment, the nice-guy Sheriff, Alan Pangborn (Michael Rooker, one of my favorite actors) keeps him out of jail as a courtesy. But soon, anyone associated with trying to kill off George is a target. This includes the doctor who removed the brain tumor that was Thad's twin (George?) and of course, Liz, who detests George. Thad realizes that he must hunt down his doppelgänger and kill him alone. One of my favorite scenes is when Thad goes to his office and communes with George psychically. He picks up Stark's favorite instrument, a Berol® Black Beauty pencil and goes into a trance. He is able to enter Stark's thoughts via a psychic, yet physical connection. Though it drives Stark into greater fury, Thad also realizes that the newly formed killer does NOT know about The Sparrows. They are, says his professor friend, Reggie, psychopomps, who guide the living and the dead between worlds. Thad realizes that, in a duel between himself and George (who wants Thad to teach him to write!), only one of them can emerge alive. SPOILER! This is an excellent foreshadowing of the plot of The Secret Window, though in that story, the dichotomy takes place inside the writer's disturbed mind. In The Dark Half, we know Stark is physically real, since he kills Thad's doctor, just as the latter enters his office, pinning another murder on him. Still, Thad thinks he has the upper hand, until he gets a call from George, saying, Guess where I am; he hears his kids. Stark says he won't harm them, as long as he meets him at Endsville, the place where all rail service terminates, his nightmare place that Stark somehow finds. This is the Beaumont's lake house, where George Stark was created. Thad bolts as Reggie shouts after him, Wear a carnation, so I'll know it's you! What if Thad does NOT win? At the house, he sees Stark's black Toronado and sparrows everywhere. This is no re-make of The Birds (those birds are just angry at humans for ruining the environment; these can grab you and whisk you to the other side!). Before Thad enters, we get to hear George Stark's philosophy, as he expounds on writing and maybe settling down here. He silences Liz's protests, warning, You are disturbin' the peaceful frame of mind Ah'm in, in his cracker accent, again foreshadowing the character of John Shooter. Stark is terrifying to behold. He already told Thad that he is losing the necessary cohesion (to stay alive). He is coming apart and has taped his face together; his eyes are glazed, he's losing teeth and bleeding wounds appear on his face. Once Thad and George go to his (window-less!) den, things get really bizarre. At first, Stark can't write and becomes angry. Realizing he must play along, Thad actually gives him writing tips and the ghoulish alter-ego gloats, Ah'm getting' it! Thad watches in horror as indeed, Stark beings writing well. Suddenly, a gash opens on THAD's forehead and he realizes they have started to switch places. Now, we can be genuinely worried that Stark, not Thad, will emerge as the new writer. Thad panics and attacks Stark, who tries to shoot his kids. A fistfight ensues, while the Pangborn breaks in and frees Liz. Suddenly, the flock of sparrows bursts through windows and fills the air. The ending is not your usual carnage, though there is plenty of gore, pre-figuring some CGI scenes such as The Mummy and Sleepy Hollow. If you can sit through this, you are treated to one of the most spectacular movie finishes since the Lost Ark blew its cork! I now love Stephen King's writing, yet this will always remain my favorite of his books, as well as all the film adaptations of his work. "},{"Title":"Lacking Story","Date":"30 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I have read the book (My first King book) and I loved it. It has paved the way for me. I know have read 9 of his books and I started The Dark Half in the middle of May. Upon finishing the book I decided to watch the movie. I enjoyed the movie but thought it was lacking story. Although it was enough like the book for it to be enjoyable. I especially liked the ending because it stayed with the book unlike other King Movies. If you didn't read the book it was an awesome movie if you did read the book you enjoyed but you understand my point about lacking story. "},{"Title":"Romero vs King 2","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I've always been a big fan of Steven King's novels. Almost all his books have been successes. Unfortunately a good book is never a guarantee that the film adaptation will be reach the quality of the book. And out of the many King adaptations only a few have succeeded in bringing the same quality as the book. Its enough to remember the horrible Tommyknockers and the even more pathetic Langoliers. But there have been awesome adaptations The Green Mile, Misery. Though it can't be mentioned with the best ones but Romero's and King's dual work Creepshow is up there with the okay ones and then we also have Dark Half from these two. Stephen Kings three books (Dark Half, Shinning and Secret Window) are connected on a few levels, all feature a writer the protagonist, which is popular with King&#x85; and they feature the fear of something, an unknown person (which symbolizes the dark half of our psyche) or higher power. The question is are the directors faithful to the books like Romero and Kubrick, and what twist and film techniques do they use to bring the adaptation to the silver or small screen. When Thad Beaumont was a child, he had an operation to remove a tumor from his brain. during the operation, it was discovered that far from being a tumor, the growth was a twin brother of Thad's that never developed. Years later, Thad is a successful author, writing his serious books under his own name, and his pulp money-makers under the pseudonym George Stark. When blackmailed by someone who has discovered his secret, Thad publicly buries George Stark. From that point on, Thad increasingly becomes the prime suspect in a series of gruesome murders. Despite the films being filled with clichés from the 90s, they are consistent with the books. Romero really captured the depiction of reality and non-reality. The camera work is idea filled and tight, the film is done with rhythmic cuts making it a true Romero film. All this would not have worked without Christopher Younge (the composer of film scores like Hellraiser and Nightmare on Elm street), whose score drives your adrenaline to the max. with a unique many layers soundtrack. The story in itself is a typical SK story, that doesn't clear up until the last twist whether the protagonists twin really has come to life by certain higher powers or not. Timothy Hutton's duel performance is absolutely convincing. He plays the balanced father well and is merciless as George Stark, who after spiking his hair up, goes around killing people, with a cigarette hanging from his lips and a bottle of whiskey close by. The large group of sparrows give the film an air of strangeness right from the start. The sparrows are there as a medium they connect the earth and the other side and they are instrumental to the ending, which is, without being overly dramatic, THE WORLDS MOST DISGUSTING SCENE, it's a must see. Though it can be said of the film that there is more blood than the typical King adaptation this is not detrimental to it. Dark Half SK adaptation is to Shinning as Carlito's Way is to Scarface. Though Dark Half and Shinning work with similar material, they speck to difference audiences, their devices and budget was different so Dark Half remains a cult film amongst a certain section of horror fans. Romero tried to do his job perfectly, but unfortunately this only worked partially. Romero fans, who are more prone to like films that have a more serious mood with like it, King fans&#x85; well I'm not so sure&#x85; To me it's a 6/10. https//www.youtube.com/user/Videodromeblog "},{"Title":"Hutton is excellent in this Dual role, Gory and Scary","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Thad Beaumont (Hutton) is a successful write living in Maine with his wife Liz (Madigan) and two infant twins. Thad is critically acclaimed but far from a best seller. Writing under the pseudonym George Stark, Thad writes trashy violent novels that just happen to sell better than his own. A Blackmailer threatens to expose his other identity so Thad goes Public with the information in hopes of burying his alter ego. Instead, Thad's dark half which is George Stark takes on a life of his own and is bent on destroying Thad's world and everyone connected to him. Stark is soon stalking Thad's agents' friends and slashing them to ribbons with a razor. Horror Veteran George A. Romero adapts Stephen king's novel and directs here. Romero wisely keeps the audience wondering if it is Thad blacking out and committing these crimes, or has his mind actually released this killer into the real world. Timothy Hutton is wonderful in the dual role and has the talent to make a menacing glance be actually scary. There are multiple scare scenes that work very well. Such as when Thad's agent Miriam (Rutanya Alda) comes home puts her key in the door and it slowly opens. The audience is on the edge of their seat and they know they're going to get it, but Romero's timing is so good he gets the Jump scare anyway. There is an excellent dream sequence that is scary as well. The effects are top notch and Romero makes the attacks very violent and gory. There is a delicious sequence in a hallway that is just dripping with mood and atmosphere. All though the end result of the story is a bit much to swallow, 'The Dark Half' works as a first rate horror film. "},{"Title":"Decent horror thriller","Date":"5 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Writer Thad Beaumont takes part in a publicity scheme where he buries his pseudonym, George Stark, in a fake funeral after someone tries to blackmail him over the subterfuge. Then murders start, apparently in the name of George Stark. Has Thad gone mad? The story behind the Stephen King novel on which this film is based is an interesting one. The film itself is a straightforward adaptation of the book (one character is sex-changed), and works well on both the page and the screen. Timothy Hutton is convincing as both the decent Thad and his murderous alter-ego, and the supporting cast are all fine (I preferred Ed Harris as Alan Pangborn in Needful Things, but Michael Rooker does well enough). The story builds well, and the conclusion (which one might think, from the book, would be unconvincing) is actually pretty good.George Romero's work on Stephen King's stories has been successful - I would have liked to have seen him do more, rather concentrate (for almost his entire career) on Living Dead. "},{"Title":"THE SPARROWS ARE FLYING AGAIN","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" George A. Romero did a good job in adapting Stephen King's novel about a man with a vicious alter-ego.  The sparrow effects are great.  But what really carries this movie is Timothy Hutton's performance.  He does well as the justifiably creeped out Thad Beaumont.  But he really shines as the psychotic pseudonym-come-to-life George Stark.  The suspense is taut throughout, and there are some great scares.  Though Amy Madigan is not given enough to do as Hutton's wife, she does fine, and the movie is an overall winner.  Enjoy this one, hoss. "},{"Title":"Hutton is terrific.","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Timothy Hutton is terrific as Thad Beaumont and George Stark in this Stephen King film.  The movie is your traditional who-done-it slasher flick except for a sensational beginning and ending.  Romero does a great job of directing and the effects are masterfully done.RATING = 7 of 10 "},{"Title":"Its a cut throat Business....","Date":"4 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Thad Beaumount has buried his alter ego George Stark, a pseudonym he used when writing fiction of a dark nature than he would using his real name. When a local man is killed, evidence leads Sheriff Pangborn to George's grave, and he begins to suspect Thad. Thad is beginning to have visions of sparrows flying, something that hasn't occurred for twenty-three years since he had brain surgery. As the string of gruesome murders continue, someone claiming to be George Stark starts calling Thad on the phone. Thad fears for his family's safety, and Pangborn can't decide whether or not Thad is the murderer.....Another year in the nineties, and another generic Stephen King adaptation hits the screen. For every Shawshank, Misery, and Dolores Claiborne, you get a Lawnmower Man, Sleepwalkers, Langoliers, and this.Hutton is great as Thad and his Doppelgänger, but as expected, the bad guy is more enjoyable, has lots of funny one liners and is hardly in it. The rest of the film has Michael Rooker not shaking hands with Hutton one mi ute and then getting him beer the next.And while all this is happening, there are lots and lots of sparrows flying around the place.Romero starts the film off very promising, but as soon as Stark is introduced, the film, despite Stark being the highlight of the film, goes down the toilet.If you are a King enthusiast, go ahead, ruin your day. "},{"Title":"An engaging horror thriller","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This film is about a writer whose alter ego starts a killing spree, implicating him in the murders.The Dark Half tells a spooky story about a writer, and an evil alter ego that rises from thin air. I find the plot engaging and captivating. Initially there is suspense as to what really happens; and there are many clues in the film that leads us to figure out what happens. After we know who commits the serial murders, the suspense comes from the cat and mouse chase between Thad and George. Most of the film is not too graphically scary, except the ending which is visually quite disturbing. I guess having visually disturbing scenes is the trademark of George A. Romero. Overall, The Dark Half is a good horror thriller. "}{"Title":"decent","Date":"2 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This was a decent adaptation of the Stephen King novel-another case, like Misery, where it was a horror story without the use of monsters or demons. Well, it did use a monster, but it was a human monster, the monster within. The best part of the movie was the use of the birds. It was reminiscent of the Hitchcock classic The Birds. Those scenes were very well done and scary. The story involves a writer who kills off his pseudonym in order to be rid of it and get on with his life. Unfortunately, the alter ego is not dead and wants to infiltrate the writer's life and aims to get to him and goes on a murderous rampage. The writer has no alibi or escape because the other guy is him and everything points to him. Stephen King novels tend to be difficult to translate to the screen, but this one holds its own due the the direction and performances, especially in the duel lead by Timothy Hutton. The ending is not to be missed.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Creepy intelligent horror with a great cast.","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Funnily, given the fact that they're both King adaptations, Dark Half reminds me a lot of The Dead Zone. Granted in comparison the Dark Half is less subtle and much more demented, but they both have a similar pace and feel. The Dark Half is a slow, creepy horror, dealing more in chills and scares you'll think about afterwards than special effects and cheap shock tactics.For instance, there's no gore to speak of here. It does have a serial killer in it, but if you're expecting overwrought Jason style 'kill' sequences, you're in for a disappointment. This guy isn't a slasher, he's a murderer, and this is painted out in the unpleasant and realistic way he kills. There's no gratuitous violence here, and as a result the movie is that much more realistic and believable.The plot is, though believable via some excellent acting, complete madness. Effectively, it goes like this. Main character Thad had a tumour that turned out to be his unborn twin, and his family buried it as a dead relative instead of having it destroyed. After a chain of events causes Thad to dump an alter-ego he'd been writing cheapo thriller novels under, the tumour takes on the alter-ego and goes on the rampage having inexplicably grown into a full size doppelganger. Weird? Don't get me started, but damn if it isn't a great ride.It's intelligently told, and is honestly a movie that wouldn't get made nowadays, being as it is a well written horror movie that gives it's audience credit for intelligence. At no point did I feel that I was getting the movie spoon-fed to me, and I genuinely felt that I was allowed to do my own detective work during it. As a result, you come out of the movie feeling like it really involved you.In these days of remakes, sequels and clones, a horror movie that involves should be held up like some DVD holy grail. You owe it to yourself to check the Dark Half out. You'd be crazy not to. "},{"Title":"Criminally Underrated George Romero-Stephen King Horror Thriller","Date":"17 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Thad Beaumont is an aspiring dramatic writer, who pays the bills by writing pulp crime fiction under the pseudonym George Stark. When a blackmailer discovers he and Stark are one and the same, Beaumont goes public and kills off Stark. Suddenly, the blackmailer and several of Thad's friends and colleagues turn up dead, viciously murdered, with Thad's fingerprints at the crime scenes. It seems George Stark has somehow come to life, and is not pleased at the turn of events. Thad must confront Stark before everything he holds dear is destroyed.The idea is brilliant, and comes from author Stephen King's own experience (he published several books under the pen-name Richard Bachman). Many writers publish different styles of fiction under different names; the practice makes some business sense but is also more than a little schizoid. What if a pseudonym somehow came to life, and challenged its alter-ego to deny it ? Romero's film is a fabulous exploration of a man's sinister dark side, and one of the very best adaptations of King's books. It's exciting, beautifully-crafted, moody and completely terrifying. Hutton gives by far the best double-performance I've ever seen - he effortlessly plays two characters who are poles apart but are essentially the same person. Stark looks different to Thad thanks to some very effective makeup, but also moves, walks, talks and even thinks differently. The rest of the cast throw themselves into the movie with great abandon; Rooker is wonderfully cast against type as the straight-laced sheriff, unwilling to credit Thad's story but unable to prove otherwise. The wonderful Dano, in his last movie, has a great bit as a spooked gravedigger. Harris is a hilariously batty old academic (The police wanted me to confirm that you were a person of good character. I lied and said that you were.). The movie also has an incredibly unsettling piano-and-choir score by Christopher Young, great photography, and fantastic optical effects by Richard Kuran. There are several tremendous set-pieces - the hair-raising opening in the hospital, the horrifying scene where Hutton (as Stark) murders Alda, and the incredible bird attack finale - but the film is also an assured drama, painting its characters in tremendous detail and filled with thought-provoking themes. Outstanding film-making. "},{"Title":"Dark study of the duality of human nature","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Dark Half is more about duality of human nature, demonstrated here by the metaphor of a supernatural Being.We all have a Dark Half. We all have those things which are hidden. Sometimes they are hidden so well, we manage to hide them from ourselves. We all have masks which are put on and removed, like Eleanor Rigby with her face in the jar by the door. There are things of which we are not proud, do not speak, think or express, except through the idiosyncrasies we develop. Our inner guilt and pain.While some would-be martyrs wear these as a badge of honor, those of us who are private people keep these things close to ourselves. We keep our own council and therefore develop, nurture and foster our Dark Half.George Stark is a metaphor for Thad Beaumont's Dark Half. George Stark has different habits, mannerisms, and ideals, than does Thad. When Thad writes as Stark, he becomes a man his wife barely tolerates and hardly knows. Because Stark is Thad's Darkness, his closeted self; his Shadow.On the surface, this production is viewed as a supernatural thriller,but in my opinion, it is a psychological one. A very well-written and highly intelligent psychological thriller based on the personification of that inner guilt and pain, and the resulting hatred and violence which sometimes issues from the closeting of these feelings.However you wish to view it, this is possibly the best adaptation ever done, of King's many brilliant novels. Probably because King himself did not write the screen play. As a novelist, King is a genius. But as a screen play writer, he falls flat on his face with every adaptation he has ever written.George A. Romero, who brought us Night of the Living Dead and Monkey Shines, is a legend in the field of Horror. And, like Kubrick, with the original release of King's, The Shining, he used his own creativity to bring out the very best of King's novel, rather than attempting to make lame paper-to-film translations. Let's face it.Things which are scary when read are oftentimes ... not, when translated to the visual. In my opinion, that is one of the main reasons this is such a good (in fact, one of the best Stephen King) adaptation.Watch this movie and when you do, let out your Dark Half. Give it the car keys. Let it Ride!It rates an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"A murky movie on a murkier disc","Date":"1 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  If you have read The Dark Half as I did in my teens when I loved Stephen King's books, you'll be seriously disappointed by this movie. King gets away with a lot of browraising stuff in the novel - the half absorbed twin including the remains in the brain, the sparrows etc. - but it just doesn't translate to the screen. What seemed, well, semi-plausible in the novel looks just plain silly on the screen. Things aren't helped by George Romero's static, unimaginative style either. Many shots feel like they are right out of a TV movie of the week rather than a cinema release. Timothy Hutton's dual role gives him the opportunity to shed his nice guy image though he hams it up a bit too much as the psycho redneck killer George Stark.The biggest problem I had while watching this movie, was that the DVD only offered a fullscreen format. Hel-looo, anybody there? If I buy a bloody DVD I want to see a movie in the format it was intended to be seen. This gave the movie even more of a boring TV-ish feel than before. Only for people who are seriously interested in King adaptations. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Okay...while i did not mind this movie, i have to say that for better or worse, Steven King's novels just do not translate well into the movie realm. If you really want to enjoy The Dark Half, read the book. There are just too many details in King's writing that cannot be put into the movie versions. If you just want a cool horror flick, this will work, but if you have already read the book, do not expect it to be nearly as good.  "},{"Title":"Mean Machine...","Date":"19 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  The Dark Half is a movie with an implausible plot, but is executed very well. In fact, it's done so well that you end up forgetting how implausible it is. So, if you suspend your disbelief a little, chances are you'll like it. The suspense is handled very professionally by horror master George Romero, but above all, Timothy Hutton's acting is the stand out of the film. His portrayal of Southern mad-man(ghost) George Stark is intense and will make you think of straight-razors in a whole new light. Not a horror classic, but original and it does get a few scares out of you. The Stephen King book was better, but the film does a suprisingly good job of adapting it.  "},{"Title":"Only Half the Story","Date":"8 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Perhaps, it was me, but damn, The Dark Half, one of the very few Stephen King film adaptations I hadn't seen until now, was so hard to get into. The story about a boy who had another boy living in his head &#x96; literally, began to make less and less sense as the movie progressed. Worse, the movie was sooo long.Now, I do own this book and, though I hadn't read that yet, it'll probably piece together some of the holes I couldn't follow. But, this movie did not encourage me to pick up Stephen King's novel any time soon.The movie was delayed in my viewing because, well, I am not a Timothy Hutton fan. Knowing he's playing a duel role, didn't add to the excitement I should've had for this. But, since it's October, I figured I'd finally see what this was all about 20 years after its release.From what I can recall, and forgive &#x96; it's been a couple of days, a boy's writing leads to headaches and mystical sounds of birds. Upon further examination, there was a twin lodged in his brain. We are to believe the second child, the dark half twin had been extracted and disposed of. Fast forward many years, and that boy, Thad (Hutton,) has grown up, married, had twins of his own and is a writer. Of course, in King fashion and true life, Thad has an alternative and secret name he writes under, darker stuff. Stuff that sells.But, when the idea to kill off this other penned name to avoid a blackmail subplot, all hell breaks loose. This George Stark/Dark Half writer doesn't want to die, so he kills people and (inadvertently or not) pins the murders on Thad.Where I had a problem was was this George a split personality? Or a ghost, or made up/made real being? Or, a grown up version of that twin in the brain that was supposed to be disposed of? That last one is the farthest stretch, and yeah, even more than a ghost. For, the twin in the brain was just an eyeball and cavity-infested teeth. Take that out, and in the 1960s, I doubt they could've reconstructed, somehow, the whole male.As I began this review, I stated this is perhaps this is my fault. Perhaps, my mind was elsewhere and it was hard to concentrate. It was over two hours and not well paced, after all. But, if this movie was interesting enough, I'm sure it would've engaged me away from real life. Sadly, it was not.* * * Final thoughts Not recommended. Maybe read the book. I'm sure that's a ton better and there's no Hutton there. "},{"Title":"Disappointing. Not their finest hour.","Date":"27 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I just finished reading the lackluster book, and coincidentally the movie came on Encore today. I'm really disappointed with both of them. Stephen is one of my absolute favorite writers but this one was quite dull for me. Even still I stopped to watch the film anyway because I'd heard some good things about it.I'm well aware that some of King's screen adaptations are hit or miss. But I'm a huge fan of such films as Misery, Pet Sematary, Carrie, The Shining, and more. So I'm always willing to give King's films a chance. Let's say this is one of his misses. The whole thing reminded me of a LIfetime Movie that I would catch on Halloween. It's not truly scary at all. And with King as the writer and Romero as the director, how the heck did this happen? This is movie-of-the-week TV fluff. Pass on it. "},{"Title":"The Dark Half","Date":"14 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I have always wondered why George A Romero's film based on Stephen King's novel never took off with horror fans. I think it has a knock out premise concerning an evil alter ego that takes vengeance out on those who rubbed him out by sadistically attacking those behind his demise. The idea that this dark place, where an author finds the material forwarded to popular novels, manifests itself in human form, ticked off at the one he gave substantial good fortune, should be a story that appeals to the horror fans at large. I think it's a cerebral, twistedly inventive idea obviously pulled from King's own experience when he adopted his own alter ego, writing under a pseudonym.The plot focuses on a professor, Thad Beaumont, who writes novels under the alias of George Stark and as himself. Stark is the dark side of Thad Beaumont's personality, which creates a popular series of horror novels detailed in disturbing fashion. When a crook finds out about the connection, he attempts to squeeze Thad through blackmail, which leads to Thad's decision to, once and for all, bury Stark and the baggage that comes with him. George, however, doesn't like this, and he rises from the grave to pick off all of those who were involved in his execution and burial. Meanwhile, sparrows are starting to gather, prepared to take either Thad or George to the other side, as they are a type of tool used to carry away the soul who doesn't belong. That's essentially what it is, a fight for survival. George wants to assume Thad's position, so that he can live, not die. Thad understands the kind of beast he is, because, in essence, he gave birth to him.We later discover that a tumor, which his parents told him caused his severe headaches, was in actuality remains of a twin brother he didn't quite absorb during the fetal stage of development. The remains were removed and buried, so when Thad and a crew, hired for a specific magazine piece marking George's death, shoot a publicity shot of a fake tombstone with Stark's name on it, this will set forth the shocking events which leads to a series of razor slashings against everyone who had threatened to cast him away forever.One of Romero's more sophisticated mainstream films, didn't hit a chord with his fans, and, actually, many didn't particularly like it. It could've been the premise, considering a killer who basically formed from nothingness, and wishes to take over his master's role..that and how the sparrows become involved in the grand scheme of things.Good cast included Amy Madigan as his concerned, but headstrong wife, and Michael Rooker Castle Rock, Maine's sheriff. Julie Harris has an amusing supporting role as a professor of the occult who lends Thad a hand when he's searching for the truth regarding his murderous alter ego. I thought Timothy Hutton was quite effective in dual roles, even more so as the psychopath who enjoys cracking wise, dressed in black shirt, jeans, his hair slicked back, carrying a southern accent. The finale, with all the sparrows, I actually thought was effectively carried out, particularly how they tear apart a character. The story, which many might find really hard to swallow, works for me because it paints poor Thad in a corner due to how George relates to him in so many ways to the point that even when it's impossible for him to have committed murders, he's a suspect. "}{"Title":"One of the best horror films out there","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I've seen some pretty awful horror movies in my time, sometimes they don't even scare me they just put me too sleep. Bu this one is one of the better horror films I've seen lately. The Dark Half stars Timothy Hutton as Thadeus Beaumont who under his pen name George Stark writes horrific murder mysteries novels that shoot him to the top of the bestseller's list and make him know far and wide as the master of horror.But when Thad wants to break away form his other half he stages a mock funeral of George Stark so he can go out on his own, but soon enough the people who helped put George in the grave are suddenly dying left and right and the police have Thad pinned as the prime suspect, as the bodies continue to rise the possibility of Thad committing the murders are becoming less and less likely. Now Thad has only one shot to clear his name but how can he do it when everybody believes he's the killer? The Dark Half is a menacing and increasingly creepy horror mystery that will have you guessing and wondering until the credits roll, it's an amazingly well made film that's basked in mind blowing special effects, dark tones and eerie music that make you jump at the slightest noise. It's a movies that you will want to watch over and over again. "},{"Title":"Don't bother","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" As a fan of Stephen King, and having read the novel many years ago, I was tempted to watch this film when I stumbled across it on pay per view films on cable.At first I wondered why I had never heard of it, especially as it is directed by George A Romero, but it soon became clear.This really is one of the dullest films I have ever watched. The main character is unsympathetic. His alter ego is two dimensional and totally hammy. You don't care about any of the victims. There is hardly any horror and next to no tension. My husband fell asleep halfway through. I envy him. "},{"Title":"Stephen King had previously written about good and evil sides in The Shining","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" While I still say that The Shining is the best adaptation of a Stephen King novel, The Dark Half is still worth seeing. As it is, both stories deal with people's good and evil sides. I also wonder whether or not King took part of his inspiration here from Alfred Hitchcock's The Birds; I mean, don't the sparrows come across as pretty menacing? Overall, while it's no masterpiece, George Romero accomplished something really neat here. It just might make you want to question your own desires. I've actually read the part of the book where they find the one body (you'll know what I mean when you see the movie); naturally, the book makes it much more graphic. Starring Timothy Hutton, Amy Madigan, Michael Rooker, Julie Harris and Beth Grant.By the way, do you notice what number appears in the IMDb registration for this movie? "},{"Title":"THE DARK HALF (George A. Romero, 1993) ***","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" This pretty much emerges as an underrated Stephen King adaptation and, undoubtedly, one of Romero's better films. Its doppelganger theme is, of course, an age-old concept with prototypes in both folklore (The Student Of Prague) and literature (Dr. Jekyll & Mr. Hyde); other than the myriad adaptations of these sources, similar films include Alberto De Martino's sleazy BLOOD LINK (1982), David Cronenberg's cerebral DEAD RINGERS (1988) and Brian De Palma's contemporaneous RAISING CAIN (1992).Here, with the emphasis on psychology (there's a notable surreal dream sequence) and an agreeable pulp literary slant (shades of King's own The Shining), it's very effectively handled – accentuated by inspired elements of mysticism in the swallow motif (though the use of CGI is quite evident during the climax). Timothy Hutton is excellent in both roles (is that really him as George Stark?); in support are Amy Madigan (as his long-suffering wife), Michael Rooker (Hutton's conflicted policeman friend), Julie Harris (a sympathetic colleague of schoolteacher Hutton) and Royal Dano (the guardian of the cemetery where George Stark is 'buried' until his tombstone is violated).Coming from this director, the use of gore is balanced throughout – not as excessive as it could well have turned out but, then, neither is it held back when demanded by some particular scene (such as the gruesome operation which reveals Hutton as a veritable dual personality). Unfortunately, the old MGM DVD I watched included only a pan-and-scan edition of the film! "},{"Title":"Has the otherworldly, take-a-bite-out-of-your-arm sense of King's humor, with Romero at the lens","Date":"24 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Dark Half is a film I wouldn't go out of my way to show to my friends for the first time like other films by George A. Romero (Living-dead pictures, and some of the obscurities), or a few choice Stephen King adaptations (The Shining and Shawshank Redemption being tops). But if it shows up on TV I tend to take a gander for a few, and end up watching it till the unusual, nerve-chilling ending. There's some part of King's writing that at times goes too much for the cheap scares, or rather, doesn't do enough to earn them. This time, however, Romero does catch enough of the smoke in the fire of King's book here; I'd love to sit down and actually read the whole book myself, to see how much was incorporated from King's often brilliant, if perpetually odd, writing, into the final project. It's also territory for Romero that isn't very new, though isn't one of his worst pictures either.Timothy Hutton, usually in lesser quality pictures, stars here as a writer who happens to have a certain 'alias' in his writing. Unfortunately, whenever he hears a certain calling card- being the sparrows- it sets him off into territory he's afraid to go into, especially with a wife and family. The divide between Thad Beaumont, the common garden-variety writer of Hutton's character, and George Stark, the madman writer of pulp fiction also played by Hutton, makes for the more intriguing parts to the film. Thankfully, unlike Secret Window, the sort of duality of man, or of the writer in this case, isn't saved up for some over-the-top climax. Here it's meant more as a psychological study, and it's here that Romero scores his best points in his adapting the material. Like his film Martin, he knows how to up the ante on the terror involved inside of the mind. In fact, it's scenes showing Beaumont/Stark writing ala the birds that end up becoming more chilling than those with the usual horror violence in them.Thanks to Hutton, a solid supporting cast, and an ending that does keep one guessing more than could be expected of the material, Romero has a pretty decent work here, and a King adaptation that shouldn't be as much of an embarrassment as some of the others. Individual scenes end up even being mini-masterpieces, even amidst a script that loses its energy and goes into the mundane and usual. Besides, any film with a line like this You always were the clumsy one, old hoss, deserves a little recognition, however minor. Under-appreciated and very watchable, though nothing wildly spectacular. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Good Idea, Badly Portrayed.","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Thad Beaumont is a very successful writer who had a twin removed from his brain, when he was a child. Now, he is going under an assumed name, George Stark. Now Years later, Thad is the prime suspect in a series of murders that he suspects were committed by his alter ego. Dark, and edgy, with few (if any) jumps,The Dark Half is a perfect example of a good idea, gone wrong. Which is a shame because I so enjoyed the book, and I was very excited when I heard about the movie, but I was thoroghly disappointed with this dragging, and considerably boring, sequel. I am a general fan of Stephen King's work, (Kingdom Hospital, Night Flyer, IT!, ....)but unfortunately, this one didn't click. I give this one a 3 ~SonerBoy~ "},{"Title":"A decent 90's horror flick","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Considering that this is based on a story by the man who is often labelled the king of modern horror and is directed by one of the so-called masters of the genre; The Dark Half is very disappointing indeed. As a thriller in it's own right, however; it's not all that bad. The story starts with a horrifying sequence that sees doctors open up a young boy's head, only to find an eye sticking out from between parts of the brain. A good start. We later find out that this was a twin that hasn't been fully absorbed into the boy's body. The boy grows up to be a writer, or rather; two writers, a serious one and an alter ego that writes trash novels. After someone comes knocking and threatens to expose him if he doesn't pay up, our hero decides to kill off his alter ego and just stick to the serious, but less profitable, novels that he likes to write. This would all be well and good, if it weren't for the fact that many of the people involved in this 'murder' weren't turning up dead with all the clues leading to the writer himself.George Romero may have made the 'Dead' trilogy and the excellent Martin, but the rest of his director credits are lacking to say the least. This film is actually one of his better non-zombies, non-Martin films; maybe even the best one aside from those four (although I admit to not having seen all of his films). George Romero wrote the screenplay, and I think it's fair to say that he's not the most gifted writer in film-making. His screenplay is uneven, and although it features many good - and exciting moments, it also features many tedious ones and if he'd have streamlined it; the film would have been better on the whole. If you're expecting loads of gore, you'll be disappointed up until the end as even though the film features quite a few gory sequences, there aren't any that are hideously gory...which is a shame. Still, this is an inventive and largely interesting production that you can forgive for it's flaws thanks to a good base plot idea and the fact that it's a decent waste of time. Don't seek this one out, but if you find yourself with nothing better to do...this isn't one of Stephen King's worst adaptations. "},{"Title":"Quite a unique film experience","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I just bought and watched the DVD of this movie, and I have to say that it is excellent. For those of you who have read the book but are hesitant whether or not to get the movie, the movie makes so many things clear that were confusing before. It has great acting by Thad's wife, and Hutton delivers a great dual performance as both Beaumont and Stark. This is most likely one of Romero's least gory films (except for the ending.) In my opinion, this is one of King's best books, and, unlike with It, they didn't completely massacre the book into an abomination. Although It turned out great anyways, but that isn't the point. This turned out to be a much better movie than I expected, with great acting, and superb special effects. "},{"Title":"Poor casting","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I think that this would have to be one of the worst book adaptations ever. The Dark Half is one of my favorite books of all time and I was extremely disappointed with the character that they cast to be Thad's alter-ego. In the book descriptions of George Stark, he is almost the exact opposite of the physical appearance of Thad. However, in the movie, the same guy plays both characters. I think that if they had wanted the movie to be better, they should have cast a much larger man and one who would have matched the vivid descriptions given in Stephen King's novel. The book was done a great injustice by the lack of appropriate casting in the movie. As I have said, this movie would have been much better with better casting.  "},{"Title":"Not too bad, but not the best ever =)","Date":"22 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I guess that I wouldn't say that this is Stephen King's best movie ever, but not bad, not bad at all =) Not really very scary, but if you love the King like I do, then you should see it at least one time in your life. "}{"Title":"Do two Dark Halves make a Hole?","Date":"19 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Interesting and border-line black comedy yarn about a novelist who inadvertently forces his alter-ego (a murderous character in violent stories) to life. Psychologically, the film fares quite well in the thriller element. However, George Romero's screenplay (adapted from a Stephen King novel of the same name) gets bogged down with metaphors, and predictable events. Overall, I'd say it was moderately good, and though I haven't read King's novel, I don't know if it was translated well from print to the screen. Seldom are King's novels fortunate to do so. Timothy Hutton gets a nod for tackling the age old Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde routine. "},{"Title":"The birds","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  I read the book when I was in ninth grade which was a long time ago. When I was reading it one of the boys saw me and told the whole class I was a devil worshipper. How you get the devil from Dark Half is beyond me.  If King is the devil then yes, your damn right I worship him.  Thad had to have a tumor surgically removed from his brain. However, it wasn't a tumor, it was his twin brother that didn't develop. Thad, who is a writer, decided to put Stark to sleep for good. Oh I forgot to tell you, Thad is a real clutz. "},{"Title":"Entertaining drivel.","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Many critics have panned films taken from Stephen king books and not always justifiably . There have been great films such as Misery and the Green Mile and lousy ones such as The Tommyknockers and most of the films that have featured King's short stories. The Dalk half sits in the middle of these. The film isnt brilliant (neither is the book) but it is watchable and quite scary at times. You dont need to take to much notice of the story because is silly but the suspense makes up for the sillyness.  The acting is good from Timothy Hutton and poor from Michael Rooker who in my opinon is always poor. Sit down , turn your brain off and enjoy. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Little Seen, Which is a Shame","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is actually one of King's better film adaptations, perhaps because of the work of George Romero as director.  Timothy Hutton is well-cast both as the gentle writer and as the hard-boiled Steel  so much so it's hard to recognize Hutton as the latter.  There's a lot to say about writers and writing in this, and it adequately captures the essence of the novel without falling into the King traps of endless exposition unsuitable to the screen.  Among King movies Dark Half seems to be the black sheep of the family  it's rarely mentioned as either a bomb or a great work, but it's much closer to the latter. "},{"Title":"Stephen King's best!","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Well, it's October so me and my mom are watching tons of horror! We saw this on Sci-fi and it was cool! This movie shows you what happens when you use a pseudonym! Scary sometimes and gory at the beginning and at the end (I really don't find throat slashing gory). "},{"Title":"Put yourself into your writing...if you dare.","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This project is based on a Stephen King novel, written for the screen and directed by George A. Romero. This collaboration could have achieved more...but hey, a little bit of gore mixed with your sometimes depressing drama equals biting your nails and squirming a lot. Scary moments at times and even some very dry humor saves this story about a writer(Timothy Hutton)being plagued by his alter ego.Also in the cast are Amy Madigan, Julie Harris, Larry John Meyers and Chelsea Field. Better than average mood music from Christopher Young. I enjoyed the last thirty minutes the best.  "},{"Title":"still another fair at best adaptation","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  not as bad as some of King's, but still not great.  I hadn't read the book in years and just finished it a couple weeks ago when voila, The Dark Half shows up on Starz tonight.  I think the first mistake was having Hutton play dual roles.  This decision totally changes several aspects of the story and adds a did he really do it aspect that is NOT part of the book.  George Stark is supposed to be this big huge guy who has multiple police forces and the FBI after him.  The police chief becomes a believer instead of thinking that Beaumont did the crimes. With Hutton playing both parts you just keep thinking multiple personalities instead of a distinct separate person. The connection of their minds is given less play here as they only communicate when actually on the phone or in person.  Hutton did the best he could but still...Anyway, the book is exceptional, as is The Dead Zone which I also just read.  George Romero was probably not the best choice of director, but of course he also wrote the screenplay.  Someone with a suspenseful crime background instead of horror would have made a better film. 2/4 "},{"Title":"Not much of a surprise here, but I liked the book better.","Date":"30 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" Granted I was not all that wild about the novel in this case, however I still prefer it over this movie made by one of the master's of horror George Romero. Not all of the problems I had with the flick though are the source material or anything that George could have done differently. From what I understand, the company behind this movie went bankrupt so parts of this movie are underdeveloped and the music in the last third of the film is just looped music from the first two thirds of the film. So what is this film about? Well a writer who writes under two names has essentially revealed and buried his alter ego named Stark. A guy who writes a bit more violently than the other half. Well something happens and the alter ego seemingly comes to life and begins to stalk the writer and kill those who get in his way. Meanwhile, the writer learns things relevant to the fictional Stark taking on a life of his own. As for following the book this film does rather well, unfortunately the book is not the greatest so the film being not quite up to the book becomes not good or bad. You will see when watching this film it is a lot like other stories in Stephen King's collection as it mirrors to some extent The Shining and Secret Window as you will find common themes of people with duel personalities. "},{"Title":"It's not even half as good as the book","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" I usually love movies based on Stephen King's stories. Those happen to be the best horror movies ever (like legendary The Shining), but this time I'm going to say I didn't like it. It looks like the creators were a little too lazy to show the full idea and philosophy behind it, as if it was all done in a hurry and not even finished properly. It's like they tried so hard to squeeze the whole story into their limited time, that instead of taking the idea and re-creating a shorter version, they just clipped out some most visual fragments and glued them together. Even the ending was made so much more primitive than in a book. My thoughts might be different if I saw the movie first and read a book later, but now I can say that if you read the book, liked it and now are considering to watch the movie - it's not worth wasting your time. "},{"Title":"The Dark Half makes sure that King's brilliance stays in tact and it's disturbing!!","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" If anyone besides Mick Garris (although he's made his mistakes) could and should attempt a Stephen King book adaptation it would be George Romero. I love Stephen King, in fact hands down he is my favorite author, and in addition to that I love King films but it seems like they have misstepped King films as of late so I went back and checked out The Dark Half. It has been a long time since anyone truly captured the King spirit in film like they seemed to accomplish in the eighties and early nineties but Romero did a terrific job with The Dark Half. Disturbing, gory, with the tinge of the Supernatural that King does so well. Granted I have not yet read The Dark Half but it seems like it stays pretty true to it's original concept. The movie reeks of King and that is exactly what differentiates a great King movie from a not so great one. Romero also respects the key elements that make King's novels so brilliant. The world around them, Castle Rock, the characters, their lives, a lot of directors and film makers have complained that King is too this and too that and make the film differently (Kubrick?) but King sells millions upon millions of novels so maybe they should respect his work and I think Romero does that.Timothy Hutton is a great actor, and I think very under rated. He never really hit huge stardom and it's unfortunate because he has the potential and is a very emotionally driven actor. Hutton really shines in the role of author Thad Beaumont but also has his disturbed maniacal alter ego George Stark. Hutton's Beaumont is the ultimate good guy, family man, creative, and smart and Stark is just twisted and evil and just crazy. Hutton is a great King actor and he should have done more Stephen King films. Amy Madigan, a terrific character actor over the last few decades, plays Beaumont's strong headed wife. She balances her male counterparts very well Hutton included. She's not stunning beautiful or curvy but she's a girl next door type, the average girl and that makes her really good at her role. Her and Hutton have great chemistry together. Michael Rooker is great in a small role as Stephen King character favorite Sheriff Alan Pangborn (played also by Ed Harris in Needful Things.) Also enjoyed Julie Harris in a small role as Beaumont's friend and mentor. I wish she had a bigger part in the picture.The Dark Half film achieves what is necessary to make a great Stephen King movie. It's dark, gruesome but also creepy, there is just this strange aura around it and everything unfolds perfectly. There is plenty of blood splattering gore for the horror fanatics and creepy genre inducing thrills for the thriller lover out there. It isn't the best Stephen King movie...I think any time you narrow one of his books down into less than two hours you're missing the point but it does very well with what it gives and it's absolutely worth seeing!! 8/10 "}{"Title":"One of the Best and Most Underrated of a Stephen King adaptation.","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" As a young boy (Patrick Brannan), Thad Beaumont is been hiring or smelling things are not supposed to be there. One day before he goes to school, Thad falls down and it seems like he had a panic attack. Doctors discover on the back on Thad's skull, he has a still living fetus in the back of his head. The fetus have a eye, nostril's and a small cavity. The Doctors have destroyed the living fetus. Years later... Thad (Oscar-WinnerTimothy Hutton) has become a writer but not as successful as he should have been. Thad has a wife (Amy Madigan) and two baby twins (Sarah & Elizabeth Parker). One day going to work, a sleazy con-man (Robert Joy) discovers his alter ego in writing trash novels by the name of George Stark. When the con-man wants money, Thad decides to kill off his alter ego. When Thad kills his alter ego, it was a success. But one dark night, his alter ego George Stark turns to life and killing the ones, who helped Thad to kill Stark. Stark is slowly stalking Thad and his family until Thad will write another novel for Stark to stay alive.Directed by George A. Romero (Bruiser, Land of the Dead, Two Evil Eyes) has made an effected supernatural thriller. This is one of Romero's best work as a filmmaker. Hutton is extraordinary good in his dual roles. Micheal Rooker as the dedicated cop-Alan Pangborn gives a solid performance. The film was filmed in 1991 and released in 1993, due of Orion Pictures is now a deceased distributor. This film is based on a novel by Stephen King. King did write in another name for several years as Richard Bachman. This is a very good film that is sadly underrated. Don't miss this one. Screenplay by the director. (**** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"decent if a bit silly","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  decent and creepy stuff even if it is a bit silly despite all of it's flaws this is a well acted and well made and entertaining time with lots of creepy moments yes it gets extremely silly in the end but the story is always interesting and it has some good gore some cool bird flesh eating attacks yes you heard me right Timothy Hutton gives a dynamic performance as George Stark and Thad Beaumont now it is pretty confusing and hard to explain like why has he come to life i cant explain it the script is uneven at times though the directing is very solid George Romero directed he directed all the dead films and of course we have Michael Rooker who in my opinion is an underrated actor  and it managed to creep me out a times lots of throat slashing scenes as well so overall i had fun with this one but beware it does get REALLY SILLY near the finale but still well worth a watch it gets a **1/2 out of 5 i was going to give it a *** but but the confusing plot and silliness make this a **1/2 "},{"Title":"USA","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  Novelist (Tim Hutton) is shocked to discover the alias he uses for some of his books, has manifested itself and is acting on the violent urges and thoughts the arthor has. Over baked Stephen King adaption features an over the top turn by Hutton and gets sillier as it progresses. A very disappointing effort from director George A. Romero. Rated R; Violence and Profanity. "},{"Title":"King rules","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"    I have watched a few stinker horror movies lately, and when I entered the video store I wanted to watch a movie done by King.  What a difference a good writer does, compared to all this garbage done to cash in on the resurgence of horror films.  King is a present day author like Hemmingway, or Robert Frost.  We should enjoy his work while he is alive, because when he dies he will become known as one of America's great authors.  Maybe he will be studied in school.  This film is about twins, alter egos, and sparrows carrying peoples souls.  This film is creepy, and its fiction is done perfectly.  No need for a high budget, when you have good acting and an excellent story.  "},{"Title":"Like Minds Joined at the Hip So to Speak","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  My, my, my...what an intriguing film.  I am amazed that this film gets so little regard or publicity as a fine horror film, for it is clearly a fine film filled with loads of spine-tingling suspense, chilling. atmospheric  scenes, settings, and performances, some masterful direction from some guy named Romero, and one hell of a performance by Timothy Hutton in dual roles.  In fact, I still am having trouble believing Hutton played both roles...he is THAT good!  The story is somewhat complex about an author who is blackmailed initially for writing trashy books under another name and decides to go public and kill off this literary alter ego only to find that somehow his mind has actually created him into being.  At least I think that was the explanation.  It really isn't oddly too important, because you will be on a rollercoaster ride of thrills as this alter ego kills everyone that stands in his way of being.  George Romero also has dual roles as screenwriter(adapting the novel by Stephen King) and as director.  He does well in both, but it really is his direction(and Hutton's performance) that carry this film.  He still knows how to scare, and some off his best scenes involve the sparrows flying and flitting across the screen.  Hutton is magnificent in his two roles.  I am just surprised he had it in him...but very pleased.  The other actors are very good too with a real nice performance given by Michael Rooker as a baffled policeman.  If you are looking for a nice scary movie...look no farther than The Dark Half...it delivers! "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was pretty good. The acting was good. The story was very scary. It had some good special effects in it. I especially like the last part of the movie. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes scary movies. "},{"Title":"You are disturbing my peaceful frame of mind. Decent horror from Romero, but we have come to expect so much more.","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":" The Dark Half starts in '1968' where a young boy named Thadeus Beaumont (Patrick Brannan) has recently begun writing novels but is also suffering from some strange side-effects, he collapses outside his home & is taken to Hospital where Doctors discover that he has a deformed embryo growing inside of him... Jump '23 Years Later' & things are going great for Thadeus (Timothy Hutton), he has a wife Elizabeth (Amy Madigan) & two young babies plus a prestigious teaching job at a university. However, one day a man named Fred Clawson (Robert Joy) attempts to blackmail Thadeus when he discovers that Thadeus writes trashy novels under the pen-name George Stark. Instead of giving into Freds demands Thadeus decides to kill off George by going public, but not everyone his happy about the untimely demise of George Stark least of all George himself who will go to murderous lengths to make sure he stays alive, even if it means other's don't...Executive produced, written & directed by George A. Romero I can't say that The Dark Half is a bad film because it clearly isn't but at the same time I can't but say I was disappointed. The script by Romero was based on the novel of the same name by Stephen King & is a fairly absorbing & engaging tale but didn't totally satisfy. For a start things are never explained, what is George Stark? How was he created? There are some vague suggestions such as the opening scenes of the brain tumour which is never mentioned or touched upon again throughout the remainder of the film to more supernatural reasoning such as Thad's alter-ego & literal dark half coming to life. Some may like this vagueness but personally I didn't think it did the film any favours & what's with the Sparrows? The character's are decent & it's well written for what it is but when I consider that Romero wrote the mighty Dead films which all included fantastic subtle social commentary superbly mixed together with wonderful horror & gore I couldn't help but feel something was missing in The Dark Half by comparison.The Dark Half was made in 1991 but sat on the shelf for a couple of years because of the collapse of Orion Pictures & when it did finally see the inside of theatres it did nothing at the box-office. Somewhat surprisingly The Dark Half was one of only two film Romero directed in the 90's with the other being Two Evil eyes (1990) & he only directed half of that, it wasn't for another 9 years before he made another film with Bruiser (2000) which seemed a long time... He does an OK job here but the film drags in places & there isn't a great deal of style or gore, there's an exposed brain, a few splashes of blood & a fairly gory scene at the end in which someone has the flesh picked off their bones by Sparrows.I was absolutely astonished to discover that The Dark Half had a supposed budget of $15,000,000, where on earth did the money go? There are no big name actors, no big action scenes, no explosions, no car chases, no big special effect scenes apart from some computer generated Sparrows, no exotic locations & nothing that would suggest that 15 big ones had been spent on it. Was this film part of the reason why Orion went bankrupt? Was this the reason why Romero didn't work again in the horror genre for 9 long years? Romero's latest film Land of the Dead (2005) only had a budget of $15,000,000 & The Dark Half was made 15 years prior, this is not a 15 million film that's for sure. The acting was OK but no one stands out, it's all rather bland & forgettable. $15,000,000? I just can't believe it, maybe I'm wrong, maybe all the money ended up on screen but I simply didn't see it. We give films a certain amount of slack for being low budget so there's no reason we can't criticise a big budget film when it fails to deliver.The Dark Half is a decent horror film of that there is no doubt but with $15,000,000 in his back pocket & a string of absolute horror classics behind him I can't help but feel disappointed by The Dark Half, a real wasted opportunity. Worth a watch but nothing spectacular. "},{"Title":"Has some class and intelligence.","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Mystery","Review":"  This intelligent horror thriller displays more ideas than the average genre film, but a few too many things remain unexplained - like, how exactly did the writer's dark half materialize, or why did the sparrows choose to interfere at that particular moment near the end? Anyway, the finale is visually great, and overall the movie is a worthwhile watch. (**1/2) "}]