[{"Title":"Vatos Locos forever","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"69 out of 88 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of those most people saw by mistake, late one night on cable. I did too, and found myself talking about it for weeks.  The only thing that keeps this movie from being rated higher is its length.  At times it is too drawn out, but for the most part it is well acted, beautifully shot considering the settings, and tells a good story.I have yet to to find a person who doesn't fal in love with this movie.  "},{"Title":"probably my favorite","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"69 out of 98 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this movie about twenty times and would gladly watch it again anytime.Literally.Damian Chapa has been robbed of any real recognition for what I think is one of the best performances ever to be put on film.Miklo rules.I've never seen the extended laserdisc,but I'm sure it kicks even more ass. This movie will survive the test of time. "},{"Title":"A love it or hate it type of flick","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"40 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bound By Honor (BBH) is not meant to legitimize or glorify gang life, or ennoble Latino culture. It simply tells a story that faithfully paraphrases harsh reality. If you don't get the story, then it's easy to lambaste the acting and directing. If you do get the story, then the acting and directing are good enough.Many of the film's characters are people we know Cruz, full of verve and potential, a victim of the needle; his father, a working class Chicano who wanted better for his sons; Miklo, the fresh-faced well-intentioned misfit driven inexorably to a life of brutality; Paco, the handsome athlete rescued from ruin by the Marine Corp; Juanito, the mocoso of the family, whom everybody wanted to protect from the perils of the barrio, tragically cut down nonetheless; Miklo's mom, a party girl ill-prepared to be a mother; Miklo's aunt - strong and responsible - called on to be a mother to her sister's son.The prison scenes and subplot are quite visceral. Some people find them laughable or unbelievable, but I find them to be neither. Some liberties were taken, but for the most part, I thought prison gangs, corruption, killings, rape, parole boards, and trade were depicted quite well.There are also universal themes The meanings of home and family; hard but honest work versus a life of crime; the fickle consequences of youthful foolishness, striking down some while letting others pass; unfulfilled hopes, and other hopes fulfilled in unexpected ways; a family torn apart by tragedy with only time to heal the wound; the struggle to right one's ship; generational gaps bridged only by maturity that comes in the wake of mistakes; the constant questioning of oneself.It would have been nice to see more character development of women in the family, and some of the actors should have worked on their accents and delivery a little more. Still, I highly recommend this film to anybody in search of a story like the one it tells. To those who don't feel particularly strongly about the material covered, I'd say BBH is no worse than almost any recent big budget film. But to those inclined to greet the *underlying story* with folded arms and a dismissive grin or snort, I'd say spend your three hours watching something else. My verdict 9 of 10 stars.Now I'll address some points raised by those who say the film is garbage.1) It was too long. It was long, yes, but there's very little I'd have left on the editing room floor. I think if one finds the subject material interesting, then the film moves along nicely, despite its length. Also, I think it's hilarious that so many people who despise the film actually watched the whole darn thing! Any flick that keeps you watching for 3 hours can't be too bad.2) Damian Chapa is too white to play a Latino. First, people who say this misunderstand what it means to be Latino, and second, they miss an important subplot. Chapa is a *Spanish* surname, and if Damian Chapa is Latino, then by definition, he's not too white to play one. Latinos of mixed ethnicity are not some Hollywood phantasm, and the treatment of mixed ethnicity and Americanization is a recurring theme in Latino culture in the USA. In the film, Chapa's character is of mixed ethnicity, and as such constantly has to prove he is Raza in a way that his peers never do. This constant challenge to his identity makes him fearless and quick to the draw, lest those whose approval he seeks question the make of his blood. For example, that's why *he* is the one to first confront Tres Puntos, not his fellow Vatos Locos. In a culture where fair hair, skin, and eyes are at times a liability, he proved his worth by the only measure his peers valued.3) The acting was over the top. Some of the acting that seems over the top is actually not. Gang members quickly learn to communicate by force of will. Also, they are not generally educated or refined, and in their own parlance, one word can mean many things. So the frequent displays of machismo are not necessarily bad acting, and hearing ese and carnal repeated over and over is not necessarily bad directing, and the convicts' corny one-liners are not meant to be the witty banter of NPR... but yeah, the film could have been toned down a little in some places.4) It wasn't true to the time period. Critics said the same thing about Doctor Zhivago, but a good film transcends that, and I believe BBH does. The film covered from ~1970 to ~1985, and I had no problem with the settings. Whatever time period mistakes were made weren't bad enough to distract me from the film.5) BBH is a cheap rip-off of American Me (AM). I saw BBH before I saw AM, so I wasn't predisposed to dismiss BBH as a knockoff. I think AM is depressing and clinical, whereas BBH is uplifting and colorful. Both films cover the same reality and so of course will overlap at points. The same can be said of films about the Vietnam War or the Old West, except that because there are relatively few films about Latinos, the comparison of these two is inevitable. AM is more polished, but BBH is more riveting, probably because BBH makes you care about its characters more. If AM is a sad docudrama with all the loose ends tied up, then BBH is an emotional roller coaster with many questions unanswerable and others simply left unanswered. "},{"Title":"Blood In Blood Out - Criminally under-rated!","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"36 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I first saw this film a few years ago when my brother stumbled across it in a bargain basement basket bin! What a travesty for a start that it had not made a bigger mark at the box office and had been consigned to a cheap basket! I'm sure if released with more fanfare this time it would reach the audience it deserves! It is a story of rival gangs, family, love, betrayal, loyalty, acceptance - every film cliché you could think of.It thoroughly explores the destiny of its 3 young stars as they struggle to make their way with the life path they have taken. I won't give away the plot as I believe anyway who truly loves films should see this film in its full glory with no knowledge of the plot or how the film eventually plays out.I have been reading the postings, and many negative comments have been made about this film, but I believe this film stands up to much of its unfair criticism.I will admit though, that I did squirm at some of Miklo's earlier expressions in the film, but a 3/4 of the way through he really picks up the baton and completely takes over. In fact, he is a revelation.There are some cheesy bits of dialogue, but I don't think this takes away from the piece in any way.It is a long film, but it needed to be. I don't think there are ANY scenes they could have done without - it is very effective, just the way it is.Anybody who has seen it and didn't like it first time round, I employ you to rent it/buy it again and give it another try.I purchased another copy of it again just a few days ago. I watched it yesterday and was still moved - as if it was the first time I saw it.Its definitely TOP TEN best film material! MUST SEE! "},{"Title":"....the best....","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"58 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not many people have seen the movie over here in Holland, but the people that have seen it, love it. the movie is complete! the story is great, the acting at some times a bit overdone but it doesnt hurt the movie at all. The movie changed the lives of many friends and myself.. It's just the best movie ever. Dont listen to the people that say it sucks... they dont understand the power that the movie has!!     la onda is our destiny!!  "},{"Title":"Interesting watch","Date":"30 January 2001","Score":"25 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've seen this movie a couple of times and its got its good points and its bad.  It's an interesting story, though generally, it perpetuates the East L.A. gang member stereotype.  However, it also addresses something I haven't seen before in a movie of this type, and something that was perfectly illustrated (unintentionally) by some of the unfavorable reviews posted here.  I'm referring to the character of Miklos, and how stereotypes within his own community about what is Latin contribute to the person he becomes.  There have been a few reviewers here who feel that the character of Miklos was not believable as Latino, as he was too white looking.  As I understand, that was exactly the point.  He was always having to prove himself as 'more latin than thou' because of his fair skin.  Somehow being 'more latin than thou' became akin to being a hardest of the hard gang member. I think that was the most compelling idea out of the movie because that sort of thing happens quite often.  Many Latinos subscribe to the stereotype that all latinos are a sort of medium brown.  Forgetting that Latino is not a race.  It refers to ethnicity.  You can be of any race and still be Latino. Those who don't fit into the stereotype of appearance sometimes try to find another way to 'be more Latin', and become susceptible to other, more insidious stereotypes. I've known my fair share of blue eyed blond Miklos who felt compelled to prove their Latin-ness by being a thug. So despite what has to be a record usage of the word ese, I found this movie a worthy viewing due to the addressing of this topic. "},{"Title":"Barrio Epic","Date":"16 June 2009","Score":"15 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on the real life experiences of poet Jimmy Santiago Baca, Bound By Honor covers two decades in the latter half of the 20th century as seen through the eyes of half brothers Benjamin Bratt and Jesse Borrego and their cousin Damian Chapa. Growing up more or less together, all three start out as gang bangers, but each has a different destiny and in many ways one's destiny is caused by the actions of the others.Borrego gets injured in a gang retaliation and works hard to not become a cripple. He does however become both a painter of note and a drug addict of considerable appetite. A tragedy there sets him and Bratt apart.Bratt also winds up in a feud with Chapa. When both were young gang bangers and looking to retaliate for Borrego, Bratt and Chapa are arrested. Because this was Bratt's first offense he got a choice of the military or jail time and he chose the Marines. Chapa however was sent to prison, to San Quentin to be precise where he joined the Chicano prison gang La Onda. Pretty soon Chapa is high in the gang councils and deep in the politics of the prison. Bratt in the meantime joins the LAPD and destiny makes these two collide.Bound By Honor has an epic quality almost a kind of Chicano Gone With The Wind. The mostly Hispanic cast do a great job in depicting life in the Barrio. The film runs just about three hours and it's a tribute to director Taylor Hackford that your interest doesn't flag for a minute.Hackford also creates many interesting supporting characters two numerous to mention, always the mark of a good film. But your interest is always in the three leads. You get to care about what is to become of them, what destiny has in store.There are certain similarities between Bound By Honor and the Edward James Olmos film, American Me. Personally I give a slight edge to this one, don't miss it if it is broadcast. "},{"Title":"Pleasantly Surprised.","Date":"17 September 2007","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie by chance and was expecting it to be some low budget flick with gang fights in it, but I was pleasantly surprised at how good this movie was. I put the DVD in and was planning to only watch a few minutes before going to bed, but the movie was so good and interesting that I watched the whole thing.I'm also surprised this movie didn't win many awards. I notice it only won best director in Japan. This should have at least been nominated for best picture (Schindler's List won that year).And speaking of surprises, the plot has some good twists and surprises of its own. "},{"Title":"great story, nice and long so one can enjoy it more than the average flick","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"18 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" i believe that is one of the better movies ever to come out. a truly amazing story of what life can entail between brothers and how the choices you make defines your direction in life. OK, one might argue that it is rather cheap in the budgetary sense and consequently not a respectable director nor actors are in it makes the flick only more interesting. The acting is however quite good and the prisoners are more than realistic. In other words it gives a nice insight in US (prison-gang)life. On top of that i personally am a great fan of true stories as this is. it is a shame that bad distribution has not given this the place in movie history that it deserves. "},{"Title":"Mixed reviews","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am quite often moved to comment when a movie has a wide range of good to bad reviews.  This movie is a classic case.  Several people called it the worst movie they had ever seen, or words to that effect.  Is it?  Hardly.  It also isn't the best movie ever made.   It is long, I'll grant the complaints about that, but one of the beauties of video is you don't have to watch it all at one time.  Over-acted?  I think that has to do with the genre.  Okay, it isn't the best movie ever made.  But I can sum up all of its shortcomings with one contraticting word.  It is compelling.  I can very much relate to the reviewer who mentioned getting hooked on it on tv in the middle of the night.  It is a compelling movie in spite of its shortcomings.  Even if it seems overacted, it is compelling because it seems so real in spite of the overacting.   "}{"Title":"great story, great irony, great epic","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"36 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  i was bored one evening and someone mentioned to check this movie.i rarely like movies which are very long but i figured what the heck i'd try itsince  then i have ordered dvd of the movie and seen it 5 times in 2 weeksthis movie only might have 1 real problem, is when actors kinda overact their roles, which you could see in the movie, however its pretty acceptable in this moviegreat movies usually defined by great actors acting out the roles/story as well as other features(irony/etc)well this movie had a real great story, well written script which at any point in the movie was never confusing(often problem with long movies, you loose the track on some heroes and movie jumps a lot)i think that most great movies should have good irony, well this was no exception! i will not go in to the details but anyone who seen this movie will agree with mei think everyone should at least see this movie once, but thats just my humble opinionlater... "},{"Title":"A great story, from start to end","Date":"20 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When I first saw this movie, I was about 13 and with my friends, we used to imitate many lines from this movie, Vatos locos forever, Life is a risk carnale, etc. I am not of latino descent, but, I was touched by many parts of the story.I think many people make the mistake of associating this movie with being latino or that its a stereotype. I find that the real depth of the story is far beyond just that. This is a movie about acceptance, the need to fit in, the struggles of belonging to a minority, prison gangs, pride, family and the way different people get shaped with time and circumstance. When you start this movie, you can not imagine how far it will go and how the different characters evolve and the acting is great, all the actors picked fit perfectly their roles.There is so much in this movie that I wont go into details, but to briefly explain, the story revolves around three cousins who are all completely different but bound by blood. They all seem to be going on a certain path which becomes radically changed early in the movie when their paths diverge dramatically. Its along these paths that you get a glimpse of society at those times, of hardships, of unfair circumstances and of survival.This is really a great movie, one of my all time favourites. I have watched it probably more than 10 times and will continue to watch it again and again. Enjoy! 9/10 "},{"Title":"An absolutely mind-blowing surprise","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" It is amazing how you can start with no real expectations at all, only to find yourself ending up with a real gem of a movie. That accurately sums up my experience when I first saw Bound by Honor/Blood In Blood Out.Behind the shy, inconspicuous exterior lies a powerful, almost real drama about the lives of three LA gang members who find their world changes as they grow up. Drug addiction, life in prison and 'betrayal' are the main subjects here and they don't fail to demand attention. I must honestly admit that I have watched this movie in awe, until the closing credits were gone. It's that good.Most of the actors aren't that famous (alright, you might recognize Benjamin Bratt for his role in Law & Order) and those who are have no real starring roles. In my opinion, this adds to the 'real feel' of the movie and is one of it's strong points (the casting, that is). Even Damian Chapa isn't bad in this movie (he usually is, think Street Fighter... Or U.S. Seals 2 S) and I must praise him for his work. Both stars and supporting actors performed magnificently.But in my opinion, the real credit should go to the writer and the director, who made such interesting and real topics in to an engaging, 3-hour long drama that manages to captivate it's audience. A genuine masterpiece, I would strongly recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Love, honour and betrayal.......","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I, like many others, stumbled across this film by accident and man am I glad I did. This is one of my favourite movies of all time.The film follows the story of three brothers growing up in east Los Angeles whose lives are suddenly changed in a gangland feud. Each are forced to take separate paths, yet they remain intertwined with ties of blood and honour.This is an immense film of power, respect and loyalty and is a must see for any movie fan. I have yet to meet anyone having seen this film who was not moved and exhilarated.Absolutely brilliant! "},{"Title":"It held my attention, that's for sure","Date":"11 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  My late-teen son has been raving about this movie for some time now, and when he put on the DVD this morning I was at first going to leave him to it and go watch the tennis matches on TV, lol. On my way to the stairs, however, I found myself standing there and watching at least the first ten minutes, until my son convinced me to settle down and watch it with him.I've read the widely mixed reviews here about BIBO and I can see both sides of the coin. There is great diversity in the quality of acting and dialog, and it could have been at least a half hour shorter. But the bottom line is, I sat and watched a 3-hour movie on a Saturday morning - very unusual for me - and it kept me involved the entire time.  "},{"Title":"amazing","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rarely in my life I find myself glued to my seat for an entire movie, not to mention to one over 3 hours long one. This is one I did so twice once 6 years years ago and the second time about a year ago.  I love the work of Taylor Heckford, he is a great storyteller and a brilliant director.Although the acting is somewhat blown up, and the movie suffers from over sentimentalism from time to time, it is still nothing less than outstanding and erosive.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly deep","Date":"13 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" At first glance one feels this is a TV movie, starting with a sunny day somewhere in east LA and a guy coming in and greeting anyone in Spanish, with colorful Mexicans all over. You may think, based on the movie title as well, that it will be one of those gang action movies where the hero beats up everybody. It certainly starts that way, but the movie is not like that.After a while, when the plot expands a little more, you find that the white dude that comes to greet his Chicano friends is a halfbreed American Mexican who hates his white father and considers himself brown on the inside. He is also on parole and only days until he gets to be 18 and be totally free. Then he makes a stupid move. Now you think it is going to be one of those prison movies, with the misguided youth and the corrupt system. Perhaps he is going to go to prison and beat up everybody. That ain't it, either.It takes maybe a little to see that the movie isn't even close to being over so you look to the length of the film. It's 3 hours long! The fact that it starts showing the year in which things happen gives the final clue it is an epic story. The complexity of the characters hint at a book or something like that and, indeed, the story is written by poet Jimmy Santiago Baca, based on his personal experience. It's almost a biopic.And look at the cast! Damian Chapa is pretty known, but also Benjamin Bratt, Delroy Lindo, Victor Rivers (can't have a movie about Mexicans without Rivers - I really think he should have gotten more main roles), Billy Bob Thornton, Ving Rhames, Danny Trejo and even Jimmy Santiago Baca himself as Gato, who I don't really remember.About the movie itself, its main strength is the characters. Each of the lead characters is being carefully sketched and then transformed by the story. The ending, most of all, explains the feelings and reality of the people involved. There were criticisms that the movie was overacted sometimes. Perhaps, but most of it was actually in character. Miklo is someone who is desperately, so desperately, trying to belong. Of course he overacts. His whole character is made up in his head.So, as a conclusion to this too long review this is not a masterpiece, but it is a movie about the truth of people in those times, and it is well done. Truthful films are more and more scarce as the time goes by. If you find the time and mood to watch this white Mexican biopic, I don't think you will be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Cinderellaaaaa why don't you get a fellaaaaahh!!","Date":"23 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I have seen this movie way too many times, its a true cult classic. 3 hours of brilliant (and sometimes corny) mobstermania.Miklo is a great character, and the surrounding cast is equally great. The 90's vibe oozes out of every frame, and there are so many memorable scenes, its hard to name the best.Although its fair to say the prison parts are very amusing and might belong to the movie's best moments. its not the best movie ever made by far, but for fans of the genre its a very memorable and highly amusing movie i have watched countless times and enjoyed every time. Great characters, great atmosphere, hilarious scenes and a 3 hour journey through a pretty well written story.Cult classic, gotta watch it every 5 years. "},{"Title":"Watch it!!","Date":"19 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Picked this up at a wal-mart, always had a liking to gangster movies based in L.A but had heard little about Blood in Blood out so wasn't too sure if it would be that good, but have to say this is one of my favorite movies of all time! I not only rate it up there with L.A gangster movies but with the likes of gangster movies Scarface, Goodfellas, Casino etc. It is that good! It just doesn't have World class actors like Pacino in, but never the less the actors involved are fantastic at their roles, The director/producers deserve credit too because every detail about this film is perfect, the setting, the locations, the lingo used and even the extras look exactly how you would expect hardened Mexican/Black/White prisoners to look. Danny Trejo is in this and he along with the others makes you feel like you are actually in San Quentin. I HIGHLY Recommend this to anyone that likes gangster movies or interested in American prisons and the history of prison gangs, I definitely will be watching this over and over and just wish I discovered it earlier, if anyone knows anymore movies like this with actors like Borrego, Trejo etc please let me know "},{"Title":"criminally underrated film","Date":"4 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film really is a peer of The Godfather. It should be thought of in those terms. Both films track members of a family who are in mob-like organizations. Blood In, Blood Out tracks the fate of family members involved in gangs but some of whom try to go straight, while The Godfather is more concerned with the internal machinations of the criminal organization.That said, the films tracks several boys who during their youth are parts of illegal criminal families. I think this film is criminally underrated. Both the first and second Godfather films deserve their plaudits and the performances, direction, and script combined to make for compelling inter-generational dramas. However, this film is no different. It does not track such a lengthy period of time, but we see significant character development, multi-layered story lines, and large numbers of peripheral characters who also play important parts in the film.The acting in this film is brilliant from the three leads Benjamin Bratt, Jesse Borrego, and most notably, Damian Chapa. Chapa as Miclo is the light-skinned, blue-eyed Latino whose appearance has always driven him to prove how loyal a Latino he was and which leads him into a lot of trouble. Chapa's performance depicts Miclo as scared and unsure as a youngster, but as he grows older, he becomes more sure of himself and more committed to his lifestyle. Chapa delivers an intense, energetic performance which really should have led to more opportunities for him, had he wanted them. Jesse Borrego as Cruz is a talented artist whose life falls prey to drugs but who survives and doesn't forget his origins and values. Borrego make Cruz an imp with a twinkle in his eye which never goes out, no matter how far he falls and Borrego's performance also shows a great deal of depth. Bratt is Paco, perhaps the most troubled as a youngster, but whose life changes fortuitously before it can spin too far out of control. The three leads are cousins, and their courses in life converge and diverge in interesting and not unrealistic ways.There is great supporting work from actors like Delroy Lindo, Enrique Castillo, Carlos Carrasco, Victor Rivers, and many others. The script and screenplay are fantastic, chronicling about 13 or 14 years with great ease but without sacrificing complexity. The story is based on the experiences of artist Jimmy Santiago Baca and he helped to write the screenplay.For me, the relationships among the races in prison is the most fascinating part of the film. Race defines one's position in prison. The unity of the members of a race will determine how powerful that race is in prison. This is not a film for kids. The violence is not soft-pedaled. It is brutal and unapologetic. Director Taylor Hackford should be applauded for not shrinking from a not particularly feelgood story. He allows the film to breathe and allows the tragedy and triumph to play out. I have read some reviewers critique the length of this film and while I sympathize, I don't know which parts they would remove. I don't find that the film drags at all and the relationships within the family, within racial groups, and between racial groups, make this a film that will withstand repeated viewing. "}{"Title":"Not underrated, nor overrated","Date":"19 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" For all those who give this movie a 10 or a 0 rating, please relax. This movie is not anywhere close to Godfather 1 or 2, but neither is it anywhere near Elm Street. The key thing for this movie is that anyone who is close to a brother (sister) or cousin will have a string attraction if one of them was not, how shall I say, legit. Men will like (love or hate) this movie based one its relationships between its dirty and clean wing. (FYI - I like to love this movie). When Miklo goes bad, he does it for Paco. When Paco goes good, he does it for what he did to Miklo. Great story, aLa E.H. (check 50 short stories for a check). Great movie, great acting, more important story about institutionalism. "},{"Title":"Sometimes you get lucky.","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I stumbled across this movie late one night on cable. Boy was I lucky.  This is an entertaining story of three blood brothers from the wrong side of the tracks.  The most dramatic parts involve the descent of the talented artist Cruzito into a world of drugs.  In my opinion though, the highlight of the movie are the scenes where Miccolo is in prison. It really gives an accurate portrayal of the gang violence of the California prison system.  When Micolo plots the downfall of the rival gangs, there has never been a greater sequence captured on film in my opinion. A pre-stardom Billy Bob Thornton plays a neo-nazi, is a added bonus. The movie is pretty long, but well worth it. "},{"Title":"Best movie ever","Date":"18 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Best movie ever. I think this movie is the one movie out of all that has the most epic quotes. There are even web pages devoted to quotes from blood in blood out. I am aware the actors are not up there with De Niro, Pacino and company but fact remains they helped create some of the most memorable characters in movie history. Who can forget characters like Popeye, Spider, Big Al or the troubled artist Cruzito! Also I think this movie appeals to something else than the wannabe gangster within us. It speaks of the sphere between cultures, the in betweeners. Main character Milko is, as Montana tells him, stuck in the middle. He struggles with being both white and Chicano. This movie really was a favorite back when I was a kid and to this day I still watch it from time to time and let it bring me back to East Los Angeles in the seventies. And did I mention the never ending source of quotes? Hey Cinderella, go find yourself a fella, I don't want his pork-chop, I want his life, cuidado con el Chorizo we might need it for later just to name a few of very legendary quotes this movie has left the world with. "},{"Title":"Great watch","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an absolute 90's classic! Being a child of the 90's, both film and music-wise, I love this film. Entertaining story of LA gang culture and brotherhood. The acting isn't always completely there but it doesn't actually matter when a film is this much fun to watch. Yes it's a long film but needs to be really - nothing feels unnecessary. The white-boy Hispanic aspect is good to watch and gives the film a certain uncomfortableness. This film had a real feel-good brotherhood vibe running through it and although in some ways cheesy I found it overall to be a gem. Viva Los Pacos Locos! If I was a film buff, I'd stroke my beard and say this film was displeasing due to the fact that it wasn't shot in black and white, wasn't made in the 1950's, wasn't minimalist and not enough ponses rated it, but then again I'm not ;-) "},{"Title":"Three brothers get involved in gang wars and drugs in East LA 1972 and have their life turned upside down and have to part.","Date":"16 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" EPIC. Thats right. It really is epic at least when you consider the length. 190 minutes of drama which encompasses 13 years and many twists and turns. It was like seeing a movie twice over. And its pretty hard for me to sit and do the same thing that long. But thank god it was nice or i would have been lying on the bed all day with a headache. And it amazes me that I sat through a movie that long without much fuss. It was pretty nice. The LA which many outsiders never see or hear about. The east LA, the gang wars, the drugs, inmates running the prisons and rape attempt on a white prisoner. And thirteen years of twist and turns in the fortune of the three brothers and their familias as tragedy and happiness went hand in hand of a community which just wanted to live and work with dignity as some of their own went the wrong way and destroyed their careers and lives. And with much of the second half happening in the prison it needed a good genuine drama which thankfully is delivered. The prison and the stories feel real. And you feel destroyed as you see criminals getting criminalized in an institution made to reform them. Gay cooks and prisoners and racially segregated groups which ran their business from the inside in lieu of money. Attacks being planned and committed on fellow prisoners. Its all there as it takes a lot out of you to watch and absorb all this and more for more three hours. But all said and done it engrosses you for most the time and its only in the middle when not much is happening when you look at the time remaining. But as the plotting and action starts you again get absorbed. I got out with a real good knowledge of the people and a side of one of my favorite cities I never knew about. For that I am happy that I watched this.Read more at http//hightensionmovies.blogspot.in/ "},{"Title":"Three Latino gang members follow divergent but related paths criminal, cop and artist","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is average. It's a 5 or a 6. It has a number of problems and a number of good points. The good points are that it's an ambitious film that makes a serious attempt to show the changing lives of three different men from the barrio from the time they are about 18 to when they are 30. They are bound together by blood, by background, and by gang. But their actions eventually lead to one being in jail, another being a cop and a third being an artist.This is not Manhattan Melodrama, however. There is far more realism. Most of the focus is on the prison life of Miklo (Damian Chapa). In the prison are three gangs, divided by race brown, black, and white. Their rivalries for power play a critical part in the film, and it's almost as much about these gangs as anything else. This is a strong point of the script. The character arcs of the three leads create another strong point.The main problem with the movie, in my opinion, is the direction of Taylor Hackford. There are simply too many scenes in which the actors are shouting at each other at the top of their lungs. The director should also have had a hand in cutting down the excessively wordy lines that clutter up many scenes. A movie is not a book. There are some group scenes that are not well staged or managed at all and in which the result is awkward. The script has too much verbal exposition and explanation. It has clichés and lacks progressive tension, but good direction and acting might have overcome these issues. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the acting abilities and charisma of the actors varied widely. They just didn't all pull off their roles. Some did, and others didn't.I was straining to watch this one to the end. I didn't find it particularly engaging and that's due to how it was written and executed, not the story or characters.UPDATE After writing the above, I went back and read my review of Against All Odds by the same director, written more than 2 months ago. Interestingly, some of my criticisms of that movie are similar to those made here. "},{"Title":"A story telling movie and a roller coaster ride too","Date":"19 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I always check for realism in movie scenes if the movie is going to go into detail about a certain subject. We all do it to some degree. Police, doctors, scientists all watch movies and know when what is or is not real when their scene with their expertise hits the screen. I did jail counseling and had exposure to the gangs, drugs, prison and street scenes that are shown in this movie are remarkably real and true to life and behind bars. Very nicely done for realism sake and schockingly accurate. Mom and dad in this movie are the streets and you and your family live by clique rules. Large cliques determine right and wrong and something even more powerful than that disciplines everyone which is the prison systems. Both ways fail and this movie chronicles that failure while staying true to the what they have to work with...real life. It is a long story told so that you can hitch a ride with it and then be roped in. Once in, fasten your seat belt and pray for a bathroom break...Its the only thing that will break the tension at times. Take heart, the players deliver you to an ending that helps you to recover your breath and resume a normal life. But you will tell others about this move and you will think about it from time to time...Popcorn, hard candy snacks and a good arm rest recommended...enjoy "},{"Title":"Great depiction of the prison gangs of the late 20th century.","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" For 3 years, my wife wanted me to watch this movie and i hesitated. It sounded like just another gang movie and i wasn't interested in watching another movie like that. Then when i was sick one day it came on cable and i decided to watch it. As soon as the first 1/2 hour passed, I was sorry I didn't watch it sooner. This movie was well done! A very good depiction of street and prison gangs..(the fact that some of the actors and crew either were involved in gangs or had done time in jail helped make some of the roles more believable).The saddest character in the movie is the main protagonist Miklo Velka. despite his mother being a brown-eyed, blk haired Mexican, his white father's features constantly make him an outsider in his own community and his willingness to do whatever it takes to be accepted by his own people ends up having disastrous consequences for all involved in his life in the 12 years that the film takes place.One other thing I saw in the movie that really surprised me is when Popeye tells Miklo that he cannot get mad at another Latino in jail because they were both from rival gangs. In prison, they have to unite if they want to survive. I saw that as a unity born out of need to protect themselves.If you are Latin, regardless of type (cuban, Puerto-Rican,Peruvian,Mexican etc) see this movie. "},{"Title":"A Must see...at all cost!!!","Date":"24 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I watched this movie back in 1993 when it cames out and probably over 20 times since (we're in 2011 already).Recently we bought a 3D TV and i wanted to see this movie again on our new 47 LED 3D... This movie is no doubt a masterpiece.A lot of people didn't see this movie back in 1993 but i believe the marketing responsible to promote the film did a terrible job.This movie should win some sort of Oscar... (beleive me i've seen thousands of great hits from 1960s to 2011 and Blood in Blood out should be listed among the top 50 drama of all time... it is in my top 20 without a doubt.I'm not going to review this masterpiece as there is no word strong enough to give justice to this work.The acting is really good. The special effect is too. (It's like every actor were born just to play in this movie).Have you ever watched a movie to the end and that years later you still want to know what happened to all the characters ? and of course will be willing to see another sequel ? Well this is the kind of movie that will make you say I WANT MORE plz! "},{"Title":"Amazing Movie","Date":"19 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A must see for anyone. beautiful story. very well told and amazingly directed.anyone into Latino movies. prison movies, dramas about the struggles of life should see this. its a underrated masterpiece, that never got the honor that it should have. a great cast and crew made one of the best movies of all time. anyone who watches this and doesn't laugh and cry. should have there head examined. if you haven't seen it rent it, hell even if you have seen it rent it again, and again... shoot buy it...no wait buy ten copies and give them as gifts, no no no 20 copies... yeah buy every copy you can get your hands on and share them with the world that's how good a movie this is... thank you for listening and have a chaotic day... "}{"Title":"Barrio Redemption","Date":"22 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" A classic story from the Barrio, and the ascension of struggles.Survival alone isn't enough. It's all about character, granted it's a long movie, but the Paco, Cruz and Miklo characters are mesmerizing to follow.Damian Chappa got robbed - whatever happened to the rest of his career? Still going (latest, Vatos Locos). Jesse Borrego, excels as a bad guy character.And the standouts throughout their careers, Benjamin Bratt, Delroy Lindo, Billy Bob Thornton, Lupe Ontiveros, Danny Trejo. All these people, all that talent, great job.That's why I remember this film, the characters.Crying in my soup now...Not really...Was going for my Oscar...Not really. "},{"Title":"Missed Gem","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I enjoy the crime/thriller genre and this really hit the spot. It had action, moral dilemmas, suspense, twists and drama. There is even emotion in this movie and not just a typical gangster movie.After watching this, It opened up my eyes to the life of Spanish/Mexican gangs and the troublesome lives they live. It is a story of innocence, revenge and betrayal. It is also a story of coming of age and learning. Most importantly it is a movie that can deliver powerful messages to the audience whom feels gangsterism is a symbol or status.I applaud the writer, the director and all the actors for producing such a accomplished piece of cinema. The acting is very genuine and all actors feel comfortable in their roles and helps the movies progression. The authenticity is also there and much research has gone into this. Although this is a lengthy film, over 2 hours long, it is well worth the time to watch the story unfold as it would in the real world. Viewers of the movie should be aware some scenes are not for the faint hearted and may cause you to gasp in shock. At one point I even shouted at the screen, but I wont divulge which scene this was.Please watch this movie, if you are thirsty for something different and not commercial, this is the pick. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"7 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This film is a really masterpiece of Mr. Taylor Hackford! This movie is a reality theme of the prisons life and the life of the Latin peoples in America. The story is fluency. Its elaboration is fantastic. You can slip into the characters life and you can find the emotions in their feat. The pictures about the city, the music and the action are live in an enthusiastic fluctuation. The spiritual attitude is going to seduce everybody. The complexity of the characters is brilliant. Sometimes the story looks like too hard but this is only way of illustration the reality of the prison life. Damian Chapa, Jesse Borrego and Benjamin Bratt made an excellent acting in this drama. "},{"Title":"...","Date":"9 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" bound by honor...or as i know it Blood In Blood Out. A true story about 3 young guys whos fate is decided by the choices they make.I first watched this when I was 9 years old when my brother rented it. I watched it over and over again just to be sure that I didn't miss anything. Today, I can watch it anytime!Miklo, Paco and Cruz are members of an East L.A. Gang called Vatos Locos. They struggle to survive in a place which is drowning from drugs and violent crime. A bloody thirst of revenge puts each of them on a different path that will change their lives forever...If you wanna see a gang movie thats gonna impact you in a way you couldn't imagine, then see Bound by Honor. "},{"Title":"Blood In blood out","Date":"13 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is absolutely amazing. I saw this movies years ago when i was a lot younger. I thought damian chapa (miklo) really challenges the borders of what a normal movie role is. Being White and being born and raised in East LA i understand Miklo 100%. I constantly had to prove myself due to being a whiteboy as does miklo having white skin. Through and through the movie i see actors who really dove right into the roles. But come on people? saying this movie is terrible and long and over the top obviously none of you have ever spent a single minute in the barrio. Its funny because my friends and coworkers lovingly joke with me and call me miklo due to my resemblance to miklo. see this movie darn you "},{"Title":"Absolutely irresistible crime saga - the Godfather of the Chicano gang crime genre, indeed!","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Epic, brutal and complex crime saga chronicling two brothers and a cousin who cannot escape the effect that their Chicano heritage & gang commitment has on their lives in L.A. during the '70s and '80s.An absolutely irresistible and surprisingly well-written piece of work that has an understandable cult following. Occasionally over-the-top in melodramatics and performances, but compensates by a narrative pace that almost never flags during its 3 hours length, plus an enthusiasm to entertain and move. The emphatic depiction of the prison world hierarchy is also deeply enthralling. This deserves to be regarded as the Godfather of the Chicano gang crime genre, indeed! 7 out of 10 from Ozjeppe "},{"Title":"A bit too long.","Date":"28 February 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Prison drama centered around three Latino siblings from East LA.While I usually like long flicks, there are a few lengths in this one, making it a little dull at times. Otherwise, it´s a tense story with convincable characters. There is some overacting (esp. the Miklo character), but that´s probably Director Taylor Hackford´s idea of Latino machismo.A quick note to some of the previous commentsOne guy slagged the film for it´s early 90´s style clothes...note that the baggy look you´re probably referring to was adopted from the late 70´s/early 80´s prison look, so that one was captured pretty acurate. And for the reviewer who found the massive prison slayings too hard to believe, ever heard of the ´82/´83 Prison Gang Riots?  "},{"Title":"Trivia and analysis","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I think this movie is great and I'll tell you why. But first some trivia The AV is based in the AB gang called the Aryan Brotherhood. Their members are known and respected in prisons for being especially murderous and ruthless though having smaller numbers than the other gangs. The BGA is based on the BGF black gorilla family gang (Delroy Lindo did a great job as Bonafide). They are a real gang and they claim to be politically motivated and are interested in black power. La Onda, as previously stated in another comment is based on La Eme or the Mexican Mafia. The members must deny its existence just like the real mafia or face death. These really are the three gangs that run the prisons in LA and across the country to this day. Also the concept of prison violence spilling onto the streets is a real issue. most gang violence in LA is Black on Black or Hispanic on Hispanic but when there is a war in the jails that is the main time that there is interracial violence on the streets. This is depicted well in the movie. More trivia The Tres Puntos gang is based on a tattoo that many Hispanic gangs get with 3 dots. They signify the three possible ways out of a gang prison, hospital, and death. The only flaw to this movie is that the actors may have overacted a little. This genre of movies rarely lends itself to great acting opportunities. think of the other great movies of its type e.g. Boyz in the hood, new jack city, menace to society. none of them won awards for best actor. but what sets this apart is that none of them touched on the jail aspect as much as this one did. The other nice thing was that nothing horrible happened at the end. Arguably everyone ended up alright, which is rare in this genre. Miklo became the boss of a powerful gang and spread the gang to other prisons, and Paco and Cruzito became friends again. On a side note, the slang used in this movie may be my favorite part. "},{"Title":"Prison Gangs -- The New Cosa Nostra?","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this film on cable several times, and the screenplay of Jimmy Santiago Baca was a masterpiece in depicting the dark world of prison gangs.  Prison gangs have been deemed a security threat in every American prison, state or federal, and how members and family are bonded. This film portrays the life of a biracial man (Damian Chapa, known as Carmine in Money Talks) that is hated by his real father (a Caucasian), and before he turns 18, murders a rival gang member to avenge his cousin's (Jesse Borrego) maiming, after he is bodyslammed onto a fire hydrant.  This event changes the lives of the three youths in the film. One youth ends up becoming an artist, and a heroin addict, after his near-serious injury from the bodyslam, another goes to boot camp (Benjamin Bratt), after being arrested by the LAPD, and becoming a police officer, and the other ends up in prison, and ascends up the hierarchy of being a prison gang leader.  The Miklo character would be the focal point in the insurrection that occurs in the penitentiary, while the other men live separate lives.  The saddest scene in the film is the Cruz character, where he ends up being a heroin addict, and is devastated by the death of his younger brother, when he ODs after a trial shot.  This leads to Cruz being ostracised by his family, and this fuels the resentment by his half brother, the detective.   Lots of familiar faces, especially Thomas F. Wilson (Biff Tanner in the Back to the Future flicks) and Billy Bob Thornton (Armageddon) as a Nazi.   "},{"Title":"The best damn gang movie ever to be released","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw this movie in 1994 when I was 10 years old and I loved it even then. Now, almost 10 years later I saw it again on DVD, just to see if it was as good as I remembered. Believe me, it was better! I love this movie, it's definitely on my Top10 films, all categories. It really touches you inside and the actors are great. Some say it's too long 3+ hours, but I wish it was longer, I can't get enough of it. Two words, buy it. "}{"Title":"Weird movie doesn't quite have the punch it should...","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I found that this film has some very interesting exposition about the lifestyle of the Chicano in the 70s and 80s in East LA much akin to what The Godfather did for exposing the lifestyle of the Mafia, of course the latter doing so in a much wider range.However, I also found too many instances of simplicity and stereotyping of races to rate is anywhere near The Godfather, even though it was nearly as long. I suspect that The Godfather was on the minds of some involved in this production while it was being made. Certainly, the character of Miklo is as tragic a figure as Michael Corleone, and also shows he is a traitor to himself and his mentor, much the way Corleone betrayed his own brother. Also, The Family has utmost importance in both films, but this film falters in places where Godfather excelled, and so it does not deserve the same consideration. "},{"Title":"Blood In Blood Out... The music too","Date":"13 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I've read several comments about this movie and I agree with most of them that give an excellent note to this film. For my part, I'd like to tell to everyone who likes movie scores that Bill Conti has made a fantastic job in this one. The music of Blood In Blood Out is amazing. It serves really well the ambiance and the spirit of the movie and I don't understand why this score has been so ignored by music amateurs. I dare to compare the chemistry which arose from this collaboration between the images of Taylor Hackford and the music of Bill Conti to the one who was born in the sixties between Sergio Leone and Ennio Morricone. Great job Mr. Conti. Thank you for your talent. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Picture yourself and your brother in the world full of anger and hate, where the drugs and money rules, standing on the opposite sides. What would you do? Would you still be brothers? This is a story about following the rules in life, honor, respect, family and decisions, sometimes dramatic, we have to make. It teaches us that no matter the skin color you are - it's the heart you got inside. You can't escape your destiny... No special effects, no bull***t - pure entertainment. A must see! I've seen it like 10 times but still it makes an impression. One of my favorites. This is one of few movies I can recommend in 100%. Wish I can tell you more, but don't wanna spoil all the fun peeps ) See it for yourselves... "},{"Title":"An excellent movie of the 90's","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I remember watching this movie a few weeks ago, and i wanted to see what note does it have on IMDb.Well my curiosity paid out, because 7,5 is a good note given to this movie. Myself voted for it with a 7.Remember now that this is a 1993 movie, with no special effects, no high paid actors and also not such a great director. Yes, maybe many of you will say Why watching a movie, if nobody famous is in it?, but i assure you that the plot, the people, the time will definitely have your attention.In my opinion this movie is worth watching. If you like gang movies, this is definitely the movie to see. Get your popcorn (lots of it) and sit back and relax. "},{"Title":"An Amazing Film","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Recently viewed this film which was called, Blood In Blood Out and could hardly believe the great details and realistic way this film was produced. There is no doubt that it showed what Prison Life really is like among all races, Black, Brown, White and many more and how each group has to struggle to exist and at the same time have fun, make money and kill each other. If you wanted sex in prison, you had plenty of willing partners and it just might be a very difficult and hard way to deal with it, or just simply getting raped when you least expect it. A young guy gets out of jail and tries to go down the straight and narrow path and winds up losing a body part and is constantly trying to become a gang member. There is a guy who has a great ability of being an artist, drawing great paintings and he gets cut up and his back twisted like a pretzel. If you want to go to prison, watch this film and it just might change your mind completely. Plenty of action and it goes none stop through out the entire picture. "},{"Title":"The Best","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is the best movie in the world no questions asked. the story is so inspirational and motivating. it helped me learn to fight what you believe in. even though i am not into gangs but the way they put them together is just brilliant. how all the guys where brothers, and how the things that happened between them changed everything. all three are gang members and then the right hand man, Cruz, became an artist with a drug addiction, the left hand man, Miklo, became in a different game and was in jail for life because he started and was part of a riot in jail, and he was the leader of the gang that caused it, and the leader, Paco, became a police man. the movie is to good to explain and you should see it. trust me. it will be one of the best you will ever see in your life. "},{"Title":"Not just another gang movie!!","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I know, the movie isn't original. You have American me, although that one was more the life story of one American-Latino and Blood in Blood out, as I know it, is more the story of three brothers (one is a cousin, but they're like brothers), also American-Latino (or Mexican) from who only one ends up in jail. It's not only about gangs, prison etc. but also about the lives of immigrant families who loose their kids to the American way of life, but also about family, love, defeat and overcoming your problems, like the oldest brother, who ends up on the better side of life. Ther are movies from Bad Boys to Colours to Boyz in tha Hood and they are all great, but the story is also about ethnicity, gangs from South Central L.A. are nothing like gangs from Hells Kitchen. The race is different, so the people are different too. And that's what makes this movie better than most movies about gangs and such. It's also about race and how it effects the people in the USA, espécially the former immigrant families like the Mexicans. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Movie","Date":"17 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I love this movie. I saw it when it was still at the movies. I wished it would of kept going. My buddies and I would go out drinking and say the lines word for word all night. Then we would go back to the house and watch the movie. My friends and I were so into that movie that we flew to L.A. and went looking for a lot of the sites used in the movie. Every place except the prison of course. It was the coolest thing I had ever done. I'm planing on going again with some family members this time. My wife's cousin lives 130 miles from here but, we're always on the phone or e-mailing each other saying something about this movie. There's not a day that goes by that I don't say something from that movie. This is the best movie I've ever seen. VATOS LOCOS 4 EVER !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Orale Vato!  Dynamite S***!  America's Cup of coffee!!!","Date":"3 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very ambitious film making! Loved the Day of the Dead invocation and the artwork is real psychedelic.  You get a tale of friendship, coming of age, gang initiation, prison drama, drug dealing, and even Sun Tzu's art of war going on throughout.  I was mesmerized as a young man watching this and just like little Juanito couldn't resist the temptation to be like the older boys I couldn't resist either.  Nothing like a little ambition and a bunch of drugs, crime and violence to get the juices flowing.I wonder if the people who hate on the movie ever tasted a little bit of the life portrayed in the movie.  Yes, people live with poverty and joblessness as well as get incarcerated, involved in gangs, drug dealing and addiction.  Some of the hardest thugs do end up becoming soldiers and cops.Street slang sounds just like the dialog in the movie.  Loud, in your face and to the point with much attitude and machismo behind it.  As such the cliches don't bother me and they are very effective in getting the message accross.  The tribal brotherhood in the movie was very intoxicating since I was steeped in it as a young man and still carry that inside.  Maybe some viewers are not used to the Mexican perspective and would be more comfortable if the whites and the blacks were not so marginalized but it's usually the other way around in so many films so why not try a different perspective.As far as the acting goes I think everyone was having fun playing angry, powertripping badasses so I was having fun right along with all three main characters and the rest of the supporting cast.  Just a real macho movie.  That's how I like em.     "},{"Title":"i know that comment is old but...","Date":"12 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" that post is of uttermost ignorance. you get assholes like this that think they know what that lifestyle is all about. it is a movie of how 3 friends grew up and how they each took separate paths in life and where they ended up. i myself grew up in l a and was smart enough to end up employed with a bachelors degree. its funny how mother fkers that know nothing, and are too scared to even go into those types of neighborhoods, can comment with such ignorance. oh, and as for the comment on the way they were portrayed, that style has been around since the 50's, homey! next time you comment on a lifestyle you will never ever understand or know about, look in the mirror and know who your are, because to judge someone or something so blindly, you set yourself up for failure and embarrassment. "}{"Title":"Super over the top ESE movie","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This was actually a very good movie. Sure, it was three hours long and every other word by every character was either VATO, ESE, ODALE or CABROBE. Actually, they never said Cabrone. But they said Odale a LOT and ese every other word. This was American Me on steroids!!! The main character was a white guy who was completely immersed in the CHICANO (not hispanic) culture. Yes, the word CHICANO was used a LOT! This was a really good flick though. Ben Bratt delivered the goods as a cholo named Paco. There were other good characters, like Popeye, Spider and Chucho. I am from the barrio of Albuquerque and I remember dudes like this. If you want to see the ESE movie of the century, I suggest THIS movie. "},{"Title":"A tinseltown take on Chicano gang/prison life","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bound by Honor circles interminably around a trio of East L.A.  Chicano gang members through decades of life. Overwrought,  over acted, uninspired, and fraught with foibles and plotholes,  the film spends too much time wallowing in the numbing excesses of prison gang life and politics unable to escape the varnish and tarnish of a Hollywood contrived shock-value execution. Even if we needed another prison gang flick, which we don't, this flick accomplishes too little and runs too long wearing its characters down to nubs instead of fleshing them out with insights into familia, community, heritage, and church. Worst of all, we're not given anyone to care about leaving us with three hours of mechanical detachment. (C+)Note - The version I Tivo'd included a lot of Spanglish with no subtitled translations and no closed captions. "},{"Title":"Garbage in Garbage Out","Date":"2 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Oh dear...what a mess.This film is so incompetently written that it could be used masterclass in how not to write anything at all. For a start it is repetitive beyond all belief same riffs on blood ties, brothers, mothers, fathers and cousins etc etc etc ad nauseam throughout. Tedious to a degree that is extraordinary that it passed the producers.Secondly, the script has two pitches loud and violent. That also makes it very boring. It is obvious how things will be shown in these two modes. A violent film can work on other levels but the writers are so inept that it escaped them to give this a few more tones.Thirdly, the story lacks precision as if it lacked a good editor. Therefore it has adopted the familiar course of amateurs, and that is to add everything in the story without giving it a balance and counter balance. There is no editorial overview of how to shape material within a reasonable time period. It is also very very long ...Anna Karenina is long, but that was by Tolstoy and he has some claim to be one of the greatest writers of all time.Fourthly, the actors oh well, and the report card is depressing. Basically two modes of action. The leads are all generally terrible, especially Mr Chapa, whose performance might be compared to a guard dog with distemper. Such monotony should not be viewed in a feature film.As with anything that that exemplifies all that is detritus in film making, there are so many other things to mention but space precludes a fuller list of its faults. The music for instance, with its deliberate sentimental Spanish guitar style in the few quiet moments showed all the artistic intelligence of a fast food restaurant franchise.Almost anything on earth is better than wasting the time that is this dreadful waste of one's own too short life. "},{"Title":"Amazing Film","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I'd never heard of this film or seen any press on it, but picked it up in a used-movie bargain bin and thought it looked interesting. I was simply blown away by the ensemble acting and cinematography. The DVD version that I have runs about 3 hours long and it doesn't drag for one second. I remained drawn into the story from beginning to end. The level of realism in the drama that unfolds is eerie. The relationships that are displayed between the characters are impeccably played out. You get a real sense of family between the half-brothers and the cousin (the three main characters), and see it develop between Miklo and his prison familia as well. The making of featurette on the DVD really took me by surprise, and revealed with crystal clarity the depth of Taylor Hackford's vision and motivation to create this cinematic masterpiece. I echo the sentiments of comments I've seen expressing an interest in a full director's cut (4+ hours) and/or a disc with deleted scenes at the very least. There isn't anything predictable about this film (in my opinion), and it is truly a rare film experience that is full of surprises. For a work of fiction, it is obviously based in real experience, which Jimmy Santiago Baca was able to forge on paper and Taylor Hackford was able to bring to the screen, with no apologies needed or implied. "},{"Title":"excellent story line and plot....","Date":"16 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Definitely one of my favorite films ever. Also a very underrated film. I was turned on to this movie by a Latino roommate I once had who experienced and or witnessed some of the events similar to those that take place in this film. Outstanding depiction of gang life both in and out of prison. An excellent representation of the distance people will go in order to stick together and survive. Interesting how the 3 boys start their lives together. They all go their own ways then are thrown back together by circumstance. A great look into Spanish culture. Not the best acting that I have seen in a film. However the story is based on the real lives of former gang members and criminals. Many of the actors in the film come from violent and crime filled backgrounds. An outstanding film overall! "},{"Title":"Miklo","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I will tell you being of white skin growing up in Los Angeles It has molded me with the thinking that will change those that identify. You will learn beyond the visual affects of this story line. There is a message that applies to all. Learn it and Live by it and You will be more ahead of your life. It is about the way you think and respond for those in need of you. How do you live you life and what thinking you will take from this movie are up to the viewer. These paths are presented in every cornerstone of your life. I say don't rate this until after you have seen the movie. You might have to watch it over and over to really see the movie. If you see a movie for stunts and special effects this not your movie. These are stories for the undecided in life. For those of you who have prejudicial feelings about gangs I ask you to view this with an open mind because you will learn the mentality and take a mentality with you that will open your eyes. This isn't not a movie just about gang fights and cholos. Especially in these times with a changing growth in our communities people need to appreciate our Gente no matter born here on this side of the border, or the other side of the border. "},{"Title":"Wish I could learn Spanish from these guys","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" With a title like - Blood in, blood out* I thought this movie was going to be a joke - it was anything but. I can't say enough about how good this movie is. To all who have not seen it - rent and watch it today! * Blood in, blood out - I would later learn the significance of it, as you'll too, if you decide to watch it. The one-liners are such a treat. With many of them containing surprising truths. Lastly, was it just me, or did anyone else start talking like the characters ten minutes into the watching the film! There's such a roll to the way the words sound. You just know what they mean even if you can't speak a word of Spanish. I wish I could learn Spanish from these guys - then no one would mess around with me! "},{"Title":"International brotherhood of vato locos?","Date":"19 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Although I didn't watch this movie straight on through it did impress.There was tension throughout because every verbal confrontation could or did lead to a sticking.At times I thought this movie was on the Spanish channel and felt it might be a problem for a lot of the audience.The Spanish was mainly Pachuco which goes back to at least the 1940's and usually is only spoken by Pachuco's.That being the situation it was surprising to read so many positive comments from persons in the U.K.,Toronto,Israel and many other places.It seems as though modern day audiences are more broadminded and should be complimented for it. Growing up in Oakland in the 1950's and 60's there wern't too many vato locos around just a lot of people that wanted to kick butt,now it's worse.Being far away from east l.a. and a little bit closer to Q I'll still take the liberty to call the main characters veterano's.What they have been doing they have been doing for many years. The one scene that I did not like was when the kid was in the storage room with the aryan boss,the thumb scene.Going along with the flow of the movie I found myself yelling out Nel Ese. Otherwise this was a very interesting movie.Hay te wacho(see you later) "},{"Title":"This is the greatest gang-movie ever!!!!!","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The story is well done and the cast did a great job making a creepy atmosphere throughout the entire movie..... one of the few 3-hour-movies that can keep you entertained for such a long time.Is there any other movie that comes close to this one? "},{"Title":"Story of 2 Chicano brothers and their half Latino cousin and how they grow up in a world of drugs, prison and street gangs.","Date":"17 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I thought this movie was incredible. It was an excellent portrayal of the Latino culture and their family. It never got boring, though I found the prison scenes most interesting, it was a good idea to lay the focus of the movie in that area. The actors were great as well. Of course, Benjamin Bratt is an incredible actor and was excellent in his role. Jesse Borrego was good in his part as well, he made his drug-addicted character likeable and funny.Then there's Damian Chapa. I thought he did an excellent job as the lead in this movie. He was perfect for the role and seemed to make the movie more intriguing. The only thing that I could say to sum up his part, is that the part almost seemed made for him. I would definitely recommend this movie next time you go to rent something. "}{"Title":"Great Movie but Overly Melodramatic","Date":"17 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The first thing one should know about this movie is that it is NOT a remake of American Me although there are so many similar plot details that it becomes obvious that they ripped off or copied from American Me.Overall, I enjoy American Me more as a movie depiction of prison gangs.  But Blood In Blood Out, is far superior in pure entertainment value, in my opinion.  I have watched it (all 3 plus hours) many times and I have never gotten tired of it.  It is the kind of movie that sucks you in and is hard to press STOP once it gets going.I think that all the actors except one were great, especially Benjamin Bratt, Enrique Castillo, and Jesse Borrego.  It was especially amusing to see good old Billy Bob Thornton, as a neo-Nazi.The only actor that I do not include in the greatness is the more or less star Damian Chapa as Milko.  While other actors in the film had their overacting moments, this guy just wouldn't quit.  Every scene was just way too overdone with him and by the end he was just plain obnoxious.I give this movie a ten in spite of Chapa.  If he had weaker co-stars, that rating would drop because of him but overall the other's superior performances make up for his.Great movie, be sure to check it out. "},{"Title":"my alltime favourite movie!!!","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  ( At first I want to apologize for my bad Englisch) I have seen the movie on tv. Because I had missed the half of the movie. I rent it at the video-shop and looked it again. It was the greatest movie I had ever seen.I bought it immediatly. I have seen the movie about fifty times. From that moment on I'm a big fan of Damien Chapa (Miklo velka). Because he is not a famous actor in Holland I couldn't find anything about him, especially posters and that kind of stuf. But I don't going to explane the movie because you just have to see him for yourself!!!!! "},{"Title":"A beautiful saga of a movie, with excessive language and a choppy script, of course!","Date":"14 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my all time faves.  Three Chicano brothers (well, technically, two step-brothers and their cousin), growing up in East Los Angeles.  The movie is long, but worth every minute.  It stars Jesse Borrego as Cruz, an aspiring artist turned strung out heroine addict (the highlight of the whole movie) whose emotion-laden acting is exquisite, Benjamin Bratt (pre-nose job ) as Paco, the bad-ass neighborhood punk turned bad-ass cop (don't worry, his performance gets better through the movie) and Damian Chapa as Miklo (whom the whole movie could just do without), the youngest of the bunch, struggling with his mixed white/Chicano background before becoming a war-lord of San Quentin.  Pitted with a choppy script with coarse language and a shifty stop-and-start plot, Bound By Honor is nonetheless a movie that you truly must see to appreciate. "},{"Title":"great movie, bit long but worth it.","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first came over this move in my local video store. I thought it looked like a cool move. Boy was I right. This is my all-time favourite movie. It tells the story about 3 blood brothers that start out in east L.A. There they get into a lot of trouble when defending they're Barrio. Miclo get's shot and are sent to San Quentin, Paco decides to join the core (army) and Cruze (the VERY promising artist) gets strung out on drugs that results in his smaller brother's overdose. From here, everything gets worse. (For the three brothers)This movie is a MUST SEE kinda movie.  "},{"Title":"hi","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Horrible acting my Miklo, cant believe he was the main character. Benjamin Bratt was great, a professional actor. It was a really long movie but not boring. Much better than I expected. 7.5 is a fair rating for it, it shouldn't be higher than that. Shawshank Redemption is still better, someone actually compared this to it. The main reason has to be the acting, Morgan Freeman alone is a better actor than any one in blood in blood out. Billy bob Thornton was good. What else can I say about this movie to take up the 10 lines necessary to post my comments. I don't know why there is a 10 line rule anyway. I was finished after 3 lines but now I have to keep on babbling to make up the 10 stupid lines. "},{"Title":"Stereotypes and overdone acting","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" How can a movies based on so many stereotypes and overdone acting get an overall 7.6? I don't get it, whats so great with this movie. All the prison scenes are so stereo typical, everybody's gay, or corrupt? Another thing is the way they filmed it, kinda looks like a drunk camera man.And the actors are as bad as the movie, my overall opinion is that it is a waste of time.SorryPlease tell me what's great about this movie?XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX "},{"Title":"the best","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" this is the best movie ever you gotta love. really great acting and a lot of passion.i am still yet to find a better movie . blood in blood out is the best of all time. i have not seen it in a while but i can't to watch it again now that i'm a little older. the last time i watched it i was about fourteen now I'm eighteen so i will view the movie a little different now that i'm older but it will be forever one of the greatest movies in my eyes. this is one of the movies you never forget i know i have not .a lot of movies you watch ant for real you forget but not this one . This movie is a keeper that i know. You can't go wrong with this movie. "},{"Title":"Blood in Blood Out","Date":"22 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" My sister and her boyfriend were telling me about the movie, and i knew it was the type of movie i would like. So I told my boyfriend that we needed to see it.In my opinion it was thought out well, and filmed good. Some people may not understand the movie, because some of it is in Spanish, but its kind of self explanatory.I thought that it touched on the Vatos Locos lifestyle.And for people who aren't aware of it could learn from it. What they said or portrayed of them was basically how it REALLY is.I would recommend this movie to others. "},{"Title":"The ghetto-Shakespeare","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" The basic plot center around these three friends who are like brothers. We watch them turn from boys to men in the Latino ghetto of Los Angeles. The three main characters have the biblical attributes of Sin, Redemtion and Revenge hanging over them. We see them tackle their life in different ways and following different paths. Each path is their own but sometimes they lead to a crossroad.Many people just assume that this is a gangster movie because it contains the ghetto, Chicanos, prison, drugs and violence. But it is so much more. The ghetto is a importent part of their life's but the actual drama could easily been a king's court or something else Shakespearian.Many people I have seen this movie with complains about the acting but even if the actors are poor the characters still seem true. Often the ghetto turns into the fourth main character when we see how alive it really is.This is my all time favorite film. First watched it at a young age about twelve or so. At that moment I found the gang-members to be something cool. When I then got it for Christmas two years back and re-watched I was astounded by the settings, multiple plots and the human drama that occurs. What I found cool back then was just tragic now and I could now relate more to the other aspects of this movie. "},{"Title":"Bound By Honor","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" For whatever reason this movie was first introduced as Bound By Honor then later change to Blood in Blood Out. I'm thirty years old now and find this movie fascinating in many ways. In 93 when the movie first screen I was 18 years old straight out of high school and I love it as much now as I did then. Growing up in LA, I'm compelled and must give credit to the directors and producers for the accuracy/ relevancy in which they represent Los Angeles in the 70's/80's. This movie has many underlying tones and other than the fact that this movie is geared by no Mexican or Chicano actors (Paco Peruvian and Cruz Puerto Rican) this movie is a hit. La Onda don't shine shoes Go UCLA in 2005 (Beat the streak) FUSC "}{"Title":"Very Powerful","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Blood in, Blood out is a very Powerful movie, It shows the inner workings of Latin community, and the struggle to make a good life. The movie Follows Miklo (Damian Chapa) in and out of prison, Cruz (Jesse Borrego) A struggling artist and Drug abuser, And Paco (Benjamin Bratt) A former bad boy turned Cop. When Miklo Goes to live with his mother's family he gets involved in a turf war with a rival gang, and when he and paco get caught by the police Miklo goes to jail while Paco goes in to the military. The movie then follows the three as the try to conquer their demons and overcome their Love for one another. This movie is filled with excitement, Drama, death, and intense acting. Some of it was cheesy at times but all in all this is a great movie and I recommend everyone to see it at least once. It may be long but it is well worth it. "},{"Title":"This movie is a must see!!!","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great movie about the politics in the Chicano culture. Brilliantly written, though I believe it should have been directed by someone of Chicano descent.Taylor is not in touch with the Chicano culture, thus creating a movie extrapulating a quasi-anglo feel. A definite must see. The names have been changed to protect the innocent. For instance, La Onda is really La EME (Mexican Mafia), Arian Vanguard (Arian Brotherhood), Black Gorilla Army (Black Gorilla Family). Movie was filmed in the streets of East L.A. and San Quintin. This movie is loaded with great actors that acted, in my opinion, very corny as if they purposely wanted to portray the Chicano Gangster as anything short of a cold blooded, in demeanor, soldier.  "},{"Title":"Extraordinary. One of a kind!","Date":"12 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I read a bad review of this extraordinary movie. I didn´t quite agree with the one that i read. Although my version, the dvd, isn´t the same as the one i used to have on VHS (recorded of tv in the early 90´s, at my parents house in Sweden). I must have bought the ordinary cut, though some scenes are missing. Like the one where Miklo is released from San Quentin, the scene from the yard. The following scene when he are welcomed in La Onda, replacing xxx is missing. That´s sad.The plot is good, but i prefer when Miklo is in prison. The cast is filled of high quality stars. The story cant be told too many times.  "},{"Title":"Epic Film Making!","Date":"18 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  What can I say that has not already been said.This is the best film  in it's Genre!!!  The epic story of three young vatos trying to make it in the mean streets of  East Los Angeles. In one life changing event they are sent on separate paths only to find in the end that it is all about famillia! If you want to know about latino gang life in and out of prison this is the film to watch! I highly recommend this film. "},{"Title":"AWESOME","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember being up 1 night at 2am and switching channels..when I first saw this movie. It kept my attention till like 5am! lol  A Very well made movie which didnt get the recognition it deserved. Baca's screenwriting was beautiful ( it was his 1st screenplay!) and Jesse B's portrayal of Cruz was Oscar worthy... A film which you can see several times and pick up new things each time. (ie Miklo's look when Montana boards the bus, Miklo and Magic's hands coming together at the end showing both 3 Puntos and Vatos Locos tattoos together, etc) and the tear jerkin scene at the end with Paco...  I can talk for hours on this film... but for now..and now for my brown bruthasss..Sorry no tortillaaas I'm about through waiting for my money punk! you shouldn't be in here babycakes In your dreams Pedrooo, IN yo dreams you want another placaso badazzz...?! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  It was really good to see a gritty coming of age movie.  I enjoyed watching this movie.  It showed a part of growing up in the inner city as a latino, which is a topic not written on as much these days in the movies.  I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes drama, action and a good cry.  "},{"Title":"This is the greatest gang-movie ever!!!!!","Date":"1 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  The story is well done and the cast did a great job making a creepy atmosphere troughout the entire movie..... one of the few 3-hour-movies that can keep you entertained for such a long time.Is there any other movie that comes close to this one? "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"23 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie, its in the top10 of my list, it made me the day after imitate their VL sign with my friends(we were 7) and have fun great movie tells the story and gets u addicted to the movie Greatest Gang Related Movie Ever "},{"Title":"this movie rocks!!","Date":"11 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This Movie is one of the best one i ever seen in my life....Benjamin Bratt is a good actor..the same with everyone in the movie...and whoever says it sucks they can go and suck an icecube!!!.This Movie has alot of good action for those who likes action movies ) . "},{"Title":"A sick Gangster movie","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This is one of those love or hate movies. If you want to be a tack you could point out the over-the-top-to-the-point-of-ridiculous speeches given by the three protagonist on what it means to be Latino, or a Vato Loco. However, relax, have a couple of drinks and your are in for one of the best gang/jail movies ever.   "}{"Title":"very good","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  i thought the storytelling was excellent.  there was plenty to like in this movie.  i forgot that Billy Bob Thornton was in it - Bratt, Chapa, Lindo, Cruz, Borrego, and Castillo were all servicable in their roles.  my biggest complaint was Victor Rivers, who played Magic Mike.  where was his accent? there's one scene in the movie that's so hilarious, they are having a discussion amongst the gang, most everyone is saying things like Horale ese, and Simon que si, and Rivers says in his Costneresque non-accented response - We're making a big mistake!.  all in all a very entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"The Creme of the Crop","Date":"26 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Blood in Blood out bound by honor, I saw this movie a long time ago, and not only is it Benjamin Bratt's acting that makes it great, but the plot.  This movie shows the love and loyalty that these three men have for each other.  They are not only in a Chicano gang, but there is a passion for their family that would last a lifetime. One man chose to lead his life to prison, the other in drugs, and one decided to enter the law, and became a cop.  This is and Epic story, and the great actors, make the movie EVEN better.  This is beyond my favorite movie.  "},{"Title":"Vatos Loco forever","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Not a word to much said!Seen this movie like 15 times, it's still the best I've seen. 3H of spectacular filming. One word outstanding! Best movie ever. Most people which have seen this film know it as the AKA Blood-in-Blood-out. But, this movie has not been seen by a lot of Dutch people. Those who have seen it, the have seen it time and time again.Sander ( hopes it will be on dvd, can't find it anywhere ) "},{"Title":"ThE BeSt MoViE eVeR!!!!","Date":"15 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I love this movie....I like the whole plot of this movie, and the way it develops. Who can imagine that 3 people who were so close and so alike end up living different from each other. This movie not only talks about Chicano gangs but life in prison and how it is dealing with drugs. It also teaches how one can fall apart with out the love and support from family. I know all the lines to this movie and never get tired of watching it. So to have all all that seen this movie know what I'm talking about... VaToS lOcOs FoReVeR!!! And if you haven't seen this movie-Rent it, and tell me if you like it!  "},{"Title":"Visceral","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I like the prison movie genre, but had never heard of this one until a few weeks ago. Wow. This movie is visceral, it delivers several emotional body blows. Yes, the acting may be a little over the top in places. Not to worry, this is one helluva movie.As has been pointed out there are some great lines in here. My personal favorite is the response of one of the Aryans, after being called 'Wonder Bread' Kiss my enriched white a%&, motherf$@ker!The screenwriter, Jimmy Santiago Baca, is known mostly for his poetry. If you liked the intense feel of the film, do yourself a favor and check out his other writing.  "},{"Title":"great epic","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  great movie... its like the godfather of the prison movies... twisted, smart and moving some great actors that have just now become famous giving great performances...its on cable at least 3 times a year, so try to catch it. "},{"Title":"Possibly one of the best movies to date","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most powerful movies I ever had the pleasure to lay my eyes on.  From start to finish it had my full attention.  The plot was captivating and the acting was great, a very rare combination. The story revolves around 3 people (2 brothers and a cousin)in East LA. All because of one event in their lives, they are torn apart and each person goes their own separate paths.  One becomes a police officer, one a convict, and the other becomes strung out on drugs.  Even though they split, and to some degree become enemies at times, the movie shows that sometimes the strongest bond is family. I don't want to say much more about the movie, but if you ever have around 3 hours free, this movie is definitely worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Personally, this is one of my favorite movies.  It's about three relatives who are in the gang life.  One gets sent to prison, one gets hooked on drugs and the other ends up being a police officer.  The police officer ends up in situations where he has to meet up with some of his old friends from the gang he was in.  The movie is pretty long but there's a lot to it.  If you haven't seen it you should check it out. "},{"Title":"Just plain bad.","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" When I started watching this movie, I thought I'd stumbled on some overlooked masterpiece. It seemed to have a really solid beginning. It started it's downhill spiral when the white Hispanic guy goes to prison. Did they use real inmates because it seems none of these guys can act! It was fun to see Billy Bob Thorton as Lightning, but his role is small. I was a good hour and a half into this movie and kept expecting it to wrap up. Finally I looked at the DVD box and thought, DAMN! This movies 3 hours long. As far as I was into it, I decided to ride it out. It never got any better. The dialog is just downright hokey in some spots. It seemed the leader of the Hispanic prison gang was reading his line off a cue card made up of block letters. The lead character wasn't too good an actor either. The detective in the movie, he was good. I've seen him in more recent work and he is a pretty good actor. This movie had the potential to be something really good. They just needed to give the actors a few more lessons, give the writers a little more time to ponder the dialog and maybe shave 30-45 minutes off the final cut. I read in the trivia it was originally 5 hours long. I never could've endured that. "},{"Title":"vatos locos forever","Date":"25 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" i think i have seen this movie about ten times now )it's just great, not because it's a good movie, but because of the cool Mexican lines that stick in your mind,and the over-the-top acting of the lead actors. Also, the story is quite entertaining even if it is overdone. Finally, if you like gang movies and prison movies, you should definitely see this one because it's a mix of the two...I would recommend watching this one with a group of friends, no doubt you'll be referring to each other with vato loco,homes, or essay for the next few weeks... "}{"Title":"RIVETING","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  A dynamic and powerful film that will make you laugh, cry and scream; if you let it.  Blood in BLood out follows the lives of three young boys who are binded by blood.  Growing up together in the barrio of LA seems lightly breezy and carefree unitl one day all three of their lives are devastated. Each of them end up in their own predicament and searching for answers, and a feeling of accpetance.  Together or not, without hope and little faith, still, the same blood runs through them all. "},{"Title":"Powerful","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film was on very early in the morning here. I am so lucky that I hit the record button, because this is a movie not to be missed!Brilliant acting, powerful, insightful, and entertaining.A lot of violence, but not excessive - more a portrayal of reality in the prison wars of the early 80's in the USA.Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"Revolution","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bound by Honor Blood In Blood Out shows an epic tale of character destiny.  A storyline that converts characters and shows change as time proceeds.  It triggers the question of honoring the family and who to call family (in this case, familia).  Viewer takes a step in the lives of the three friends, Paco (Benjamin Bratt), Cruz (Jesse Borrego), and Miklo (Damian Chapa).  The actors play their rolls to a tee, showing examples of if my character were in this situation, what would he do.  Paco is the hard-worker in all aspects - to be the big dog for either good or bad.  Miklo looks up to Paco and strives to be that big dog, also in all aspects, however, he grasps a hold on his destiny.  And Cruz is the artist and medium of the two - with the word artist used in its generalization of being liberated, depressed, and isolated.  The storyline begins with them together, then follows them unto their own paths, to only conclude with a means of reconciliation. Taylor Hackford uses the simplicity of shots to carry out this story.  He uses quick shot sequences presenting montages of what the viewer needs to know.  Also, usage of close-ups involving emotional eyes, as seen in his prior film, An Officer and a Gentleman.  A very good storyline to exemplify character revolution.  Bound by Honor takes the viewer within a world less known.   "},{"Title":"Love a good movie.","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was one of the best I have seen in a long time. I love movies of all kinds and subjects. A movie must really speak to me for me to really LOVE it. This movie has so much passion and intrigue. I started watching this movie about 1ooAM and I could NOT stop. I really needed to get sleep but I could not turn it off. If you see this movie really let yourself get into it. Feel every part. Let yourself go and you will feel like a part of the people in it. I laughed and cried and so badly wished for it to come on again to watch. I do believe I will purchase this film on video !!Thanks, Kathy "},{"Title":"BEST MOVIE EVER MADE.  EXCELLENT STORY, GREAT CAST.  CHECK OUT THE SPANISH VERSION, ALSO. SANGRE POR SANGRE..","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is best movie ever made.  Anyone who thinks that it is not is stupid and incapable of comprehension of anything more complex than Sesame Street. I highly recommend this movie to anyone, except those previously mentioned types of people.  I also recommend watching it in Spanish, also.  If you speak ore are learning it, that is.  The Spanish version is called `Sangre por Sangre.' "},{"Title":"A powerful story of brothers trapped in the Los Angeles gang scene.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I encountered this movie on late-night cable one evening, and was completely blown away.  The character development in the film is refreshingly full, and the acting in the movie is outstanding, from both lead characters and supporting cast.The one possible downside to this movie is it's long length (3 hours) however the movie is so full, that there are no real lulls in the story.Use the washroom before it starts, make a little extra popcorn, and bring an extra coke or beer, since once this movie starts, you're liable to be hooked. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST PRISON / GANG MOVIES OF ALL TIME---Buy It!!!","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have watched this movie from front to back over 20 times, and several of the clips at least 50 times.  The story, plot, and acting is very powerful and interesting.It shows how Cruz, Paco, and Miklo started off as one, then drifted off into thier own set of personal problems, but always intertwinded with each other.  The gangs in the prison San Quentin were very well acted out.  The BGA (Black Guerilla Army), the AV'ers (Aryan Vanguard), and La Onda were acted out very well.  It shows how miserable prison life can really be if you don't belong to the RIGHT group.The characters were great  Big Al, Red Ryder, Pockets, Bonafide, Wallace, Montana, Magic, Miklo, Chuey, Cruz, Juanito, Popeye, Carlos, and the rest.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone.  And it is not a cheap rip off from American Me.  American Me is much more serious and can get you quite sad.  This movie is more entertaining, but I'm not knocking American Me. One thing about this movie, Is Miklo a virgin in this movie?  He went into jail at age 18, then was only out for a bit till he went back in.  There were no scences with him with any women.  I found that interesting.  I give it 9 1/2 out of 10.  Simply because no movie is a perfect 10. "},{"Title":"A great movie, much better than expected","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I originally saw the previews for this movie and though it would be worth the rental at the most. Well I was pleasantly surprised to watch what was a very well written and acted movie. It was well worth much more than a rental fee. "},{"Title":"A true movie that displays honor in relationship to the streets.","Date":"12 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This  was a good movie. It had the true life telling of Boys In The Hood, while showing a bit more sense of honor, pride, and bravery relating to the street that you usually can't find in movies.The acting was a bit overdone, but it doesn't take away from the film. "},{"Title":"Laughable.","Date":"23 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Dear fellow movie watchers, In the writing of this review I got a bit carried away, going over the 1000 words limit. Because my words contain the truth, I dared not delete any, and instead decided to host it elsewhere.Namely, here http//the-written-truth.blogspot.com/I urge all those who are about to watch this movie with high expectations to read it, before they too plunge themselves in the dark depths I had to suffer.This also gives those who don't like reading, or perhaps don't like to see their poor taste in movies challenged a chance to skip this review. This review of truth.-Cheers "}{"Title":"Best movie ever (imho)","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't like catchy summary lines, but I used one here. I just love this movie. There are many movies that I like and love, but if someone asked me about my favorite movie of all time, than I always say it is Blood in Blood out.And that kind of sounds awkward, if the other person doesn't know the movie. It sounds like a horror movie or something. But then again I can't think of another/better title to this film (apart from Bound by honor under which it is also known). It's a movie about life.What makes it so great for me? Although I heard from some people that they don't like the acting, and maybe in some parts that's true (after all there's no one like Al Pacino or *add a favorite actor name here*). But it's more than appropriate for this movie and it's not distracting at all. In fact I was hooked by the movie from beginning to end.The story that is told here needs the film to be long and not one minute of it seems boring. The characters grab you from the very start and you feel with them the whole movie. Everything that happens to them, you are there to witness it and feel with/for them. That makes a good drama.I love every aspect of the movie. The only thing that I could complain about is, then whenever this movie is on somewhere (on TV) and I see it, I can't switch the TV off or change the channel. I have to watch that movie and take the emotional ride once again. o) "},{"Title":"Father & Prison","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I haven't seen this movie in years. I was visiting my father in a prison down south and I was asking him how dangerous it was and he started to explain. I asked I don't know if you've ever seen this movie but is it like Blood in Blood out..? He said You mean BOUND BY H0NOR...yes it is exactly like that. You have to create a life here, which means gaining honor and respect. It takes time I mean look at me I've been in here for almost ten years. This movie has the best perspective of what men experience inside those lonely walls. I miss my father so much, and understand the pain he is experiencing in his life right now. "},{"Title":"View or be lame...","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is perhaps one of the best gangster movies I have seen.It is very real, and leaves one with a deeper understanding of the tough choices some are forced to make.The issue of identity is prevalent throughout the film. Can one go from being a gang member to being a cop without selling out.? If one's father is white, and one looks like him, can one ever truly be accepted in the culture of one's mother?There are scenes in the movie that just tear at one's heart. So, yes, I did cry. And I am willing to admit that.See this film. Or you're lame. "},{"Title":"The best movie ever","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Seriously, this movie is excellent and it really shows how gang wars and prison life is. I enjoyed the whole thing from the setup on Spider to the Montana transfer scene. This movie had a lot of emotion in it and touching scenes. "},{"Title":"A brilliant film","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  One of the best movies I have ever seen. The concept of finding ones family, ones place in life, is what this movie is all about. Miklo's struggle to be accepted as a Latino, can only be achieved in prison. This is a very complete movie, and the ending at first seems confusing. To me, the ending is near perfect. Damian Chapa deserves more praise for his role, simply brilliant, Oscar worthy.  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly GOOD!!! could of been better if it has Popular Actors.","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Bound by Honor also known as Blood in Blood out is a Half Prison movie and half Action. It tells the story of 3 Close Friends and cousin. It starts of with street gang fights among the Puerta Ricans. After a Bad Incident that takes place, the three of them go their separate ways. Jesse borrego gets Badly injured and becomes a drug addict. Damien Chapa gets caught by the police and ends up in prison. Benjamin Bratt who was once a street thug becomes a Honest police officer. Out of the three, Damien's story is the best. He starts of as a weak character in prison, who almost gets raped and slowly works his way up. After a couple of years, the story moves on to the connection between Benjamin and Damien. The movie has a clever ending, I'm sure I have seen a similar type ending in another movie, cant remember which. Although it is a 3 hour movie, it does entertain. The acting is efficient from the cast. If this had a better and popular starcast, it probably would of been among the Best Movies. Al Pacino or Robert De Niro would of suited in Benjamins role. Keauna Reeves maybe would of suited in Damiens role. Jesse does not have a main role. Overall, I recommend this movie, a good time pass. "},{"Title":"Damian Chapa should have got an Oscar","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Damian Chapa should have got an Oscar for playing miklo. It is one of the most brilliant subtle and then becoming intense roles I can imagine an actor could have. It is really hard to understand why Damian Chapa is not a big actor.Well I think it would be great if the movie was re-released in theatres it would probably make millions.it is a great film one of the best in many years.must see.If you can you should not that this was Damian Chapa's first movie, and he and Benjamin Brat where really great at performing together, in their roles.Jesse borrego good also.if you love intense films you will double love this one.see it!!! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Blood In, Blood Out, Bound by Honor (1993) is nothing more than a biggest budgeted cheese fest This movie is a cult classic because of the bad acting, goofy writing and several big stars in small roles hamming up every scene they're in. What made American Me brilliant is missing in this epic. The direction is pedestrian, the camera work isn't that great and the editing leads a lot to be desired. The actors act in two modes in this one, over or under acting. Sappy and cheesy at the same time isn't very good. When it tries to be melodramatic it seems phony and forced. When the film tries to become serious it's laughable. People want to complain about the lead actor Damian Chapa, he's actually quite good in his role compared to the rest of the cast. At least he shows true emotions. Benjamin Bratt looks like he's either going to laugh over his bad lines or forces himself to look determined in others. Tom Towles is his usual over the top self. I wish he had a cigar to chomp on and a big mustache he could twirl.Most of the blame can be put on the director. Some of it could be put on the script and the rest on the supporting cast. The film was delayed because they didn't want any violence in the theaters. Maybe it was released too soon after American Me was finished making it's rounds at the box office. This movie never became a real hit and faded away into obscurity. After editing and re-editing, the finish result is a three hour violent soap opera. Like I said before, it's highly entertaining for all the wrong reasons. Fun stuff, makes a great party tape.Recommended.P.S. The best version out is the 190 minute version. Not only does it expand several scenes but extra violence is added making the movie actually better. But since I'm reviewing the theatrical version. You take what you can get.Full uncut version A+Cut version A "},{"Title":"Why wasn't sequel made?","Date":"8 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think this movie should belong to the list of films that ended with a few not being resolved, thus laying the ground work for a possible sequel. I mean movies like Hang em High which ended with things not being fully resolved--there were still two members of the lynch mob who were not brought in when the movie ended. I assume they were going to make another movie to explain this. Or how about movies like Doc Savage and the last Andy Hardy movie ended with one of those to be continued things or watch out for the next movie. And for some reason there never was one. This movie did not end with one of those things, but there were hints like Michlo swearing revenge against Paco for shooting him thus causing him to loose his leg. I don't know if anyone feels that way but I think they should not do this so much, unless they are sure that they are going to make a sequel. "},{"Title":"Too long and a bad lead actor","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Amigos, if you don't want to sit for three hours & more, well, then I don't recommend this movie. It's overly OVERLY long, the lead actor (Damian Chapa) is a mockery to bad acting and overacting even more so, y si sabes un poco castellano you will know and laugh at many scenes where they try to capture the essence of being Spanish. Also, words like familia, carnal and vatos locos are spoken so many times I started thinking somebody misunderstood the word filler. It's not a bad movie, and Benjamin Bratt almost makes up for his movie brother's poor acting abilities, but the movie just runs for too long without a really satisfying ending. Chapa kind of picks up on his character as the movie goes by (well, he damn sure had more than enough time to redeem himself in this one-oh well) and it is a movie one does not forget that easily, but in the end it wasn't executed in the best possible way and came off as just too much a B-class wannabe smart movie. Worth the watch if you get a kick out of watching really bad acting or if you enjoy crime/gang/prison movies.6/10 "}{"Title":"Rip off of American Me","Date":"13 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This tale of Mexican gangsters seems to be totally ripped off of the film American Me, which was released one year earlier, a lot of the social comments are addressed in American Me and this movie just expands on the plot. Anyone who has seen American Me will realize that this is just an inferior effort with a bit more padding although the plot remains the same. "},{"Title":"An entertaining flick but pretty cheesy","Date":"21 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film and American Me have alot of the same factors, but conflicting info. I think this director has seen one to many movies. I mean, when have you heard of the BGA? I think it's actually the BGF. Also, it's not Aryan Vanguard, it's Aryan Brotherhood. It is also funny to note that there are 4 or 5 photos on the back of the video box, at least 2 of which (the one with Benjamin Bratt and the chick, and the family photo) that never appear in the movie. Plus that dude from Fame the TV series (Jesse Borregas)is a pretty lousy portrayal of a junkie. I don't know, this is a cool movie as far as the prison scenes, but at 3 hours, settle in. You can get this for a couple of bucks on ebay. It's worth checking out once. Notable performances by Ving Rhames and Billy Bob Thorton, who is lucky enough to bed down with Angelina Jolie, mm-hmmm. I saw the bald dude who plays the head Aryan on an episode of Night Stand. Too funny. BTW, if any cons are reading this, and I am wrong about the factions in Q, please correct me. "},{"Title":"I don't want his pork chop, I want his life!","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" I realize that there are number of people who actually enjoyed this movie and in the right hands it could have been a powerful film but poor direction, over-the-top performances and some absolutely dreadful dialog make it almost impossible to take seriously.Hands down the weakest link in this film is Damian Chapa. Don't get me wrong, Chapa has proved to be a fine actor over the years but his performance in this film is almost comical His eyes flare, he pounds his chest, he over emotes. Chapa presents MiKlo as a caricature.This film is also a good 45 minutes too long and the needless director's cut drags things out even more.Worth checking out if you're a bad film buff, all others stay away. "},{"Title":"typical Hollywood garbage","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"11 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't know where the previous review of this abomination came from, but any sensible person will see this film as a pathetic attempt to honor some stereotypical Latin brotherhood ethic. It even panders to the point of including prolonged prison scenes where a bunch of Latino actors get to wear shirts buttoned to the top, flash a lot of gang signs, and call each other ese and homes way too often. The film's design is laughable (the film is supposed to take place from 1973-1984, but all the hairstyles and clothes look early '90's). Worst of all, this turkey honors the age-old insult of having a Caucasian actor (the blank-staring blond robot playing Miklo) as the central character in what is, ostensibly, a Hispanic story. What a joke...I'm just glad I caught this on premium cable and didn't fork over four bucks to rent it.  "},{"Title":"A three hour cult classic.  A great film for all the wrong reasons.","Date":"22 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Blood In, Blood Out, Bound by Honor (1993) is nothing more than a biggest budgeted cheese fest This movie is a cult classic because of the bad acting, goofy writing and several big stars in small roles hamming up every scene they're in. What made American Me brilliant is missing in this epic. The direction is pedestrian, the camera work isn't that great and the editing leads a lot to be desired. The actors act in two modes in this one, over or under acting. Sappy and cheesy at the same time isn't very good. When it tries to be melodramatic it seems phony and forced. When the film tries to become serious it's laughable. People want to complain about the lead actor Damian Chapa, he's actually quite good in his role compared to the rest of the cast. At least he shows true emotions. Benjamin Bratt looks like he's either going to laugh over his bad lines or forces himself to look determined in others. Tom Towles is his usual over the top self. I wish he had a cigar to chomp on and a big mustache he could twirl.Most of the blame can be put on the director. Some of it could be put on the script and the rest on the supporting cast. The film was delayed because they didn't want any violence in the theaters. Maybe it was released too soon after American Me was finished making it's rounds at the box office. This movie never became a real hit and faded away into obscurity. After editing and re-editing, the finish result is a three hour violent soap opera. Like I said before, it's highly entertaining for all the wrong reasons. Fun stuff, makes a great party tape.Recommended.P.S. The best version out is the 190 minute version. Not only does it expand several scenes but extra violence is added making the movie actually better. But since I'm reviewing the theatrical version. You take what you can get.DVD version B+VHS/Cable cut C "},{"Title":"It´s not my world","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I expected more when I bought this movie on DVD but my imaginations were not at all fulfilled. I thought this could be again a good Taylor Hackford thriller but it didn´t work. Okay the story got more and more dramatic and exciting but there is no substance, it´s too long and we hear always the same cool dialogue about their gang. Perhaps this film could be an example for schools with high violence rate. Director Hackford is far away from his masterpieces like DOLORES CLAIBORNE, THE DEVIL´S ADVOCATE or PROOF OF LIFE. No, there is really nothing to miss and I think it is too overrated. But I have to admit that the performance from all the guys were strong. If you want to see a better film in this genre don´t miss 187 with Samuel L. Jackson. For all these reasons I gave 4/10. "},{"Title":"Poor acting ruins the movie","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"10 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Immediately, the movie drove me nuts with poor acting. I tried my hardest to ignore this and actually started to get into the movie. However, there was a point in the movie when the white guy just completely ruined it with his persistent wannabe Mexican attitude / accent. I tried very hard to look past this, but the other actors were just as bad and got my mind diverted from what was really going on. I really think the story has potential, but it was poorly acted / directed. It has been rated rather high here so I say give it a watch to see if you agree / disagree with my comments. I think its pretty obvious that the acting is so poor that its hard to really give credit to this movie. Perhaps this opinion may be a bit shallow but sometimes it's hard to get by. "},{"Title":"Bound by Horror","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  I only watched this movie yesterday and I can say that it was rather too long. Scenes dragged on and what could have been said or shown in five minutes lasted for twenty.The beginning of the film was slow and I was waiting for something to happen and then when it finally does you're already worn out from watching.It did have some good scenes, worth watching, and the realisation that such gangs and death actually exist really gets you thinking. It is a lesson in itself and shows you what can happen if you get caught up in gangs.But it was too long and I have to say I was relieved when it ended. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This might be one of the most unintentionally funny movies in the history of film.  Cheesy prison gang wars coupled with the greatest line of dialogue I've ever heard I don't want his pork chop.  I want his life! makes Bound by Honor a perfect film to watch with your buddies and a modest quantity of beer.  Should be filed under 'R' for Ridiculous. "},{"Title":"Overblown hokum. A cliché-fest of silly and dangerous sociological pretension, conceit, and b.s.","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie doesn't wear well. While the themes and perhaps the intentions of Bound by Honor might have merit in other hands, Bound by Honor as a movie itself is so clichéd and sophomoric it becomes laughable when it's not being annoying. Its situations are formulaic, its white villains cartoonishly drawn, its nobility of the barrio/ghetto contrived and over-simplified. It actually paints a picture of the Hispanic ghetto life it that is far more derogatory of such ethnicities than typical Hollywood fare. The protagonists come off as weak-willed, mewling complainers prone only to every media-themed addiction, self-destructive behavior, and victim-label that modern sociology can bestow. It is, in fact, pure sociological pretension and conceit.Bound by Honor is hokum and silly stereotyping passing for socially aware and brave drama. It is an ill-conceived and dangerous disservice to the very people it ostensibly aims to empower. A very crass but accurate descriptor of this mess of a movie is bulls*** "}{"Title":"whatever... this movie sucks","Date":"8 June 1999","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off, does anyone really believe that Milko is in any way Hispanic? I mean, c'mon. His eyes make Sinatra's look like mud.Could the overacting be any worse? And the way the onda members are always screaming at each other, making a big show...And for God's sake... how many prisoners die in this movie? And most of the deaths take place within the space of a year or so... I think that the deaths of several dozen prisoners in a few California prisons would do more than just raise eyebrows.The only thing I really liked about this movie is near the end. That was cool.Oh, and what was with the cast? Ving Rhames? Billy Bob Thorton? Bejamin Bratt? Even that guy who played Biff in Back to the Future... all these people have seen better days.If you want to see prison drama with some substance and sense to it, I recommend OZ on HBO, The Shawsank Redemption, or Escape From Alcatraz... this movie, on the other hand... sucked. "},{"Title":"Should have been called crap in, crap out","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"5 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is so bad, I feel that I have a duty to warn all who may watch this monstrosity that you should save your time for something more productive.  Such as sleep.  I believe the people who conceived this movie probably had good intententions however whoever the people responsible for creating it allowed it to turn into a load of schlock and exploitation crap. Which wouldn't be so bad if the acting and dialog were not so awful. Please, this movie is 3hours plus. And you will never have those three hours back again. "},{"Title":"An absolute crop of crap","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"7 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  Probably the worst movie I have ever seen. Over-done acting and extremely over-exaggerated acting makes this 'film', if you can call it that, unbearable to watch. I can't believe that Delroy Lindo and Billy Bob Thornton lowered their standards and acted in this joke of a film. Not even worth five minutes of your time. 0/10 "},{"Title":"HEY BIT*H, GIMME SOME CHO-CHO..... uuuukkkhh","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the worst movie you will ever see in your entire life. I had previously reserved this honor for flicks like Commando, and Cobra, but this takes the cake, by far. The fact that this movie got so many complements boggles the mind, to say the very least, and strikes fear into my heart concerning the state of mankind! And this is exactly why i'm going to purchase it on dvd. Confused? Don't be. I collect tons of movies (and this one being the worst movie on earth deserves a place in my pile of movies - somewhere near the top, so that everytime someone i can't stand or someone who i think needs to be punished for whatever reason, wants to borrow a movie - guess which one I'll highly recommend!)ISSUES WITH THIS MOVIE1. The worst dialougue I've ever heard- So incredibly cheesy that it's hard to describe. Examples I don't want his pork chop, i want his LIFE!!!...  or, when one of the inmates (aptly named Popeye) is speaking to some transvestittes, Hey Cinderella, get yourself a fella!. Come on people... even some of guv'nr Arnie's legendary lines can't match these.2. It's supposed to be shot in the 70's, but has tons of delightful, rediculously bad early late 80's-early  90's hairdo's and music.3. The use of the word ese and homes/homie. They're repeated atleast one hundred billion times during the course of this terribly long monstrosity.4. IT'S SOMETHING LIKE 3 FREAKIN' HOURS LONG!!! I could have mowed my lawn, given the dog a bath, and played fifteen games of pool.5. Did I MENTION that it was cheesy??? I mean come on! the BLACK GUIRILLA ARMY! hahahaha...  and the casting choice to cast a white lad as the star of this Hispanic movie..HOWEVER.........Strange as this sound, if you're young and have tons of time to kill, I suggest you watch this movie. After all, the loss of a FEW brain cells can't be that bad... Just like commando, this movie is pathetic, but it will make you laugh. To put it in another way - it's not bad like Gigli, but Rambo 2 bad.... pathetic, but widly entertaining (forgive the lack of elaboration). Not to stereotype, but it's the kind of movie that delivers a few laughs around a few guys and a two-four of beer. BUT... for viewers seriously considering renting this for a more conventional meaningful/ intelligent/enjoyable movie, AVOID IT LIKE THE PLAGUE!!!!  "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the worst three hours of my life.","Date":"21 May 2004","Score":"10 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":"  To put it simply, this film was HORRIFICLY bad.For a start it was too long, not that i have a problem with lengthy films, but this one had nowhere near enough meat to fill one hour, let alone three.Secondly, the whole film was one GIANT cliché. From the ' Homies from a rough part of town learning the meaning of unity and family' plot, to the godawfull dialog. Too much we gotta stick together, homes!, i'll never forgive you, you killed my brother!, and ITS NOT THE COLOR OF YOUR SKIN, IT'S WHAT'S INSIDE THAT COUNTS!!! for my liking,thankyouverymuch.The Cliché alarm was going nuts on this one, i tell you.Thirdly, it was all so sickeningly heartwarming, or at least it tried to be. Yes i understand the value of true friendship, and the pain of loss, and no, I don't need to be told again.Oh no... Apparently we need another BUT I LOVE YOU BROTHER!!! scene.Fourth, DID I MENTION IT WAS THREE HOURS LONG?!?!?!?!?! oh yeah, sorry.I'm sure that everyone in england (sorry rest of the world) will understand me when i sayBasically, this film is nothing more than a latino homeboy version of the One woman's struggle films that BBC2 puts out at midnight EVERY FREAKIN NIGHT.It is that bad, believe me, it will save you three hours watching time, plus the inevitable two days of I can't believe I actually sat all the way through that film that will follow.My intelligence feels raped.  "},{"Title":"Stop the genocide!","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"5 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama","Review":" Damian Chapa (Miklo) the protagonist in Blood In, Blood Out (Bound by Honor) has natural blonde hair, blue eyes, and pale white skin, the characteristics of a European Aryan (imagine that! playing as a Chicano. In the film; Miklo's father was a White man who married a Mexican woman and gave birth to to Miklo but was racist against Mexicans? This movie is genocide, it is suicide, it is destroying our youth and crippling our communities. To some degree it glorifies the Gang culture, it promotes violence and encourages children to become gang members and end up in prison. Boycott this racist filth along with that half-hater, white man's lap-dog, murderer, sell-out Edward Olmos James and his racist movie American Me Put a stop to our genocide! "}]