[{"Title":"Couldn't he have started sawing with the head?","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"70 out of 85 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  SpoilersJulian Sands plays a contemptible wuss who furtively lusts after an impossible jerk of a woman.  One day a happy accident knocks her out and the Sand's character gets to chop off her legs and keep her imprisoned in his mansion.  Then there is a long long stretch of undrama as Sand's finishes boxing Helena - cuts her off the from the world and gradually snips away at her body till she is just a trunk and a head to be propped up and tended to. Then Helena's crazy boyfriend storms the gates and doesn't want her.Just writing that down I can't help thinking that it's a funny idea.  Maybe I'm warped, but the concept of an old-fashioned guy slowly giving in to his urge to objectify a woman he can never have (so that he actually turns her into something like a gory, statue bust of herself) seems like it'd be hilarious to watch.  It's masterfully done in Bunuel's That Obscure Object of Desire.  Boxing Helena tries to hit the same notes about how the will to control, destroy, degrade, and infantalize are all the logical extremes of some notions of `love.'  It fails because the characters are poorly written.The plot demands that the characters be unlikable.  Chopping up a likeable `heroine' to make a point about obsessive control just doesn't work outside of a light slasher flick.  The guy doing the chopping can't be all that saintly either, cuz he's giving into some pretty awful urges.  But in order for the plot to work, you have to at least see why the Helena character might spark an obsession and the chopper must be at least slightly sympathetic.  Otherwise it's just an obsessed crazy guy chopping up a jerk. Boxing Helena is an obsessed crazy guy chopping up a jerk.The Sands character is loathsomely spineless.  He's a creepy, simpering bore.  Helena is a demented moron who wants to use people, but is too stupid to get more out of her looks than a thuggish oaf boyfriend.  Watching them interact was torture.Ending on a `it was just a dream' note is just plain baffling.  It implies that Sand's character is a whining, sniveling waste even IN HIS DREAMS! There's black humor and then there's `I just wasted two hours of your time watching a worthless character wish for something pathetic, badly.'Final note the symbolism was about as subtle as a brick in the head - over and over. "},{"Title":"weird","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"37 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is a bizarre film experience. It's well stated that this is directed by David Lynch's daughter so we should expect something different. I did..just not THIS different. The concept of a man having such an obsession with a woman that he would go to the extremes of kidnapping her and cutting off her limbs so she can't leave is kinda not for most tastes. Yet I have an odd fascination with it. It's just so weird to describe. The idea is just sick,but the film has you wondering what other lengths Julien Sands might stoop to. Obviously,Sherilyn Fenn's character is not gonna elicit much sympathy with such a strikingly bitchy personality..but really no one deserves what she got. Bill Paxton also has a peculiar role in this film as the only hope for saving Fenn. There's a bizarre scene where Sands makes Fenn watch him making love to another woman. This film is just too wildly bizarre for most people..I'm not exactly the best to trust in so you must see for yourself.. **/***** "},{"Title":"Some vodka, lime juice, and two large pomegranates.","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I vaguely recall some controversy in 1993 when Boxing Helena was released, didn't see it then, but always had in the back of my mind to rent the video some day. After seeing Sherilyn Fenn in Just Write recently, it re-kindled my interest in Helena. This movie was written and directed by David Lynch's daughter, only 24, so considering all that, I suppose it isn't such a bad film. But not real good either, just interesting.some SPOILERS - Fenn plays a beautiful bad girl bitch, and a young surgeon with whom she had a brief affair is obsessed with her. She doesn't want anything more to do with him, but his attraction is so obsessive he won't take no for an answer. He even climbs a tree at her house and watches her with her lover, played by Bill Paxton before he became a star two years later in Apollo 13.  Lured to her house to retrieve her address book left there at a party, she is running away and gets hit by a pickup. The rest of the film we see his obsession carried out, imprisoning her, amputating first her damaged legs, then her arms, all the while obsessing over her while he quit his job at the hospital.However, as we find out at the very end, everything after the truck hit her was a dream of his.  He had actually called an ambulance, she had undergone surgery, he had been sleeping down the hall, he hears a voice, Doctor, are you back with us. We learn nothing more about what happens to him or to her. All of which makes the film kind of fall flat like a punctured souffle'.  When you then think back on what you saw, and realize it was all a dream arising from his obsession with her, you think, So what?  I didn't expect Boxing Helena to be a very good movie, still, I was expecting something more.It is noteworthy that this first movie of Lynch's daughter is, thus far, also her last.  "},{"Title":"Boxed in by mother -love","Date":"2 August 2004","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Like all Lynch films (and daughter follows father's technique totally) this one requires multiples viewings (at least two). Surprisingly, none of the commentators seem to have gotten the gist of it, although this is not too difficult to grasp, given that the symbolism, while occasionally complex, is not that obscure. A couple of brief tips should help. Venus= Marion (for the obtuse this is only apparent at the very end), and Helena= Venus. The three scenes in which Marion appears (two of them nude or semi-nude) are a give away, as is Helena's reference to Nick as a little boy (confirmed by his behavior). The only mystery in this absorbing study of incestuous obsession is whether Nick and Marion actually did the deed. And the answer comes in the latter part of the dream (when Helena teaches Nick, on whom she have finally taken pity, how a woman ought to be properly loved). Nick's real life love interests are a disarticulation of Marion, with Anne representing her loving side (and very similar in physical appearance) while Helena (wonderfully played by Sherilyn Fenn) is the bitchy slutty yet ultimately redeeming side. The storyline recounts how Nick copes with the loss of Marion after her death (not very well), but there is no resolution of the problem. Once you've gotten the basics though, it's fascinating to see how elegantly and delicately this psycho-deviation is treated. Nothing is superfluous, and everything fits. Even the dream, which is part fantasy, part reality, part prophecy. The film is not a masterpiece, but it is very well done. See it again with the correct perspective.  "},{"Title":"Once again, I'm one of the few...","Date":"13 March 2003","Score":"27 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Serendipity allowed me to just see 'Boxing Helena' for the first time   tonight, ten years after its release. I found it amongst my wife's old   tapes; she said that it was stupid and suggested that I record over it.   That was enough to prompt a viewing first.    I just wanted those few of you writing positive reviews to know that   you are not the only ones who... liked it? Enjoyed it? Found it   interesting? None of these phrases seems to capture my appreciation for   the film.    The overwhelming numbers of negative reviews do not intimidate me. I'm   not afraid to be the only one who likes something While I was   listening to the likes of Television, The Ramones and Iggy Pop back in   the day, everybody else my age was into metal, disco or 'classic rock.'   I was so out of touch!    - Madonna and Kim Basinger saw the script and bailed. Kim even   sacrificed $8M and crippled her career rather than appear in such a   turkey. - Director Jennifer Lynch was doing a poor imitation of her   father, the great David. - The imagery was sledgehammer obvious,   'Hmm...I wonder if Little Boy will grow up resenting his parents?' -   The ending sucked.    I don't know why Kim and Madonna bailed and I don't care. James Caan   bailed on several successful movies including Kramer vs. Kramer.   Attractive as they are, they could only wish to be able to do what   Sherilyn Fenn did with the part. The combination of fierce   independence, courage, bluntness and irresistibility of Helena was   Fenn's alone to depict.    'Boxing Helena' is certainly not for everyone. I think that anyone who   suspects that a friend is going off of the deep end over a romance   should arrange a viewing. My take is that the plot line portrays an   obsession taken to its logical conclusion.    The childhood flashbacks, the piteous groveling by the perpetrator and   the mercilessly accurate assessments by the captive demonstrate the   true nature of obsession It has very little to do with love or even   the desire's object. It is about an unhealthy perspective of self and   world.    I don't give a damn about whether a film is 'derivative' or   'predictable;' is it watchable? Sex or good food is predictable too,   what's your point? I don't know if Jennifer Lynch was imitating her   father. I think that those who compared the two were prejudicing   themselves.    Some of you liked most of the film except the ending, but I did. I   think that having lived an obsession in the safety of a dream, Nick got   a second chance to 'wake-up' and back away. Otherwise it would have   been just an elaborate slasher flick, which is all some shallow   reviewers got out of it. Most movies could have been done better. This   one gets the point across nicely. I think that some of the people who   hated it found that the premise hit too close to home.    Those who can't do, teach. Those who can't do either criticize. "},{"Title":"With a bigger budget and some directorial finesse, Boxing Helena might've been a contender...","Date":"7 May 2002","Score":"24 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Poorly-made, scrappy and off-putting erotic drama executed without the courage of its own idea. Lurid story concerns an obsessed surgeon's relationship with an indifferent vixen. Amusing in parts, the film occasionally goes out on the proverbial limb, but it's also messy and unfocused. Perhaps the behind-the-scenes troubles with original star Kim Basinger got in director Jennifer Lynch's way. In any event, Lynch hasn't been given the chance to purge this demon from her resume...one look at it and you'll know why. It's a curious mix of sex, fantasy and horror, but so perplexing and muddled, the provocative angle of the whole scenario gets lost. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Too out there for most but a select few will love this film","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"36 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This film takes a screenplay that pushes the boundaries of the status quo and lets it run wild. Surrealistic, erotic, and darkly disturbing this film goes places most people won't admit they've been. For those few that are comfortable with who they are it presents an entertaining journey thru the extreme reaches of human eroticism. Suspense driven it takes the rider thru dreams and reality never quite allowing you to tell which is which until the very end. If you only enjoy movies with well defined good and evil you might find this an uncomfortable journey but for the adventurous soul rest assured, it is a journey worth taking.  "},{"Title":"Misunderstood","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  ''such a nice fantasy'' ?????To me the whole point of this film was to wrap you up in what is an extremely sick and obsessive male fantasy, make you almost believe it is OK, and then at the end you look at what you have accepted and realise it for what it is.Boxing Helena is not comfortable watching, but I think a brilliant and involved portrayal of how people(men generally) justify and accept the most controlling acts and confuse them with love.  "},{"Title":"It took a long time for the profundity of the movie to sink in.","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  After first viewing this film, I was more than a little disappointed.  Then the deep and profound nature of the film began to sink in more deeply. Whatever was really meant by the film's makers, I took it to be a great statement of the frustration men and women feel toward relations in today's society.  The depth of feeling, as well as the on the edge of your seat scenes really are great.  Maybe being male I am already emotionally retarded, so the absorption time for the movie's really great statements were meant to be.  Either way, this movie is definitely worth every thinking person's time. "},{"Title":"Great concept ruined by pure incompetence","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"39 out of 70 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  One of the most intriguing concepts imaginable is brutally mangled by Jennifer Chambers Lynch's highly incompetent and infuriatingly redundant direction and appalling writing, which (combined with Greame Revell's score) makes &#145;Boxing Helena' seem like a particularly ham-fisted episode of &#145;The Red Shoe Diaries'.Doctor Nick Cavanaugh lacks any kind of character definition or motivation and the titular Helena is portrayed an insufferable hag, incapable of inducing even the slightest bit of empathy in the viewer. In fact, my apathy was almost palpable all through the maddeningly predictable plot, a feeling confirmed by the even more maddening cop-out ending.I love David Lynch to death, but the spawn of his loins apparently didn't inherit a smidgen of his talent. "}{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I don't understand why people don't appreciate this movie.  You have to realize that the beginning of the movie establishes how obsessed the main character is with Helena.  She reminds him of his mother.  Then he does not just have a dream about what happens like some people suggest.  He is taking medication and drinks it down with a glass of wine.  It is suggested that if he does not take the meds strange things happen to his mind.  The hallucination helps him to realize how he needed to stay away from Helena before his obsession made something bad happen.  It is established in the movie that he has some serious psychological problems to deal with because of his mother.  I also find it amazing how they managed to turn the tables and have Helena realize that no one would ever love her the way he does. The seen where Bill Paxton comes in and is repulsed and Helena begs him to leave is amazingly powerful.  I loved Julian Sands and Sherilyn Fenn. They were both perfect.  He was pitiful and she was raw.  Keep an open mind and watch for the meanings behind what the actors are doing. "},{"Title":"Far better than it's given credit for.","Date":"3 September 2003","Score":"16 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  My recommendation is to ignore the negative comments and see it for yourself. Ignore the artsy-fartsy crowd whose dislike, one feels, has more to do with the bad press and criticism by the liberal crowd than it has to do with the film's actual merits. I make no pretence to artsy film credentials, and I'm not a big fan of David Lynch, though v enjoy most of his work, bizarre as it is. However, I think his daughter did a respectable job, especially for the first time out. Some of the symbolism was a bit obvious, but I suspect that made the symbolism more accessible to the average viewer and not just the snooty film buffs. As far as the inconsistencies the critics love to point out -- big deal. The whole Rosebud schtick in Citizen Kane was ludicrous and silly, but let's at least allow the same literary license to others.I thought Sands and Fenn did superb jobs, and I thought the direction and music was far better than average.  I enjoyed the movie enough to see it three times so far, and my opinion hasn't changed. I also believe the trick ending was essential to the movie and not just some shabby trick. Without it, it's just a gross slasher film and not a think-piece. There's a lot of unpleasant truth about male-female relationships in this film, and Lynch brought it out very well. "},{"Title":"Boxing Controversy...","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Boxing Helena is a highly controversial film about a man's sexual obsession.Kim Basinger was initially offered to act as Helena, but she declined because she believed it was degrading to women. However, we should decide for ourselves what our own opinions are.It appears to be more degrading to men. Nick is obsessive, Ray is the typical slob, the other men are more or less submissive or weak. Aside from the relatively poor cinematography, the film conveys a side of life that many film makers seek to avoid, and for this it should be given credit. "},{"Title":"When you find her...don't let her get away.","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Jennifer Chambers Lynch directs this darkly absurd love story. Dr. Nick Cavanaugh(Julian Sands)is a surgeon who becomes dangerously obsessed with a tramp of a vamp Helena(Sherilyn Fenn)that has ended a brief affair and desires to move on. The love sick doc lures Helena back to his home for one last chance to woo her. His romantic overture causes the winsome Helena to race from the house and into the street where she is run down by a truck. Not wanting to lose his love goddess to a hospital, Dr. Nick scoops up Helena and takes her back to his home lab where he amputates her arms and legs in order to keep her captive and under his control... his own trophy in a wheelchair.The beautiful Fenn was not the first choice to play Helena. Kim Basinger would be found guilty and financially punished for backing out of a verbal agreement to play the part in this weird love story. Director Jennifer Lynch did not shy away from borrowing her father's(David Lynch)bizarre and unconventional style. "},{"Title":"A soap opera you can skip!","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Boxing Helena was a piece of Hollywood tripe that wanted to be an artistic movie about a man's macabre attraction with a woman. You were bored to tears watching Julian Sands whine about how hard it is to not have Helena. Through out the movie you just wanted to reach into the screen and slap Julian Sands. I found myself screaming at my television  Get over it you loser!!!!The worst thing about the movie was how you were hoping that you would see something scary and twisted. Instead you got artsy-fartsy pseudo-psycho babble.Bill Paxton was another notable flaw in this stale movie. His acting was horrible. He looked unwashed and unappealing. His performance came off as naive, uninspired, and total phoney.In the end the movie was too one-note, bland, and soap opera like. Gosh, no wonder Kim Basinger dropped out of this picture!I give this movie a 5 out of a possible 100! "},{"Title":"A Sick, Weird, Bizarre and Erotic Love Story","Date":"20 February 2004","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Doctor Nicholas Nick Cavanaugh (Julian Sands) is a successful surgeon, who lives with his colleague Anne Garret (Betsy Clark). She intends to get married with him. Nick is obsessed by the tramp Helena (Sherilyn Fenn), with whom he had some kind of shallow relationship in the past. Nick tries to get close to Helena again and one day, he convinces her to go to his home, to get her address book back. Helena discusses with Nick, and is hit by a car in front of Nick's mansion. When Helena wakes up, she is without both legs and abducted by Nick. Nick is taking care of her at his home. She tries to escape, and like a Venus of Milo, Nick removes her two arms, and keeps her hold to a wheelchair. A surprising end finishes the story. Boxing Helena is a polemic, sick, weird and bizarre love story. But also, it is very well produced, and has an unconventional screenplay. It is not a masterpiece, but it is not so bad it is indicated to a very specific audience. However, it became famous when Kim Bassinger refused the role of Helena, after signing a contract with the producers. Due to the notoriety of this problem, this movie hit the wrong target-public. Everybody wanted to watch the film Kim Bassinger refused to act. The beauty of Sherilyn Fenn is amazingly highlighted in this film performing a bitchy woman. The director Jennifer Chambers Lynch is the daughter of David Lynch, and tried to follow her father's steps, with a very bizarre film. Unfortunately, this was her unique movie. In my opinion, the 'IMDB User Rating' of 3.8 is very unfair. My vote is seven. Title (Brazil) 'Encaixotando Helena' ('Boxing Helena')Note On 01 April 2014, I saw this movie again. "},{"Title":"Perversely Uneventful","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" My only recommendation for seeing Boxing Helena is for the short scenes flaunting Nicolette Scorsese. Director Jennifer Chambers Lynch should thank me for my saying so, because upon many a heterosexual male once reading that and remembering Nicolette from her role as the gorgeous lingerie saleswoman in Christmas Vacation, there should be a spike in Boxing Helena rentals/purchases.Julian Sands plays a physician who is obsessed with Sherilyn Fenn, an ex-lover. Fenn doesn't dig him too much, however. When she suffers a terrible accident, Sands goes to town with her extremities and she is left a captive at his mercy.Boxing Helena is depressing, uneventful, morbidly perverse in a boring sort of way, and ultimately an unmemorable waste of time. This, for me, was the turning point for Julian Sands where his career took a nose dive. In my opinion, it did little for Fenn's struggling career either, which has never seemed to completely lift off the ground. "},{"Title":"Brutal treatment to a brutal film","Date":"3 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I think I'm tempted to comment more upon the comments than the movie. The movie I watched, found interesting, if for nothing more than that it had Art Garfunkels big cool head in it. It's dark, attempts to be psycho-sexual (succeeds in the latter), and ends up just being rather sad. But, I felt something, and that is more of a reaction than most movies inspire in me these days. Those who feel this is the worst film they have ever seen have obviously never seen anything with Keanu Reeves or Steven Segal. Or Ben Affleck. Or...Anyway, it's more interesting than a disaster film, so, you decide.  "},{"Title":"Positive review","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is an hypnotic, powerful tale of obsession and eroticism. Sherilyn Fenn is wonderful as Helena and gives a performance way beyond the cherry-sucking antics of Twin Peaks. Despite the torture inflicted on Helena, Fenn's portrayal never allows you to feel abject horror, as her Helena remains caustic, tough and impossible to break throughout the film. Julian Sands is good, although he maybe over-eggs the pudding a bit in some of the more gruelling scenes. The first sight of Helena propped up in bed without legs is never forgotten and the special effects make her amputations incredibly realistic. It's just a shame that the ending is such an appalling cop-out, sanitised for viewers who couldn't accept that love and need can blossom in the sickest of circumstances. In fact, I felt tears of frustration well up at the ending because I felt so cheated! If only it had been braver, this would have been a film of groundbreaking proportions. Fenn is great though and acts the hell out of Kim Basinger, the original choice. Watch it but don't build yourself up for the ending. "},{"Title":"Cinematic Claptrap","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have to say that the young students I teach would have come up  with something more interesting than this. The reason I mention my students in this review is down to the fact that when they are unable to find an ending to one of their stories they often finish with .....and he/she woke up and it had all been a dream..... I feel the writer of this dreadful film probably felt the same way and decided to end it in the exactly way as one of my Grade sixes. R.I.P "}{"Title":"Beware - spoiler included","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This should be expected from Davind Lynch's daughter. Not exactly the kind of weird he provides, but none the less just as captivating. Very simplistic in terms of what the movie tries to convey, it is a demonstration of camera work mastery and direction excellence. An expose of human nature which makes you question the basic instinct within your own being. This movie explores the human sexually, our needs and how far we would go to fulfill them, in addition to many other revelations about the human character. A must see! A man obsessed with his ex makes her captive and cuts off her limbs in order to gain control of her. Although it appears that her spirit and hate towards him cannot be broken, she becomes dependent on him and eventually learns to love him and be grateful for the life that he provides for her. Ending is a little disappointing, seeing that the whole movie turns out to e a dream. "},{"Title":"A train wreck","Date":"10 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Kim Basinger never spent $9 million so well as she did pulling out of this stinker.Horrid dialogue, cheesy acting and Art Garfunkel sporting two puffs of hair on either side of his head (like a hippie Bram Stoker's 'Dracula') make this rotter an unintentionally hilarious film. But it's obvious that Jennifer Lynch wanted so badly to strike a bizarre chord just like her famous daddy that she was willing to sacrifice everything...apparently, even her dignity.BH is the tale of a whiny doctor (Sands)who's mama didn't love him. Gee, do you think he'll grow up resenting women? When gets a whiff of wench-o-la Helena (Fenn)he's obsessed and begins to stalk her. Her macho-man boyfriend Ray (Paxton, modeling a mullet Billy Ray Cyrus would have been embarrassed by)does nothing to instill the audiences confidence in Helen's ability to choose men. It's also never stated what this woman does for a living, but she's got some pretty sweet accommodations, and even a full bar in her bedroom.When Dr. Nick can't get Helena to go for him, a severe accident involving a truck and Helena gives Nick the opportunity to have her recouperate in his home. Unfortunately, he's also used the opportunity to his advantage by cutting off her legs. When she deigns to slap him, he removes her arms. All throughout the film, we see shots of the Venus de Milo. Plot point shoved home! And apparently, Lynch would have us believe a man can hack off your limbs and still make you fall for him. But the obsurdity of that pales in comparison to the Bad Movie-Making 101 ending. Rent it purely for comic relief. "},{"Title":"very weird but good","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I thought that this film was very weird but at the same time i couldn't help but like it. it was one of the films that stuck in my head for ages after i saw it , i saw it 10 or so years ago now but still remember it well, its not to everyones taste but if you like a little break from the norm film i would have a watch its not like the rest of your kidnap and murder flicks its about an obsessed man who kidnaps his ex g/friend and cuts off her arms and legs to stop her getting away, its quite strange to see her there helpless and limbless and then the twist at the end is very good i don't think its one for the faint hearted but worth it if you don't mind weirdness with a little twist to top it off.  "},{"Title":"Positive review","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is an hypnotic, powerful tale of obsession and eroticism. Sherilyn Fenn is wonderful as Helena and gives a performance way beyond the cherry-sucking antics of Twin Peaks. Despite the torture inflicted on Helena, Fenn's portrayal never allows you to feel abject horror, as her Helena remains caustic, tough and impossible to break throughout the film. Julian Sands is good, although he maybe over-eggs the pudding a bit in some of the more gruelling scenes. The first sight of Helena propped up in bed without legs is never forgotten and the special effects make her amputations incredibly realistic. It's just a shame that the ending is such an appalling cop-out, sanitised for viewers who couldn't accept that love and need can blossom in the sickest of circumstances. In fact, I felt tears of frustration well up at the ending because I felt so cheated! If only it had been braver, this would have been a film of groundbreaking proportions. Fenn is great though and acts the hell out of Kim Basinger, the original choice. Watch it but don't build yourself up for the ending. "},{"Title":"Silly yes, but brilliant.","Date":"1 March 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The reason this film was so despised by critics is because they believe that all films graphic and disturbing in content should be taken seriously. Not so. Julian Sands creates a truly despicable character here, and the more we hate him, the higher the testament to his performance. Easily the best of his career. Sherilyn Fenn, the finest actress of her generation, is only slightly more sympathetic in the titular role, and only because of what happens to her! About the Basinger controversy? I'll never understand that. Fenn is ten times more beautiful and infinitely more talented. A hilariously sick, visually stunning, highly entertaining film.   "},{"Title":"When Madonna turns the movie down, you know you have a dud","Date":"4 June 2009","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Dr. Nick (Hi Everybody!) Cavanaugh (Julian Sands) is obsessed with the sexy but incredibly unlikable Helena (Sheryl Fenn) who he once had an affair with. When she pretty much rejects the guy, she ends up being hit by a truck. Does this deter him? No! It just means that he'll amputate her and keep her for himself.Directed by David Lynch's daughter Jennifer, Boxing Helena is a movie that at first sounds like a perverse, strange little movie. Instead, it ends up being more of a mix of a pretentious art house movie and a dull 90's soft-core flick (complete with Enigma's song Sadeness playing during a sex scene.) Worst yet, the whole thing is a mess. The acting is atrocious, with Sands playing an unlikable, uninteresting, unsympathetic and spineless man, while Fenn plays a character so bitchy that you wonder why any man would want to be with her. Even Bill Paxton (someone I normally like) is unable to lift this up any, as he is also terrible (though that's more due to the terrible script.) At least his hair is outrageously bad, though it's no match for the one Art Garfunkle (yes, THAT Art Garfunkle) has. Add a terrible ending and obvious symbolism (a bird in a cage, how clever!) to the mix, and you get a terrible movie.Little fact While more is known about Kim Bassinger and the movie, what is less talked about is that Madonna was also offered to play Helena, but turned it down. When the star of Swept Away, The Next Best Thing and Shanghai Surprise turns the movie down, you know you have a dud. "},{"Title":"I really didn't enjoy this...","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Not going to say much really, at the time i saw this i was viewing 3 or 4 films a week and it is one of only 2 films i have watched that i considered walking out of half way through (the other being Carry On Columbus).This film made me feel very uneasy, i felt like i was watching something i shouldn't if you know what i mean. And I came away wishing i hadn't.To be honest, i think this says more about me than the film itself - the premise was well advertised and i knew what to expect, so i should have known better than to buy a ticket for it.It didn't appeal to me, but i suppose there is an audience for it, i am just not able to appreciate it on any level other than it's technical merit - it is well made and well acted, but i found the subject matter questionable enough to make me consider walking out.  "},{"Title":"Oh, my GOD","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Right ... so this movie shows up on cable (on IFC, no less -- supposedly this final bastion of great, undiscovered films) and I decide to watch it -- remembering something vague about Madonna and Kim Basinger both saying no to the title role. And what do I get? Soft-core porn and sordid fantasies not even the Marquis de Sade could have envisioned. Not only that, but one of the most cliched and lame endings in all of movie history.If you want my recommendation for films that cover similar subject matters in a much better way, try Misery, The Cook, The Thief, His Wife & Her Lover, or even Basic Instinct. There we have films about being at the captive mercy of a misguided suitor, abusive relationships that end horribly wrong, and the all-important Sex As Power. (Those of you who sat all the way through Boxing Helena may also wish to see Existenz, another independent film that handles dream sequences much more artfully.) Which reminds me, can anyone tell me how watching a man having intercourse with a prostitute will suddenly make him desirable, even if you have been throwing glassware at him for the past 90 minutes?I suppose this unpleasant little picture might play well for people who have never seen movies, been in a hospital, had sex, or used a telephone before. But for those of us who were not raised by pigeons in an underground cave, beware.  "},{"Title":"Interesting Psycho-Sexual Drama","Date":"24 May 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Boxing Helena, the controversial directing debut of Jennifer Chambers Lynch, is an extremely interesting parable about love and sex in any relationship.  Dr. Nick Cavanaugh is totally obsessed with vicious sexpot Helena, a maneater with a voracious sexual appetite.  Nick tries at every opportunity to impress Helena, but she constantly humiliates him.  One day Nick lures Helena to his mansion but she becomes enraged at him and storms off into the street where she is hit by a truck and, to save her life, Nick amputates her legs and keeps her prisoner in his home.  Later, when Helena becomes to much to handle, Nick takes things one step further and cuts off her arms, making her totally dependent on him.  Will Helena fall in love with Nick or spite him?  Very controversial film succeeds on every level and is an impressive directorial debut for Lynch.Boxing Helena is Rated R for strong sex scenes and nudity, some violence and for language. "},{"Title":"this film is a lot better than people give it credit for","Date":"25 June 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I think this is a GREAT movie.There are viewers who accuse this film of being soft-core porn. This really gets me. Any time a man talks about sex, it's considered normal, but if a woman does it, it's suddenly pornography? Shame on them. And compared to the amount of potty-mouthed movies in theaters now, which define feminism as the freedom to wear belly shirts and sleep with a lot of men, Boxing Helena comes off pretty elegant in the end.Moreover, the film really does talk about something that's rare in cinema what the sexual experience means to a woman. Helena's speech about what women enjoy, though explicit, is also accurate. Male viewers should take notes. I know I did.And then there are people who say Jennifer is just trying to imitate her father. That's just plain unfair, and it shows a lack of anything substantive to critique. Shame on them too.Sure, we have to put up with Julian Sands, but he's perfect in the part. He plays someone who never knows how to behave. He looks, much like his character should, perpetually confused.I admit, this film has a lot of cheesy moments, but lighten up. Boxing Helena is delightfully strange, and I think it's A LOT better than people have given it credit for. It creates a bizarre, dreamy world, and it's smart enough to acknowledge that anything this weird has to be a dream. "}{"Title":"A movie that goes from bad to laughable to brilliant","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those movies that I really had never paid much attention to until there was a special at the local video store.  I have to say that I wish I had rented it long ago.  The plot and acting are merely passable until the ending.  When it ended, I actually rewound it and watched it again.  That's what I would recommend.  If you know the ending and then watch it, the story takes on a whole different feel and instead of the dismay and tedious nature I felt the first time, you actually can get emotionally involved with the good doctor.  If you've seen it once and either didn't like it or didn't get it, watch it again and pay attention to the nuances of Julian Sands' performance.  It is well worth the time and money. "},{"Title":"Stay Away From This Helena","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Jennifer Chambers Lynch's 'Boxing Helena' feels like an outdated, insipid, almost soft-core (and a bad one at that) movie. In spite of having a supposedly 'disturbing' theme (which didn't effect me at all), the film is incredibly boring. The awful background score reminds one of the 80's B-grade erotic thriller (even the makeup and clothes look that way). Cinematography is flat (At least Lynch could have learned something from her dad).The characters are like cardboard cutouts. Sherilyn Fenn is very beautiful but her acting here is not impressive mostly because of the awful writing. Julian Sands is atrocious. No wonder he's never offered a decent role. Lynch's 'Boxing Helena' tries to be a noir style erotic thriller but it merely ends up being a pretentious piece of garbage. Some friends suggested watching the film otherwise I perhaps never would have given this one a chance (not that I blame them or anything). "},{"Title":"One of the best movies I've ever seen","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"16 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I can't believe all the bad reviews on this movie.  I thought Sherilyn Finch did a beautiful job portraying a woman that is tired of having her butt kissed by men.  Women that are worshipped by men have to act that way to repel most guys she doesnt want to deal with. You people call that trash? Thats called being selective b/cause she can be.And Julian Sands is that typical type of guy to worship a girl like her.  (NoteDr.Cavanaugh has everything he wants--even beautiful women wanting him) So, why the hell wouldnt he want Helena?????  Any girl who has ever been annoyed by buttkissing guys would adore this movie. He brilliantly manipulates her into falling in love with him too, which I thought that was also perfectly done. People say this movie is weird but hey obsession is like that. Everything about this movie is awesome minus Bill Paxton I totally give it a 10/10  "},{"Title":"lengthy surgery with no anesthesia...","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" God almighty, what is this royal puke stain of celluloid? If you thought the French were notorious for long-winded tales peppered with shallow existentialist talk and imagery, Boxing Helena proves that Americans (lucky daughters of well-loved directors included) can do it just as horribly. Julian Sands plays Nick, a neurotic, sexually dysfunctional doctor who is smitten with the bitchy Helena (Sherilyn Fenn); Helena wants nothing to do with Nick; Helena gets in a freak accident, loses both her legs, and Nick imprisons her in his lonely mansion. This sounds like a great setup for a meditation on the nature of obsession, but the characters change so little from their miserable, cloying, and/or unlikable selves (save for passages of inexplicable, out-of-character behavior) that the film becomes an overstated, one-note gag that isn't funny. While Sands is indeed grating as the well-intentioned drip of a doctor, it is Fenn who sits at the crux of Boxing Helena's paradox why would anyone want to preserve someone so beautiful on the outside but completely rotten on the inside? Personally, I was waiting for Sands to amputate her head so the movie could finally be over... "},{"Title":"One of the Most Bizarre Movies I Have Ever Seen","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Dr. Nick Cavanaugh (Julian Sands) is an extremely talented surgeon who as a child experienced emotional trauma and neglect from both his mother and father. Because of this he has difficulty relating to women and subsequently becomes obsessed with one particular person by the name of Helena (Sherilyn Fenn) who is extraordinarily beautiful but treats him with complete contempt. All too soon one thing leads to another and after a car accident he brings her into his home and performs surgery on her which involves amputating her legs. If that isn't bad enough he goes even further. Now rather than reveal any more of this movie and risk spoiling it for those who haven't seen it I will just say that this is truly one of the most bizarre movies I have ever seen. Although both Julian Sands and Sherilyn Fenn clearly stood out, other good performances were rendered by Art Garfunkel (as Dr. Lawrence Augustine) and Betsy Clark (Anne Garrett). In any case, this is one of those movies that a person will either like or hate--and there will probably be no in-between. Personally, I liked it and rate it as slightly above average. "},{"Title":"Pretty Dang Crappy...","Date":"3 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" ...but at least it was better than Dune.So in that one regard, and that one regard alone, the daughter of David Lynch has surpassed her father's work.The worst performance of Bill Paxton's career.Nobody in this film elicits any sympathy or even interest...other than a glancing that guy is okay for Art Garfunkel.I guess Kurtwood Smith did okay as well, given the absurdity of his lines and the situation his character was placed in - and the ridiculous reaction that was written for him.This thing really is a turd. Not even interesting for the sex or the horror aspect. "},{"Title":"Was not impressed","Date":"6 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Boxing Helena needs a major reworking. When it wants to, the film can be quite disturbing, I will gladly admit that. Unfortunately I also found myself laughing in places where I don't think I am supposed to. This motion picture is over serious, and completely lost. It may have some use as a pretentious psychology lesson in the Oedipal complex, but it is otherwise dull and useless, not to mention vulgar.Chief Surgeon Dr. Nick Cavanagh, is obsessed with his neighbour Helena, who he had a one night stand with once upon a time. With the recent death of his mother (whom he was equally in love with) Nick is lonely and scared. He needs someone to turn to, or love. He kidnaps Helana, amputates her limbs, and keeps her in his house as almost a pet doll. How far will this go? how long can he hide?Most of the movie takes place in the glamorous mansion which Cavanagh has inherited from his family. It is a charming place, all dressed up, and full of plush. One of the strongest and most ironic images in the movie, is seeing an armless legless girl dressed up like a porcelain doll, in a high chair, and watching the good doctor suck up to her like she is his own kin. The movie actually doesn't make it clear as to whether the Dr. Cavanagh thinks of Helena as his kin or his lover. the more emotional it tries to be, the less effective Boxing Helena becomes. The sheer sloppiness of the acting, writing and direction, are constantly reminding the viewer that this is a movie. Some of the scorning is nice, but for that, just get the soundtrack.Julian Sands' performance is a huge burden on the movie. He is over-romantic and completely unconvincing. Sands delivers his lines as if he is in Romeo and Juliet. In the last two minutes, Boxing Helena recalls David Lynch epically, as it turns into a surrealist feature, and what is more annoying is that the film has literally no ending. The whole thing just becomes an exercise in stupidity. It has nowhere to go, and subsequently, has nowhere to take the audience. Boxing Helena is best left forgotten "},{"Title":"An interesting and shocking idea executed as blandly as possible.","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" At it's core, the idea of Boxing Helena is interesting and pretty darn twisted. Knowing about it before hand was the only thing that kept me watching. It's a brave and unique premise for a movie. But it doesn't ever get good. Or shocking. From the get go the doctor comes off as odd and a little creepy. (And for some reason he's applying ear medicine and has cotton stuffed in his ear the whole movie. Why? I couldn't tell you.) His obsession with the (Needlessly?) bitchy Helena is questionable and for some reason there are scattered allusions to some kind of tainted past with his mother. About 45 minutes in, if he hadn't been set up to be so obvious, there could have been a real shock reveal when we find out what he's been up to. This movie tries, for some reason, to scatter erotica around too. There's a far too long slow motion scene where Helena gets undressed and jumps in a fountain at a party. You know, like you do. A scene from nowhere, where Dr. Nick has sex with a completely random and nameless woman to entertain Helena, who apparently reaches some kind of climax by watching this despite the fact that at this point in the movie, she can't possibly do that by herself. To top it all off it ends with - I'm not kidding you - Oh, it was all a dream. DO NOT waste two hours on this flick, even if the plot sounds as intriguing to you as it did to me. It's a perfect example of how a good idea can be executed incredibly poorly. "},{"Title":"Ouch.","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  There are not many films that I can say cause me to feel just complete and utter humiliation for this director, but this is one of them. I guess it was one of those It seemed like a good idea at the time kind of situations. Although, this movie would make a great party game, along the line of Showgirls. You would have to drink every time Julian Sands makes an ass of himself, and do a shot every time Helena gets a limb cut off. Granted, you would probably die of alcohol poisoning, but it would be fun while it lasted.  "},{"Title":"Expertly done!","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  OMG, this movie presents something new each time I see it!  Since you´ve probably already read what the movie is about, let me skip that part and tell you that this movie is a shining example of what brilliant use of foreshadowing and imagery can do. If you watch this movie with the only purpose of passing time friday evening, you will probably just be able to keep your eyes on the screen. If you are willing to take the plunge into the character´s minds, then you are in for a thrill! I don´t remember Julian Sands from other roles than Warlock, which initially warded me off the movie, but he is brilliant!  As are the other actors/actresses. Sure, the movie has its we could´ve made this bit shorter but what the heck scenes, but all in all this movie has made my top-10 list. As for the ending It may be predictable and commercial, but the look in JS´s eyes as he leans on the statue of Venus is priceless!  It reminds me of the ending to Death and the Maiden. "}{"Title":"Reminded me of living with a Sociopath","Date":"30 April 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I haven't read through all the comments on Boxing Helena, but I first saw this movie in '97 at the recommendation of a friend who knew my husband. It struck a very sharp cord within me because plot line aside, it very much expressed how it feels to be married to a Sociopath. The obsessiveness, ownership, and control, exactly depicted the emotions I felt. If I didn't relate to it on that level I'm not sure I would have appreciated it as much, but for anyone who wants to know what it feels like to be married to a sociopath...see this movie. If you ARE living with a sociopath...see this movie...it is very validating. BTW, we are no longer married and I have all my limbs. Marie H "},{"Title":"It's not epic cinema, but trust me it works.","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" o.k it's not brilliant cinema, but there is a unique story here. Personally, the search and creation of your own person Venus Di Milo is fascinating. The fact that this is a story of control, and the how far people will go to obtain it, half of why this movie is so interesting. The other half is very simple the cast. for those who are fans of the Zalman King School of Filmaking which is, erotica with the damnedest twists you ever in a move, and where plot is not 100% required but striking visual imagery reigns supreme. That is what makes this movie work. not epic cinema, but very watchable. If you like Wild Orchid, 9 1/2 Weeks, and Crash (1999-James Spader version) you will like this movie. "},{"Title":"Instant Cult Classic","Date":"3 April 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I agree with other viewers that the contrived ending is weak.  The entire movie is swiss cheese, but it has all the elements of a cult classic  The twisted concept, The Box, the blatant symbolism, Julian Sands and Twin Peaks' Sherilyn Fenn.... PLUS David Lynch's daughter directing?  What more could you want?Frankly, I was fascinated with Sherilyn's character.  She retains her superiority and strength under the absolute worst conditions.  She is a role model for readers of Women Who Love Too Much and other such drivel.  And the campy camera shots of Venus De Milo were great!If you like cult films, add this one to your list.  I believe it will even get better with time.  I give it a 7 out of 10 on my Cult Classics scale. "},{"Title":"Nothing like what Daddy did...","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I'm a huge fan of David Lynch's work, so I was quite anxious to see what daughter Jennifer did with her first film/screenplay.  The answer?  Not much.  Boxing to me was a huge letdown.  I wasn't necessarily expecting her to mirror David Lynch's style, but even as a standalone film, it's horrible.  It reminded me of something I might have watched on cinemax late at night with the sound turned down when I was in fourth grade.  The cast is pretty weak, the story is for the most part ho-hum, and the ending is extremely predictable.  I expected much more out of Sherilyn Fenn's performance, but was also let down with that.  So, if you are looking for something along the lines of David Lynch's work, or just an overall good film, don't rent this one.  But if you're in the mood for a skinemax melodrama, it's there for the taking.  "},{"Title":"A Nasty Idea, Poorly Portrayed.","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Well, this is the perfect cine-fodder for irretrievable misogynists. It's also more-or-less bonkers.The premise is that of an accomplished surgeon who is so pathologically fixated upon a pretty woman who spurns him, that he decides to take possession of her and keep her in a box. Rather than keep her in a box that fits, he begins amputating her limbs to put her in something smaller. Now, being a surgeon in the United States, he's as rich as Croesus, so this economy of scale is never fully explained. In fact he lives in a huge mansion, so could easily have dedicated a couple of rooms to her personal comfortable confinement. However.Thankfully; we are not treated to any sickening 'Texas Chainsaw' hokum, she simply begins abbreviating, piecemeal.More bizarre still, this beautiful but fickle woman in the prime of youth and health, seems to accept her diminishing anatomy with the phlegmatic fortitude of a saint amongst lions. Which is very much at variance with the sort of histrionics I have witnessed at the mere breaking of a fingernail.Exactly how her bodily functions are addressed is also unclear. The director appears to think that if you chop someone's legs off, they don't need to go for a crap any more. But then, after all; it's just a fantasy. Ahh.There's some nice camera-work and lighting. I particularly enjoyed the scene where she dances slow-mo in a fountain in a way that is choreographed to the speed of water sprays.And there's also an interesting mix of incidental music from various artists, such as Tears For fears' 'Woman In Chains'.Singer Art Garfunkel commits the mistake of appearing as a support actor in a hairstyle that makes his head look like Saturn.For the fountain and the music score I offer 3 stars. Otherwise it's a terminal bummer, and not just for Helena.If you enjoy this movie or identify in any way with its premise, then you need to see a doctor. And not a surgeon.This thing comes too close to being snuff dressed-up as art. "},{"Title":"Exceptional movie - a work of a genius","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" After reading some other commentaries offended by the explicit of the scenes or by idea itself I had to write something to curb the average of the negative comments of this rough yet beautiful film. ...I would like to remember where it was that I seen it but then it was long ago and the most I remember is the silent amazement after... Somewhat similar to one I had after Breaking the waves. I was quite young then and surely not judgemental or a IMDb connaiseur as am now as to analyse the acting or directorship. The appeal was relating to my being expert in walking the fine line between pathological obsession and love (thank to then experienced platonic relationship). I really could relate to the poor wussy mad doctor and to the movie. The scent of love that is described here is a very rare one in form and intensity. It is just moving to see something this rare and pure.Besides, the explicit of the scenes was just all right. "},{"Title":"A New Standard For Bad","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Yes, you WILL call me! (Helena's soon ex-boyfriend).There are two movies that set a new standard for how bad a movie can be;Battlefield Earth, and Boxing Helena. They could not be more different than each other, but each one instills a unique combination of disbelief and anger that the industry could greenlight them, spend a Lot of money on them, and then subject the viewer to them. Watching Boxing Helena is like paying someone to inflict abuse on you. The movie is a mystery without trying to be how did it get approval to be made? What was Lynch's daughter trying to say in this movie, if anything? That men are pathetic drooling pigs and that beautiful women by default are bitches? The biggest mystery to me in watching this movie was in trying to figure out which gender she is the most angry with, which never gets resolved, nor does anything else.Helena is a bad beautiful girl whose narcissism is pathological. She seems to be Lynch's projection of what all such girls must be like. The character has absolutely no motivation to be like she is. She runs hot and cold, charming and bitchy, with no explanation. She just is, because Lynch has written to her to be that way, which makes her a one-dimensional caricature. Julia Sands, who plays the obsessed doctor, is obsessed with her for no other reason than her appearance. An angry woman's indictment of men if ever there was one. There is no explanation for his motivations either, which also makes him a hollow character. (Also, bizarrely, take a look at Sand's wife, and tell me if she isn't much more attractive than Helena is! And no, this was - not - an intentional choice by Lynch).There are two scenes that stand out for me in terms of representing Lynch's abilities the fountain scene in which Helena (having spent about four hours and a fortune in makeup to look perfect), becomes hypnotized by an enchanting fountain at the doctor's party and walks into it with childlike innocence, getting drenched, while other doctors at the party watch her do it as if she is doing something transcendent beyond their understanding, all filmed in slow motion. Which, in case the audience is too bone-headed to get it, makes it deep, see? As opposed to an adult with the development of a three year-old doing something rather juvenile. One wonders where Lynch learned to hit the slo-mo button on the camera? The other scene shows Lynch's writing powers in a scene with her pseudo- European boyfriend early on, Helena decides to do another personality switch without reason or motivation and decides to get dressed and kick him out. He says you WILL be calling me, Helena. Oh no I won't. Yes, wait and see. You WILL be calling me. No. I won't. Oh yes! You WILL be calling me, Helena!. This consists of their entire dialogue and demonstrates Lynch's dialogue and character abilities. If you don't believe me, rent it yourself . This is one of the *better* written scenes in the movie, and you WILL be heading for the Maalox when you see it. After the fiasco of the over-rated Twin Peaks in which the audience finally caught on to how they were being jerked around by Lynch, I hope it will be a long, long time until we are Lynched again by either father or daughter. However, it is the producers who pay these two to inflict this on us that deserve to get lynched. You can't blame Lynch for being a presumptuous, incoherent hack. Like Helena, she just is. However, if there is a movie called Boxing the producers of Helena, I will be there. Two stars, because at least the camera was in focus. "},{"Title":"Never, ever have I seen a worse movie","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This was the worst movie I have ever seen.  The acting was humiliating to me, particularly Sands' work.  I cannot think of one redeeming quality of this movie.  The plot was atrocious.  The directing was pathetic.  Please, please take my word for it. "},{"Title":"Amputation has never been so sexy...","Date":"17 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Pretty girl gets cut up by a frustrated surgeon. Great stuff.Jessica Lynch has inherited her father's visceral creative vision. Accolades! Accolades! Julian Sands is a gracile but pensive surgeon, emotionally injured and physically injurious to a captivating beauty of brutal character. Amputation ensues. Subtextually, the paradox of a surgeon inflicting injury in order to heal the injured is evident, albeit abstractly.I suggest dining on Boeuf Bourgogne fondue served with a Pinot Noir prior to viewing. Don't overcook the beef, you want to taste the blood in the center. Then finish off the bottle of Pinot Noir while you watch it. "},{"Title":"I would expect nothing less from a Lynch","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie is comparable to timeless art.  The film shots and angles often elude to such a deeper plot than the surface story we're given.  A brilliant surgeon haunted by the memory of his heartless mother finds himself obsessing over a woman treats him with similar cruelty.  There are so many instances throughout this film that one can't help wondering is this real or just a dream, but only time will tell if Dr. Cavanaugh is really capable of attaining the one thing he desires most  his manhood!Julian Sands was fantastic, and Sherilyn Fenn made it easy to absolutely loathe Helena at times.     "}{"Title":"Compelling, cerebral film, superbly acted","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Not for the faint of heart, and obviously unpopular among the general public, it's still a well-conceived and nicely-executed piece that made me an instant fan of both Sands and Fenn. It's by no means the run-of-the-mill Saturday night offering with nudity, sex, violence and car chases that seem to be essential to popularity -- instead it has a very unusual, well-crafted script, and actors that can carry the film on their own, assuming an audience with half a brain and an attention span longer than the average third-grader.If you watch movies just to keep from being bored, or go in primarily for the fast-action and extravagant special effects, this ain't your cup of tea.  If you're a serious fan with any sort of developed taste for the craft,  give this one a try.  It may still not be to your taste, but you're definitely in for something you'll remember.As a postscript -- Kim Basinger walked out on her contract for this movie, for which we should be eternally grateful. This script required more than bimbo-level acting, and Basinger has never delivered more than mediocre performances in simple-minded roles. "},{"Title":"Run away. Run far away...","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Don't waste your precious time, let alone your money, with this pathetic flick. Any script w/ I woke up & it was all a dream as an ending would be laughed at by every producer w/ two IQ's to rub together. Only the daughter of an established filmmaker could have gotten it into production, which says more about David Lynch than his daughter.It's not even a fun bad, it's a just a tortuous jaunt through Jennifer Lynch's pathetic attempts at intellectualism. Nothing's worse that watching someone desperately try to say something profound, and what they come up with would bore a ten-year old.The only people who might like this are those who are physically obsessed w/ Sherilyn Fenn, and for those, for cripe's sake, just buy the _Playboy_.... "},{"Title":"Eh. Er... Julian Sands did a good job.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A forgettable piece of claptrap from David Lynch's daughter. Jennifer Lynch seems to be trying desperately to be as weird as Daddy. The best thing about this film, almost surprisingly, is the great job Julian Sands does as the pathetic doctor. Sherilyn Fenn is ok as the bitch femme fatale, but the character is just 2-dimensional. Giving it a 6 out of 10 (a D) - the story is just too foolish and the ending is a copout and slightly insulting to the viewer. But hey, look! It's Art Garfunkel!  "},{"Title":"Disturbing subject matter otherwise the best movie ever made!","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" In another movie where everything was of the same quality, but produced around a different subject matter, this may have gone down as the greatest movie of our lifetime.This is the Cindy Crawford's mole of movies (if you find moles objectionable). That is; if one is turned off by the story line (violence against women), the other merits of the movie may go unnoticed.If somehow one could assemble the 1000 best producers, writers, sound, lighting, set design, directors, cameramen, other support crew, etc. to remake this movie, using any actors, living or dead, with an unlimited budget, and given 5 years to complete it, I cannot imagine the movie being any better than the original.It's simple If you are turned off by the subject matter, you won't get to enjoy the best movie you'll see in your lifetime. If, however, you can remember It's just a movie. This didn't really happen, then you are in for a treat!The talent could not have been better. The directing could not have been better. The camera-work could not have been better. And, in my opinion, the script could not have been better.Turn the clock back 90 years, and instead of naming the auto maker Mercedes and instead, name it Crapmobile and no one would be driving one today. I'm really amazed people are still able to judge a book by it's cover. "},{"Title":"You can't vote low enough for this rubbish","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Too bad the voting scale starts at one. This might be the worst movie   I've ever seen -- worse than Sgt. Pepper, worse than Xanadu, even   worse than The Beastmaster.    Like Beastmaster, the best part of Boxing Helena is a scene of   merely prurient interest -- namely, the sex scene with the   girl-at-the-panties-counter-in-Christmas Vacation, Nicolette Scorsese   (no relation, apparently, to Marty). Exceedingly pretty girls, naked,   are almost reason enough to give a movie a one. The limitations of   this voting system are the other reason this earns any vote from me.    C'mon -- It was all a dream-endings went out with seventh-grade   Creative Writing! Does anyone know if the original novel ended this   same way? "},{"Title":"A real one of a kind experience","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This one-of-a-kind movie is hated by many but certainly deserves some kind of kudos for its uniqueness. I found myself being drawn into this movie; from the initial moments, where I didn't think much of it; to the growing love between Sands and Fenn, to the violent, unexpected conclusion. Jennifer Lynch tries to inject as much of her father's surrealism as possible into the film, so there's lots of symbolism and weird stuff going on. Calling this film quirky is an understatement.I remember this as being pretty controversial when it was first released, concerning as it does a man who kidnaps a woman, cuts off her arms and legs and puts her in a box. It's not in bad taste as you might think, although this supposed depravity certainly seems to be one of the film's main selling points (just check the video box for an example). What surprised me most about this film was the subtle message that real love isn't just about sex, but about what the person looks like on the inside instead of the out. There are certainly a number of surprises and twists as the film commences.As I mentioned before, the acting is pretty bad but bearable. The best of the bunch is Sherilyn Fenn, who turns her ice-cold bitch into a realistic, if unlikeable, character. Julian Sands (WARLOCK) overdoes it a bit with his turn as a childish, confused doctor, but to be fair it was a difficult role to play and I can't think of many modern actors capable of pulling the role off totally successfully. Elsewhere, Bill Paxton (with a ludicrous wig) is a cliché and one of my favourite bit actors, Kurtwood Smith, appears as a fellow doctor. But these characters are all unimportant, as the film focuses primarily on Fenn and Sands, and how their relationship progresses as time goes on.This is quite a slow-moving tale, well shot, and there's little in the way of action or gore as you might expect. The actual scenes of amputation are thankfully offscreen. The one thing I didn't really like about the film was the cheat ending, where the entire sequence of events turns out to have...well, couldn't they think of anything else? BOXING HELENA is a real oddity, and certainly worth a look in my opinion, despite the obvious shortcomings. "},{"Title":"Not the Bomb it Seems to Be","Date":"3 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" A surgeon (Julian Sands) becomes obsessed with the seductive woman (Sherilyn Fenn) he once was in an affair with. Refusing to accept that she has moved on, he amputates her limbs and holds her captive in his mansion.After receiving an NC-17 rating by the MPAA, the film was given an R-rating on appeal and released in the United States in September 1993, but received critical backlash and was a financial failure. Gene Siskel was one of the film's few defenders, writing, I went to the theater to see it expecting the worst, and he called it, a brave little movie that explored the provocative issue of how some frustrated men channel their inability to love a woman into cruelty. Genre fans might like it, because of the familiar faces -- Sands, Fenn and Bill Paxton. It does suffer from having no one really likable in the plot, and a few twists that may not sit well with some people. "},{"Title":"not dark enough","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Dr. Nick Cavanaugh (Julian Sands) was raised to be a surgeon. He's a top surgeon and a bit peculiar. His mother dies and he decides to move back into the family mansion. He is still obsessed with Helena (Sherilyn Fenn) whom he slept with once a long time ago and she knows it. She's a wild party girl going out with douche Ray O'Malley (Bill Paxton). Nick's girlfriend Anne Garrett sees the obsession and has a fight with him. He tricks Helena to his home and she runs off into the street. Her legs are crushed in a hit-and-run. He performs amputations and keeps her in his home. Dr. Alan Harrison (Kurtwood Smith) comes looking and Nick gives him the chief of surgery position. After more near-misses and constant resistance from Helena, Nick amputates her arms.Jennifer Chambers Lynch shows that her directing skill is at a TV movie level. With the ending, she shows that she doesn't have the guts to push all the way. It's all a dream and it's a cop out. Julian Sands is good at being a creep and in this one, he's a pathetic creep. Sherilyn Fenn is a beauty. The movie should look and feel much darker. Instead it feel cheesy and a bit campy. "},{"Title":"being 15","Date":"18 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I was like 15 when I saw this film, and I watched it again. I guess what is important is that following this beautiful woman in film, from Three of Hearts to a few others, that the lead Julian Sands gets to entertain and guide the audience like no other. Putting his stardom apart from the competition in a world where Brad pitt is starring alongside Susan Sarandon in Thelma and Loiuse and other actors like Arnold schwarzneggar are being in films like TWINS....we get to see a lifestyle of infatuation that borders insanity in an all too likely Don't GO FOR IT scenario. so whereas the other reviews do tell exactly what happened within the film....at the time the competition and reviews pertinent to what dudes were watching at this time where i'm fifteen...it was a fine option and one I still remember renting at the local Blockbuster video store. "},{"Title":"So Freakish You Gotta See it","Date":"1 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Most Americans don't like this film because of a general stick up their asses...as you can tell by some of the reviewers here...and probably from the bible belt....but this movie so freakish of an idea, like human centipede (without the gross factor) you just gotta just see it.Definitely a cult classic that the open minded progressive, no-hang up Europeans and Australian can appreciate. Some things you just gotta see. This is one of them. Jealousy and beauty and control. Freakishly done.No spoilers here.I hate text limitations...whether there is a minimum or maximum. "}{"Title":"Awesome for reasons not intended","Date":"15 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This movie is undeniably, irrefutably awful - And entirely worth seeing. If you ever wondered what it would be like if David Lynch were a 19-year-old girl...well, here it is folks. The premise is uncomfortable, the symbolism and themes are overdone and cliché, The dialog and characters are exquisitely awkward and bizarre. For instance, Julian Sands is British. Why does his British accent sound fake and forced? why does he HAVE a British accent, when his character is American, his parents are American, and he apparently grew up in America!? WHY IS HIS HAIRCUT SO BAD?!? Why is everyone acting normally at a high-class party, then suddenly the title character is mostly naked in a fountain? Does Dr. Cavanaugh have an oedipal complex, or a sexual fixation on the Venus DeMilo, or both? Just when you think it cant get any more awkward, Red Foreman and Art Garfunkel show up. Don't forget the awesome fashion of the early 90's. The ending is an utter disappointment, a result of lazy writing, but still i'm glad this movie exists. Unintentionally Hilarious gems like this are hard to come by. "},{"Title":"Empty headed claptrap","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" An awkwardly made Freudian tale with Julian Sands as a surgeon obsessed with good time girl Sherilyn Fenn. Sands has serious mommy issues and when Fenn rejects him, he amputates her legs and arms until she inexplicably comes around. Stupidity rules with this lousy movie and the high gloss cinematography & constantly moving camera (it's directed by novice Jennifer Lynch) adds little. What could have been a demented version of LAST TANGO IN Paris as interpreted by Tod Browning is instead merely a silly melodrama. Despite the colorful cast (which also includes Bill Paxton, Kurtwood Smith & Art Garfunkel), it's pretty dull stuff. Sands is supposed to be demented but really just comes across as super fussy. Fenn is suitably callous for most of the film but then she too is done in by this empty-headed claptrap. "},{"Title":"A torrid and draining tale of fixated love, that's not reciprocated","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Yes this is that notorious film, Kim Basinger, walked out on, and I'll be honest, I'm gratefully glad, otherwise we wouldn't of been graced with the magical and beautiful presence Sherilyn Fenn has. What happened to her? Skipping a release in Adelaide, my eyes were soon eating up her beauty, a few months later. This movie was penned by David Lynch's daughter, and learning that she was only nineteen when she wrote it, I must say wowed me. Some people will see this movie as just an excuse for actors to take their clothes off, I can tell you, it's much more than that. It's the story of such deep sexual obsession one surgeon (Julian Sands who pops up in a lot of these films, and other R ones, when he's not warlocking) has on this beauty, he spent one night with, he just can't let go. When this daring, live life to the full beauty, who I must admit, really is a b..ch, attends a party, Sands is hosting, she makes quite an impression, attracting the eye of many a crowd, including Sands's very hot wife, in one sense, it will have you thinking, What an idiot? but other scenes will make you think that too, as at times he becomes such a pathetic, sad, pitiable character. As Helena is going away the next day, in a rush to leave, the next day, she realizes she's lost her wallet that has been purposely misplaced, by the jealous angst Sands. This fracas leads to a tragedy with a twist. I use the term twist, so I don't spoil the illusion of the movie for viewers. The tragedy, involving a car, that's knocked her down, and taken her legs with it, leads to the heart of the story where Helena becomes a virtual prisoner in Sands's home, where for the rest of the movie, it's interplay between the two actors, you could knock a play into shape with. For jealous obsessive Sands, this has become his dream. But the interruption of Kurtwood Smith, as an older physician and colleague of Sands, kind of puts a damper on the situation. But the interesting plot of movie with some occasional hot scenes, keeps you absorbed, as here's a tale of a really deep, take no prisoners, obsession. How the accident really concluding, I must say, threw me for a six, the way it deceived us, was very smartly done. New talent, Lynch (where proved here, it runs in the family) has fashioned a really solid adult feature, that like, The Lover, Husbands and Lovers, even Lake Consequence, you shouldn't pass off as just an excuse for sex, or label it, just a dirty movie, as this one definitely isn't. Fenns's natural spellbinding beauty, is worth the rental alone. Don't pass it off. "},{"Title":"Nick Cavanaugh Mansion Address For Die Hards.","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Personally i love the movie & for those lucky people that live in Atlanta or Georgia, Can see the Nick Cavanaugh Mansion which it states on here that it is Lullwater Road, Druid Hills which is wrong. The Correct Address is 3467 Castlegate DR,NW,Atlanta,GA. Sherilyn Fenn Looks Fantastic as Helena & in my opinion her best performance to date as i have seen 22 of her movies. Nick Cavanaugh is a Brilliant Atlanta Surgeon who seems to be Sexually Repressed, & one night meets the Sexy Helena & has a one night stand & falls in love with her & becomes Obsessed by her & everything she stands for. After the Death of his Mother Nick decides to keep the family mansion & throws a house warming party on the chance Helena will arrive & she does not caring for his hospitality. Once she has freshen up in his fountain she goes with one of Nicks Party Guests a fellow Surgeon for a one night stand & leaves her address book. She asks nick to bring her address book to the airport as he tricks her by coming late & so she comes to his mansion to collect, as Nick plays games with her wanting to eat & drink with her she then storms out & gets knock over by a car. Nick then has her captive in his House & amputates her injured leg & gradually finishes the job off by removing both arms & legs as a statue of sexual desire. By then belonging to him & so gradually she becomes dependant on him. A Brilliant film which does'nt get the credit it deserves the story may be daft but the point the director gets across is brilliantly shot with the fantasy dream visions of his mum is fantastic. I would love to see the movie remade. "},{"Title":"Empty weirdness","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Close. Real close. Boxing Helena was so close of being good, so close of being an fine and greatly elaborated movie which flies high imagination and weirdness, with pivotal elements of a twisted cult movie. Directed by Jennifer Chambers Lynch, daughter of the great David Lynch, Boxing... can be very enjoyable, an guilty pleasure to some or even an masterpiece to a few. To me, it was quite good until I realize it was going nowhere, completely problematic and when her speech started to fade away into a nebulous emptiness the movie was out of salvation.With a plot resembling one of Douglas Sirk melodramas but mixed with the guts of a weirdo movie, perpassing the idea of an The Collector (Fowles book, Wyler's film), Boxing Helena tells the story of a doctor (Julian Sands) so obsessed with the beautiful Helena (Sherilyn Fenn) of whom he had one night stand (but we never see that), that after an accident she suffered decides to take care of her in his house. She hates him, humiliates him but she can't go anywhere because he amputated her limbs, remaining under his care, devotion, love and obsession for 24/7. From this point on the movie evolves into a strange therapy where the doctor becomes the patient sharing (or forced to do so) his sexual insecurities with women, being analyzed by Helena the woman of his dreams and thoughts. Such transition is unexplainable, confusing, lacking in tension but filled of eroticism. The whole thing resembles an erotic film of the worst category. One can even claim to have seen soft core flicks better than this, with solid acting and far more exciting.The worst kind of criticism one can make about this film is saying that Jennifer Lynch failed to be like her father or that her work isn't so gripping like the ones the creator of Blue Velvet makes. Inspiration or similar sequences can be found in her work though (the opening scene for instance). She tried to find a way of her own (which is good) by created something more perverse, more melodramatic and more erotic in sensual scenes that lose their appeal very easily. Makes good use of the soundtrack (the scene where the doctor spies Helena, with Tears for Fears playing in the background) and that's the biggest achievement she controls here.What prevents Boxing Helena of being a good movie isn't its painful story or it's lack of imagination in having better moments. More upsetting than anything else is the bad performances from the main cast, something bad but so bad that you have to see it with your own eyes. Sands and Fenn are sexy and good to look at but boy, they do suck terribly here. Poor delivery of lines, unconvincing acting and the film editing that only made look ridiculous (the scene where he's running after seeing her with another man tops it all, is so pathetic that you wanna cover your eyes) and we feel embarrassed for them. And more embarrassing than that is seeing notable names like Bill Paxton, Kurtwood Smith and Art Garfunkel giving some good performances that go to waste in this little project. It's OK for a movie to be weird, twisted and disturbing as long as they have something plausible to say, something to see life with another perspective. Take a look at Cronenberg's Crash, another movie about strange obsessions, fully loaded with eroticism and weird aspects to make one walk out in shock. It was a great film because it has something to show, say and it was well-acted above all. Boxing... only ruined itself with cheap acting, the fluency of an rotten erotic flick and with a frightening ending. One can and should aspire for more than just watching films with some hot scenes but lacking in complexity or depth of character and situations. 4/10 "},{"Title":"See the film for yourself and decide","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" When I saw Boxing Helena, I was young but pretty jaded to motion pictures. I was in a for the shock and ride of my life. Now that I read it was directed by David Lynch's daughter, it doesn't surprise me. I wont belabor the plot or details of the movie, but I will say that as a young man who was pursuing and dating lots of women, this movie really made me think about the vulnerability of even super attractive women, and about what happens when men put no constraints on their desire to chase or own a woman. The fact that it delivered that message in a totally original and effective fashion makes it a top-shelf film in my mind.I will say that I told a few women I thought it was a great film and they were disgusted by it. Too many people took this film far too literally, even though it wasn't literal even within the plot. I actually think it assaults our construction of goddesses in the media at such a root foundation that it's actually a very insurgent, anti-establishment film. It really attacks a materialism associated with the pursuit and existence of beautiful people.It's definitely a thinker's picture. It's a perfect use of film, portraying something you don't want to see in real life to illustrate a point. It's also brilliantly shot and acted. Make up you own mind. There's no other film like it. "},{"Title":"Wicked","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This thriller is one of a kind. The story is compelling and interesting.Boxing Helena will lure you in, and once you are caught, cut off your limbs. This is a thriller with lots of depth and detail.The characters are interesting and well cut out. Each bringing lots to the story, and you can immerse yourself in the characters, because they are so well brought to life. Of course, the cast have a lot to do with this as well, and the casting was perfect for each role. The scenery in the movie works well, because it has that touch of personal space to it. It is not scary or dark sets, and it works well for the movie.The movie is not a gory or really scary one, but it will keep you thrilled with its sense of psychological dread. The story goes forward at a constant flow, never leaving you bored.Boxing Helena leaves you with something to ponder about once it has ended, and I like that in a movie, that means you actually got something for your money. I recommend that you give this movie a chance if you like a movie with some depth. "},{"Title":"Oddly Therapeutic","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of those guilty pleasures.  One of those total schlock films that we know it's an embarrassment to admit to liking, but we do anyway.Now, you might be wondering what can possibly be therapeutic about this film.  Simple Julian Sands plays one of the most pathetic excuses for a human being EVER.  Just look at the pansy wimpiness in his facial expressions and listen to him in every scene in the movie (well, okay, except for the sex scene with Nicolette Scorsese).Exhibit A He has a big party at his house just so he can invite Helena, while he knows bloody well she doesn't give Squat One about him.  One of the guests apparently has a video camera so he tells the guest to bring it (you find out later it's so he can tape Helena).  While Helena arrives and clearly shows she's not interested in anything he has to say, she eventually shows her irritation and says If you're gonna follow me around, hold this and hands him her purse, to which he softly says Thank you, as if he was doing the favor carrying the cross for Jesus, or something of that honor.And his pathetic, pansy, wussiness goes on and on, worse and worse, ad nauseam.He's even more screwed-up in his dream (which starts immediately after Helena's being hit by a truck and ends when he wakes up in the hospital). One would think that he would dream that Helena's glad he did emergency surgery and loves him for saving her life, but NO! He has to be a sniveling weakling even in his dream.  And, to make matters worse, he hadn't learned anything from the dream even at the end of the film, which is shown when he says, I'm still haunted by my love for her.By the time the movie's over, you got a bit of a headache from hitting the heel of your hand on your forehead in disbelief that a guy can be this low and you've almost forgotten what it's like not being slack-jawed from sitting in awe of this twerp.SO, HERE COMES THE THERAPY I MENTIONED EARLIER If you're feeling down on yourself, feel like a loser, and you watch this film, you might think to yourself that, well, compared to this jerk, maybe you ain't as low on the ranks of low-lifes as you thought you were.  In fact, you might even feel kind of high and mighty when you compare yourself to this extreme low depth of personality.  I say this in the same way I imagine some self-doubting family might have felt better about themselves when they watched and compared themselves to the Bundys of Married With Children.  "},{"Title":"Great idea, Atrocious execution","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS BELOW The movie was terrible, but I watched it all the way through, and if something happened where I had to turn it off, I would've come back and finished it. This is impressive because the characters were terrible(Julian Sands is supposed to be obsessed with Helena to the point of insanity, but he's a rich successful handsome chief surgeon who lives in a mansion, drives a Beemer, has a beautiful woman already and would have access to many more. He's the villain but he's not a villain that scares you and you thank God isn't real, he's one you wish was real so you could beat the sh*t out of him and ask what the hell is wrong with him. Some villains are hot sauce, this one is mayonaisse. But you will want to see what he does next sometimes. Helena you'll kind of like, she's obviously very beautiful, she's also strong-which seems to be the only good feature of her personality. You hate what's happened to her because you would hate to see it happen to anyone, never do you feel for her in particular, and her going from hating to loving him is waaaaay too abrupt. I was glad to see the Stockholm Syndrom portrayed but please give it some real psychological texture. Bill Paxton's character you will laugh at when you're supposed to think he's cool. Example When he leaves Helena's house putting on his shades with an Elvis sneer and says Hasta whatever. No one else really is developed.), dialogue hurt my head stupid(see Hasta whatever), plot ridiculous and unbelievable(the movie turns out to be a dream, which doesn't justify the humongous inconsistencies and question marks throughout the story like why she isn't suffering swelling and doesn't need bandages, how he lives in a giant mansion without a maid to help clean up, the fact that he has the equipment necessary to perform major surgery in his house, but it does explain it. But then he visits Helena in her hospital bed after an accident and surgery, and she still looks perfectly fine hair done, make up perfect, as beautiful as she was before being run over by a truck. They should have given her some bumps or bruises, something to juxtapose the dream world with reality.) The camera work(especially when she gets run over)is criminally negligent.Yet despite all this, the movie is worth watching just because it sums up obsessive fixations so perfectly with some of its imagery, and the idea of the story itself-a man obsessed with a woman removes her limbs in order to possess. Yes, it is a sick way to show it, but afterall it is a sick way of thinking. A lot of people complain about the grotesque subject matter, but is it really any worse than Buffalo Bill in Silence of the Lambs making a woman suit or any dozen other things that happen but are forgiven in better movies? He objectified and diefied her, first figuratively and then literally. She was a goddess in his mind and so he made her into a living statue of a goddess. The scene where he has her up on the table with the flowers all around her like he would have had the Venus, but now has her, a living ornament is one of the best images I've seen in movies. If only they had a half decent story to surround it. In conclusion absolutely brilliant as a metaphor, horrible as a movie. "},{"Title":"Perplexing. That says it all.","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The theme of Boxing Helena is hardly original. Check out Pedro Almodovar's 1990 film Tie Me Up, Tie Me Down (more interestingly titled Átame in Spanish) if you want a more interesting and better presented take on what happens when a slightly daffy man kidnaps a woman in the hopes that she'll eventually give in to his charisma (or the power of his love) and fall as madly in love with him as he is with her. In Jennifer  Lynch's version of the story, though, the basic idea of the caged bird growing to love captivity is given not so much a twist as a grotesque literalization.Julian Sands plays Nick Cavanaugh, a wildly successful doctor whose mother just passed away leaving him the family mansion, paid for by his surgeon father who, it seems, was cold to little Nick. And Little Nick's mother was downright abusive. Thus, it hardly seems surprising that Nick is spineless, pathetic, and British. How pathetic is he? His best friend is played by Art Garfunkel. Want more pathetic? The man who takes his job as chief surgeon is played by Kurkwood Smith. Want more pathetic? The girl he's in loved with, Helena (played by Twin Peaks Babe Sherilyn Fenn), a girl he actually only slept with once, is boffing Bill Paxton with bad hair. Yep. He's pathetic. So when he Shanghais Helena's purse after a Gatsby-esque lawn party and drags her back to his house to get her address book, it only seems a little odd. And when a horrible accident leads to him removing her legs, well, that's only slightly daffy. And when, just for kicks, he removes her arms as well, that almost seems normal.The problem with Boxing Helena, beyond the fact that it's just a bad movie (which it pretty much is) is that it's hard to know just how seriously one wants to take the allegory. Surely Lynch the director makes it fairly clear what she's getting at. Men put women on pedestals, like trophies. And so Nick makes a trophy of Helena. Men like to feel like they're capturing women, possessing them. Thus, the fact that the female character shares a name with the queen whose face launched a thousand ships, well, that's just obvious symbolism. And the fact that Lynch fills the screen with even more obvious symbols -- caged birds, statues of the perenially arm-less Venus De Milo, and dressmaker's dummies (minus arms, legs, and heads) -- doesn't really leave much to the imagination. In Helena, Nick has created a perfect plaything. He gets to dress her up, apply her makeup, and make pudding for her. Lynch, out of the goodness of her heart,  fails to show us any of the more distasteful responsibilities that one must guess arise from being the sole care provider for a woman without arms or legs. If it weren't for the fact that Helena's always yelling at him, well, life would be no problem. Physically, of course, she's no threat, but psychologically, she's a bit of a pain.Unless, of course, the film is a dark comedy. After all, Misery is a dark comedy and it has many of the same ideas, only with the gender roles reversed. If that's the case, one could wonder why nothing's funny. And also, the lessons that Nick learns as the film goes along, well, they're so ridiculous they might as well be funny. But again they're not.None of the performances are so bad, mind you. Or at least not so bad as to justify the fact that neither of the stars have ever recovered. On the other hand, the film is badly directed. Beyond the oozing symbolism, Boxing Helena basically looks like it was shot as a soft core porn flick. As such, though, it lacks even the grace of Fenn's own Two Moon Junction.The strangest thing about the film, though, is that I was never bored by it. Perhaps that's because everything made so little sense that I never had a clue where the story was going. I can accept that. Regardless, I figure this is a 4/10.  "}{"Title":"don't read the reviews - it's not that bad","Date":"12 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" After reading how awful this was, I didn't expect much of this movie and was pleasantly surprised. The thing is it works in its own way. This movie doesn't pretend to be anything, it just tells the story of an obsession. Acting is actually quite decent too, well, except for Paxton, who should be banned from acting anywhere, period. Personally, I think its a good thing that Basinger didn't get to play the part of Helena as she would only ruin this movie being very overrated, incompetent actress that she is. Sherylin Fenn, on the other hand, is very interesting to look at and deserves much more compliments for acting than she is getting. All in all, this is no Oscar contender, but it will get you amused... "},{"Title":"A different plot worth watching.","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I will say this movie is highly under rated at IMDb. This is not as bad. I loved the direction. The acting is good too. At few places it get dull for a few minutes but it kept me interested till end. The ending is a little vague but I guess there was no option. It shows the mental sickness of a successful surgeon. People say that it's brutal but they can't deny that this is impossible to happen. It may not be up to an extent shown in the movie but definitely it is possible. I have seen obsessed people like these who can go up to any extent to keep the women they love. Overall a different plot with good direction.Sherilyn Fenn looks great. Don't watch if you can't handle extremism, but if you can go ahead and watch it. It will leave a lasting impression. "},{"Title":"A Review of the Reviews...","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  After reading several User Comments for this film, I felt like I just had to write a review, but not for the film, which is quite good in its own way.  I agree with one of the reviewers here the states (quite correctly) that this is more a character study of a man effected by an incestuous relationship with his mother and his inability to deal with her death.  All else is just representative of this issue for him.  No, I felt the need to write a review of the REVIEWS posted here-in.  Now, I don't mean to get off on a rant here, but not every movie has to have Ben Afflect as it's star.  Not every movie needs to look like a Hollywood production.  Sometimes, hammy acting is used on purpose to denote a certain mood or pathos (look that word up, boys and girls).  And not every movie is telling the REAL story on the surface.  Now, I know that this may be a really difficult thing to accept, but sometimes a movie comes along the requires you to THINK FOR YOURSELVES instead of having every point and detail spoon fed to you.  When you encounter these films, you have a choie engage your brain and try to see what is really being said, there-be getting more from the film than you would from your standard Hollywood flick, or you can walk away without taxing you little brain.  Either way is good.  But if you coose the latter, than PLEASE spare us your purial reviews.  If you can't sit through the whole film, then don't bother wasting your time on a review which no-one will take seriously.  See, the ending of a film is often the most important part.  In 'Boxing Helena' for instance, the last 5-minutes change the entire perspective of the film and suddenly so many things become clear.  But if you the person who posted a review on this webpage stating that you turned this film off after forty-minutes, you wouldn't know that...right?  So why are you writing a review of a film which, in effect, you have not even seen?  Come on, people; this isn't rocket science.  It is art.  Enter at your own risk.  Or just keep walking with your mouth shut. "},{"Title":"Bad, trashy, boring, awful -- ** CONTAINS SPOILERS!! **","Date":"22 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Kim Basinger -- whatever you paid to get out of this mess, it was a bargain.There are so MANY levels on which this film falls onto its face, but the chief three are the script, Sherilyn Fenn, and especially Julian Sands.  He is so unbelievably bad in this movie that it gets funnier as the movie goes along.  How could a guy be a brilliant surgeon and administrator and be so absolutely stupid?  And when I say stupid, I mean slack-jawed, wide-eyed stupid -- and then is so cunning that he can hide a woman in his house for several weeks or months on end.  Of course, there is some really stupid dialogue that helps him along here.  The script was written by people who have never heard conversation before.  I'm absolutely sure of that.  Every line is delivered so deliberately, with weighty pauses, that you just know that it's Important Dialogue and also Very Profound and sometimes Highly Ironic.  I guess they thought that the bad dialogue would distract us from the gaping plot holes, such as Bill Paxton's character coming and going with no logic whatsoever.  Why would a guy that self-involved be obsessively searching for Helena for months?Sherilyn Fenn was ridiculously bitchy as Helena and spent most of the movie looking as bored as I felt.  Her makeup looks like it was troweled on for most of the movie (even before she loses her arms).  There are other shortcomings as well, especially two scenes the accident and a short scene at the hospital, which I'll explain in a second.  The accident was so badly planned and executed that it should be in the Ed Wood Hall of Shame.  First, you see Helena backing towards the street.  Then you hear the squeal of tires.  Then SHE LOOKS TOWARDS THE TRUCK AND STEPS INTO THE STREET ANYWAY, AND STANDS THERE LOOKING LIKE A DEER CAUGHT IN HEADLIGHTS.  Good Lord.  And then, she gets hit, you see her feet leave the ground, but somehow she's flat on her back and her legs are straight out and perfectly perpendicular to the truck for the tires to run over them.  HELLO??  This sequence is so badly shot that this alone should kill the director's career.Then, the hospital scene.  Once the accident is over, the very next scene is a shot of an office in the hospital, a long shot of a doctor sitting in a chair, while an off-screen voice tells her that Dr. Nick hasn't been seen in weeks and gosh, maybe he's not coming back to work, so they need to replace him.  This is all for the benefit of Dr. Nick's eavesdropping colleague, who is supposedly a friend (more on that in a moment).  The doctor is then told to CALL NICK TO SEE IF HE COULD RECOMMEND SOMEONE TO REPLACE HIM.  Why didn't they just call him to see if he was coming back?  Or why he was gone in the first place?  Why have that whole scene with the doctor and have the only speaking actor off-screen?  Why why why?And then, this friend goes to Nick's house and the only thing that concerns him is getting Nick's recommendation for the now-vacant Chief of Surgeons.  He sees Helena and does absolutely nothing about the fact that his buddy is doing free-lance amputations.  Why?  Never explained.** SPOILER ALERT ** (not that it matters much)Then, at the end, as if realizing that their script was so full of holes that it resembled Swiss cheese, we get the Bobby in the shower, it was all a dream ending.  Dr. Nick really DID take Helena to the hospital, you see.  For some reason, after that the movie continues to go on for another five minutes or so.  We get more close-ups of the doctor's Venus de Milo statue (a tiresome bit that appears in the movie more than Bill Paxton -- did the statue get scale?).Also, if you want to see this for the sex scene between Julian Sands and Nicolette Scorsese, forget it.  Neither she nor the scene are anything special; most of the time her face is covered by her hair, and you could see soft-core porn on cable that's done better (relatively speaking).  If you're turned on by this movie, get some help.Was there anything good about this movie?  Well, the camera was straight and focused, and the Italian opera music that was playing in the background wasn't too bad.  Of course, you could rent Moonstruck and hear the same thing.  Do what Kim did -- just say no. "},{"Title":"A deep, dark obsession","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" ''Boxing Helena'' is a strange movie made for no other than David's Lynch daughter, Jennifer Lynch. I need to be honest and say that I expected much more history and action from this movie,than it actually has. Not to mention that the script/plot is a little bit of confuse without many explanations of some facts For example, why they show all the time Nick Cavanaugh's mother? And Helena, is she really a prostitute and Ray is her pimp? And in the end, Helena looses her legs?(She went to the hospital but since the car smashed both of her legs, we don't know what happened to her after that)Confusions a part, Sherilyn Fenn is very beautiful woman, and in the role of Helena she does not disappoint. "},{"Title":"Um... yea...","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I can't say much about this movie. When i read the summary for the movie i was intrigued. Umm... yea... The summary was better then the movie itself. It was horrible. My mother and i sat on the bed waiting for some sort of climax, some sort of twist or turn. We were left with nothing. The movie ended and i was p****d at my mother for making me watch such c**p. The sad part about it was, i was angry for the entire day thinking about this movie. Lynch should be lynched for making a movie like this.The plot is great, but the movie is not. They should have really re-thought how they were going to execute the premise before just jumping into it. It could have been a really awesome movie, but, oh well. Stuff happens, things suck. "},{"Title":"Howlingly bad","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The fewer words said about this masterpiece of trash, the better. Everything about this production is mind-numbingly awful. The acting, the continuity, the character development....But I must shine a spotlight on the absolute worst and most contemptible aspect of this piece of tripe, the script. What were they thinking? This question refers to every moment of dialogue and action, but the Ninth Circle of Hell is surely reserved for the surprise ending foisted upon the straggling few viewers who actually make it to the end of this pool of cinematic cess. I won't spoil it for those among us who haven't seen, or who have blotted out from their minds, the last several minutes of this waste of celluloid, but suffice it to say that when we wake up from this awful nightmare that is Boxing Helena, none of us is rested, or better for the time spent in a narcotized coma. This gets my vote for worst film ever made, beating out even Showgirls and Manos, The Hands of Fate. View it at your own peril, and don't say you weren't warned.  "},{"Title":"Best I have seen","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Yes it was ten years ago now but I still consider this the most moving movie I have seen. It is one of the best films on power of love. /Other could be Titanic/ The analytic approach do not work here. /Other merit is the contrast of the platonic love and the status of the surgeon./ "},{"Title":"Intriguing concept, but well, *cough* *cough*","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I didn't watch the beginning of the film, but caught the movie when  the title character was at the airport, infuriated that Nick Cavanaugh, an obsessed surgeon, may have her address book at his mansion. Being in the health profession, I also felt puzzled about how the surgeon could operate at home, how the accident occurred in the first place, and why more people didn't suspect something absolutely bizarre was happening at Dr. Cavanaugh's residence. There are moments of hilarity in the film that I'm not sure was the director's intention.  As the story unfolded, I found myself rolling my eyes at Nick, and really despising him for his weakling and peculiar personality when it came to Helena, or anyone else for that matter.  He almost seemed effeminate in that light.  Maybe it was because Helena was so infused with yang, disguised by her bewitching beauty. While this movie isn't for everyone, it may be amusing to some. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Come on people, It's not that bad....","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Am I the only one who thought this movie was funny?  --Being directed by Jennifer Lynch(I'm a big fan of her father) I assumed it shouldn't be taken too seriously.  I thought it had merit-but it's no David Lynch film! "}{"Title":"Give me those 2 hours back","Date":"24 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This should be the only movie allowed in prison.  I guarantee no one will commit another crime.  A more pleasurable 2 hours could be spent hammering your thumb repeatedly. The plot simple, yet awful... Helena gets boxed.  Julian Sands plays the obsessed doctor who cuts off Helena's arms and legs.  Julian should never be allowed to act again.  And I don't care if it was the 90's, there is NO excuse for that haircut.  Sherilyn Fenn has never been worse as the one note femme fatale.  Amazingly Bill Paxton recovered from his awful performance and went on to Apollo 13 and much, much better things. Everyone involved should be ashamed.  This is the worst acted, worst written, and worst directed movie I have ever seen.  "},{"Title":"The biggest load of crap ever","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have never seen a more ridiculous movie.  It should tell you something that Kim Basinger backed out of this movie.  The other telling fact is that it stars Julian Sands, who is vying for the top spot in Worst Actor of All Time with Keanu Reeves.  See the movie and you'll be convinced that Julian deserves the top spot hands down. "},{"Title":"A movie about love that turns into obsession.","Date":"20 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" i love this movie ,it's my favorite!although might be considered a little bit sick,it is amazing how much love can give a men to a woman,who is very hard to conquer.gradually,she convince herself that Nick Cavanaugh is the right person for her and he is gonna love her no matter what.HELENA fall in love with him but the love scene is brutally interrupted by ray s apparition.my favourite scene is the one when she screams in the terrace,the one with nick and a lady having sex and Helena watches,and the scene in which nick take care of her by putting make-up.Sherilyn Fenn is adorable with or without legs and arms and Julian Sands 's performance is great. "},{"Title":"name of song","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" can someone please let me know the name of the song when Helena steps into the fountain during the part that nick invited to. I have been searcinhg and is not listed in the soundtrack listing in IMDb. please let me know @raven2000crow@yahoo.com This song sounds like clannad or maybe even enya i can tell and i have been searching.I have asked tons of people and still can not locate the artist name or song title. Please remember that its only the song when helena is berthing in the the fountain at nicks party at the beginning of the movie. If you have any info please let me know or even maybe an idea of where to find this song. "},{"Title":"The worst film ever?","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is quite simply the worst film I have ever watched. The plot is ridiculous and the ending is reminiscent of the most basic schoolchild story. I have to say I struggle to think of anything positive to say about it at all. It could have been cool, off the wall and quirky - instead it was dire. Don't waste your time with this one. "},{"Title":"good movie, bad ending!","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I am an avid Julian Sands fan and find it hard to hate any of his movies, but this was not the greatest.  The story and acting were all fine, but the ending was really stupid.  I felt like I had just sat through a two hour soap opera after I saw the ending.  The writer or whoever came up with it really ruined it. "},{"Title":"sands and spades","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Julian and co-star Sherilyn Fenn couldn't have done better portraying the struggle to concede, then eventually dominate their fear of losing control and enduring excruciating moments of humiliation, only to find their true strength lies in the very thing they cannot overcome. Dominence becomes submission and vice versa. Weak ending, but great film. Now, how about pairing The Best of B-and quirky genre boys together. Sands and Spader. JS & JS. Any thoughts on this brilliant bold young moviemaker that takes on, and has enough balls to make a genre movie that is strong enough to carry BOTH of them a film, as parallel personalities, rivals, yet soooo similar in their sexual separateness. I DARE YOUR IMAGINATIONS TO ACT OUT THE POSSIBILITIES. My hope is Shaun Cassidy, After Amer. Gothic, he broke my heart when I realized he bested David Lynch, who made a titanic error when he decided to quit the wonderful intricacies of that world, and, instead, gave fodder to fuel the fools that fed fame. Mr. Cassidy, You are the man with the cojones. I hope you consider it. "},{"Title":"Tense fantasy thriller,slightly underrated","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Julian Sands plays Nick,an obsessed doctor who tries to rehabit the love one of his former girlfriends he never satisfied in the past.Helena is the charm of his affection but wants nothing more to do with him.After teasing him at a party one night she realises that she forgets her purse and after going back for it gets hit by a vehicle on the road.Instead of calling an ambulance he treats her himself by amputating her legs.She thinks even worse of him at this time and he then ends up having to remove her arms as well.Her boyfriend back in her hometown is curious about her and comes to track her down and the end is predictable from then onwards but the twist is hard to get.Boxing Helena is a tense fantasy thriller and if you enjoyed this I reccomend Misery.You can tell in the movie that Nick is obviously not with it and only removed her legs and arms to keep her there.There are some scenes that you might find offending and disgusting,but above all this its enjoyable. 3/5 "},{"Title":"Weird movie about sexual obsession and it's lack of love...","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  1st watched 9/17/1999 - 5 out of 10(Dir-Jennifer Chambers Lynch) Weird movie about sexual obsession and it's lack of love.  This is displayed rather grotesquely as a bizarre dream that never ends where the man who is obsessed puts his object literally in a box for him only and for her to be in a position to only need him.  A little too out there and confusing for the viewer. "},{"Title":"What a waste of time!","Date":"25 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is, without a doubt, one of the most horrible movies I've ever seen. Don't waste your time.  I'm just glad that I didn't have to spend any money to see it.  No wonder Kim Basinger refused to be in it.  If the suit didn't bankrupt her, this movie would have surely tarnished her career anyway. "}{"Title":"Please don't spend ANY time or money on this trash","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  If there was a contest of the worst movie of the nineties, I'd say this one wins hands down. Julian Sands is, IMHO, a terribly unconvincing actor and this is probably his worst performance yet. He is, however, not to be blamed, as the scenario was even worse.I have seen few people actually leave a movie screening back home in Europe, but this one chased 'em out by the dozen. I too would have spared myself having to watch the truly dreadful ending if I wasn't carpooling with others at that occasion. (As it turned out, everyone of our little group was waiting for the others to walk out). If you read this because you're thinking about renting this horrid creation, please reconsider. There MUST be some better alternative available. "},{"Title":"This movie is bad","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I really was upset by this movie.  Not because it's about a surgeonwho abducts a nymphomaniac and cuts all her limbs off.  Butbecause it was so boring and poorly done.  I mean, if I were goingto make a movie about a wimpy surgeon sexually obsessed with anymphomaniac who he dismembers, I would at least TRY to makeit a LITTLE edgy.  But Lynch (David's daughter for Godsakes)seems content just making a soft core porn film.  This movie isstupid.  The ending doesn't make any sense.   "},{"Title":"Very Dull and Disappointing","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie last night on the Independent Film Channel, and frankly, I want those two hours of my life back. I had been told that Boxing Helena was disturbing and sick, so being the person that I am, I had to see this for myself. Well I was not disturbed by it, in fact I was left with no real feeling at all, except for maybe the one to reach for the remote! Sherilyn Fenn's acting range is comparable to that of a flotation device on Baywatch, and pairing her with the excellent Julian Sands makes her lack of talent even more apparent. A good portion of her scenes with Bill Paxton were similar to a soft core porn flick, which is more proof that if you tell a celebrity something is artistic, they'll do anything on film while naked. But getting back to discussing the film, I thought that the symbolism, such as the caged bird and the armless Venus de Milo statue, was beat to death. They kept flashing these images upon the viewer, in such a way that it's obvious the word subtlety was not in the filmaker's vocabulary. Before I finish this review, I have one last comment to make. Helena's personality was that of a troll. Why anyone would be obsessed with such a self absorbed woman is beyond me. I can understand why she would be portrayed as upset after all the amputations, but before that, even at the party, she seemed to be heartless and cold.  "},{"Title":"Probably the worst film I've ever seen","Date":"17 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Some films are so bad that they're good. This film is so bad that if I were Kim Basinger, I'd have been more than happy to pay the $1.9 million damages for not appearing in it. Best money she ever coughed up.Julian Sands confirms his standing as one of the world's all-time terrible actors in a scenario from Jennifer Lynch which proves that nepotism rarely works in the movies. Even her visionary old man, David, would have difficulty gaining any kudos from this abysmal tale of obsession and amputation. Bill Paxton should know better, and after Twin Peaks, I'd have credited Sherilyn Fenn with having more savvy than she showed in taking this role.Self-indulgent, badly executed and incredibly dull - I sincerely hope that someone amputates Jennifer Lynch's funding for any future ordeals she might want to put the movie-going public through. "},{"Title":"Children","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Oh what a problem adult children are.What do you do with children who become people? I'm thinking here are of children of friends who you admire and respect in some way, who are worth living and being with. Who enrich your life so you want to engage in their worlds and projects, or maybe just drift in an interwoven conversation. Who have children with none of these qualities, who seem to have even been singed by the bright light of a heated parent.What do you do? There they are in your house, with an entrée of shared ideas inherited from deep adventures they know about, may have even been on as bystanders. Now they have access of sorts to your heart and an invitation to suck your energy. When we invite talented filmmakers into our dreams, its hard to shut out their kids.Sometimes they deliver. And sometimes not. Sofia Coppola is a dope, a bad filmmaker made to look good by the rich underwriting of her dad who provides the industry's very best. What you see as an artful suspended empty center in her work is an empty center surrounded by skills that make her vacuity look deliberate. Compare that to her brother Roman who eschewed Daddy's acolytes and has something interesting to say. One loss, one gain.Now we have another kiddo of a brilliant mind. I know few people who don't appreciate Lynch, who haven't collaborated with him in opening new ways to see and new facets of reality to open. And his daughter seems as blunt as he is sharp. Perhaps if he interceded he could have prevented this embarrassment and have us celebrate Jessie like we do Sophie.But its probably better this way. We know to close the door.Its a promising thing, the idea, at least to judge from the hundreds of good treatments we have of it. A man desires a woman so thoroughly that he bends reality, and catches us up in his obsessions. Along the way, her being becomes packaged as simply a few delicious body parts to be worshiped in the service of supporting the newly created world. Plus the notion of healing by breaking. (He's a doctor.)In fact it is just the sort of thing David would eat for breakfast, his table leavings annotating seven levels beyond.And you can see that she knows a few things, probably overheard the girl must be redhead. Her cage should be a throne/altar. The house should be something evocative of movie fantasy. The plot device that ruins the kidnapping plot is a pomegranate, with its succulent cells, each distinct. There's an inexplicable video of a key scene, where she finally hypnotizes our victim. (She's exhibiting herself in a fountain.)But these bits aren't leveraged. La Belle Noiseuse (the long version) may be one place to go as an alternative, but there are hundreds others, even that I have seen in the past couple years &#151; and comment on here.Oh child, I won't be in tomorrow.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"The apple was catapulted from the tree!","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Wow! David Lynch's daughter should not be allowed to play in daddy's office! Good writing and film-making is not hereditary in this family. If you like lifetime movies spliced with soft core porn, then this is the movie to waste two hours of your life on! The idea of the film was good, but lacked good dialogue, suspense, fear, and story...and what a surprise ending! Can we please stop wasting good film on It was all a dream endings now. I am giving Sherilynn Fenn the get out of a career killer free card because I think she is a good actress, but this is no Twin Peaks! You have been warned! Do not watch this film looking for quality, but it may not be so bad for a good laugh. The highest hope for this film is to go down in the B movie hall of fame. I wished I watched it under those pretenses, as I would have prepared myself better. "},{"Title":"Can it truly have been THIS bad?","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  It doesn't go without saying that the child of a brilliant director will be brilliant also. Sometimes children can exceed the abilities of their parents (for example, Sofia Coppola with The Virgin Suicides). Other times they can fall quite short of the mark, proving that brilliance isn't always inherited. And Jennifer Chambers Lynch certainly DOES fall short of the mark.Not only does this film make absolutely pathetic use of Julian Sands, normally a stunning actor (see anything that he's done with Mike Figgis, for instance, especially his comic turn in Timecode), it also makes Bill Paxton worse than usual, destroys Sherilyn Fenn, whose Twin Peaks days are quite clearly over, and doesn't seem to have a clue what to do with Art Garfunkle, who gives the film's only decent performance.I would never criticise a movie for being strange or unpleasant - some of my favourite films would be quite aptly described as such. David Lynch has made quite a phenomenal career out of being strange and unpleasant. But his daughter just DOESN'T know how to do it like he does. It would be ridiculous to expect a film about sexual obsession to follow normal patterns of human behaviour, but this film doesn't even follow its own internal logic. Nick's actions are not those of a weak and naive pervert - all they demonstrate is mind-blowingly bad script-writing. And, not wanting to give anything away (although it could hardly ruin the film for anyone), I can only say that Jennifer's attempts to provide the story with a thought-provoking twist are, at best, pitiful. No, really - it's that bad. Pretentious camera-work and editing (and pretentious is a word that I don't use lightly) only serve to further compound the film's status as truly awful. I wanted to enjoy Boxing Helena - I truly did. When I read other IMDB user reviews that complained about it being strange, I took this as more an encouragement to watch it than a discouragment. I hoped for a dark and intriguing journey into the human psyche. What I got was a waste of time and money - I'm not entirely sure why I stuck with. I found myself fast-forwarding through the sex (strange, I know), and laughing where it sought to be either disturbing or compelling. I dearly wish I could say it wasn't all that bad, but the time that's elapsed since I saw it only confirms my initial reaction really, really, REALLY bad. I can't give it few enough stars to fully convey a sense of this badness.All I can say is David Lynch, you really should have brought your daughter up better than this. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"19 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Truly one of the worst commercial films I've ever seen. I have nothing against Jennifer Lynch or her famous father, but this is an example of the kink of pure junk that can smell up the theater when a famous, talented parent gives a camera and blank check to his untalented child, and says go make a movie. Then that child says, OK, I'll not only make a movie, I'll make a movie that's darker, and more gross than daddy's worst nightmare. You can't even blame the screenplay on anyone else because she wrote that too. There are very few films that I really go out of my way to warn people against. After all, we all have different tastes and opinions. But, there is simply nothing good I can say about this piece of garbage, and I would not wish it on my worst enemy. "},{"Title":"Slow-motion","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I really liked the story of Boxing Helena, but there were some areas of editing that brought my opinion down a bit. There were parts where dramatic points were trying to be put across in an obvious fashion, but over exaggerated with slow-motion and the cutting of some scenes was timed badly or too shortly.However, if you enjoy subtle horror, this film is fantastic. Some very important imagery is involved, and personally when I watched it I was compelled to sympathise with Nick's character as the story developed.If you are the sort of person who enjoys knowing exactly where each character stands after the film (such as what they are likely to do afterwards, where they will go, etc) then the ending of this film may leave you wanting somewhat. "},{"Title":"proof that film-making skill is NOT hereditary","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" In Boxing Helena, Ms. Lynch took a potentially good idea and just flat out massacred it. The basic plot, an obsessive doctor forces the object of his obsessions to be his prisoner by amputating her legs after an accident, could have made for an interesting film experience. But Boxing Helena is lacking in so many important areas, it couldn't have made even the most interesting premise fly.The acting was sub par all the way through, ranging from the mediocre down to the straight-out-of-a-b-movie area. The dialogue was dull, stilted, and often pointless. The characters were all flat and poorly drawn. Even the soundtrack was appalling, helping to nail in the made for TV atmosphere that pervaded much of the film. The sex scenes could've been right out of a soft-core Skinemax-type flick. There were far too many shots that should have been left on the cutting room floor. And the surprise ending felt cheap and tacked on.All in all, this was just a bad movie. Not bad in a entertaining, campy sort of way; just sloppy and tedious. Don't be suckered in by the fact that this was David Lynch's daughter, or because you think the plot sounds interesting. It's really not worth the time. "}{"Title":"Sherilyn Fenn by default","Date":"28 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" OK firstly, Boxing Helena was marketed to the public as a stylish thriller when in fact its more for the art-house conneseiur who can appreciate the style of film rather then some of its scripting.Julian Sands plays the anal retentive Doctor Nick Cavaneaugh who troubles with women sexually lead to his obsession with Helena - Sherilyn Fenn. The roles were played, despite the flack the film has copped through the decade, to part in that Sands depicts the sordid Doctor with his sexual repressions with elements of his role from Gothic and style of Warlock. Fenn brings to the screen in true bombshell style the glamour of Hollywood in true early-mid 90's sexual flavour that we had witnessed in other movies such as Two Moon Junction & Basic Instinct. The cat like seductress who Dr Cavenaugh must contain for his personal obsession to learn more about himself and for her to be forced into acceptance to love someone as pitiful as the good Doctor.The mood shifts suddenly when Helena has an accident outside of the doctors house forcing her to be treated by the doctor and facing his obsession head on. What most people seem to not be able to stomach with the movie is how far Julian Sands' character will go to contain his obsession with the slight help of amputation, hence the title.It does fall into the parody of what is fantasy blurred with reality. However fantastic acting mixed with style and beautiful sets make this one at least to sit through once. I agree its not every persons cup of tea and if u normally don't rent movies from your local art-house area's then steer clear.Interesting tidbit is that the Australian version is uncut in all its glory thus we get to see Desperate Housewives star - Nicholette Sheridan in all her glory as Nick's fantasy girl.... "},{"Title":"Oh please. What a piece of crap!","Date":"16 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Oh come on, please. This a film where some writer had a small idea (how to keep a woman you're obsessed with) and then tried to build a plot around it. The result speaks for itself - Utter piece of junk. I can't even bring myself to watch the whole film.There are so many good films out there that it's amazing something this bad could have bubbled to the surface. It's even more amazing that people actually hyped it when it first came out. Skip it. Watch something else - anything else! "},{"Title":"So bad it makes Plan 9 look like a work of genius by comparison!","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Let me be brutally honest this is nothing more than a trashy, soft-core porno flick. So why did I watch it? Well, I was a Peaks Freak and had seen Sherilyn Fenn in Twin Peaks and wondered -- was there life after that show for her and others? And I just so happened to have heard about Boxing Helena and decided to rent it.Worst decision of my life, I think, regarding movie rentals. I wanted my money back. This was appalling. There was no drama unless you're talking the type of drama in stuff like Red Shoe Diaries or Erotic Confessions and so on. The story concerns a surgeon who intervenes in a woman's life when she's hit by a truck and badly injured. Now there's only one explanation as for what happens from the point of her being hurt onwards and it comes up at the end of the film and when you see it you will be mightily disappointed. In the meantime so many weird things happen. You may enjoy it if you like soft-core porn, plotless movies, trashy directing, non-consensual bondage, and the like. Otherwise I would say STAY AWAY FROM THIS LOSER.About the only reward I got from having seen this regrettable excuse for a movie was a few years later when, watching an episode of Sisters, I saw one of the actresses in a scene where she's working out on a treadmill and there is an absurdly high stack of videos next to her. Just so happens her character is dating a man who's a boxing champ. And it's Rocky, Rocky II, Rocky III and so on, well on beyond the number of Rocky movies ever made, up to an absurdly high number (like Rocky XXVII or something like that) and finally, on top of it all, is one marked BOXING HELENA. I nearly died laughing.An absolute bomb. 0 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Worst movie I have ever seen.","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  When people ask me what my least favorite movie is, I answer promptly, without hesitation and my reply is always, always, always, Boxing Helena. The only redeeming feature of this horrendous waste of time, is that it might prompt laughs from some of the more lighthearted viewers.Otherwise, choose another way to spend two hours of your life.  "},{"Title":"What's the big deal?  It's not that bad!","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I've avoided this film for years because of the reputation that it built after Kim Bassinger pulled out.  I just saw it for the first time and I have to say, it's not by any means the worst film I've ever seen -- it's not even the worst film I've seen today.  Don't get me wrong, it wasn't great, but considering it killed the careers of most everyone in it (with the exception of Bill Paxton -- who probably only got his next part because of his brief frontal nude scene) -- I really thought it was going to be awful.  Far from awful, just strange, overlong, and boring at many times.  The acting was great (Julian Sands and Kurtwood Smith particularly), and the effect that Sherilynn Fenn was limbless was impressive.  If you're like me and you've wanted to see it but been afraid of it's reputation, just rent it.  It's really not that bad -- but don't expect it to be wonderful either.  "},{"Title":"tawdry exhibitionism","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The defining features of this movie areIt was made by David Lynch's daughter. Hammy acting. Bill Paxton with big hair and leather. Every sex thriller cliche you ever heard of pointless exhibitionistic nudity, pointless bold and the beautiful-style bodily injuries, pleanty of hospital scenes, blowing curtains, blowing hair, people walking through fountains, gimmicky use of slow motion, obsessed loser stalking vapid manipulative woman, cheap use of music.I turned it off after forty minutes (which is much longer than i recommend you give it). I only lasted that long out of pure morbid curiosity - like the way you turn your head and look at a car accident. I'm told it gets much worse and twisted as it progressed. Frankly, i can do without it.With an inexperienced director, all of Sherilyn Fenn's exotic appeal seems lost. I realised that it was really David Lynch's treatment of her in Twin Peaks that made her seem so erotic, less than a quality in herself. Here she seems like just another actor doing her best to indulge in the tawdry sex thriller cliches which abound in this script. Jennifer Chambers Lynch has taken a syringe and sampled the dark eroticism of her father's work, then diluted it in about twenty parts Mills and Boon and twenty parts sick thriller. By the time Sherilyn Fenn finally met the strange main character (the worst performance of the lot) face to face, i was past caring. "},{"Title":"why is everyone so )*&^)*&*( ;  critical.","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This was a cool movie. very erotic erotic by activating the imagination.this is a common fantasy. total control, total dependence.hmmm i am told i need 10 lines of comment. oookaay. had it been any more specific it would not have been rated r. although i would love to see an X version. perhaps using Helena as a wall ornament. or actually putting Her IN a box. sort of like thing in the Adams family. fun fun fun. so it wasn't as good as it COULD have been. big deal. i enjoyed it.i think that is is 10 "},{"Title":"Not worth the bother...","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I had seen this movie on the shelf at the local rental store for probably about two years.  I was certain I would rent it one day, even if for the simple fact that Julian Sands was a key cast member.  I chose last night to watch the film, and I was left thoroughly unimpressed.The overall plot of the movie was an interesting one -- a man's obsession with a beautiful, allbeit egotistical woman moves him to act in extreme ways in order to gain her affection.  Not interesting enough for you?  Enter the idea of surgery to make the woman learn that she needs someone to take care of her (hence the title, *Boxing* Helena).The cast was stunning -- Sands' apt portrayal of a whiny, misguided doctor desperately in need of love, Fenn's bitchy attitude and lustful beauty, even Art Garfunkel's caring psychiatrist schtick.  They played their parts well.I would say that the movie, overall, was a thoughtful piece.  I was embarrassed for the characters at points (did Helena *really* need to jump in the fountain at the party?), and that made the film a bit difficult to watch.  The love scenes were also a bit lengthy, but tolerable.This brings me to the ending how utterly predictable, contrived, and irritating!  I was actually angry at the screenwriter for presenting such a nice fantasy, then ruining it with oh, but didn't you guess? antic.Unless you plan to turn this movie off 5 minutes before it ends, skip it. "},{"Title":"Best Worst Film Contender","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" It is very difficult to salvage any redeeming features from this film, other than its burgeoning status as a contender for the best worst mainstream film in recent years.The plot really is as simple as a man obsessed with a woman amputates her limbs and keeps her in a box.As for the tag lines, bizarre, yes, erotic no. Leading lady Sherilyn Fenn is sexually neutralised in her role, pretty much undermining the entire premise of the film. Director Jennifer Lynch, in trying to emulate the off beat vibe of her fathers work, falls flat on her face on this project with a resounding thump.Kim Bassinger famously pulled out of this film at the last minute at considerable personal cost to her - she should reflect that it was worth every penny not be involved. This is the only time I have ever stayed with a film to the end purely because I wanted to verify its worst ever status unfolding before my eyes. "},{"Title":"A waste of time and money","Date":"26 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Worst movie in history. Directing daughter of David Lynch probably takes after her mother. Script is terribly bad, and together with the horrible acting it makes this movie a complete disaster.  Try something good from the father, e.g. Wild at heart. "}{"Title":"Interesting Opera","Date":"13 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This movie shook me on levels that I never knew I had. There is a scene where Julian Sands is listening to opera. I hate opera. My mother listened to opera all when I was growing up. I recognized the piece that J.S. was listening to, from Madama Butterfly, and  then went to download it. I guess I realized that a music form that I HATE was much better that this movie. Ummm.. a paralell example? I am allergic to shellfish. If I were put at gunpoint and be asked to watch this movie again, or eat a pound of shellfish, those shrimp wouldn't have a chance!  "},{"Title":"WATCH THIS NOW!","Date":"3 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I'm sorry, but you have to rent this movie.  Get a stack of beers, a few mates round the house and prepare to watch one of the most virtuoso performances of the actors craft.  I refer of course to Bill Paxtons mindblowing performance - confusing, hilarious, bizarre, stilted, uncomfortable, dreadful.Ah it makes me laugh even to think of it.  Is he talking the p*ss?  Watch and judge for yourself. "},{"Title":"Maybe the worst ever.","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I saw this at the Cinerama Dome in Hollywood shortly after opened with a packed audience. After about an hour into this stupefyingly awful movie the people behind me started to talk among themselves. I was thinking of shushing them when the couple next to me started talking. Pretty soon everyone in the theater was talking amongst themselves, ignoring the movie on the screen. It sounded like the lobby of a theater.I've seen people shout at the screen, I've heard people make loud comments throughout. This was the first and only complete audience mutiny I've even witnessed. Everyone, collectively, had enough of the movie and had moved on. With about an hour left to go in the film. "},{"Title":"Plot does not grab and hold you","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I rented this movie a number of years ago, based on the title I thought it would be interesting but it was hard to get into the characters as they had no real depth, you could not really feel them or understand the past of some of the characters, so it was hard to have sympathy or empathy for what was happening to Helena. The movie went nowhere. Intellectually speaking with a better script it might have been salvageable.It was not hard to understand why some more accomplished actress did not sign on, they must have saw this train wreck coming. The surgeon I thought should have been more developed, at least this way you could have felt something be it hate,disgust,fear or loathing you could attach some feeling(albeit bad) to the character there by giving the movie somewhere to go rather than leaving the viewer to stumble through this poorly developed catastrophe of a movie. "},{"Title":"a movie to tear apart","Date":"4 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" first of all i'm giving this movie 5 stars not because i liked it as a movie, but because i haven't had this much fun tearing a movie apart in a long time. i knew nothing about it when i watched it with my ex, including who the director was. All she told me was that it was recommended to her by someone she knew because it was twisted and thought provoking. It took about 5 minutes for us to start ripping this movie apart. From the running on a treadmill scene after JS climbs a tree to spy on his mother obsession, to Art Garfunkel's misshapen head popping up at the oddest times, it was a laugh fest all the way through. It was a good idea. It stopped there. There's nothing below the surface of the movie.. the director makes it obvious the point she is trying to get across. I rarely take pride is siding with the majority but in this case i'll make an exception. this movie never should have been made but since it was enjoy it for what it isn't.. and that's good. By all means watch it, discuss it, then get drunk and watch it again.the funniest part of this movie is that my ex bought 10 copies that she gave as Christmas presents due to her friends recommendation, and was completely embarrassed that she did so after we watched it.Bad Bill Paxton was definitely the highlight That's it man.. game over man! "},{"Title":"utter garbage","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" I watched this movie once years ago with my cousin. Though not in the same category as Red Zone Cuba it's still a ghastly train wreck of a movie that should never have been made. Julian Sands always creeps me out, and Sherilynn Finn hasn't had a good role since Twin Peaks. It's interesting to speculate if the presence of Madonna or Kim Basinger would have made this film any less terrible. As it is, it's a revolting mess, an exercise in what-were-they-thinking? that lacks even the campy appeal of Showgirls. Imagine what Pier Paolo Pasolini could have done with this film! Jennifer Lynch's direction proves that talent does skip a generation sometimes. My only regret is that I never got to see the bots from MST3K rip into this abysmal garbage dump of a movie. "},{"Title":"life's too short to pollute your mind with this film","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is the directorial debut of David Lynch's seemingly demented daughter (wow--who would figure David Lynch would have a weird kid?!). Reportedly, other potential directors pulled out of the film because the script was so sick and they were afraid it might give sickos ideas.Here's the nauseating script in a brief NUTshell Julian Sands is infatuated with Helena, but he's too shy to tell her. So he does what most people might do in this situation--kidnaps her, takes her home and slowly cuts off her limbs and keeps her in a box. All, of course, with intense sex scenes thrown in to boot.If you are asking why would anyone want to see something like that?, then you are apparently normal. The film is gratuitous and gross and I hope those associated with it are remembered for this film when they seek work. And, if you want to see nudity, there are certainly better and less revolting porno videos out there! "},{"Title":"Bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad bad","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Few movies make me this angry. No, only this movie makes me uniquely angry. This is absolutely the lowest possible that a movie can sink to. For the only comparison, I must traverse art forms, to song, to I was Born for You, for this epic proportion of negative quality karma. That it is still making. In my memory. Argh, argh, argh, somebody give me that Guy Pearce malady (Memento, wait, why am I mentioning it in the same paragraph as Boxing ______. There, I stopped short, thank goodness.) Julian Sands would later appear in Rose Red. That film just simultaneously irritates me and bores me dead. The first in part because every time I see Julian I feel the trauma of Boxing _____. Oh well. Back to Boxing ________. I was just aghast at the concept. Stupid stupid stupid. And the ending was incredibly hackneyed hackneyed hackneyed! Am repeating myself - time to end rant. Cathartic, self-therapeutic. Thanks IMDb. "},{"Title":"awesome movie","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" How can anyone not like this movie? I guess the people that do not like it are only entertained by shoot 'em up,blood/gore Or maybe movies Tommy Boy or Billy Madison & Dumb & Dumber. (Doesn't take any brains to make movies like those).I guess movies that make you think are not as popular in America.Although Beavis and Butthead are pretty good. Why do I need 10 lines?Too much comment area. I have to make stuff up for my comment to go through.Are you tired yet?No more to comment on. Please let my comment go through this time. "}]