[{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"17 February 2003","Score":"60 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Coneheads is one of the best Saturday Night Live movies. I was expecting a light comedy but what I got was a whole lot more. Following a similar plot to the skit, Coneheads is the story about the Beldar Conehead family who crash on earth during a scouting mission for planet conquest. While here, they dodge the INS, have a child and discover that life on Earth is quite good. This is where the movie shows its heart. It could have been a movie of comedy bits but by the end, it is about happiness in a stable family, which is quite refreshing in these days of depressing movies about divorces and unmarried couples. It is nice to see Beldar be a father figure to his daughter rather than the Let Your Kids Be Who They Are mentality of these days. The direction of the film in excellent, setting up many nice visual gags and shots that are very impressive for a comedy film. And at times, the film feels epic as you see the family on the run from the INS, to moving to the suburbs to returning to their planet. There are great performances throughout the film and the many cameos are perfect. Look for funny scenes from Jan Hooks, Adam Sandler, Michael Richards, and Garrett Morris. Michelle Burke makes a nice debut as Connie Conehead and I expect to see more of her in the future.On the surface, this seems like a dumb movie and it has received many poor reviews. But if you sit back and let it take you on an adventure (and if you can keep up with the way the Coneheads use different words for common items) you will be pleasantly surprised.  "},{"Title":"A lot of fun, the rating is so unfair","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"42 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Remember back in the early 90's where Paramount released unforgettable comedies and they just wouldn't stop? Coneheads came out and for some weird reason that is beyond me got a bad rep, I know that this was a sillier movie and not the strongest to come out of the vaults of Saturday Night Live with it's goofy characters. But the film in my opinion worked because it had Dan Aykroyd writing the film as well as starring in it. Honestly, how could you not laugh at this movie? If you're telling me that you did not laugh one time during this movie, there is something wrong with you, check your funny bone because this movie has a great cast who looked like they just had a blast making Coneheads.Beldar Conehead and his wife Prymaat Conehead as they try to assimilate into American society and pursue the immigrant's American dream. Their spacecraft was part of an advance scouting mission for an invasion, but was shot down by a F-16 fighter-interceptor, stranding them on Earth. They live with secret identities while an INS agent tracks them incessantly over the years. They Conehead family blend into Paramus, New Jersey and take up activities that are part and parcel of the American Dream. They also raise their teenage daughter, Connie, who has recently begun dating. As they continue to wait for their mother ship, they live the American dream where they are respected and upstanding citizens.I know this is silly but I can't help but laugh at the way the coneheads talk to each other, especially when Beldar gets his citizen name Donald R. DeCicco, the way he says DeCicco is just too funny. I'm not a huge Chris Farely fan, but he is so hilarious and charming in this movie as Ronnie who takes a liking to Beldar's daughter. When he starts to get a little touchy feely with her and she tells her parents about it, Beldar rips the roof of Ronnie's car like a can opener saying in his own alien way that he will kill Ronnie if he tires anything again and Ronnie being confused by the way Beldar said it said back Uh, thank you?. The movie may be silly, but when have we let being silly get in the way of us having a good time? If something makes you laugh, don't fight it. I think this was a fun comedy that is a treasure in my DVD collection. Trust me, just let go and have a good time, I'm sure you'll get at least one laugh from this wonderful comedy.7/10 "},{"Title":"a pleasant little film","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"36 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The fact that this is a good film AND it was done by ex-SNL actors help this movie to really stand out for me. Dan Aykroyd is terrific as Beldar and it shows that he CAN do a decent film (and he's done some stinkers--Neighbors, 1941, Nothing But Trouble, Dr. Detroit).As I said above, I haven't been that impressed by many of the films by ex-SNL cast members--especially when they are movie-length versions of SNL skits. However, this movie expands on the characters and has great heart. In other words, despite the humor, the lead characters come off as sympathetic and decent. If the characters had been just like they were in the skits, the movie would have fallen flat on its face. Instead, we are treated to many instances when the Coneheads try so hard to fit in and be the average American family. It's also quite amusing that almost no one seems to notice that they AREN'T! There are many SNL-related cameos and supporting players throughout the movie and they are pretty well integrated (i.e., they usually don't seem like tacked on cameos but fit within the plot). Also, although I generally hate David Spade, his annoying personality fits in perfectly with the character he plays.This is a good film for the whole family. It's cute, funny and actually has amazingly good family values! "},{"Title":"An Under-appreciated Gem!","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"39 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dan Aykroyd and Jane Curtin reprise their roles from Saturday Night Live on to the big screen. The film is filled with countless classic cameos that really make this film. Jason Alexander as the follically challenged neighbor and Chris Farley as Connie Conehead's boyfriend are especially hilarious. I really wondered if you could pull off a feature film from basically a 5 minute TV skit...but the script is so well written with so many funny jokes...David Spade is another who delivers line after line as the smarmy kiss butt assistant to Michael McKean's character. But its the talent of Aykroyd and Curtin, two comedy veterans who really drive this one home. Laughs all around, I loved it! "},{"Title":"Another Overlooked Gem...","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"31 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Other than WAYNE'S WORLD, this is the only film adaptation of an SNL skit that really worked for me. CONEHEADS was an inventive and smartly written 1993 comedy that expanded upon the original Saturday Night Live skits starring Dan Aykroyd, Jane Curtin, and Lorraine Newman as Beldar, Prymatt, and Connie Conehead, the aliens who are trying to live as earthlings and tell the world that they are from France. The movie starts before Connie is even born, showing why Beldar and Prymatt were sent to earth and how they ended up smack in the middle of suburbia. There are some moments of genuine warmth that you feel for the Coneheads as they have to stay on the run, as they are being pursued by a slimy Immigration agent (Michael McKean, in an on target performance) and his ass-kissing assistant (a hysterical David Spade). The film has one hilarious moment after another. Jan Hooks appears as a student of Beldar (who is seen working briefly as a driving instructor)who lusts after Beldar and her silent encounter with Prymatt in a supermarket is hysterical. Chris Farley is very funny as Ronnie, Connie's boyfriend. The role of Connie has been inherited by Michelle Burke for some reason, though Lorraine Newman can be spotted in a cameo near the end of the film. Jason Alexander and Lisa Jane Persky are very funny as Beldar and Prymatt's suburban neighbors. Sinbad has some funny moments as Beldar's first boss and Adam Sandler is funny in a brief scene as a guy who provides Beldar with a phony Social Security card and whole new identity. There is so much to take in here and a lot of talented comedians are seen to good advantage, whether in starring or cameo roles. CONEHEADS is one of the most underrated comedies of the 90's which I don't think ever got the credit it deserved. If you've never seen it, definitely worth the rental. "},{"Title":"On my Top Ten List!","Date":"23 November 2006","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I love, love, love Coneheads! This movie has GREAT lines. The perspective of American life from that of an alien is SO funny. Some of my favorite lines...like when Primaat and Beldar invite the neighbors over for charred mammal flesh or when she reads a magazine and asks Beldar how he'd feel if she passed away (his answer is one that EVERY husband needs to memorize and tell his wife OFTEN!. There are too many to list, and so many that I think are better than what are listed on the page. I love the creativity of the story line. From screaming at the bowling pins and eggplants to rigging the pop machine to get silver tender disks to pay for the motel room. I've watched it over and over again through the years and each time find a new favorite part! It's a movie that grows on you from the start! "},{"Title":"Silly But Hilarious Movie","Date":"18 January 2005","Score":"16 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Beldar (Aykroyd) & Prymaat (Curtin) Conehead are two aliens who come from the planet Remulak their ship has crash landed on earth and have no way to return home. Forced to enjoy human society they try to get used to their new surroundings but are soon on the run from immigration officers Seedling (Mckean) & Turnbull (Spade), months later Prymaat gives birth to a beautiful baby girl whom they name Connie . 18 years later Connie (Burke) is pretty young woman who is always at ends with her parental units she falls head over heels in love with Ronnie (Farley) a local mechanic and neighborhood boy who admits to never have dated a girl taller than him before. Coneheads is a great family comedy with tons of laughs from start to finish , Chris Farley 29, & Michelle Burke 23, play the star crossed teenage couple with humor and warmth 8/10 Stars "},{"Title":"That's pretty cheap, Conehead!","Date":"1 March 2003","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just like Beldar's homemade fireworks display this movie may not make a lasting impression immediately, but give it a chance.The movie is a really fine piece of work, it's good for a laugh again and again.On top of that most (US) comedy actors worth mentioning are in the movie! "},{"Title":"Simple movie, with simple laughs but hey, it works","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"20 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Coneheads is the perfect kind of movie to have on killing time late at night, or when you just want to veg and not think about anything. The humor in the movie is simple to understand and easy to laugh at. Adam Sandler's cameo in the movie was great. Sinbad has a cameo too that he turns into many laughs. This movie was fun to watch. Of course there are many jokes about how these people have cones for heads, but that is the title of the movie, so no complaints warranted there. Dan Aykroyd really loves his Beldar character, and it shows here as much as it does in the many Saturday Night Live skits about the Coneheads. "},{"Title":"fun","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"17 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Coneheads was a good SNL movie, the coneheads space ship crashes and they have to adjust to lifestyle on earth. Coneheads has a lot of great SNL names in the cast (Akroyd, Hartman, Sandler, Nealon, and Farley) so I don't know if that is good or bad for this movie you decide, but I enjoyed this movie and I think you will also. "}{"Title":"Return of  SNL classic characters!","Date":"25 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Remember the Coneheads on SNL(Saturday Night Live)? Well, they are back! This time on the big screen. Beldar(Dan Ackroyd) and Prymatt(Jane Curtain) are on Earth planning to commit world conquest. But, when they settle on the planet they decided to live their lives there instead. They have such strange diets, and they claim themselves they are from France. The government however don't think so. They later give birth to a daughter named Connie(Michelle Burke). She has a little trouble fitting in, until she meets Ronnie(Chris Farley, 1964-97). I liked the Subway scene where Connie puts away a sub which made Ronnie's mother look like an amateur. Looks like he found his dream girl there. When they go back to there planet, Beldar used his talents from Earth to stop a monster, while singing Soft Cell's Tained Love. Great cast, silly plot, this movie is good for all SNL fans. Some say it was rather late, I would say, Who Cares? 2.5 out of 5 Stars! "},{"Title":"Perhaps you and Larry will join us for the consumption of mass quantities this weekend... will we ignite our new flame pit and char some mammal flesh for you.","Date":"24 February 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This really is a hidden gem of a film. I can see how todays generation and their obsession with edgy humor, abrasive language,shock laughs, and depravity, couldn't appreciate this underrated comedy classic. It's clever, creative, well written, and Dan Akroyd is downright hilarious. How can you not burst out laughing when he tells Ronnie (Chris Farley)I find you unacceptable. If I did not fear incarceration by human authority figures, I would terminate your life functions by applying sufficient force to your blunt skull &#x97; as to cause its collapse. The cameos from Adam Sandler, Chris Farley, David Spaid,Drew Carey, Jon Lovitz, Sinbad, and Jason Alexander all made for hilarious moments. It even managed to add some subtle social commentary without being preachy at all. Get your funny bones checked guys, this is a classic SNL film from when SNL was great. "},{"Title":"Any fan of SNL over the years will enjoy this bit of nostalgia.","Date":"5 May 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Coneheads did not open to overly positive ratings, and it's not surprising it didn't. The plot is contrived...in fact there barely even is a plot. The whole point of the movie seems to be to make an old sketch funny and hip again, and bring together 18 years of Saturday Night Live members under one roof, and actually it succeeds at both. Beldar and Pyrmatt Conehead were funnier here than they ever were on the SNL sketches, and cast members from all the years appear including all the surviving original cast members (minus Chevy Chase).Beldar (Dan Aykroyd) and Pyrmatt (Jane Curtain) are coneheaded aliens accidentally stranded on Earth. This movie goes through their everyday lives, the birth of their daughter, Connie (Not played by Larraine Newman this time), and their trying to avoid being deported by the INS. Though this film is plot less, that's not actually a bad thing. Because of it's plot less-ness, every ex-SNL member that could be found seemed to have a role in this playing random characters. The jokes are coming at a rapid pace, so even if some don't work, a minute later another one will come to make up for it. Aykroyd and Curtain were actually great together and had quite a bit of chemistry.This is a fun movie, and for any Saturday Night Live fan, this will be great. For anyone else, this may be a mixed bag.My rating *** out of ****. 88 mins. PG for language, nudity and sexual humor. "},{"Title":"Suitable For Mass Consumption.","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Unheard of until is was recommended to me, I found 'Coneheads' to be a really good watch. As others have said, it's not just a laugh-a-minute surprise, there's actually a clever little storyline, some thoroughly engaging characters - human or otherwise - and some quite decent special effects. Dan Ackroyd is the main comedy player but the other actors spar along with him wonderfully. Everyone looks like they're having a good time.The gags come in every way; visual, slapstick, puns, you name it. And there's a happy ending as well.It's 15 years old, now; so the nuclear family values it seems to celebrate have been rendered unfashionable by the latterday millennium cynics. More fool them.This is a feel-good movie of the first league. And it's definitely one of the funniest American movies I've ever seen.Trouble is; you come away with those bang-bang lyrics of 'Tainted Love' permanently lodged in your cone. "},{"Title":"Pretty Harmless, Goofy Fun","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was nice, harmless fun for the most part. I got turned off right near the beginning of the film when the alien couple got a motel room and the wife was seen laughing out loud as she read the Bible a typical Hollywood cheap shot.After that, however, it was fine and had some funny, outrageous scenes. However, I would definitely not call this movie hilarious as I had heard it described a number of times. I wouldn't get that carried away. However, it was decidedly entertaining all the way through, never boring and pretty tame profanity-wise. There were a number of sex remarks and innuendos, maybe to make up for the little profanity but by today's standards this was an inoffensive film.It's an hour-and-a-half of goofy humor played by the same people (Dan Achroyd, Jane Curtin, etc.) who made this couple famous on television. "},{"Title":"Coneheads Will Extract Pleasurable Tones From Blunt Skulls","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Coneheads is yet another film based on a recurring Saturday Night Live sketch. At the time of its release, it was the third SNL-based movie created following The Blues Brothers (1980) and Wayne's World (1992). While not as funny as the aforementioned films, it is only a notch below them. Worse SNL movies were to come (i.e. It's Pat The Movie (1994), A Night At The Roxbury (1999)), but Coneheads stands today as a very funny mix of comedy and science fiction.The early Saturday Night Live sketches vaguely explained how the Coneheads came to Earth. Most of its humor came from the fact that the humans, or blunt skulls, never suspected the Coneheads to be aliens from another planet, despite the oh-so obviously large foreheads. The fact that their last names are Conehead never seems to counter Earthlings' obliviousness, either. This movie takes some of its humor from the humans' obvious lack of observational skills, but it's really Dan Aykroyd and Jane Curtan's consistent disappearance into these character that really makes the movie funny. They talk in monotone voices and spew out complicated alien jargon without missing a beat, and they use the film's special effects to their advantage.I also liked how, because the last Coneheads sketch was 14 years prior to this movie's release, the movie started from the beginning, explaining how Beldar (Aykroyd) and Prymatt (Curtan) landed on Earth in modern-day America, and worked their way from a hotel room to the projects to the suburbs. While I missed Laraine Newman as Connie (although Newman does make an appearance as Laarta, another Conehead in a later scene), it made perfect sense to have a younger, teenage Connie (Michelle Burke) with an American accent. Although the subplot where she begins dating 29-year-old mechanic Ronnie (Chris Farley) still seems creepy to me, considering her character was supposed to be 15 or 16, I thought Burke added a really nice touch to what could have been a Dan Aykroyd impersonation.The main conflict of the film served as an interesting analogy to illegal immigration, but had some definite plot holes. You find out in the film that Beldar and Prymatt land on Earth accidentally, and stay not because they want to, but because a rescue ship will take seven Zerl's to reach them. According to a site I found using Google (www.tvacres.com/languages_scifi_conehead.htm), one Zerl is equal to approximately 2.17 Earth years, thereby making their stay just over 15 years. Based on that fact, a giant plot hole emerges when INS agents and antagonists Gorman Seedling (Michael McKean) and Eli Turnbull (David Spade) don't age at all over that time period.Also, near the end, the rescue ship finally comes for the Coneheads, and it seems to take about a day to travel back to Remulak, their native planet. Although I thought the home planet in this movie was among the coolest parts, I still could not get over that plot hole. Why it took over a decade and a half to bring a ship over, yet it didn't take that long to go from Earth to Remulak and back, is never explained, and weakens the story a bit.However, other parts in the film otherwise made me laugh. The best parts were when the Coneheads interacted with humans in the outside world. Also, perhaps better than any other SNL movie to date, having numerous former and (then) current Not Ready For Primetime Players in various roles large and small served as a great tribute to Saturday Night Live. There were also a few cameos from then-unknown stand-up comedians who would go on to be big stars (Ellen DeGeneres, Drew Carey, Eddie Griffin).The Blues Brothers, Wayne's World, and Wayne's World 2 (1993) were hard movies to top, but Coneheads, while not great, is pretty funny, and miles away from the notoriously bad SNL movies that were to come. It suffered mostly from its story line, but otherwise used special effects wisely to effectively elicit laughs. It's a good movie to watch after you have consumed mass quantities and want to get a good laugh while you digest. "},{"Title":"A Fine Comedy Born Out Of SNL","Date":"25 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's absolutely nothing - not a single thing - in this movie that can be taken seriously, which is probably why it's so enjoyable for the most part to watch. Based on a skit from Saturday Night Live (when SNL was really in its heyday) this is a fun look at the lives of the Coneheads - Beldar and Prymatt and their daughter Connie, a family of pointy headed aliens who get stuck on earth and have to blend in among the bluntskulls, claiming to be from France (which no one ever questions) and enjoying such earth delicacies as charred mammal flesh and flattened chicken embryos. Dan Aykroyd and Jane Curtin (as Beldar and Prymatt) demonstrate remarkable talent just in being able to get through this with relatively straight faces. Michelle Burke as the Conehead daughter Connie had a less demanding role - Connie having been born on earth had fewer adjustment issues to deal with. The part of the story dealing with the Coneheads being pursued by a couple of over-enthusiastic immigration agents (played by David Spade and Michael McKean) was perhaps an unnecessary addition to the story, and somehow the story seemed to lose its footing a bit once the Coneheads returned to their home planet of Remulak. In what was so obviously intended to be a silly movie, much of the Remulak storyline came across as too silly. Simply watching the Coneheads attempting to blend in to human society would have been sufficiently enjoyable.The movie has a surprisingly low rating here, suggesting to me that many people are perhaps treating it too seriously. It's a silly movie that's clearly intending to be a silly movie. To over-analyze it and look for weaknesses is to do it an injustice. Accept it for what it is and it will provide an overall very enjoyable 90 minutes. "},{"Title":"It's fun!  So give it a break will ya.","Date":"21 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I could say, you had to be there. Or you just aren't old enough to understand. The bottom line? Sometimes it is nice to just sit back, suspend your disbelief and enjoy without having to analyze why it works or doesn't work. This falls back to a time when crude and rude was still in its infancy. Light for the day, it is still lots of fun. The punch lines are subtle and innuendo a bit advance for the punch and Judy crowd that is looking for the Down with society commentary that seems to fill the comedy of today. The Coneheads are classic Old School SNL. I like a story where the good guy wins, albeit the good guys in this case are Aliens. If you like Bob Hope, Jerry Lewis, or Danny Kay. Then you will probably like this movie. If you are the Dumb and Dumber crowd this will probably be a disappointment. So, suspend your disbeliefe and just enjoy it for what it is. A funny movie with a lot of good laughs. "},{"Title":"great dialogue","Date":"2 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" ConeheadsWow! What an all star ensemble cast! Michael Richards and Jason Alexander in the same movie! Dan Ayckroyd making all the right moves in the lead role as a no-nonsense, old school pater familias! Chris Farley, as a car mechanic-cum-Romeo, David Spade as the proverbial suck-up and Adam Sandler in a cameo as a small time crook are perfectly cast and effortlessly deliver a tight performance. It's a Saturday Night dream come true! The story of two coneheaded aliens who later triple knits together with a coherence lacking from most films belonging to the derided sub-genre of dysfunctional earth invaders. Life on earth must surely be as surprising to those aliens up there, as are the habits of these adorable coneheads to the amused viewer Prymaat (Jane Curtin) avoiding any intermediaries and using her mouth to vacuum those dirty rugs, Beldar (Dan Ayckroyd) using condoms as chewing gums (their eating habits in general build up to a whole cluster of gags that seldom if ever fall flat) Connie's (Michelle Burke) way of kissing and so on. In fact, the most reliable source of amusement is the pretentious-sounding conespeak (and the additional paraphernalia of gnarls, hisses and snores that accompany their emotions) employed by Beldar and Prymaat to express their wisdom and interact with inferior humans. It's on a par with the cavespeak in another wonderful comedy of the same ilk called Caveman. Example Beldar  - If everyone jumped into a bituminous cauldron would you jump in too? Connie- I am not a little cone anymore, dad. Beldar &#150; Maintain low tones with me, maintain low tones.The dialogue is so inspired is almost reaches a tarantinoesque level, kept to a necessary minimum, with a lack of the non-sequiturs common to the genre. Another key to the success of this movie are the endearing characters. This is one of the quirkiest ensemble-casts ever to appear in an eighties-type comedy. Recommended for repeated viewings. "},{"Title":"One Of The Better SNL Movies (maybe best?) Laraine Newman got screwed though.","Date":"1 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Maybe because I grew up watching SNL live during its first 5 or so years but I really got a laugh out of the Coneheads when they would do that skit on SNL. I admit I have not seen the movie in a while but I was just thinking about Laraine Newman from doing some reading about the group Devo (its a long story) and I just realized that she really got screwed not getting the role that she played on the TV show. I see pics of her on IMDb and she looks OK now, back in 93 she probably still looked cool, I mean why not use her as the kid? I mean there freakin aliens anyway so so what if a 35 year old plays a teenager. The teen in the movie Coneheads plays like the Marylin Munster type as the only semi normal one and her role is kinda lame except when she scarfs down the sub, that was funny, and Farleys reaction was about the best part of the movie. Well, I liked Coneheads but then again I liked Dragnet so I'm probably an Akyroid lover at heart that would watch anything he's in an enjoy it. "}{"Title":"a truly underrated gem","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is my favorite movie of all time! My husband is patient with me, and allows me to use much of the duologue from the movie as repartee.All the performances are first rate and the writing is sharp and biting. Many American conventions are held up to the light in this movie. Family values, teenage sex, mid-life crises, employment, immigration,neighbors, being stalked by large animals, its all there. The absolute best piece of prop comedy of any movie, even Buster Keaton's, is when Beldar chews the condom and then blows it up. And the great non-reaction from Sinbad makes it even funnier.Michael McKean is one of the all time versatile actors(check him out as the pool boy in Earth Girls Are Easy) and he gives a classic performance here. "},{"Title":"Humorous light comedy","Date":"24 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've never watched a microsecond of SNL so I watched this as just another film. It's not Gone with the Wind, but it doesn't pretend to be. It's a small scale comedy. It isn't 90 minutes of side splitting belly laughs, but it's mildly amusing throughout and there are a number of pretty good jokes. Flicking through the twenty or so movies my cable channel is offering me this evening, I'd prefer Coneheads to any of them. That doesn't make it a masterpiece, it just makes it a solid little comedy that will leave you more cheerful at the end than you were at the beginning. For those who like their comedy to be cutting edge with constant sarcastic political barbs, you should look elsewhere. (Is this why some reviewers don't like it - maybe they were expecting political satire ?) This isn't satire, it's mild smiley humour a la Ghostbusters, and none the worse for that. "},{"Title":"Not excellent, but pretty funny","Date":"24 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I recently saw Coneheads on TV, and, though is silly, sometimes has pleasant gags and funny moments. It's the story about a family of aliens who come to the Earth to reconnaissance it, and soon they are adapted to the life of America and its customs. But Mr. and Mrs. Conehead still yearn their native planet, though they had done a new life on Earth. As I said, this movie has great moments, but gets flat on the stretch. Not the best work of Dan Akyroyd, but it's still enjoyable. A funny quote Beldar Conehead An owner's manual to a Ford Lincoln Mercury Sable. Highmaster Ford Lincoln Mercury Sable? Beldar Conehead A personal conveyance named after its inventor, an assassinated ruler, a character from Greco-Roman myth and a small furry mammal. Highmaster Ah. "},{"Title":"One of the best comedic Sci-Fi movies around","Date":"16 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It isn't serious at all. What the writers, actors, and director did was take a repeating skit on SNL and expand it.In the process they made these rather odd alien characters familiar, flawed (and therefore human), and endearing. This is no small feat. They are odd in the extreme eating toilet paper, light bulbs, and talking in jargon laced monotone.But in doing that they also made life on earth and the simple pleasures we all enjoy, something to be appreciated...from an outsider's point of view.I think another thing that makes the movie a joy to watch is the high production values. It's a comedy about a richly detailed alien culture with first-rate sets, interesting devices, crazy and funny characters (most of the humans are deeply flawed) and some of the best stop-motion animation ever filmed. The Nafle the Garthog scene would have deeply impressed Ray Harryhausen.Continuity was high, the acting quite good (comedy is said to be the hardest thing to do), sets and scenery nicely done and the story itself with a nice easy to follow story arc and a (gasp) happy ending. What else would anyone want in the way of light entertainment? "},{"Title":"Humans Are More Weird Than Aliens !","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, I loved this movie very much. It's so hilarious and in the same time got one clever smart commentary about the human of today who's so lazy, idiot and odd ! Which made Aliens, compared to that, such a more idealistic, more human ! Although I'm not a big fan of (Dan Ayroyd), and how I've heard a lot about the hastiness and silliness of (Saturday night live)'s spin off movies, but anyway despite that and a few repulsive moments too, this movie was so good with a brilliant script. It made the real funny sketches along with the parallel line about the thrilling hunt for those Aliens, and then the fight at the original plant, yet still the best part was the damn sarcastic confirmation about how the humans are too blind to see the truth, and very faulty; so when one of them does the right thing that may make its doer the real Alien of this community ! The proficiency of this movie allowed some ingenious sitcom to appear 3 years later named (3rd Rock of The Sun) where the very (Bonnie Turner) & (Terry Turner), who were two of 4 wrote this movie, will be the creators of it. It will have also (Jane Curtin) but as the affected human this time; who is treating with the Aliens as another annoying locals whom maybe are less evil and more innocent ! I must refer to the wonderful performance of everybody from the lead actors to the supporting ones like  (Sinbad) as the helpful Otto, (Adam Sandler) as the forger, (David Spade) as the INS agent, (Drew Carey) as the taxi passenger, (Jon Lovitz) as the dentist, and many more..It's a slick satire about the real Coneheads in our life..The ones whom we used to call ourselves ! "},{"Title":"Aliens are the Funny People We Ignore...","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw Coneheads for the first time on TV last week. So, not having paid for it, and not expecting too much, its reasonable to think that I might not be as critical as I could be. (Drum roll...) I was VERY surprised how damn good it is. When I saw the title come on screen I thought, Jeeze, in 20 minutes I'll be clicking away, but no. Dan and Jane do amazing things to keep their limited characters extremely entertaining. Just about every other bit part, and there's a load of 'em, measures up. Even Sinbad does a nice job as Beldar's first boss. Adam Sandler is on screen for 2 minutes and I am still chuckling at his quirky sleaze-ball office geek. Its a good satire about the hypocrisy and prejudice in our so called Democracy, and on balance, a ridiculously accurate reflection of the diversity and opportunity in modern America. It came on again two days later and I watched it again. I would have rented it. No, seriously.... "},{"Title":"Ah, memories. We will enjoy them.","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is my favorite sci-fi comedy of all-time. The premise is completely outrageous, that a family of extra-terrestrials could be accepted into our society so easily. The humor alternates between being obvious and subtle, leaving some of the funniest bits unnoticed to those devoting less than their full attention. Great performances from the entire cast, with tons of cameos from top comics and past SNL & Second City Television alumni. The climax on the planet Remulak contains special effects worthy of any modern big-budget sci-fi film. There's also some great old-fashioned stop-motion animation of a creature called a Garthok. It's a relatively short film, only 87 minutes and moves at a nice pace. Fans of the original Saturday Night Live of the 1970's, will get the most enjoyment from this movie. Say Lactate extract of hooved mammal...Cheese! "},{"Title":"Totally Brilliant and Unique","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Brilliant - the story line is unique, the comedy is there, the acting is typically stupid and therefore fits right in with what we expect from Dan Aykroyd. The gags are hugely funny especially the references to our everyday things by their alien meanings! A must for FAMILY ENTERTAINMENT. A complete lack of swearing (almost unheard of these days) is refreshing! "},{"Title":"Great one","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Coneheads is one of the best Saturday Night Live movies. I was expecting a light comedy but what I got was a whole lot more. Following a similar plot to the skit, Coneheads is the story about the Beldar Conehead family who crash on earth during a scouting mission for planet conquest. While here, they dodge the INS, have a child and discover that life on Earth is quite good. This is where the movie shows its heart. It could have been a movie of comedy bits but by the end, it is about happiness in a stable family, which is quite refreshing in these days of depressing movies about divorces and unmarried couples. It is nice to see Beldar be a father figure to his daughter rather than the Let Your Kids Be Who They Are mentality of these days. The direction of the film in excellent, setting up many nice visual gags and shots that are very impressive for a comedy film. And at times, the film feels epic as you see the family on the run from the INS, to moving to the suburbs to returning to their planet. There are great performances throughout the film and the many cameos are perfect. Look for funny scenes from Jan Hooks, Adam Sandler, Michael Richards, and Garrett Morris. Michelle Burke makes a nice debut as Connie Conehead and I expect to see more of her in the future. On the surface, this seems like a dumb movie and it has received many poor reviews. But if you sit back and let it take you on an adventure (and if you can keep up with the way the Coneheads use different words for common items) you will be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Stupid but entertaining!","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I literally laughed at the thought of Dan Aykroyd and Jane Curtin were putting on such a high pitched alien voice. They were good but it got literally annoying throughout the film. Lucky enough, Michelle Burke who played the daughter used her own nice voice so it wouldn't be quite irritating for all of them to use that silly voice.I was so thrilled to see Chris Farley among the other SNL stars! It was too bad that his character and Connie didn't make love properly as she kept sucking his lips like a vacuum cleaner. I really thought the writers should've rethought the whole movie because some of the ways the 'aliens' make, they actually would make you cringe and feel disgusted after. If you care to see a OK but messed up movie, be my guest! "}{"Title":"Totally underrated","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" This comes close to outing myself Coneheads is one of my favorite comedies ever. As silly as it appears it is full of pointed social comment. I am in stitches when this racist ****head Gorman Seedling proposes blowing up illegal immigrants and instead of being locked up makes a career because of it, when Beldar embraces all those petty bourgeois values or when puberty leads to classic generation clashes that never, ever looked as silly as here. I don't know how this film got its rating. For me Coneheads is a cleverly silly film, quite similar to some of the better Monty-Python-stuff, although less dirty or anarchic. Have a condom and think about it. "},{"Title":"No cones about it, this is some funny a$$ $hit!!!","Date":"5 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Coneheads is one of the best SNL films that have been made so far. Although i have read quite a few positive reviews I also read a lot of hateful, negative ones and I gotta say I just don't get why. The story of Beldar and Prymaat crash landing while on a scouting mission of our primitive planet and getting marooned here lead to some good times and a lot of laughs. The interesting thing about this film is that it also has heart and it shows us that even if ur an illegal immigrant from the planet Remulak u can still have a piece of the American dream. It's about family (a rather odd family sure) but one that sticks together and cares for one another becoming Americans in the process. You should enjoy some great cameos from past SNL members along with quite of few other well known comedians, each one adding their own charm and talents to the project. All in all it's tough to make a five minute comedy sketch into a feature length film and that's why many of the SNL movies aren't all that great or memorable even. Coneheads is different, it has some good lines and brilliant comedians sure, but it also has.a story that adds depth and character to the seemingly robot like, pointy headed out of towners we knew from the 70s ground breaking sketch comedy icon known as Saturday Night Live. "},{"Title":"Not the Worst Saturday Night Live Adaptation","Date":"17 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Aliens with cone shaped craniums (including Dan Aykroyd) come to Earth to observe everyday life.I am not sure which Saturday Night Live sketch was the first to be transformed into a movie, but at some point it became more and more common, and in the 1990s it seemed they could turn just about anything into a film. Some were hugely successful (Wayne's World) while others have been largely forgotten (It's Pat and Stuart Saves His Family come to mind).I suppose Coneheads falls somewhere in the middle. By no means was it a flop, but I feel like it never really had a strong popularity. The best thing that came out of it was probably the soundtrack. But, perhaps wisely, the film is also not very ambitious and instead just wants to show a young woman coming of age and trying to be accepted by her peers. Not a bad little theme. "},{"Title":"My 75th Review Coneheads should be better then a rating of 4.9.","Date":"11 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Coneheads is the 1993 comedy adapted from a skit from Saturday Night Live which is at the moment rated at a lousy 4.9 out of 10. The story is about three coneheads who crash on earth and have to adapt to human civilization this leading to a funny Dan Ankroyd shooting out funny lines at will. This movie is a great SNL movie which will keep you rolling as long as you have liked other SNL adapted movies such as A night at the roxbury and The Lonely guy. Overall this movie is very funny and should be watched by fans of SNL and Dan Ankroyd. I rate this movie a fair rating of 59% for being a movie that made me laugh. Thats my two cents from lack the bod. "},{"Title":"No better Alien comedy","Date":"25 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought the movie was very funny. The physical humor was not all that funny, but the lines were classic. The Coneheads already had a basis for the movie, being it was an SNL bit first. I never saw the Coneheads on SNL, but someone suggested I see the movie, and I was pleased.Just the voice they talk with and their word usage is enough to make an ordinary statement very funny. Besides their speaking were the situations they found themselves in, being aliens in America and all. I imagine it is very tough raising an alien daughter in America. Plus, their were some very good supporting actors in David Spade, Chris Farley, Sinbad, Phil Hartman, and Michael McKean. "},{"Title":"A Pleasant Surprise","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Coneheads is one of the best Saturday Night Live movies. I was expecting a light comedy but what I got was a whole lot more. Following a similar plot to the skit, Coneheads is the story about the Beldar Conehead family who crash on earth during a scouting mission for planet conquest. While here, they dodge the INS, have a child and discover that life on Earth is quite good. This is where the movie shows its heart. It could have been a movie of comedy bits but by the end, it is about happiness in a stable family, which is quite refreshing in these days of depressing movies about divorces and unmarried couples. It is nice to see Beldar be a father figure to his daughter rather than the Let Your Kids Be Who They Are mentality of these days. The direction of the film in excellent, setting up many nice visual gags and shots that are very impressive for a comedy film. And at times, the film feels epic as you see the family on the run from the INS, to moving to the suburbs to returning to their planet. There are great performances throughout the film and the many cameos are perfect. Look for funny scenes from Jan Hooks, Adam Sandler, Michael Richards, and Garrett Morris. Michelle Burke makes a nice debut as Connie Conehead and I expect to see more of her in the future. On the surface, this seems like a dumb movie and it has received many poor reviews. But if you sit back and let it take you on an adventure (and if you can keep up with the way the Coneheads use different words for common items) you will be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"The movie that has become an analogy","Date":"30 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While you may think that this is a silly concept; Aliens crash land on earth, adapt to the culture, and eventually succeed and prosper, all the while averting capture and deportation by diligent and determined civil serpents of the renowned INS, only to be suddenly rescued by their own kind and returned to their home planet where Beldar is tried and convicted for losing his space ship. Alas, all is not for naught. Using his obviously over-sized brain, Beldar successfully knarfles the Garthok, using the things he learned and the skills he picked up on earth. In this story there is a life lesson no matter how difficult the project, how dark the hour, or how vocal one's detractors, one can overcome by putting the old noodle to work and meeting the challenge head-on, just as Beldar did.  "},{"Title":"best comedy cast of all time","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  While not quite a masterpiece, the movie is really funny in places and has some inspired moments. But the best thing about it is the huge cast of comedy allstars (some of whom were still relatively unknown at the time) that make appearances. It would almost be easier to list the  comedy stars who aren't in the movie. Not only is there a huge contingent of SNL stars from the 70s up to the 90s (Aykroyd, Curtin, Garret Morris, Laraine Newman, Jan Hooks, Michael McKean, Julia Sweeney, Chris Farley, Adam Sandler, Jon Lovitz, Phil Hartman, Kevin Nealon, Tim Meadows, David Spade, etc.) but others like Jason Alexander, Drew Carey, Michael Richards, Dave Thomas, Joey Lauren Adams, Parker Posey and Tom Arnold. Seems like almost every scene has a cameo from somebody. My vote for funniest goes to Jan Hooks as the driving student who tries to seduce Aykroyd. The dentists office scene with Lovitz is also unbeatable. The movie's premise is so bizarre that along with all the cameos, watching it is pretty surreal. Most characters in the movie barely notice or mention the cones; most of the time the coneheads make little effort to fit in, and only a few people seem to notice the difference. I guess New Jersey is even stranger than I had imagined. The movie is just interestingly weird. It must be one of the best movies of all time for intoxication.  "},{"Title":"Good film, maybe not great but unquestionably good","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As I have seen some other watchers don't seem to like this movie but I think it's good by any standards. Coneheads's way of speaking and doing everything a little more faster than everyone else is hilarious. And unlike others have said there are many gags that worked. If you had/have an opportunity to see this movie in an actual movie theatre you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Very Clever, Exceeds the original sketches of SNL.","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Coneheads is one of the best conversions of an SNL skit to the big screen. Granted, Dan Aykroyd and Jane Curtin were funny on SNL as Beldar and Prymat, but the movie has given them the chance to show how funny they can be as these two aliens from France!  All the SNL cameos are great too!  If you don't like this film, you should be sent to Narfal the Garthok!! ) "}{"Title":"Smart satire on everything American from golf to immigration policy","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Satire that is funny without being vicious, Coneheads has a smart observation about everything American from golf to immigration policy. But it's probably unsatisfying for the typical audience of the typical alien-invasion movie, and better suited to the home video than the big screen. A disappointing conclusion, but still all-round good entertainment   "},{"Title":"An actual under-rated SNL spin-off","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  What an under-rated movie.  Coneheads actually proves to be one of the funnier SNL sketch spin-offs.  Not as humorous as the Wayne's World movies, but a far cry from the dreadful Night at the Rocksbury and other Lorne Micheals productions.  Coneheads is full of cameos including Adam Sandler, Jon Lovitz and Tom Arnold and great small parts by David Spade and Chris Farley.  The characters are truly likeable and the Conehead family is genuine.  The ending partly tarnishes the rest of the movie, possibly a reason for low ratings amongst critics.  However, with a majority of past SNL characters, Coneheads lives up to the the original sketches with Dan Akroyd and Jane Curtin.  Forget the critics and give Coneheads a second chance.  "},{"Title":"Good little MOVIE","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this in the theater years ago and just recently saw it the same day I saw Million Dollar Baby. This movie was great! There was a lot of Nyeaaa!! And ROBOT talking that cracked me up. Look for lots of famous people, even Jason Alexander. The best though is Sinbad and that he got good assistant who could fix anything. Davis Spade is priceless and of course, the daughter conehead was beyond reproach. I loved the eggplant scene also. I wish they would have more of these conehead movies.How about I was out back finishing a beer? That was the best line in the entire movie. Two years from now, this will be even better. "},{"Title":"Awesome movie, I think it should be a 7.1/10","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is totally awesome,when i saw this movie first time back in 1995, i thought it was great funny and somewhat strange. I now own the movie on Paramount DVD and it is still awesome not that it should be in the top 200 but a maximum of 7.1. This movie rules and it is along with Wayne's World and Wayne's World 2, the most awesome movies from Paramount of the 1990's. "},{"Title":"Some funny moments but it should have been better","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  With Saturday Night Live creator Lorne Michaels producing and a huge all star comedy cast including Dan Aykroyd, Jane Curtin, Laraine Newman, Jason Alexander, Chris Farley, Michael Richards, Lisa Jane Persky, Sinbad, Michael McKean, Phil Hartman, David Spade, Dave Thomas, Jan Hooks, Adam Sandler, Julia Sweeney and Drew Carey cast in the shenanigans, Coneheads should have been a gut busting laugh riot. While it does have some genuinely funny moments, there are not enough of them to make it a hit. The film is yet another extended format of a popular Saturday Night Live sketch. The victims this time are the Coneheads, the alien couple from the planet Remulac who crash their spaceship in New Jersey and wind up living among suburban inhabitants. Aykroyd and Curtin reprise their TV roles as married cone shaped head alien couple Beldar and Prymatt with Michelle Burke making her film debut as their daughter, Connie (Newman, who had portrayed that role on TV appears briefly here as Beldar's sister and Aykroyd's daughter, Danielle also appears in the film portraying Connie as a toddler). The plot (although it matters little when compared to the sight gags) has to do with the alien family being pursued by the INS led by Hartman and Spade who will do whatever it takes to deport them. The popular duo of Farley and Spade make their first appearance in a film amid the same cast here but they have no scenes together. Film is not a total waste but it is often rather dated and pales in comparison to the comic delivery of the TV sketches of the characters. Farley, Spade, Aykroyd and Michaels would later collaborate on the much funnier film, Tommy Boy. "},{"Title":"Aykroyd, Curtin, Burke, and Farley are all very funny and make this one work.","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is a great comedy. If you liked to watch Saturday Night Live back in 93 than you will simply love this. The story is about two aliens who were going to attack Earth but the mission went wrong. When they crash land in a lake and get out of the lake they go to a motel to spend the night. They come to the conclusion to blend in with the blood skulls (humans) and to ask for a rescue ship as soon as they get the supplies they need. Veldar (Aykroyd) immediately gets a job working for Otto (Sinbad). When the Coneheads have the proper equipment they build it all up and it works. However when they contact their commander the news is not good. He says he can arrange a rescue ship in maybe 7 years but maybe longer than even that. So the Coneheads decide that they are going to have to blend in longer than they expected. Eventually Mrs. Conehead has a daughter, Connie (Burke) and they try to live a normal life on earth. The life they try to lead however is anything but normal and they are doing things ordinary people would not do. Chris Farley is very funny also as Connie's boyfriend Ronnie and he really is good in his part. The Saturday Night live people who appear in this movie are Adam Sandler (Who is also very good in his part as a guy who gives Veldar his new identity when Veldar is discovered by Otto as being an illegal alien.),Chris Farley(I've already told you about him), Dan Aykroyd, and Jane Curtin. Some other cameos are by Jon Lovitz,(as a dentist) Drew Carey (as a taxi passenger),Jason Alexander (as the Coneheads neighbor), and David Spade (as an FBI agent).*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Much better than it had any right to be--and one of the best based on SNL skits ever!","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Though this isn't the very best movie made from Saturday Night Live skits and characters (that would be a tossup between 'The Blues Brothers' and the two 'Wayne's World' entries), this is definitely top-tier and in the best five ever made. Laraine Newman and Jane Curtin were very underrated as comediennes, and the unsung heroes that held the cast together during its excellent run of the early days.What's hardly ever talked about, when it comes to movies based on SNL skits, is how important the supporting players are. 'Coneheads' undoubtedly has the strongest supporting cast of any of them, and while director Barron has hardly become a household name in terms of movies (only this and 'Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles' really hit the radar), his prowess on some of the greatest music videos of all time (ie., Dire Straits' 'Money for Nothing', Michael Jackson's 'Billie Jean' and A-Ha's 'Take On Me') was picture-perfect for the comedic set-pieces here. Definitely worth at least a watch, here in the 21st-century. "},{"Title":"what was Primaat's Halloween costume?","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now, first of all, I hope I don't offend any of the Jehovah's Witnesses or Mormons out there, but... It looked like some kind of sex organ to me. Perhaps that is what forms after extensive us of the sensor rings. A long tubular thing with a red cone-like appendage sticking out of the top..., Hmmmm, am I just imagining something and was it something else that I entirely missed? or was this something very suggestive? The only other thing I could possibly think that was would be a lipstick tube, but it looked a lot more like something from in between my dog's legs. By the way, I've always found the movie very funny, a little dated, given that it was all seventies based humor from the original sketches on SNL and it was done over a decade later. It's certainly not Mars Attacks, but I found it a nice diversion with more than a few laughs. But I'm still not sure what I'm laughing at in this particular costume. "},{"Title":"Not So Bad","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Sometimes people expect a lot from a comedy. Comedy in itself is like music, very subjective and personal. Some people detest Jim Carey, some think of him as the greatest physical comedian ever. You decide. Dan Akroyd has shown himself a versatile comedic & dramatic actor.Coneheads (the movie & as seen on SNL) was wacky, a bit Sophomoric, but, for me completely entertaining. The last skit I saw on SNL was their recall to Remulak using the Chrysler building as their emergency escape vehicle. Who could be serious about this!True, this movie is a patchwork of comedy skits. It's designed to make us laugh and not necessarily intimate moral precepts. Each comedic segment was thoroughly in keeping with the outrageous activities of outer space aliens marooned on Earth. A day if the life of so to speak. The Coneheads mis-assimilations into Earth culture are the basis of this comedy. I place this movie on the order of the '30's screwball comedies. Compare Coneheads to Bringing Up Baby.When you notice Beldar's ascension in Human achievements, doesn't he personify the American Dream? How can anyone not like a movie where the main character saves his life using alien (Earth, in this case) technology.I highly recommend this movie despite the fact it is not a Hawks, Capra or Coppola product. Most entertaining!  "},{"Title":"two best friends can watch it","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Even though its not in SNL Dan and Jane still do a conehead and that connie is not Laraine. She still makes a cameo. Its funny and my friend and I love to watch it together. Its filled with puns and many mass-consumptions of laughter. "}{"Title":"All Right","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  People are way, way, way,  WAY too harsh to SNL films.  This is an ok movie. Not the greatest, but good nonetheless.  It's predictable, but aren't even some of the funniest movies predictable?  Has some funny moments, and I'd recommend it if you wanted to watch a movie with a group of friends, but you didn't really want to have to pay close attention to.6/10 "},{"Title":"A hilarious film","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of the funniest films I have ever seen--lots of cameos, and virtually every SNL person from the beginning in it.  A film that got bad word of mouth for some reason, I have never met anyone who has SEEN it that didn't think it was funny.  SEE IT!!! "},{"Title":"still good","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's been a fair old while since I last saw this movie but it's still pretty darn good. Dan And Jane, both great alumni of SNL bring to the big screen this version of Coneheads.2 aliens who came to earth to conquer the planet, crash-land and get stuck and have to adapt until rescue arrives.And the fun ensues. It's a pretty heavy cast including very brief appearances from Adam Sandler (selling fake id), Drew Carey (as a cab customer), Ellen Degeneres, Phil Hartman and a few others who I no doubt missed.You also get Dan's brother Peter (playing another Conehead) and his daughter Danielle playing 3yo Connie proving that nepotism isn't dead. It's not what you know, it's who you know.Sinbad is pretty good and not too over the top, and the INS guys are bearable. The special effects stand up pretty well and the film still has plenty of laughs and enjoyable situations.Well worth a look if you haven't seen it before and worth a least another look if you have. "},{"Title":"Independence Day, eat your heart out!","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Coneheads (a terrific comedy) is a movie that can easily be taken more seriously than ID4...and ID4 wasn't even meant to be a comedy (Independence Day was actually pretty sad, if you happened to have been one of the unlucky to see it).This movie has it beat by miles...In the beginning, you get the music, and radar tracking just like in the classic The Day the Earth Stood Still (hilarious).The best of Saturday Night Live, mixed with classic 50's Sci-Fi...that's Coneheads.This movie is everything Independence Day is not...especially the price tag!  They are laughing all the way to the bank, but if you want a good laugh, go out and rent Coneheads tonight. "},{"Title":"We find this movie not only acceptable, but also cool.","Date":"12 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" One of the SNL adaptations that actually worked, Coneheads has tall-headed aliens Beldar (Dan Aykroyd) and Prymatt (Jane Curtin) crash-landing on Earth and having to adjust, and also raising their daughter Connie (Michelle Burke). My favorite scene is what Beldar does to Ronnie's (Chris Farley) car. Maybe the movie is mostly silly, but boy is it funny! Whether it's the firework, the shower, or anything else, they really knew how to do it here. Among the other cast members are Michael McKean, David Spade, Adam Sandler, Sinbad, and Kevin Nealon. I don't know how we ever got by without Dan Aykroyd. A true comedy classic. Cool. "},{"Title":"amusing","Date":"25 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Two aliens must adapt to life on Earth after their spacecraft crashes. Sci-fi comedy with social commentary about middle class American values. Inventive script, clever direction and amusing story. Fine for adults and younger viewers. (Rating B+) "},{"Title":"A film that brutally squanders its thematic potential","Date":"13 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's a meaningful message buried inside the narrative of Steve Barron's Coneheads, the feature-length adaptation of the long-running Saturday Night Live skit from the 1990's, however, due to pervasive comic vignettes that look to exhaust the inane possibilities of the titular creatures, it's almost entirely lost. The obvious thematic significance this film could hold is one that looks at America's idea of illegal immigration and the immediate ostracizing, and even criminalization, take place by people when they see foreigners, but with a film like Coneheads, there's barely anything else on the mind (or large, distended cranium in this case) then to get to the next sight-gag or joke as soon as possible.This is precisely the kind of film that was meant to take up, at most, ten minutes out of Saturday Night Live's sixty minute timeslot rather than wheeze and exhaust itself past feature-film length. The story concerns a UFO that crashlands into an ocean on Earth, housing occupants Beldar and his lifemate Prymaat (Dan Aykroyd and Jane Curtin), two aliens with conical skulls. Beldar immediately starts work as a repairman and, upon his boss discovering his illegal alien status, is given a fake identity and Social Security Number to pass off as a citizen.Not long after their arrival, Beldar and Prymaat have a daughter named Connie (Michelle Burke), and try their best to live their lives without being a burden to others. Despite some weird lingo, explicitly detailed statements about their actions present and very-near-future, and their obnoxious and plentiful eating patterns, they are more or less normal human beings. However, to immigration agents Gorman Seedling and Eli (Michael McKean and David Spade) they are vermin who need be deported back to their home planet. Beldar and his family try to elude the immigration service whilst dealing with the Americanization of their values.One of these Americanizing instances comes at breakfast one morning when Beldar realizes his daughter has a temporary tattoo on his skull, in addition to layers of makeup and lipstick. Disgusted, he orders his daughter to change, for she looks like their planet's version of a prostitute (the quirky name slips my mind, but I'm confident I'll get an email from a Conehead enthusiast informing me of the name and my review's failure). This scene works because it adheres to the principles of what this film ultimately should've been; a decidedly quirky parable about immigration and the subsequent Americanization of one's values and heritage.However, the quartet of writers here, including Aykroyd himself, don't do anything they couldn't do late at night on a Saturday. Even other Saturday Night Live alumni fail to shine, such as Chris Farley, who is given a disappointingly tame role, and Adam Sandler, who, I really must say, I wouldn't have minded seeing more of in this film. The depressingly tame and repetitive nature of Coneheads grows maddening after a while, and what we're left with is an empty shell of a film that doesn't live up to thematic potential and just kind of flounders when it should be flooring its audience.Starring Dan Aykroyd, Jane Curtin, Michelle Burke, Michael McKean, David Spade, Chris Farley, and Adam Sandler. Directed by Steve Barron. "},{"Title":" From a funny sketch a good comedy but with a slow rhythm","Date":"12 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dan Aykroyd is a great author, he give his best not when he is only a actor, but when he had the full power in the movie( Screenplay, producers. . . ). In this comedy the entire project it's his , in fact the story of two aliens going from away space for conquest the earth but a spoilt constrict them a long adaptation stay on own planet is very funny and hilarious, if you think that the movie is based on a old `Saturday Night Live', you can understand the arrogance and the provocation that it contain( a little limited, but efficacious). The gags are very hysterical and funny, the characters are enough strange for laughter, but the story is not very developed and it seems almost a pretext for to stage a serious of sketch. There are many special appearance to the new stars of the `Saturday Night Live' as Chris Farley, David Spade, Adam Sandler, and the old but always funny Jon Lovitz. Indeed very funny and a good satire of the American lifestyle, where the strangers are more `normal' of the local. My rate is 6.      "},{"Title":"amusing sci-fi","Date":"27 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Two aliens must adapt to life on Earth after their spacecraft crashes. Sci-fi comedy with social commentary about middle class American values. Inventive script, direction and story is fine for adults and younger viewers.  (Rating B+) "},{"Title":"Two Scoops","Date":"3 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is a collection of TeeVee skits with no cinematic aspiration, which is about the lowest category one could possibly find. Sometimes such things can hit a sweet spot. South Park did for me. This did not -- you can tell a lot about yourself by paying attention to what you think is funny.I found the main stuff unfunny. IO believe that is because film depends on other films, and film humor depends on other film humor. But there are no film references in the main material.But I chuckled a little at a few subliminal cone jokes. For instance, there's a segment where Beldar is a driving instructor and the student gets a cone stuck in the wheel well. Everything is telegraphed here, and this can be the only reason for going to the trouble of inventing the profession. But that one visual gag was pretty clever. "}{"Title":"Alien comedy with hits and misses","Date":"24 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dan Aykroyd is known for making good comedy films. Whether it's The Blues Brothers (1980) or Ghost Busters (1984), Aykroyd had something during his prime that made people gravitate towards his comedic films. Along with performing with other cast members of SNL, this particular title was an actual skit ten years before in 1983. My question is, who thought it would be a great idea to make it a movie a decade later? Was the skit that memorable? That's taking a large gamble. The story is about a group of aliens with cone shaped heads that crash land and have to conform to life on earth. It's not even close to an original concept (except for the conehead aspect), but it does have some have positive ends to it.Playing the coneheads are Dan Aykroyd, Jane Curtin, and Michelle Burke - all three of which have faded from today's contemporary films. Their acting isn't bad but the personalities either come off as too dry or too familiar. Aykroyd plays his role like the shadow of Raymond Stantz from Ghost Busters (1984), with fast dialog and vocabulary that is either never heard of or too scientific for most viewers. Curtin plays her role to match Aykroyd but rarely will audiences feel a connection to them. Burke's role is possibly the only connection that most audiences would have, considering she sounds normal and not like her robotic parents. Even then, her character arc isn't developed fully.Even more surprising is not only was this idea from SNL, but the writers behind this movie including Dan Aykroyd, were from SNL. I'm not sure how these guys created a screenplay that has obvious continuity errors and issues that aren't addressed. For example, why does Michelle Burke's character have normal teeth while her parents have pointed teeth? Or, how is that everyone that the coneheads run into are totally fine with their deformed craniums? Is everybody this accepting here on planet earth? Surely someone would make a buzz over it; considering that the head of deporting illegal immigrants, Gorman Seedling (Michael Mckean) wants to send them back to where they came from. How come he's the only character who finds them abnormal? Comedy works when people notice and react to strange events. But in this film, rarely do people react at all to the conehead family as if they were aliens. This creates a disconnect in the audience. Also, how is this film rated PG? There is some sexual humor in here that I don't think is suitable for a PG rating.Neglecting this though, there are scenes that do have their moments. Particularly the life style that the coneheads live is cooky. Helping with some of these chuckle moments are the special and practical effects. Some of it is noticeably and other times it's not. Overall that element was OK. Adding to some of the nostalgia of this 90s film is the large cast of the in crowd stars. Celebrities like David Spade, Sinbad, Drew Carey, Jon Lovitz, the late Chris Farley, Jason Alexander (with a full head of hair) and even Adam Sandler have appearances. Some have bigger roles than others, but it's commendable enough just to even see them. The music provided by David Newman was heard but it was forgettable. There weren't any tunes that really stood out. It's by no means bad - it's just average for a comedy.The main leads try their best to give their characters charm, but the comedy only seems to work when other well-known faces are on screen. This leaves the in between scenes with nothing to remember them by, making only a part of the film worth a watch. "},{"Title":"They're illegal and terrestrial aliens.","Date":"11 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" One night an UN-identifying object crash landed on earth. The pilots of the craft are 2 cone-heads. They are human shape only their heads are the shape of a cone. They speak very fast and have usual powers. Their ship is beyond repairs. And the earth technology is primitive to their use of communicating to their home planet. So when that time comes, they adapt to the earth life. And strangely no human finds them to be alien. but considered to be foreigners from a different country.This flick is pretty funny. Especially with a large all star cast. Including Dan Akroyd, David Spade, Chris Farly, Phil Hartman, Drew Carey, Sinbad, and Adam Sandler.There are some moments to this film. Just it's not worthy of being considered a cult-classic like the other SNL spin off films. But it's not that bad if you like slap stick/off the wall/weirded out comedy.Contains a lot of cruel humor and inappropriate scenes. So I would recommend it for 13 and up or those who are mature enough. "},{"Title":"Yellow mustard custard dripping from a dead dog's eye","Date":"3 May 2014","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" A conundrum of a movie, in that it's not funny or endearing, but obviously made and billed to be both funny and endearing. The movie was born from ancient SNL sketches that were only ever sort of funny, nostalgia took care of the rest. A forgettable movie, like I know the Coneheads are in the movie but I don't remember what they do or why they do whatever it is being done, like well over a hour of film is spent on central characters who are aliens from outer space trying to live on Earth incognito and its an utterly forgettable movie, that's not on me, I didn't screw that up. That the aliens' perspective on Earthling culture could be used for devastating satire was in no way utilized or even realized, I mean would you go to a knife fight and fight with a pocket- knife when you have Glock .9 strapped to your hip? Some important life-or-death struggle and you don't use your best weapon? "},{"Title":"Painful","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Here is one of the few movies that I have ever walked out on in the theater. Being a good sport and hoping it would fare better I second time on video, I chose to watch it again. Someone give me my 90 minutes back.With exception of the Wayne's World films, the vast majority of SNL skit-turned-films have been unbelievably awful. Coneheads is a fine example of one of the worst films ever churned out from a now-unfunny show.Dan Aykroyd and Jane Curtin bring their SNL roles to the big screen, and they have a lot to be ashamed of. There are very few laughs in this movie. The late Chris Farley gives it a shot, but the script is so utterly awful that he cannot even bring some physical humor into it.With recent bombs like A Night At The Roxbury and The Ladies Man, SNL really needs to hang it up. Coneheads was released when the show still had talent, but it is not on display here. Painful.Grade F "},{"Title":"I better not chew and drive.....","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Aliens Beldar and Prymatt, with cone-shaped heads from the planet Remulak are mistakingly grounded on earth, during a scouting mission for planet conquest. While here, they dodge the INS, have a child and discover that life on Earth is quite good. But unfortunately they are being chased by the government who know something is not quite right with the Conehead family. After they are rescued and taken back to their planet, Belder is told to come back and destroy planet Earth....This was straight to video here in the UK, and it's pretty clear as to why this happened. After the success of Waynes World, every SNL sketch thought it would have a crack at the movies, and while WW had a good narrative and background story, this is unoriginal stuff, and just an excuse for sight gags.Ackroyd is particularly bad in this, and I may be missing the whole point of the film, but only one person points out the abnormality. Maybe because the majority of folk in the USA are alien, or maybe because the writers just could not be bothered.Aside from cameos from lots of other below par comedians, Coneheads has nothing to offer, other than desperation from Ackroyd, who at one time was a comedic force to be reckoned with in Hollywood.Ghostbusters seems but a memory after seeing this trash "},{"Title":"A sorry excuse for a movie!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Obviously the people at snl thought it would be a good idea to film their coneheads skit into a feature length film - well, they thought wrong! This film does not play like a comedy, rather a feature length drama, and the lead stars happen to be aliens! The film isso boring, you wonder why it got the tick of approval! Sandle must be embarrassed to have been appearing in this film! A real joke! "},{"Title":"Another Yawner Based on a Saturday Night Live Sketch","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Coneheads is an awful film in almost every sense of the word.  Based on the popular sketch from Saturday Night Live episodes of the 1970s, the film follows a family of coneheads who come to Earth and live as normally as everyone else.  The screenplay and direction are awful.  The tireless number of cameos from ex-Saturday Night alums do not help out the lack of a story-line.  2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Mocks Christianity in offensive way","Date":"11 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" poor rendition of the original, but just a couple days ago for the first time i saw something, they get a motel, Kramer is the hotel clerk, OK there is hope for the movie; then in the room Jane Curtain reads a bible and laughs. it goes back to her laughing a few times to drill the point home the point they make is the bible is fantasy such that she finds it very funny; the point is its a book of lies according to Jane and the movies producers. it was extremely offensive to have this in there. lot of ways they could have handled the motel bible concept. they chose the worst, to mock all of Christianity calling all Christians deluded fools following the bible, a book of lies according to Jane Curtain and this movies producers.It made me want to look at her and say Jane you ignorant slut... "},{"Title":"Don't let these Coneheads deprive our planet of its humour!","Date":"1 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have known about the Coneheads for years now, and may have seen a bit of a Saturday Night Live skit with the characters at some point back when I was a kid. As I write this, it has been fifteen years (or close to fifteen years) since the release of this full-length movie featuring the SNL characters, and I have finally seen it. I don't know what I would think of any of the short Coneheads sketches, but there are definitely better movies featuring SNL characters than this one.Beldar and Prymatt are a couple with cone-shaped heads from the planet Remulak who find themselves stranded on Earth. They hope to be rescued and brought back to their planet, but until that happens, they will have to adjust to life on this planet. They begin to live their lives as middle-class humans, which seems to go well for them. They even give birth to a daughter named Connie. However, the government is very suspicious of this family, as they don't believe they are actually human. Nonetheless, the Coneheads live like this for quite a long time, and remain on Earth as Connie grows up. As a teenager, Connie has trouble with her parents, her love life, etc., and if the Coneheads are ever rescued, she might not want to leave Earth. In addition to that, of course, the government is still after these extraterrestrials!Since Coneheads is based on Saturday Night Live sketches, it's obviously supposed to be a comedy, but sadly, it fails in this genre. I certainly can't say I kept a perfectly straight face throughout, but from what I remember (and I should remember well, since I saw it so recently), I didn't laugh at all. In fact, even during certain parts where I was smiling, I sort of wondered if I should have been. I think an example of this is the scene where Beldar uses window cleaning fluid as mouthwash. I really can't think of too many other examples, since most of the gags are so forgettable. In fact, the movie as a whole is rather forgettable. Aside from the humour, there is a bit of excitement at times in the film, but not very much. The plot isn't the greatest one ever written.Like I said, better movies featuring SNL characters have been made. Dan Aykroyd plays Beldar in this one, and the fact that he is in this movie can easily remind one of The Blues Brothers, an earlier and FAR superior movie spawned by SNL which Aykroyd is very well-known for his role in. Several other SNL stars appear at different points in Coneheads, including Adam Sandler, Chris Farley, Phil Hartman, Jon Lovitz, and David Spade, but for all of them, this movie was not a very high point in their careers. Much worse comedies have been green-lit, but much better ones have as well, including other sci-fi comedies. For the most part, Coneheads is just boring. "},{"Title":"Great for losers","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":"  An SNL thirty second skit, turned into a ten minute skit, turned into an hour-thirty feature picture, that seems to never end.  I didn't like the original Coneheads, when watching some tribute, so why did I see some glimmer of hope when renting this.  I don't know, but I should really stop following my hunches.  Except for a (very) few funny parts, I want the two hours of my life back. "}{"Title":"Recycled ideas, tepid humor...","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Sci-Fi","Review":" Alien couple and child with cone-shaped noggins crash land on Earth and set up house in suburbia until their people can come and rescue them. Over-produced, under-written comedy dud, an extension of the shaggy, funny skits on the earliest years of TV's Saturday Night Live, never cuts loose. Dan Aykroyd and Jane Curtin return to their roles as Beldar and Prymatt, though perhaps passing the torch on to different comic actors might have been wise (neither star looks very enthused about re-boarding this vehicle). Worse, a gratuitous, unfunny subplot involving Michael McKean as a Special Agent who tracks down illegal aliens is given far too much time on the clock. Some of the cameos are fun, and newcomer Michelle Burke has a nice presence as teenager Connie Conehead, but this is otherwise forgettable stuff indeed. *1/2 from **** "}]