[{"Title":"Unfairly slated b grade creature feature","Date":"9 January 2008","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this last night having read most of the mocking and negative reviews and expecting something not much good. I was surprised when the film revealed itself to be a perfectly decent low budget creature outing, with the main idea of killer dinosaurs well realised. Granted, the effects are rubbery and easy to slate, but I had more fun just accepting that they were cheaply made and then enjoying them wreak havoc. The havoc is fairly well portrayed with a handful of nice gory kills, more gruesome than one might expect of a film of this ilk. I though the acting to be pretty reasonable, with Diane Ladd particularly standing out with a suitably crackpot mad scientist performance. It was also nice to see the oddly watchable Clint Howard in a small role. The script isn't great, and the story is more than a tad silly, but these are acceptable faults, because the film is always fun and interesting, and it goes down the odd unexpected alley, which is always nice. Mt fondness for this movie may put me in a minority but I'd say this is a fun, mindless outing that whilst no classic should provide a good deal of fun to creature feature addicts. At the least, it certainly beats the hell out of watching the drecktastic family friendly nonsense of Jurassic Park or the majority of recent dinosaur themed movies. "},{"Title":"One of the Better Corman Produced Films","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember watching Carnosaur years ago when it was released. This movie actually bothered me at the time, especially with its ending. The movie doesn't bother me anymore, but I do find it very enjoyable and has a great re-watch value to it.Diane Ladd has created a disease that only effects females. This disease impregnates them and causes them to give birth to dinosaurs with extremely bloody consequences.Apparently, this movie was based off of two different novels but I don't know how true it is to those novels. This film does have a few really good moments of gore and shock. Unfortunately, the special effects for the dinosaurs is quite lame. But the movie is still a lot of fun. Look for a few cult actors like Clint Howard. Also, this movie has 2 other sequels which I would highly suggest missing. 8/10 stars "},{"Title":"Cheap, trashy, somewhat amusing movie from the producer King of B MoviesRoger Corman.","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A brilliant but deranged geneticist Dr. Jane Tiptree (Diane Ladd) finds a way to bring Dinosaurs back to life by using DNA from Chickens Eggs! Which these Dinosaurs gets bigger by eating flesh's and creating panic in a small town somewhere in the desert. Which slowly several different kinds of Dinosaurs starts to breed like Rats. Which Tiptree is planning to destroy the world by unleashing an lethal virus and letting Dinosaur ruled the world once more.Directed by Adam Simon (Brain Dead) made an watchable but forgotten horror/sci-fi effort by that was made in the wake of Steven Spielberg's Big Budget Jurassic Park. Which this movie was out a few weeks earlier before Spielberg's take on Dinosaur. Which oddly enough, Ladd's daughter is the lead actress in JP. For all it's cheapness, the dinosaur sequences are well done (despite some funny unintentionally moments of the F/X sequences). Which it will recalls films of the special effects era from the 1950's. It is quite gory as well, which it's delivers the good often in a schlock way. Simon's film is surprisingly bleak with some moments of playful black comedy but it is not quite fun as we would expect from a Roger Corman production. A cast of familiar B cast tries to keep it lively. The third act of this thriller is extremely unsatisfying and the quite dark looking cinematography of this film could have better filmed. If u want to see Simon's better work, watch The American Nightmare. Which it's a documentary on the horror movies of the 1970's. Carnosaur is more of a curio movie than someone might actually enjoying. I always find it funny on the VHS Cover of this effort, since the late Gene Siskel enjoyed it very much. If u enjoy this, it's followed by two direct-to-video efforts! Based on a novel by the late Harry Adam Knight (Who's real name is John Brosnan). Simon wrote the adaptation of this depressing movie. (** ½/*****). "},{"Title":"I thought it was pretty fun for what it was...","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Carnosaur tells the tale of ex loony biowarfare scientist Dr. Jane Tiptree (Diane Ladd) who is working on behalf of the 'Eunice Food Service Division' where she gets to conduct as many unethical experiments as she likes, Dr. Tiptree has genetically recreated a Dinosaur egg which hatches & means a vicious Dinosaur is on the loose much to the annoyance of alcoholic night watchman Doc (Raphael Sbarge) who encounters it when it slaughters a bunch of protesters & he gets the finger of suspicion pointed at him by Sheriff Fowler (Harrison Page). In an effort to clear his name he traces Dr. Tiptree down & discovers that she has engineered a virus hidden within apparently harmless Chicken eggs which cause woman to become pregnant with a baby Dinosaur in an attempt to wipe out mankind & let the Dinosaurs rule the Earth once more! Can her plans be halted or is it too late already...Written & directed by Adam Simon Carnosaur is a Jurassic Park (1993) rip-off from beginning to end & was obviously made to cash in on Spielberg's monster sized hit by executive producer Roger Corman (who else?). In no way are Jurassic Park & Carnosaur comparable in terms of size, scale, scope or entertainment value although I thought Carnosaur was at least quite fun to watch. It moves along at a nice pace & never became boring & it was pretty funny at times. All the usual Dinosaur & mad scientist clichés are here but what the hell sometimes you just manage to enjoy a film for what it is, for me Carnosaur is one of those films. It's by no means a good film, it's very silly, it's tries to do far too much considering it's meagre budget & you can't help but keep thinking about Jurassic Park as you watch it. Basically Carnosaur is a cheap & gory Jurassic Park imitator which I found quite watchable, it's far from the best film ever made but I also think it's far from the worst.Director Simon was working with a low budget & it shows, there's no real style & the Dinosaur effects are plain embarrassing. They are truly some of the worst special effects you will ever see, most of the Dinosaur shots are out of scale & use poor rubber puppet effects while the climactic fight between a T-Rex & Doc in a Bulldozer looks like a hand puppet fighting a toy truck, the special effects are a million miles behind those that Spielberg had at his disposal that were so impressive over a decade ago. One surprising thing about Carnosaur is how gory it is, there is footage from inside a Chicken slaughter house, people have limbs bitten off, guts & bodily organs are torn out, people have their faces ripped off, people are impaled & there's even time for a messy Dinosaur birth that rips-off Alien (1979). Carnosaur doesn't shy away from showing the red stuff, which helps.With a supposed budget of about $1,000,000 I sort of feel sorry for Simon who had literally no chance whatsoever to compete with Spielberg's millions. The special effects are among the worst I've seen, the sets cheap, it's not that well made or put together & the acting could have been better but at least he tried to get as much money as possible on screen even if the film falls short on several occasions.Carnosaur is a terrible film if you look at it from a normal film-goers perspective, however never let it be said that I'm not an individual because, crazy as it may sound, I actually quite liked Carnosaur. There I've said it so sue me. Large chunks of Carnosaur was edited into Raptor (2001) & it spawned two sequels Carnosaur 2 (1995) & Carnosaur 3 Primal Species (1996). "},{"Title":"Great movie and enjoyable for most","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  `Carnosaur' is one of the few films that is so cheesy that you enjoy it more than the film probably should.**SPOILERS**A scientist (Diane Ladd) is under government contract to find a new vaccine to fight the common cold. She uses a serum derived from chicken cells, and manages to successfully test it on the residents in a small town in the desert. That same town is experiencing a small crisis as several activists are terrorizing a construction company for their abuse of the environment by their digging up dinosaur territory to build houses. The town is also beset by a wild animal running around and ripping people to shreds. After several murders, the police start to question what is going on around the town. A security guard, (Harrison Page) for the company, finds out that a dinosaur was inside a shipment of chicken eggs that left his company and has now gotten loose. He confronts the scientist, as well as an activist (Jennifer Runyon) that survived a dinosaur attack earlier, in the laboratory and forces her to reveal the truth about her plan the serum actually made women become pregnant with dinosaurs, who will then attack the rest of the people. She lets a T-Rex loose, and after an attack on the town, the T-Rex is finally stopped at the construction site.The Good News The main reason why this series of films were made is the gore, and with this one, that holds true. Not as gory as part two, but this one is still pretty gruesome. Several people get limbs bit off, one gets his head ripped off, and others get pulled to pieces in a shower of blood. The limbs and head getting ripped off is the more realistic of the gore, as they are pulled off in one piece with a lot of tissue and muscle pulled off with them. It was very well done and is the most realistic thing done in the film. The rest of the special effects aren't that well done, but it is still nice to watch them attempt to make realistic dinosaurs. The best part of the movie is the obvious cheeziness of the movie and how it revels in it. There are so many scenes where the dinosaur is so obvious a man's hand in a puppet walking along the scenery or the puppet used for the dinosaur is so different from the other puppets used that it adds to the charm of the movie. Some people may hate that, but I find it to be the charm of the movie. I like those kinds of movies, where it's so obviously bad that it doesn't try to hide how low the budget for it was. Those are a nice break from the films that are done with a big FX budget and try to wow you with that big budget. I'm also slightly embarrassed to say this, but this film did make me jump a few times. Strangely, not one was a scene involving a dinosaur. It was usually something that happened that I wasn't expecting to happen, like a pair of headlights coming on suddenly or a guy walking into frame that you didn't know was there. It does deliver some scares, just not the ones you expect would come from in a horror movie. It also has a more ingenious way of bringing the dinosaurs around than `Jurassic Park,' which came out the same year. The Bad News I don't know why people are saying that Diane Ladd did a good job in this movie. I thought she did a really awful job in her role. She never really made that big of an impression on me. In fact, the whole cast was really terrible. It wasn't a huge cast, as most of Roger Corman's films are, but not one was really all that memorable. It was also very short. I thought they could've squeezed at least ten more minutes into it. I also kind of hated the confusing ending. It was totally dark and it fit the tone of the movie, but it was a bit of a downer. I don't want to ruin it, but it will leave you speechless as it was confusing and brought up some important questions.The Final Verdict If you thought `Jurassic Park' was a weak movie, this one may be for you. The better one is the individual preference. Those that like gore will prefer this one; story and realistic dino lovers will want `Jurassic.' It does have a lot more redeeming factors that you would expect, and it deserves at least a look or a rental, as it isn't a cult classic for nothing.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Gem","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I rented Carnosaur because I saw Adam Simon's name on the video box.  His cameo in the Player made me curious to see if he really had talent. SURPRISE!  He does, and he has it in spades.He took a cheesy idea (basically, the Mad Scientist makes a monster), and got some true scares out of it.  The baby carnosaur is shocking and frightening.  I noticed that other reviewers have pounced on the shoddy special effects, but...come on!  It's a low budget cheapie made before CGI became affordable...for what they are, they work well.  At no time was I taken out of the movie by a poor effect.It begs comparison to Jurassic Park, of course.  And well it should. Jurassic park is, mostly, a better movie.  But Carnosaur makes for a good, fun, monster movie.  Not ideal for a night out, but a must-see when you're in a B-movie mood.  Rent it alongside a Romero film or an Evil Dead flick and enjoy the fun! "},{"Title":"Great movie!!!!!!","Date":"6 May 2000","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorite movies.  I believe it is excellent in almost every way.  The only reason everyone on this page hates this movie was because the special effects couldn't compete with Jurrasic Park.  They may say they disliked it for other reasons, but in reality, they are just kidding themselves and trying to find flaws that aren't there so they look like they aren't effects-hungry morons who can't enjoy a film unless it has at least 10 minutes worth of CGI.  Also, this movie asks its audience to suspend its disbelief, due to the fact the plot isn't very realistic, but as usual, the American people aren't willing to do that and just want to be mindlessly entertained.  First off, the plot, while unrealistic, is very creative and inteligent.  The style is very creepy and depressing.  The fact that this movie is filled with black humor and delights in vulgar nastiness makes this a very strange film indeed, but this is very refreshing due to the fact that it's a dinosaur movie (how many other dinosaur movies do you know about that are like this one?) and the style never detracts from the fun-factor.  The acting is excellent and the characters are much more interesting than any that were in Jurrasic Park.  Also, the special effects are not bad.  While not excellent by any standard, they are still, fun, creepy, and convincing.  You never see any zippers, strings, holes, or other such flaws, and the dinosaurs never appear to be floating or anything like that.  And lastly, (A) despite popular belief, a raptor never laughs at any point.  There is one scene where one grunts and breathes hard, and it does sound a bit like laughter, but it was obviously not intended to sound that way, and (B) this is not a Jurrasic Park rip-off.  Rip-offs steal ideas and stories.  Carnosaur doesn't do this.  It was definitely made to cash in on the success of Jurrasic Park, but is a very different movie overall.  So in conclusion, I think Carnosaur simply RULES!!!!!!!!!!  To all you people badmouthing it, I hope a green and mean raptor visits you tonight... "},{"Title":"Could have been great, instead it's just OK","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've seen Carnosaur twice. Judging from the tone of the previously submitted comments, there are two kinds of people in this world those who think Carnosaur was an atrocious plagiarism of Jurassic Park and those who think Carnosaur was a misunderstood masterpiece. I have to say I stand firmly entrenched between the two extremes. Carnosaur had the potential of being a REALLY good horror movie. It's very dark and brooding, and you watch it and you feel like the world is about to end. The plot is unique and different from the typical dinosaur-runs-amok movie. But a couple of things really hold this movie back. First, the special effects are awful. Since the movie didn't have a Jurassic Park budget, I don't expect Jurassic Park effects. But I also don't want to see a Velociraptor that looks like Kermit the Frog's big brother, either. The thumbnail says this movie was released in 1993, but the special effects give it the feel of a movie that was made 10 years earlier and kept locked in a safe somewhere until the right moment for release (presumably, to capitalize on the Jurassic Park craze). There are also a few silly moments that will have you scratching your head. (I mean, it's a dinosaur movie so you do have to suspend realism to a certain extent, but Dr. Tiptree laying an egg is just a little much). It does have an ending that's as dark as the rest of the movie, which I like here. If they had refined the plot a little and worked on the special effects, I'd give it a much higher rating. "},{"Title":"People miss the point...","Date":"15 August 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Probably best remembered as being 1993's other dinosaur movie, this tale has a brilliant scientist finding a way for women to give birth to dinosaurs & all the havoc that follows as a result of it, growing to an enormous size, they soon start treating humans as lunch, unless two people can stop them & put these nasty predators back into extinction. CARNOSAUR was a fun B movie that I much admired, however I was shocked to see that many reviewers on the board don't share the same views, despite some good reviews, the majority have been negative, personally I don't see why, CARNOSAUR makes for an interesting B movie, the acting & directing is good & the special effects are well handled & believable which is quiet a feat since the budget was very small. In terms of competition, I don't think CARNOSAUR was mean't to compete up against JURASSIC PARK, it was just made for the direct to video market to make a little extra cash while fans waited for JURASSIC PARK to hit video or come to theaters, (I can't remember which one made it out first at the time). All in all, if you want a cheesy fun B movie, I say check this out, it's much more intelligent than what passes as most B movie efforts, just don't expect something that will surpass JURASSIC PARK & you should have a ball.***1/2 stars "},{"Title":"It's no Jurassic Park!","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I bought, payed for and viewed Carnosaur, I took into account its budget limitations, it was, after all, made possible by legendary 'B' movie producer Roger Corman. I also tried my hardest not to make too many comparisons between this film and the mega-budget Jurassic Park, despite more than a few nods made to the movie in the script (It would make a great theme park!, Diane Ladd being the mother of Laura Dern, a main cast member in Jurassic Park and a cool-acting black cop who seemed to be modelling himself on Samuel L Jacksons role.)In 'B' movie standards, this film should rate quite highly (I'm sure its Oscar material compared to the later 'B' flick 'Dinosaur Island', and at least this film generates a bit of an effort, some of the supposed 'great' films out there have a far higher budget and still fare worse than Carnosaur.The narrative is simple a mad scientist develops mutant chicken eggs that hatch deadly dinosaurs that grow big! Small dinosaurs escape, multiply and kill whilst a suspicious virus takes its toll on a quiet town. Much of the plot is interspersed with boring, confusing and sometimes irrelevant, badly scripted dialogue between second-rate characters. Diane Ladd, who plays the crazy scientist, brings the movie up a few pegs and one wishes her part was a little larger. Her acting capabilities are so much greater than the other, uninteresting cast members (Jennifer Runyon, Ned Bellamy, etc,)The actual dinosaurs render the whole film comedic as they resemble plastic models one plays with as a child. I couldn't help thinking that a dinosaur toy was being filmed in close-up! The dreary Nevada setting doesn't add any interest to the movie and the blatant Coca-Cola sponsorship just gets annoying! For comedy, there is a giant T Rex kept amongst lasers in a basement and a scene showing Diane Ladd trying to lay an egg before attempting Cesarean section and encountering her own 'Alien' style John Hurt moment!Overall, this film has a good idea but fails to develop it. Diane Ladd's attempt to recover a lush, earthly environment seems admirable and is far away from her counterpart Richard Attenborough's vision in Jurassic Park. If the film was made with a better script, a larger collection of good actors' and a better setting it could do a lot better. If, however, you enjoy watching opulent, expensive and technically excellent films-this movie will only serve to put you off your food...especially eggs!I'll give it 4/10..Could have been better- Now where do I get a copy of the sequel!!! "}{"Title":"Reminds me of spaghetti...","Date":"20 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I saw this film for the first time when I was in high school. My friends and I were looking for a bad horror flick, and we were right on our renting fee money when we picked out this gem. If you want to watch a movie that is scary, uses realistic-looking-dinosaurs, and authentic-looking blood and guts, then this movie is not right for you. Do not take it even remotely seriously. If you are looking for a good laugh, then, please, take this movie seriously. Somewhere between the horrible cinematography, several messily mauled treehuggers, and the science that completely lacked any validity whatsoever, I found myself actually rolling on the floor, convulsing with laughter. I now proudly own the entire trilogy of Carnosaur-ridden hilarity. If you have seen Ed Wood and became intrigued with bad cinema, then Carnosaur should be just right for you. "},{"Title":"I loved every minute of it.","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've been a huge dinosaur nut ever since I was 3 years old. Possibly even before that, but my memory of being one goes back to when I was 3 (Yes, I actually remember this) and I saw my very first look at a dinosaur &#x96; a rubber (and I've since been told a very annoyingly squeaky) toy Triceratops. My parents bought it for me and from that moment on, my life's biggest passion was born &#x96; Dinosaurs. Growing up (and still to this day), I have to see anything that has dinosaurs in it, no matter how good or bad. As a kid, that wasn't really a problem &#x96; until 1993 when my 8-year-old eyes befell a little VHS tape on the video store shelf called Carnosaur. The dinosaur on the cover looked just awesome (again, at the time and to my kid eyes), as I had never before seen a live-action dinosaur beyond old black and white movies (side note When I saw Jurassic Park for the first time later that very same year, it blew my little mind). I looked at the pictures on the back of the box and instantly knew I just had to see this movie. However, when I went to go bring it to my parents to rent it for me, they had forbidden it because it had the dreaded R Rating that has a long and evil history of stopping many young kids in their tracks. Now, to my young mind, I couldn't understand why a dinosaur movie - something I had thought was a topic that was always kid-friendly - was R Rated. Over the years, I kept seeing not only Carnosaur but it's growing number of sequels &#x96; first Carnosaur 2 and then Carnosaur 3 Primal Species, always checking out the pictures on the back and thinking how awesome these movies must be. Then in 2001, once I entered Grade 10 in High School and I was able to go out and rent what I wanted, the next time I saw the Carnosaur VHS tape sitting in that video store, I snatched it up and watched it. And yes...it was bad. Very bad. Horrible. Dreadful even. And I loved every minute of it. "},{"Title":"Cheesy adaptation, but still watchable","Date":"16 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After a series of strange deaths rock their small desert town, a group of friends tie the incidents to a scientist's genetically-engineered dinosaurs running amok in an attempt to pave over society and race to stop them.This here turned out to be quite an enjoyable and cheesy rip-off at times. One of its better aspects is that the film's actually quite bloody and gory, much more so than expected which is a great factor. With the shower of blood on display, we also get plenty of limbs ripped off, dismemberments and decapitations, which is found in the movie's highlight sequence where it attacks a group of protesters chained to a series of trees and it swoops down to chomp on them in quite vicious manners, leading to a big action chase but with all the gore on display, even coming up with a realistic manner of doing so with muscle and tissue visibly shown to be pulled away from the victim makes for an impressive visual. While this does have a slew of problems with regards to its special effects being obviously a man's hand in a puppet being whisked through the scenery to simulate it's advancement through the area, these moments of utter cheese work to create a sense of charm with the film that's almost impossible to top, even though the story has a ton of continuity problems, a downer of an ending and several other problems. It's good points outweigh the flaws, only if they appeal to you though.Rated R Graphic Violence and Graphic Language. "},{"Title":"Great Fun for Anyone Who Likes Dinosaurs and Indie Films on a Budget","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This film may not have had the budget or the big name actors found in Jurassic Park, but I find myself watching this movie over and over unlike Jurassic Park. Sure the dinosaurs look like they are hand puppets, but for me that is the fun of it. The gore is also way above what is found in Jurassic Park, and that is probably a selling point for me as well.The people in this film obviously worked hard at making it, even if they didn't receive the $20 million salaries. In fact the budget for the entire film was around $1.2 million, and in limited release grossed about $1.7 million, which is what Roger Corman was best at.Chicken DNA plus Diane Ladd = dinosaurs hatching from chicken eggs, and women infected with virus that induces them to give live dino-birth. DARPA conspiracies and Clint Howard gets eaten by dinosaur, and a very silly looking T-Rex make this film one of the all time low budget greats. "},{"Title":"Wow, can't believe this scared me as a kid!","Date":"7 April 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Buuut in a way I can. When you're young as I was when I watched this, you don't get adult humor and seeing dinosaurs tear people apart can be a little scary. Well flash forward to 15 years later I kinda get curious and decide to give it another watch. And man I can't believe I was scared by it! (Well, Airplane and the evil toilet scene from Look Who's Talking Too kinda scared me too, so it ain't saying much now is it?) First of all forgot how faked the little raptor thing looked! And of course the humor in it as well Seriously, was that hippie stoned when he said Peace, Green Brother to the Raptor? Personally I would have said Ah crap but maybe that's just me. And the hero does deliver a good action movie one liner with I hate wildlife before killing the T-Rex. Very repeatable line there. Oh and this movie was my first exposure to Alfred E. Neuman as well. But the movie does have it's dark moments, such as Diane Ladd (whose daughter starred in the other dinosaur flick that came out around the time this did. Can you guess who she is and what movie it is?) as the evil bioengineer who thinks humans don't deserve the planet and dinosaurs do. Wow, did she wake up on the wrong side of the bed or what? And wait till you find out what the fever is.My only beef with this movie is the middle (or maybe it's not the middle, I can never keep track with 80 minute movies sometimes) where our hero confronts Ladd about what she's doing. It seems she took a little too long to explain her side of the story. I mean, he gets inside, holds her at gunpoint. Next scene it's morning, Sheriff is preparing breakfast, then the next it's night when B Movie king Clint Not Ron Howard has his head bitten off, then cut back to the hero still holding Ladd at gunpoint. Dude, you have a gun. Make her give you answers immediately, no matter how cold hearted she is! Seems he was a little too patient.So, while it's not the scariest movie ever that I thought it was at 8 years old, it's still a fun campy horror movie just not meant to be taken seriously. "},{"Title":"The Darkest Dinosaur Movie I've Ever Seen","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Carnosaur definitely takes the top spot of the dark and unusual dinosaur movies. The almost noir atmosphere of this movie really makes it creepy, at least until the dinosaurs show themselves. Unfortunately, the spooky air of this movie looses its feel when the rubber puppet dinosaurs show up. Sad to say, the Velociraptor dinosaur in this movie is only a step above a Muppet, and the Tyrannosaurus is only slightly better. However, I still enjoyed the movie for the ham and cheese it is. Dianne Ladd really takes her mad scientist role to interesting places in this movie. The excessive gore I could've done without, but it doesn't detract too much from the film overall. A great 'bad' movie that true b-movie fans shouldn't miss. "},{"Title":"The darkest dinosaur film I've ever seen!","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  So much more horror then any Jurassic Park movie! Carnosaur is one of the only films that the genre falls into horror and dinosaurs. From beginning to end it's a true cult-classic for a those few die hard fans that are out there. But let's hope they don't go extinct. The #1 complaint has been that the special effects suck. Okay, the T-Rex was too fake for me but the little green raptor really rocks. Like when it takes down those idiotic kids in their jeep to when it takes down those chained environmentalists. And I loved how the writer named all the major characters after birds. What an irony! And for the novel, every dino fan should read Harry Adam Knight's Carnosaur! I own the novel on paperback and it is no longer in print from what I've heard so run and find a copy from a used shop or the web. And I really thought it was funny how some of the characters would be eating chicken like Clint Howard and then get taken down by the dinosaur. How ironic! I would have given this movie a perfect 10 if it only if they had dropped the concept about women giving birth to dinosaurs! But a movie like this is so rare to find and so fun to watch. And you'll never look at chickens the same way again!8/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent B-horror","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, so the special effects were nothing to cheer about, but that's okay for this type of film.  The picture on the box should tell you that it was made on the cheap, so if you don't have enough imagination to live with that, then go watch JP again and leave us horror fans alone.  They weren't as bad as some things I've seen in my day, that's for sure.  I didn't come to make Bambi eyes in joyous rapture at the wonder of the largest beasts ever to walk the planet.  I wanted to see the kind of gore that you expect when you unleash a 20 foot tall ravenous carnivore on the modern world, and this movie delivers.  JP and Godzilla had to skimp over that aspect of these critters.  A dinosaur attack involves rending of flesh, buckets of blood, and crunching of bone.  Here you get all of that.  Well, to tell the truth, I've seen better butchery effects too, but I am glad they made this anyway.Having rented it solely for the ultraviolence, I was elated to find a decent plot that kept me on the edge of my seat, and characters that made me anxious to see them survive.After watching it one thought came right to mind, which was,  Man! i haven't enjoyed a movie that much in a long time!  I loved it.  The plot was very original.  It was so much more than the typical Mutated monster goes bananas theme.  It had a twisted enough slant that it really got to me.  The music and atmosphere were dark and haunting.  I watch movies at night with all the lights off, so I appreciate the proper use of shadow like you can't do when it's daytime.  The characters were human enough that I felt genuine empathy for them, which is so rare in this genre!  "},{"Title":"nicely done","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  fans of low-budget Corman should enjoy thisobviously this was made for people who can tolerate bad FX (no, a raptor did not laugh in this movie and anyone who thinks so was an idiot trying to think of a reason to bash this film)as for it's JP premise, this is not as good as that film but it's still enjoyable. this film might have been better than JP had they used some better FX, simply because this film is more bold than anything big-studio movies would ever attempt  "},{"Title":"Roger Corman takes on Jurassic Park","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Here's a gory and campy fun movie from Roger Corman studios that does not take itself seriously, therefore belongs in the so bad its good category of silly B-movies. Diane Ladd is a brilliant biologist secretly experimenting with a deadly virus and a new species of dinosaur in a plot to wipe out human existence. Her genetic cross-breed is made possible by.... you guessed it, Chickens! The prehistoric predators are now lose in the desert outskirts of the bioengineering facility, and wreck gory havoc on the surrounding population, including environmental enthusiasts, teenage party-goers, a roughneck maintenance man, and of course, Clint Howard, who always seems to make an appearance in theses types of movies, and not to mention a climatic battle between a bobcat bulldozer and a T-Rex.It took two directors to put together this nonsense, and the formula consists of rubbery dinosaurs, plenty of limb ripping, grotesque monster births, and tons of gore and mayhem. Its fast-paced and hilarious, despite whether or not the laughs are achieved intentionally. The performances are well done, and the directors' use of lighting and camera trickery do it justice. If the big-budget hit, Jurassic Park is more to your liking, you will probably hate this little creature feature, but keep in mind the creators were probably spoofing the whole deal, and something is said about people who contribute to destroying the environment. Regardless of its philosophical ideology, its not meant to be analyzed. Approach it with a sense of humor, and you'll find this to be quite a ride. "}{"Title":"A Z-Movie With A B-Movie Script","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Come on, did we really EXPECT a worthy rip-off of Jurassic Park here? If it's taken at face value, CARNOSAUR is a fun way to kill 90 minutes. The dinosaur effects are laughable at best, but overall it's better scripted than the average Roger Corman slaughterama, and Dianne Ladd gives an over-the-top performance that alone makes this one worth watching. You get the feeling that there was probably a decent movie here if only they'd had a big enough budget. It may not be saying much, but at least it's better than the two sequels that followed. If you're in the mood for a good, goofy, gory B-movie, CARNOSAUR shouldn't disappoint. Besides, you can buy it on DVD for only $5.99 (like I did). Can't beat that with a stick!  "},{"Title":"B-movie goodness, here I come!","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is NOT a rip-off of Jurassic Park. The book that the movie is based on (Yes, there's a book) was published in 1984, six years before Crichton's book was published. So the idea was original. However, the movie is not sterling. It has problems. But it has its moments, and damn if it doesn't try its best. The T-Rex (a rather ambitious attempt, if I do say so myself) always impressed me, but the smaller dinosaur, the Deinonychus, was...regrettable. Although the final scene with it, when the sheriff blows its head off with a shotgun, great scene. It's far from perfect, and almost isn't even good, but it tries so hard. But hey, if you just wanna watch Jurassic Park, knock yourself out, no one's stopping you. "},{"Title":"Funny dino splatter - watch immediately after Jurassic Park","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This little Roger Corman produced film is pretty funny. It has some crazy scientist who thinks that people have violated and exploited nature and also animals for so long, that it is now the time for a payback. The plot is pretty confusing (as usual) but soon very hungry and angry dinosaurs are eating people alive in hilarious trash scenes.The effects are OK and you'll love this if you like trash cinema. This is not great movie, but great in its own little category which has to be understood. If you only like mainstream s*it like Armageddon or Jurassic Park 1-3 then you'll hate this and laugh yourself alive. But viewed as a trash picture without significant cinematic or artistic values Carnosaur is OK. I haven't seen the sequels but will pick them up if opportunity appears.5/10 "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  To all you people who hated this movie, give it a break!  It really is not that bad and I personally think it is one of the best movies ever made. The story was highly original for a dinosaur movie.  Granted, Women giving birth to dinosaurs is a tad hard to swallow but it is at least partially explained and it is interesting if you are willing to suspend your disbelief for a while.  Pretty darned scary as well.  The dinosaurs in this movie LOOK good even though their movements are WAY too stiff and awkward, even for a low-budget movie.  I do like the way the dinosaurs were portrayed in Carnosaur, though.  Most Dino movies try to evoke two things out of the audience with the dinosaurs fear and wonder.  This movie couldn't give a lump of dino-crap for any wonder surrounding the dinos.  The slimy, drooling, and grotesque dinosaurs of Carnosaur are very frightening if you can get over the way they stiffly move around.  I think people just hate the critters of Carnosaur because they were spoiled by the special effects of Jurrasic Park.  The acting in this movie is very good and anyone complaining about it is clutching at straws.  The characters were also not nearly as stereotypical as the ones in Jurrasic Park.  Oh, and lastly, this is NOT a ripoff of Jurrasic Park.  It was undoubtedly made to cash in on the popularity of that film, and both movies do feature dinosaurs, but that is it.  Carnosaur and Jurrasic Park are two very different movies.  I give Carnosaur **** out of ****. "},{"Title":"No Jurassic park but","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" it was'nt anywhere nearly as bad as people say. Or at least, from what I can remember. I really can't say much about the story and acting as its pretty fuzzy but I do recall being impressed sometimes. The Deinonychus was fairly realistic and killed and ate people rather violently. I can say for sure that the attacks were pretty realistic and dinos never looked fake at any point. This movie even had a full size animatronic T-rex. Now Jurassic Park was a classic which is eons ahead and this movie had the misfortune of being released in the same year. People just love to compare both and make fun of the poorer attempt. If it were released a few years before, Carnosaur would have been more appreciated no doubt. It is really unfair to put this movie in the standard B-movie list. "},{"Title":"Someone check Diane Ladd's pulse!","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Corman got the genius idea of going head-to-head with Spielberg's JURASSIC PARK the same summer and even cast Diane Ladd, the mother of PARK's Laura Dern. Sadly, the results aren't that good. Dr. Jane Tiptree (Ladd) has created some genetically modified eggs that house creatures made up of the blended DNA of various things including iguanas, ostriches, and chickens. It is all part of her plot to destroy mankind. Standing in her way are drunk night-watchman Doc Smith (Raphael Sbarge) and environmentalist Thrush (Jennifer Runyon). The only thing sadder than this movie is that I felt the need to watch it again nearly 20 years later to confirm, Yeah, it still sucks. The film does have some bright spots in that the dinosaur attacks are gory and there are some funny Coca-Cola product placements. But the dinosaur effects are pretty bad and the script (adapting, but apparently not very well, a 1984 novel) is totally flat. Matching this flatness are woefully miscast Sbarge and the seemingly lifeless Ladd. Ladd, who probably only did 3 days max on this, has absolutely no pulse and delivers one of cinema's worst mad scientists EVER. The film holds the distinction of being the last Corman production to ever play in theaters, grossing $1.7 million over a period of six months or so. Corman did get two sequels out of it though, but I haven't seen them. I probably will now. -( "},{"Title":"a missed opportunity","Date":"18 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Carnosaur is a film that can probably blame its obviously low budget on it being a missed opportunity. This movie contains many good elements including a very wonderful performance by Academy Award-nominee Diane Ladd. About half of the time, this movie kept me entertained in its own unique way and the other half of the time I was bored to tears. Thus, I give it two stars out of four. Half and half. Sounds fair to me.Carnosaur is loosely based on a novel by John Brosnan about a mad scientist (Diane Ladd) who is disgusted by the human race's destruction of the planet and plans to wipe it out with a killer virus while genetically engineering dinosaurs so that they can take over the planet once again.I was really surprised that film critic Gene Siskel, who had given the Oscar-winning masterpiece The Silence of the Lambs (1991) a negative review found this movie appealing and gave it a marginally positive review. But now that I've actually seen the film, I can agree with him part way. I still give it a negative review, but I do see why he might have enjoyed it. First of all, like I mentioned earlier, Diane Ladd plays a terrific villain in this movie. Even though she was given some awfully poor lines to act on, she somehow managed to keep me interested and even a bit frightened whenever she was on the screen. I'll say this; she is a lot more interesting than the dinosaurs in this picture. Perhaps the reason Carnosaur was even made was to beat Steven Spielberg's Jurassic Park (1993) to the big screen and make a little cash, which it did despite negative reviews from both critics and audience members. The film was made on a low budget and you can tell by the bad acting (excluding Diane Ladd, of course) and the poor special effects. The dinosaurs are seldom convincing at all. They are portrayed using rubber puppets and even though they are shot at night, they do become revealing at times. Sometimes painfully revealing. I also felt that the amount of blood and gore used in this film was way overdone, but that is typical of films of this grade.And there is also one major plot problem in this movie. If the Diane Ladd character wants to wipe out the human race, why not just create the virus and not even bother with the dinosaurs at all? Why go through all the trouble and risk being caught? Of course, the dinosaurs were thrown in one because of the novel source and two to get people interested in seeing the movie, but still it almost seems as though Carnosaur would have been better, at least more logical, if there were no dinosaurs in it at all. And it also doesn't make any sense that she only breeds carnivorous dinosaurs and no herbivores. There are some strangely appealing elements to Carnosaur, much to my surprise, and there are some ludicrous and unbelievably poor elements, as anticipated. It is just too bad I wasn't surprised more while watching this movie. A few re-writes of the script and a slight ante in the budget would have done it wonders. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as I expected","Date":"23 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, what can I say? I'm a huge fan of b movies, so I've seen some great big piles in my life. I was going into this expecting a poorly-shot, bad-humor-filled, crappy-effect-infused, pox-ridden Corman romp of Night of the Blood Beast or Wasp Woman proportions. I was rather surprised, actually. The effects were nothing to write home about, but they weren't horrible. At least this was before CG was on the open market, so they stuck with practical effects (which, in my opinion, are underrated). The acting was par for the course, but I feel Diane Ladd did a pretty good mad scientist with Tiptree. Mainly Raphael Sbarge was a good washed-up drunk with Doc Smith. Some things made the movie a little tedious (the romantic plot between Thrush and Doc, Clint Howard's character, etc.) but I found this an overall enjoyable cheesy gore-ride of fun weirdness.Watch if you are used to horrifically cheesy movies.4/10 "},{"Title":"As it has been described in the past, a tour de force - 'spoilers'","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is quite possibly the most horrible movies of all time. that said, if you're someone who gets a big kick out of horrible movies (like me) be prepared to laugh your guts out.  Not one thing was well-done, even the lighting (or substantial lack thereof) was enough to elicit laughter, and i don't think i've ever really even noticed bad lighting before this movie. Blatant product placement (a nice shiny coke is in the middle of the screen at one point) as well- i think pepsi might have paid roger corman (the producer) to put coke in this rancid piece of celluloid to damage coke's credibility. Horrible acting, no character development (for example, if you want to find out why the lead character's nickname is doc, you'll have a hard time figuring it out, because he dismisses it as coming from something he didn't do, and it's never mentioned again). The plot is ridiculous, as well. Why go to all the trouble of creating a virus that kills women by making them give birth to dinosaur eggs when these dinosaurs seem to be pretty adept at killing both men and women alike? Also, when the people are dead, and all the other animals, what do the purely CARNivorous dinOSAURs eat? Dr Tiptree forgot that you can't have a system of purely carnivorous animals... a bit of a flaw in her logic! in the words of Maude Lebowski, The storyline is ludicrous.Some Special Moments -Disco Dino, complete with laser show and strobe lights-Feeding the senator some goat embryonic fluid (Somebody get the senator some water!-A lesson well learned drinking and driving leads to death by carnosaur-Carnosaurs eat mexican food on occasion-in the scene with the hippies chained to the machinery, you can actually see a hand grabbing the girl's leg (when it's supposed to be a carnosaur) and the blood moves around on her face....Oh, the best part of this movie, by the way, is when Doc busts in on crazy Dr Tiptree's lab with a gun and two seconds later she sits down in a swivelly chair and starts to spin around, pretty much what anyone would do in a situation where a gun was being pointed at your forehead...In a word, HILARIOUS, well worth the rental fee for such a great laughfest. "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Diane Ladd's fun, nutty performance alone makes this film worth the price of admission. She stars as a scientist who has token chicken eggs and mixed them with dinosaur DNA. She is intent on creating a breed of carnovourous dinosaur that would wipe out the human race. The special effects are plain out awful, however the film is entertaining, fast paced, and has its share of humor and scares. Good paranoid finale too. "}{"Title":"Great flick","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Better than Jurassic Park, even though the SFX suck out loud. Then again, it is a Roger Corman film. I personally like some of his other films like Pirahna. Way scarier than JP could hope to be and gorier, especially when the hippies get eaten! Still, it has an anti - pollution message in there... If you turn it all around and upside down and use a wrench. Did I mention there's an actor named Raphel Sbarge? And one more coincidence... Diane Ladd, or Dr. Tiptree, is the mother of the little girl in JP. Overall a good movie. Carnosaur 2 sucks, C3 rules, and Raptor (C4) sucks worse.9/10 for minor plot holes. "},{"Title":"Hippie-splatter makes it not AS bad","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A scientist who has lost her faith in humanity makes crappy shoddy dinosaurs to eat everyone up I guess. It's up to a night watchman and a damn dirty commune hippie girl to destroy them. Starring Diane Ladd from Kingdom Hospital, Harrison Page the Captain from Sledge Hammer, and Clint Howard from.. well just about every B-movie ever made. This movie was laughably bad, the dinos look like they were Land of the Lost refuges who couldn't cut it. And the plot is ridiculous.. STILL there is something so right about seeing stinking hippies being ripped apart and gobbled up. So it wasn't all in vain. That whole aspect pulled it up a whole grade. Yea I know that I have issues. hahahaMy Grade C- "},{"Title":"cheesy graphics, but over all i give it two thumbs up","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  i actually enjoy b-movies. I see over the cheap graphics and actually watch the movie itself. I have seen all three carnosaur movies and i wouldn't be surprised if they came out with a 4th movie. i enjoy sci fi movies no matter what. there are very few that i don't like. i could watch almost any sci fi movie and like it. notice that was an almost. I don't think a movie should be judged by how well the graphics look or the name. you need to pretend that the graphics are the best graphics you have ever seen. it is not their fault they had a low budget. you know you cant just judge a movie by graphics you just cant. i like the graphics from the 80's better than the 3d graphics we have today. well most of the graphics not all i like the split screen like they did in RoboCop  "},{"Title":"The next Jurassic Park?  The producers of this mess are talking Jurassic Porkies.","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The real tragedy of this film is that the book (by Harry Adam Knight)on which it is based is actually a masterpiece.  But this adaptation has absolutely nothing to do with the book.  So why in the name of sanity have the producers paid for the license?The plot of this film involves a crazed scientist who intends to re-populate the world with dinosaurs.  Before long her creations are out and about and terrorizing the locals.  Unfortunately I'm one of those annoying, awkward people who just refuse to be in the least bit scared or impressed by laughable rubber creatures which look like they'd be more at home on 'The Muppets'.  The script is disjointed and often becomes tedious and there are no interesting characters.  There is no sense of awe and wonder surrounding the subject of live dinosaurs.  They're more like cartoon monsters.  A dinosaur even laughs at one point.Always be careful when selecting films which claim to be better than box-office hits. Everyone involved in this cheap, tacky, wasted license should be ashamed. "},{"Title":"A bland Dino feature.","Date":"24 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" In the midst of Jurassic Park being released in the summer of 1993 there were multiple cash grabs on the run from Jurassic Park's success from Congo to Godzilla you name it then just a few weeks prior in May of 1993 Carnosaur was released to a very small limited release, and then was released on home video later that year. Carnosaur is one of those films that feels unconnected by that I mean there are a lot of things that needed to be fixed specifically the plot. The plot feels as if there are two things going on once first is this dinosaur going nuts around this small town, and then there is stuff involving the government wanting to go after every citizen and the main antagonist is wanting to impregnate women with dinosaurs. Another downside of the film is that the humans aren't really that great besides Diane Ladd(the antagonist) and the supposed protagonist played by Raphael Sabarge who are amusing to watch on camera. The big plus of the film is how good the dinosaurs look considering the million dollar budget they had, and the kills are the best parts of the film. But overall Carnosaur is a forgettable bland creature feature that fails trying to be Jurassic Park or a fun creature feature. "},{"Title":"Trashy gore flick","Date":"23 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This cheap cash-in on JURASSIC PARK is, I have to say, absolutely atrocious in every way. Dispensing with an original plot, this plays more like a generic monster movie, with lots of people getting eaten and a sinister government conspiracy acting as the catalyst for all the evil. The only way to actually enjoy this movie is to laugh at it, just like I did. Take it seriously and you'll be in for a rough time. A cast of nobodies and a couple of B-movie old-timers are picked off one by one by some vicious raptor-like dinosaur. The explanation for all this is some kind of silly, confused rubbish, about genetically modifying chickens or something.Throughout this film we see women giving birth to dinosaur eggs...Excuse me while credibility flies out of the window. Towards the end of the film the chief scientist gets to talk for 20 WHOLE MINUTES about why she's doing what she is, and it gets boring very quickly. I can't emphasise how totally dumb and mindless this film is. The leads act in stupid ways, people hang around and wait to be killed, and nobody has a very plausible death scene - instead, they all sit or stand around waiting for the dinosaurs to show up and munch on them. Some silly dialogue (it carved him up like a Christmas turkey!) and some really annoying subtitles also help to spoil things.The male lead, played by some non-entity going by the name of Raphael Sbarge, is totally wooden and far too young to have any authority. Diane Ladd, who plays the misguided scientist, is usually far too superior to appear in rubbish like this and looks mightily out of place. Clint Howard is wasted in a tiny role which fails to make use of his creepy talents, while only Harrison Page (A.W.O.L.) lends any credibility to the proceedings as the old-time sheriff. The best part of this film has to be the unexpected, out-of-nowhere ending which had me in stitches. Oh, and the excessive violence.The producers obviously saw fit to add in as much unpleasant, comic book gore as they possibly could here, and the results are splashed (often vividly) across the screen. Countless non-actors and actresses are eaten by the dinosaurs, having their chests and stomachs torn open. Faces and legs are also chewed off. Other hapless souls lose their hands and arms to the monsters.Don't watch this movie expecting any fun special effects. The dinosaurs are extremely poorly animated, some of the worst I have ever seen in fact. Forget CGI, forget stop-motion, even forget the men in rubber suits; these clunky models beat everything in terms of sheer nerve and hopelessness when it comes down to the special effects. When standing still, they look fine, but as soon as they move, the film loses it. Sometimes they're obviously being carried along just off camera. This is bad enough, but then a giant T-Rex goes on the rampage and things get worse. I'm speechless as to how poor these effects were - they have to be seen for yourself. Things made more sense as the credits rolled and I saw that half of the actors were also crew members, and it all begins to fall into place when you see that Roger Corman's production company were responsible for this outrage. It only gets an extra star for the bloody violence. This is bad, bad, bad, so please don't bother watching it! "},{"Title":"Low Budget Jurassic Park... Sorta!","Date":"16 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, okay, what do you get when you combine THE CRAZIES, THE THING, ALIEN, and JURASSIC PARK? Why a low budget rip-off of JURASSIC PARK, of course! The storyline is truly bizarre (again a mish-mash of the various titles I mentioned above), but I'll attempt to get it right In a desert location, weird genetic experiments are going on at a top-secret facility. Scientists are making dinosaurs. Why, it's never made clear. Through a few mishaps, the dinosaurs escape and wreak havoc on the local, edible, population. As if that weren't bad enough, people are coming down with a strange disease that causes dinosaurs to hatch inside them(?!) Like I said, nonsensical. But FUN, nonetheless. So long as you don't go into this expecting Oscar-worthy performances. The special dinosaur FX are pretty eye-catching for such a low budget flick. For mild entertainment, you could do far, far worse. Followed by at least two sequels. "},{"Title":"Cheap. overly talky and total nonsense, but I was expecting much worse","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Reading about Carnosaur, I was expecting a terribly cheap movie and for it to be blatantly derivative of the Steven Spielberg classic Jurassic Park. While far from a good movie, and certainly nowhere near as fun, thrilling or intense as Jurassic Park, I was expecting far worse than what I saw. Diane Ladd relishes her mad scientist, and this is one totally bonkers mad scientist, and the baby carnosaur is genuinely scary. Carnosaur is also gorier and bloodier than JP, and the gore is actually quite good and has moments where it is used inventively to the extent that you may be put off eating for some time after. Carnosaur is a very cheap-looking movie though, the sets lack colour and the camera work and editing lack finesse and cohesion. But I agree about the special effects and the animatronics on the dinosaurs faring worst in this regard, they are truly dreadful and definitely some of the worst dinosaur effects I've seen for any movie in my life. The score is not particularly rousing and has nothing that leaps out as memorable. It doesn't distract from what's going on as such but it just doesn't add anything either, it's just there and fails to make much of an impact. The script doesn't work either, nor does the story. The dialogue is stodgy, cheesy and overly-talky, while the story- not doing much with a decent if rather silly concept- apart from some inventive gory scenes is stripped of suspense, scenes that should scare can be unintentionally funny instead, the romantic plot line is mawkish and slows things down in the middle and the prehistoric rampage antics do get predictable quickly. The characters read of every cliché the writers could find and are poorly developed, no scratch that, the movie certainly knows what it tries to be which is good but while it does strive for some fun and scares(though not really succeeding) the characters are almost completely forgotten in the process. Of the acting only Ladd makes any kind of impression, the rest just sleepwalk through their roles and don't seem to care less about their characters' situations. Overall, could have been worse, especially considering what I'd read, but not a good movie. I recommend it partially for those who want a bit of silly fun without having to think too much, but for those who does know what to expect but still want to see some kind of quality put into it they may want to look elsewhere. 4/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Attack Of The ( Non ) Post Modernist Glove Puppets","Date":"18 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is based upon the book by Harry Adam Night which was a pen name and author and critic John Brosnan . Brosnan wrote Future Tense one of the most readable books on the history of science fiction cinema ever written . He also wrote a highly regarded column in the SF magazine Starburst which over the years degenerated in to a soapbox where Brosnan stated his hatred for both STAR TREK and the works of James Herbert at every opportunity . No one can state enough hatred for STAR TREK in my view but it's unfair to slag off Herbert . His books are never going to win the Nobel prize but they are entertaining for what they are and he also brings a back story to most of his characters even if they exist only to be killed off later in the chapter Knowing this I wonder if there's a bit of post modernism to Brosnan literature . Even the name Harry Adam Knight ( HAK ! ) conjures up a tongue in cheek name . Certainly I'm left with the impression that HAK is trying to emulate Herbert as a homage . You can see characters getting a brief bio then after that their function to the plot becomes dinosaur food in much the same way as Herbert likes feeding his characters to a swarm of giant mutant ratsThe problem is it's difficult to realise swarms of mutant rats on screen and the problem is dinosaurs are even more difficult to realise . Steven Spielberg managed it in 1993 but let's not kid ourselves he had unlimited technical know how and expense to do so . In this film there's only one way dinosaurs can be brought to screen and that's via puppetry , usually glove puppets which gives the impression Rod Hull's on a murder spree with reptiles Does this make CARNOSAUR a bad movie ? Not necessarily . Certainly it's a badly made movie that'll have you laughing out loud at some scenes and much of the humour doesn't give the impression that it's really intentional and therefor doesn't qualify as post modernist but for those people who sometimes enjoy horror B movies with mad scientists and situations that don't themselves too seriously it's an enjoyable waste of 82 minutes "},{"Title":"Somehow This Spawned Sequels...","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A genetically manipulated and very hungry dinosaur escapes from a bioengineering company and reeks havoc on the local desert town.I have memories of seeing this in the video store in the 1990s and considering renting it, but never did. And then I saw boxes for the sequel, and another sequel, and I felt like it was something as a horror fan I needed to see... but again, never did. Until now (2013). I was not missing much.I was hoping to get some classic Clint Howard moments, but he really is not the highlight of the film at all. I have to say that the puppet is amazing! The way this film tries to pass things off as a dinosaur is incredible, and would be laughed at today... but comes across as great entertainment for the time it came out. "}{"Title":"Hmm,  I hated it but I loved it....","Date":"27 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, I must say that this movie does tickle you in every way possible. The acting was amazing lol. When Raphael Sbarges character is kneeling down when he sees the dying kid on the road, it looks like he is taking a dump on the road!!! lol, the stupid one liners, and extremely fake sneezing really got to me in this movie. Now if the acting doesn't pull you in I tell you the dinosaur effects will! The fake barbie limbs, the inconsistent dino sizes, the colors of the two dinos changed drastically! You can easily tell when its a puppet/man in suit, or animatronic creature. Now the only thing remotely interesting in the movie is its story line. Though a bit far out there, it is quite an interesting catastrophic effect attempt that I don't think we have ever seen. Not only dinosaurs but a deadly fever that spreads rapidly as well. Now if this movie were to have probably 10 million more this would have been a mainstreem movie with more love and credability, now its funny on the VHS cover is says Ebert and Roeper give it thumbs up. Lol I watched the rating on youtube and they both thought the movie was awful but the story was quite interesting and the bad guy (ladd) was something new and exciting.Now i must say that anyone that watches this please do not take it seriously, and don't come in with high hopes. Now if you come in watching the movie with an open mind your going to have a hell of a time!!What I do want to see is a remake of this movie. I'm actually going to type up a story and script for it because I think with the modern technology seeing a new age Carnosaur movie will be something people will want to see, also I think this movie should be a stand alone movie with no sequels. I think the fever idea and dinos will stay but the giving birth will have to go, far far away lol. The characters are pretty good and will need to be developed more. Thats what i think should happen. We haven't had any really new age dino movies "},{"Title":"So bad that its good! ... well ...ok ... So bad that its not really that good even!","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I watched this movie expecting it to be a piece of crap. I watched it and guess what? It was a piece of crap.This should have been a comedy movie. Seriously. It would have done so much better. This was like Muppets gone wrong. The Muppets got new dinosaur friends (they are just puppets after all) and they get mad and break away from the group and start killing people.I thought this movie was seriously a joke cashing in on Jurassic Park like Shaun of the Dead did after the Dawn of the Dead remake craze. But this movie was serious and came out before Jurassic Park even.Plot Women give birth to green dinosaur puppets who then get mad and attack people whose limbs seem to pop off easily like Mr. Potato Head (they are kept together by red bubblegum).I can't take this movie seriously. If you want to watch a bad movie to laugh at, this is the one for you.The only reason it scored so highly with me is it is funny as hell.4/10. "},{"Title":"Plenty of gore but not much of a story","Date":"13 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Doc is a nightman that was working at a rock quarry when a couple of environmentalists vandalized his trailer home. Meanwhile, a poultry truck driver was found dead with a hole in his chest which the sheriff believes is caused by a cougar. The next night, the environmentalists are back at the rock quarry and they chained themselves to the tractors to try to halt the work in the rock quarry. Unfortunately, a dinosaur is on the prowl in the area and the environmentalists had chained themselves and they can't get away as they are all eaten except one.Meanwhile, everyone in the whole area becomes ill with a fever and Doc went looking for answers. Disguised as one of Dr. Tiptree's men, Doc managed to get into her lab and confront her face to face. From here we see Dr. Tiptree's assistant gave birth to a large egg and dies.Threatened by Doc, Dr. Tiptree reveals that she had create a virus that will cause human females to become spontaneously pregnant and give birth to dinosaurs. After forcing her to give him a vial of serum which he hopes would be a cure, Doc leaves the lab, pursued by a T-Rex Dr. Tiptree had kept. Doc injected the serum into the last surviving environmentalist that had also become ill, hoping it will cure her. Meanwhile, Dr. Tiptree herself dies when a dinosaur infant ripped its way out her womb.Before the effects of the serum could be known, Doc and the environmentalist had to battle the T-Rex with tractors. Doc managed to kill the T-Rex, however, three soldiers in containment suits then killed Doc and torched his home, destroying the vial containing the serum. "},{"Title":"Bad, in a good way","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this film when I was 8 years old. Even then I was able to laugh at it. It wasn't a good movie, that's for sure. But the fact that I remember this film for its sheer mockability, well that alone is worth something. Not good, in fact it's terrible. Watch it if you want to be able to sit there and laugh at it with your friends. It's enjoyable in that sense, and isn't that the whole point? "},{"Title":"It was confusing.","Date":"14 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Carnosaur was a confusing movie about a female scientist who invokes a war on humanity by having females only lay dinosaur eggs.  It made no sense the dinosaurs definitely looked cooler in Jurassic Park and had virtually no plot.  Once I rented Carnosaur 2 but Carnosaur one was in the box and I refused to watch it again.  My opinion skip this movie. "},{"Title":"Blood, guts, yawn!","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  A dumb film with absolutely no merit whatsoever.  Unless of course you turn it around and look at it as comedy.  As a bad film it rates a least 8 stars for aw come on!! No way Yea right and give me a break.  There is a sequel??Aw come on!!! "},{"Title":"This is a Jurassic Park rip-off.","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Cheap dinosaurs and so called special effects is all you're gonna get in this cheap, low-budget, wannabe Jurassic Park campy B-flick. The plot has enough potential to be gory, even possible for an UNRATED release, but it stays clean, boring, and dull, and tries to amaze us with their low-budget special effects...and boy was I amazed!!! --- then I woke up.  Trust me, don't waste $2.50 like I did to rent this piece of crap, because it'll most likely waste your time more than it did mine.  If for some strange reason you can't help but rent it, God have mercy on your soul!  "},{"Title":"Oh Dear","Date":"17 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was the best worst movie i have ever seen. I felt dumber for have watching it.It really doesn't make any sense and i still don't understand what actually happened. I don't think the makers of this film consulted a book during production.This film relies heavily on magical realism. (Weird things happen that everyone in the movie understands as everyday happenings.) But whether this was the intent is still undecided.Random Percentages that go up and down add to the mystery.76% in Climax, Nevada! "},{"Title":"A return to a time when rubber suits and strings were innovative","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ugh.  Irk.  Eek.  For those of you that have heard of Mystery Science Theater 3000 out there, this would have definitely been on it if the spirit gum and red tempera paint hadn't been flying.  This movie is so inane it should be burned from existence.  I think it's already banned in 12 states. Only see it if you're into making fun of movies, because this is perfect fodder.  All in all, a ridiculous story line, characters that couldn't act better than a lampshade could, and an equally stupid ending.  I would recommend consulting a physician before seeing this stinkburger. "},{"Title":"Makes Plan 9 from Outer Space Look like Jurassic Park.","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This must be the worst film I've seen in the low budget area. The Special Effects team must have been given $25 and gone down to Toys R Us to get a couple of those plastic dinosaur toys.I got lost in the film because of the difficult storyline it went from a dinosaur coming out of a chicken egg to Women giving birth to dinosaurs?? Please Explain???Rent it and have a good cack at the sp fx. "}{"Title":"The only scary thing is thing is that there is a sequel.","Date":"2 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The second worst movie I have ever seen.  The special effects made me long for the early days of claymation.  Also, too many holes in the story. Obvious to me that the writers figured out how terrible the movie was, so just finished it as fast and bad as possible.  Helped me fall asleep faster then NyQuil. "},{"Title":"Decent Monster Romp","Date":"27 July 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Carnosaur (1993) ** (out of 4) Diane Ladd plays a mad scientist who plans on returning the Earth back to the dinosaurs. She's created a special serum that will have women giving birth to the creatures and soon they will take over everything. CARNOSAUR was producer Roger Corman's attempt to cash-in on Steven Spielberg's JURASSIC PARK, which would be released later in the year. It's pretty funny that Corman was able to get this thing a theatrical release but sadly the movie doesn't live up to much because it's just a tad bit too mainstream for its own good. Overall the film does manage to get a good feel of those 1950s monster movies where there's really not much of a story and instead of one we just get a monster running around killing people. This is actually one thing that works with the picture and I think another good thing is that the filmmakers never take the subject or story overly serious. This works for a number of reasons but the biggest is that star Ladd takes the material so serious that you can't help but be entertained by her maniac style performance. I liked the fact that she was so serious in the movie simply because it adds a level of entertainment that you wouldn't have had had the actress simply shown up to cash a check. Obviously the special effects weren't going to be on the level of the Spielberg film but for the most part I thought they were good. Yes, it's obvious these things aren't real but that really doesn't hurt the film as they're at least entertaining for what they are. I think what hurts the film is the fact that it's a tad bit too pretty for its own good. With the Spielberg movie being what it is, usually these rip-offs try to just be exploitation 101 and CARNOSAUR really doesn't reach that level. The usually seen nudity isn't anywhere to be found and the death scenes are pretty lifeless and uninteresting. A film like this really needed to deliver for its lack of effects and story but instead we're just given a watered down version of a horror movie. "},{"Title":"Crap-o-saur","Date":"2 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" carnosaur came out a little after Jurassic park,and the idea was there make a movie a little like Jurassic park on a meager budget,some of the Dino effects are awful to OK.the t Rex looks OK in some scenes . there's really disgusting gore effects like people getting arms bitten off and etc;Jurassic park had laura dern,carnosaur has her mom;Diane ladd as a scientist experimenting with Dino DNA and chicken eggs.its lowbrow stuff.Clint Howard makes an appearance as a local also stars beautiful blonde Jennifer Runyon as an extremist.the movie is sick, not funny and a depressing mess.i usually like roger corman movies but not this one.i think the sequels were a little better,the last one was pretty good it was called raptor and it starred Corbin bernsen,and Eric (not as famous as his sister)Roberts and sexy Melissa brasielle. to quickly cash in on Steven Spielberg's great Jurassic park on a low budget dinosaur movie is terrible.the cast is wasted in this.Raphael sbarge(the hidden 2)also stars.after seeing carnosaur you may not look at chicken eggs the same again.trash o Rama,so bad its real bad. "},{"Title":"This movie was awful","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is the most lousy movie out there, and the sad part is Jurassic Park came before this movie or the same year. If you are going to watch this one I recommend that you get ready to laugh, and when I mean laugh you really laugh because it thats bad. The movie looked like it came from the 60's with the horrible acting and the dinosaurs look like something out of Godzilla and Godzilla is twice the movie then this one. I would recommend watching the second one because that was even funnier then this one, but Jurassic Park and Godzilla beat this movie in the dirt. Please stay away form this movie. If you really want to see how horrible of a movie this is wait until it comes out on the Sci-fi channel or even on Showtime. Don't waste your money on this movie or any Carnosaur movies, even thought the second one was funny, but still don't bother spending 5 or even 10 bucks on this movie it should be destroyed. "},{"Title":"Original title  Carnoturkey","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is by far one of the worst movies I have ever seen and it has left a lasting impression on my mind, because it is so bad!I don't understand how or why any sane person could write or direct such a terrible film.  Carnosaur is a lame excuse for a horror movie.  I didn't get scared once, instead I only wondered why the hell I rented it.  There wasn't one character which I liked or cared about, there was hardly any character development, the dialogue is cheesy (as can be expected with this genre), the acting is laughable and melodramatic, the music is boring, the direction is bad, the makeup is fake and the dinosaurs...they look okay on the cover, but in the movie they move robotically and you'd have to be blind to not notice the cheap animatronics involved.    The biggest reason I disliked this film so much though, was because it was so dark.  I'm not saying I'm a chicken when it comes to dark movies, I love them, but what I mean is most of it takes place in the dark, giving it a depressing feel and making it's low budget visible.  Maybe the film makers thought that this made it more scary, but it doesn't.Elements of the plot would have made great X-Files or Outer Limits episodes.  Unfortunately the film makers decided to make this big steaming pile of doo-doo.Whatever you do, don't subject yourself to this torture, if you are a movie lover you'll have unpleasant memories of this thing for the rest of your life.  Go rent Jurassic Park if you want to see a great movie with lots of dinosaurs.P.S.  If you want to see one of the best movies ever made, rent The Usual Suspects, now that's a great film!     "},{"Title":"Jurassic Park wannabe a flop","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I guess it was a good idea to try to bank on JP's success to milk some money out of dinosaur-crazy movie-goers. But after the hype and glamour and unqualified success of JP, nothing can compare so soon after. I guess the producers still have got a lot to learn when it comes to realistic props and 'saurs, and special effects. The plot wasn't too bad on its own - too bad the acting couldn't convince me. Should have rented Jurassic Park again instead of this. "},{"Title":"The worst sci-fi I've ever seen","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  (SPOILER) This is an awful B movie from early 90's about a crazed scientist who makes a virus which makes (!!!) women lay dinosaur eggs and then die! Totally ridiculous. When I watched this movie I couldn't stop laughing. It's very boring too, the script is a swiss cheese, and there's no suspense at all. The final scene of tractors vs. t-rex was clearly done with wooden toys and catchup gore. A must-see for trash maniacs. Are there are actually 2 sequels to this THING? WHY??? "},{"Title":"Its a bomb","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Totally awful movie SPOILER WARNING1.Old Godzilla movies had better monster effects. Agree with another reviewer that it looked like the dinosaurs were supplied by Toys R Us. 2.No plot, please explain how women got impregnated with dinosaurs. What happened to the wounded guy who crawled out of the desert. How does the scientist rip open her abdomen using her own fingernails. Why does the only potential hero die in the end. 3.No character development-Why would a geneticist breed dinosaurs to wipe out the human race. 4.Horrible acting and directing.No script. 5.How do movies like this get produced, especially two sequels. "},{"Title":"run for your life if you see this movie.","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  My all time 2nd worst movie that I've seen ( the 1st being freddy got fingered) I couldn't even get through this movie it was so bad.  The death scenes with the dinos.  The special effects made me blind for life. Then when you thought the movie from going from AWFUL TO EXTREMELY AWFUL, it goes a little bit further to HORRIBLY WRONG I'M DAMAGED FOR LIFE AWFUL, with a stupid sub-plot about a deadly virus. NO NO NO NO NO, I can't believe my eyes. "},{"Title":"Yeezis carp, whatta mutt","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is as bad as made-for-cable ever got (and Junior, THAT's sayin' something). Bad story, bad scripting, bad FX, bad acting, bad directing. I'm glad I bought the tape out of the bargain bin, and this is coming from somebody who generally loves bad movies. The dinosaurs are really bad puppets and even worse stop-motion and one rubber suit worse than the other two put together. Like most made-for-cable horror/monster flicks, they go for the gore first and ignore everything else, particularly in the climactic ending which was almost directly ripped off from Dinosaurus, also a bad movie, but stylishly bad and highly recommended. If you can't rent Carnosaur for 99 cents, don't bother. "}{"Title":"Original title  Carnoturkey","Date":"8 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is by far one of the worst movies I have ever seen and it has left a lasting impression on my mind, because it is so bad!I don't understand how or why any sane person could write or direct such a terrible film.  Carnosaur is a lame excuse for a horror movie.  I didn't get scared once, instead I only wondered why the hell I rented it.  There wasn't one character which I liked or cared about, there was hardly any character development, the dialogue is cheesy (as can be expected with this genre), the acting is laughable and melodramatic, the music is boring, the direction is bad, the makeup is fake and the dinosaurs...they look okay on the cover, but in the movie they move robotically and you'd have to be blind to not notice the cheap animatronics involved.    The biggest reason I disliked this film so much though, was because it was so dark.  I'm not saying I'm a chicken when it comes to dark movies, I love them, but what I mean is most of it takes place in the dark, giving it a depressing feel and making it's low budget visible.  Maybe the film makers thought that this made it more scary, but it doesn't.Elements of the plot would have made great X-Files or Outer Limits episodes.  Unfortunately the film makers decided to make this big steaming pile of doo-doo.Whatever you do, don't subject yourself to this torture, if you are a movie lover you'll have unpleasant memories of this thing for the rest of your life.  Go rent Jurassic Park if you want to see a great movie with lots of dinosaurs.  2/8P.S.  If you want to see one of the best movies ever made, rent The Usual Suspects, now that's a great film!     "},{"Title":"The anti-Jurassic Park","Date":"2 June 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  And Jurassic Park wasn't all that great, either.  This is dumb entertainment, with the funniest dinosaur effects ever put on film.  It is literally a hand puppet held up to the camera to make it look larger than the actors.  Do not waste your time here, I cannot wait until I get to review the sequels.  Space Maggot cracks an egg and finds a vote of 1. "},{"Title":"rrrrriiiiiiiggggggghhhhhhhtttttt","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  As solid as swiss cheese, as scary as Toy Story, as dumb as Dude, Where's my Car, as cheesy as godzilla versus the ice gnomes and as about as confusing as the people who liked it. HOW ON EARTH COULD THIS MOVIE MAKE MONEY!! I guess suckkers like me rented it for the cool cover, and ended up blowing chunks EVERYWHERE! Why were the blood spots over the victims before they were even bitten? Why couldn't they get more realistic dinosaurs? ANd the mother of ALL questions is WHY ON THis #!%^@* EARTH ARE THERE SEQUELS!!! "},{"Title":"Yuck.","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was a plain disaster, I saw on T.V and decided it's cheesier than mostly any Sci Fi movie out there.  A scientist who's trying to destroy mankind with a breed of dinosaurs?  The plotline is ridiculous and the acting is terrible.  The dinosaurs all looked the same, fake and cheap-looking.  The gore of the film is revolting and highly unrealistic. This film was far from scary, and a complete waste of time.  I could go on bashing this movie but I have a word of advice for those curious ones out there.  If you really want to this disaster film rent it don't buy it because you'll find yourself regretting it.I find Chris Anderson (drmrvandertramps)'s Special Moments quite amusing. Disco Dinosaur indeed... "},{"Title":"Shockingly dreadful","Date":"12 February 2004","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Considering the three positive reviews right there on the cover of the DVD (one from Gene Siskel, no less) and its clear attempt to profit from Jurassic Park, I figured this movie would at least be passable - but it wasn't. It was shockingly dreadful. The creature LOOKED fake and when it walked, the camera angle made it look like a puppet. The acting was terrible, too, as was the entire concept. God, why did I waste two hours of my life on this? "},{"Title":"welcome to Chalky town","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Not fun to watch. Everything seems to take place on a poorly lit stage. People die horrible deaths- not because the gore and make-up effects are done well but because the make-up and effects are done poorly, people get sort of smeared to death, its like the dinosaurs despite have claws and teeth, for some reason instead secrete a powerful enzyme to break down the meat. Also the acting sucks. Probably should have lead with that, but yeah, the humans paid to live out on stage did a crappy job. The story, considering that its a half-assed ripoff of Jurassic Park, is absent, like the story called in sick and somebody else has gotta try to cover two departments, better get H.R. in on this. This movie has a real purpose but I don't know what it is. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies ever made","Date":"19 June 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Beware of Carnosaur! The puppet dinosaur that is obviously and painfully fake! This is easily one of the worst movies ever made. The special effects are horrible, the story is beyond dumb, and it is breathlessly boring. Note that this movie was released to theaters a few weeks before Jurassic Park was. But what really makes me mad about that is because this movie is just a pathetic and terrible rip-off of Jurassic Park that completely fails to offer anything exciting or original, since it basically just steals Jurassic Parks idea but changes it up a little bit. Stay away from this movie. If you watch it, it will ruin your whole day. "},{"Title":"A 15$ dollar budget movie!","Date":"30 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Funny, sick, ridiculously violent, low-budget and of course... crappy film! First of all, I saw Carnosaur 2 (1995), and I was very surprised how funny films can be sometimes. But, this one, Carnosaur 1993, is just strange. It is a story about genetic design of dinosaurs, one little raptor, and later a T-Rex (that squeals like crazy), the special effects are freaking funny and dinosaur puppets, toys, whatever they used in the film were just... silly. How the hell did Diane Ladd appear in this film? For other actors, I get it, but for her... oh well... If you are eager to watch some blood-spilling, maximum gore,low budget crap, this is a real deal! "},{"Title":"Even as bad as this is, it's still overrated","Date":"29 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Carnosaur is a cult sci-fi/horror/splatter movie that I had heard so much about and really wanted to see. When I finally did, I can't describe how much it sucked. Well, actually, I can, so here goes. (Note the cheezy dinosaur FX didn't bother me at all, and the gore and other gross stuff managed to keep me awake, so they are the ONLY plus.) My main problem with this piece of crap (which I hate as much as Jurassic Park) was the screenwriting and editing. I believe that if they would have been able to tell the story right, it would have been better. Director Adam Simon was under a lot of constraints with that jerk Roger Corman breathing down his neck to mimic a big-budget Spielberg movie in a few days with their low budget. He was uncomfortable the entire time, and I think it's pretty obvious when you take a look at how sloppy this mess is. The editing is a huge problem. I really had to scratch my head when the hero goes from clueless, mellow loner to wild-eyed, frenzied fighter approaching a mad scientist while drenched in sweat and demanding to know what's happening. With the feeling I got from this, it seemed as if they could have hacked up to 20 minutes or so right out of the print and hoped the viewers were too stupid and/or drunk to notice the difference. And, yes, this movie was based on a novel. I used to own the novel, and I must say that, though I didn't get the chance to finish, it was definitely more effective in the first part alone than the movie was for a split second of its running time. I wish I could remember the name of the author, but it's been awhile because I got that book when the movie was still brand-new and lost the same book soon after. In any case, I would recommend Carnosaur 2 over the first movie (that's right, you didn't read wrong) because Carnosaur 2 was the movie that part one should have been.  "},{"Title":"HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!!!!!!","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After seeing the first Carnosaur, one thing is sure in my mind...I'll rent the whole trilogy in my next cheesefest! Okay, let's talk wisely...my hypothesis about the word Carnosaur is the following Carn stands for Carnivor and Osaur stands for Dinosaur...okay...but here's a proof that this film is for a retarded and stupid audience; everybody who knows at least a little about dinosaur knows that some of them were carnivors...but what they tried to do with that title is to teach idiots that carnivor dinosaurs have existed...yeah...but only the staff of this movie is stupid enough to think they seem intelligent by saying this...right....so, I say that people who do a bad job like this (that means everyone who worked on this piece of ****) should be fired or should at least try another job...the special effects were awful, the scenario too, the acting was absolutely laughable, and the directing was so bad that it was funny...I was making more intelligent videos than this crap when I was 6! And after a big laughing time like Carnosaur, all you want to do is do it again, and in the Carnosaur case, it's very cool, because it's a trilogy, so you can have a HUGE laughing time...like I'll have in my next cheesefest...So overall, for all the fun I had watching and analysing this, I give it a BIG 21%. "}{"Title":"What do you expect","Date":"10 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was bad, this was really really bad.  I think they spent about $25 in the making of this film and blackmailed the actors to perform in the movie. What really amazes me to no end is the in the credits, it said that this movie was based on a book!!  How on earth does something like this happen? I must find this book to see if it was as bad as the movie.  Only to be watched while intoxicated with a group of friends. "},{"Title":"Bad Very Very BAD!!!!!!!","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I watched this movie shortly after it was released.  I only remember one scene but the absolute stupidity of that moment will follow me to my grave.For some reason there were a bunch of hippies handcuffed to construction equipment.    I guess they were protesting.   one of them upon seeing the mutant dinosaur smiles like a moron and says Hello green brother.  then the carnosaur rips out his guts.What I find even more mind numbingly awefull is that this waste of video tape actully spawned TWO sequals. "},{"Title":"ONE OF THE WORST FILMS EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This was a horrible JURASSIC PARK rip-off. It has some of the worst acting I  have seen in a quite some time, and the special defects are so horrible, you will not be able to laugh. Not as bad as THE ITEM (1998), but almost as awful. "},{"Title":"Carnosaur is Carnocrap!","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of all the really bad movies including dinosaur flicks, This one is the worst of it's kind! I give it a zero if possible which it most certainly deserves. It's not a kinda film worth watching! Believe me. Roger Corman was probably high when he was making it so to speak! And I thought Godzilla 1998 was bad, This movie is pure trash! Why bother wasting your money renting it as well? This film should have never ever been made. Roger Corman is worse than Ed Wood. I wouldn't even call it a dinosaur movie! This is why I don't care for the new monster flicks. It's a pathetic rip off of Jurassic Park. Hollywood is at it's worst with these movies. Watch Valley of Gwangi instead! It's a far better dinosaur flick. Two thumbs down for Carnosaur or Carnocrap! "},{"Title":"Low Budget Trash","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The worst of it's kind.  With cheesy special effects & bad acting you know it's likely to be a Corman produced film.  However, this complete waste of time commits the cardinal sin of taking itself a little too seriously. Where are the funny one-liners that usually spring up every now & then??? The only reason to watch this ( or catch a glimpse of it for 5 minutes) is to marvel at the downward spiral of Jennifer Runyon's career after Charles in Charge.  Don't waste your time.  There are heaps of so bad it's good films out there - don't be fooled into thinking this is one of them.  "},{"Title":"The worst hour and a half of my life!!","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Like many others, I enjoy movies of the Mystery Science Theater quality. This film, though, was not even worth that.  The story was horrible.  I spent so much time just trying to figure out what was happening in the disjointed plot that I missed most of the acting and directing.  The special effects were horrible.  Many movies from the 50's and 60's had better special effects.  The dinosaurs were horrible.  Too many cheap, plastic toys.  I've seen movies of better quality that have been made by people when they were high.  It was so bad that I had to stop the second one after five minutes.  Watching water drip from a faucet is a guaranteed 10 out of 10 compared to this movie. "},{"Title":"Cormen's Jurrasic Park Big Rip Off","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Roger Cormen has two kind of monster movies, great and crap. This is just a big steaming pile of crap. Let's start, the effects are okay, no Jurrasic Park. But okay. The size of the smaller one is inconsistent, one scene the smaller one is big enough to snatch a man off the top of a bulldozer, next he's smaller then a car. There are some character issues, but the major complaint. The one thing that spoils it for me is something I like to call THE OTHER SHOE ending. If you don't want to spoil the ending, then stop reading. Anyway, after a final battle with the T-Rex. It looks like the day is saved and everyone lives happily ever after. Then the army shows up and murders everyone. Why? It makes no sense? What's up with the cover up, it makes no sense to murder all these people? Just because the Government paid for it. Makes no sense, it's crap. It's wrong and they would never get away with it. I give CARNOSAUR...THE NOOSE and once I'd to use it. "},{"Title":"Lousy rip-off of the `other' 1993 dinosaur movie","Date":"27 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Carnosaur (1993) D Adam Simon. Diane Ladd, Raphael Sbarge, Jennifer Runyon, Harrison Page, Ned Bellamy, Clint Howard, Frank Novak. The cheap, but interesting special effects are the only saving grace for this lousy rip-off of the `other' 1993 dinosaur movie. This disgustingly gory film features Ladd as a man-hating scientist who genetically recreates dinosaurs in her laboratory, then unleashes them on an unsuspecting middle-of-nowhere town. Every character is just a cliché, every scene is a rip-off of something else, and every minute spent watching this film is regrettable. RATING 3 out of 10. Rated R for graphic violence, grisly images, sexual situations, and profanity.  "},{"Title":"Bad but it still has some entertainment value to it.","Date":"1 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well, OK so this movie was bad but at least not in the way I expected it to be. I was expecting one big Jurassic Park ripoff but the movie really isn't being one. It's a movie that just also happens to feature a dinosaur in it but other than that, there are very little similarities between these both movies.But having said that, this still is a pretty bad movie to watch. The one thing that bugged me the most was that it didn't really seemed to have a main character in it. Instead the movie follows a whole bunch of different characters, that we just never really get to know and the movie keeps on introducing new characters, pretty much till half way through the movie. It also definitely prevents you from ever getting into this movie and it even makes the story somewhat confusing, though for these sort of the movies the stories of course aren't exactly the best written ones to begin with already and often are completely secondary to the movie.The best thing I can say about this movie is that it at least knows what it is and doesn't pretend to be anything good or clever. You can tell that most people simply had fun while making this movie and didn't took it very serious at all.Also I must say that I very much prefer the old fashioned special effects, complete with fake looking puppets and a guy in a suit, over some incredibly fake looking CGI effects, that you are likely to see in movies of this sort now days.Don't expect much gore or other great horror elements though. It's all pretty tame, especially by todays standards. It also really doesn't ever manage to create a good atmosphere and tension for the movie, though the movie itself is not all that bad looking, also especially when considering its budget.I honestly did not hated watching this movie and actually thought it was quite entertainment at parts and in some ways but I just can't rate it as a good movie though, since it does a lot of stuff so incredible bad!3/10 http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Don't count your chickens before they hatch . . . . . . into man-eating dinosaurs.","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Carnosaur is a terrible movie. Just terrible. Adam Simon wrote the screenplay, from John Brosnan's treatment developed from his own novel (the mind boggles at just how barmy the novel must be), and also directed, with a little helping hand from Darren Moloney.The plot is . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . completely bonkers. A brilliant, though clearly mentally-unbalanced, geneticist (played by Diane Ladd) decides that the world should have dinosaurs back in their rightful place at the top of the food chain so she starts trying to bring them back by manipulating chicken eggs. As you do. The main people who end up trying to stop her are a night watchman (Raphael Sbarge) and an eco-warrior type (Jennifer Runyon).The pacing is okay, the script is laughable, the cod-science involved is even more laughable and the acting is, surprisingly, actually okay considering the material. Clint Howard has a small role and the main creature shots involve a puppet being shot up close chasing people who have to pretend to be terrified.Going by normal standards this movie is absolutely appalling but it's so bad that it's laughably entertaining. How this spawned two sequels is a mystery to me but, as you may have already guessed, I'm already curious to see how much worse things can get. "}{"Title":"Are the people that saw this and gave it a good review high or something?","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Man, the people that watched this Jurassic Park rip-off, and actually thought it was good, what were you smoking and where can I get it? Seriously though, this movie is bad. I never been a fan of Corman, some of his films are gems, but this is just plain insulting. I saw this a while ago on Showtime Beyond, but I still remember it sucks. Remember Lost World, from the 1920's? It has better special effects than this piece o' crap. First off, Dinosaurs don't walk upright anymore. Second, they had varying coloration, not just all gray, black, or green. Third, the soldiers in this movie are worse shots than Stormtroopers.2/10, another movie to avoid at all costs. It is an insult to anyone who has researched dinosaurs ever since he could read. "},{"Title":"I Like Trash Movies, Like Braindead, Tromeu and Juliet, 'Bad Taste etc... But Carnosaur is a Crap Movie","Date":"24 March 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Dr. Jane Tiptree (Diane Ladd) is a geneticist, who wants to destroy the human kind. She releases a lethal virus and a dinosaur with this purpose. A guy, called Doc, finds her plans and try to avoid the destruction of the human race. Carnosaur is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. It is impossible to write a summary of such a crap. The story does not make sense, the characters are horribly developed, the special effects looks like one of those dinosaur Made in Paraguay or China. When I saw the name of Diane Ladd in the credits and a production of Roger Corman, I imagined a big joke with Jurassic Park, since Diane Ladd is the mother of Laura Dern. But the movie is so cheesy that never works. I like trash movies, like Braindead, Tromeo and Juliet, 'Bad Taste etc... But Carnosaur is not a trash, but a crap Movie. If I can give an advice, I would say Do not waste your time watching it! My vote is two.Title (Brazil Carnosauro (Carnosaur) "},{"Title":"just lousy","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  lousy and lame flick has tons of gore but that is not enough to save this clunker it has terrible dialouge and not one character you like you want them all to die the effects are lousy and downright lamethis one is a total bore avoid * out of 5 "},{"Title":"Lame","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Lame flick is B O R I N G awfully acted lousy dialogue and very poor special effects and a script that is loosely strung together and i was not interested in anything that was going on it did not have one single character i like i wanted them all to die Avoid * out of 5 it has tons of gore but that is not enough to save this clunker "}]