[{"Title":"Surprised the Hell out of me!!","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"30 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I'd see this movie on the shelf at the video store alot and I'd always pass it up thinking it's just a stupid cheap comedy. Boy was I wrong, I didn't think I'd like it because I thought Armand Assanti was a real serious actor and he wouldn't be funny but 5 minutes in to it when he put that hot dog in his jacket pocket I didn't stop laughing. Since then I've seen this movie so many time and I laugh just as hard as the first time. If you want a real good laugh get this one. "},{"Title":"Noir Spoof Worth A Look","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A wild spoof of suspense and film noirs, I appreciated this silly film a little more than most being a fan of noirs. As with any comedy, the movie is a combination of genuinely laugh-out-loud gags and sight scenes and genuinely stupid lines. It depends on what makes you laugh.One thing it has for sure lots of sexual innuendos and just plain overt sexuality. It's yet another one of these PG-13 ratings that is a joke. This is not for kids. Also, this film won't be much for those without a knowledge of classic crime films of the past, from the '40s to the '80s. Many parts of this movie parrot scenes from Fatal Attraction, Body Double, etc. It takes several viewings to catch most of the inside jokes.Armand Assante is the smooth private detective and Sherilyn Fenn is his attractive and loyal secretary. Kate Nelligan, Sean Young and Christopher McDonald add to the fun. To be frank, I enjoyed this more on the first viewing than I did on the second. After watching it twice, I thought the film would have been better had it been cut 10-15 minutes, and it's only 90 minutes. However, I am not knocking it it's a fun movie. "},{"Title":"Nothing fatal about this one","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Very funny film noir spoof, that's undeservedly criticised. It may lack the quality feel of e.g. The Naked Gun, but I think it's almost as funny.The film looks great, and the jokes aren't as much of a hit-and-miss affair as you could fear. Naturally it's almost essential that you've seen most of the films it takes a crack at (Double Indemnity, Body Heat, Basic Instinct, Fatal Attraction, Sleeping with the Enemy just to mention a few).But what really elevates Fatal Instinct above similar efforts is the brilliant performance from Armand Assante, who displays a comic timing that I never would have guessed he had. He plays his completely oblivious-to-everything-that's-happening-around-him detective with such dead pan seriousness, that it's impossible not to laugh (the scenes with his skunk little Neddy are hilarious). Never mind the critics, find this film and see it. 8/10  "},{"Title":"Triple indemnity","Date":"4 October 2005","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Carl Reiner, a man that knows about comedy, is the man behind this spoof on the noir genre. Mr. Reiner, working here with David O'Malley's screen play, has created a film that parodies movies like Double Indemnity, Basic Instinct, and Fatal Attraction, among others, with great style.The result is a film with some clever lines spoken by the cast as though they are acting in the prototype movies that Mr. Reiner is spoofing, with great panache. Not everything works, but when it does, the fun never seems to stop making us laugh.The cast Mr. Reiner assembled is up to the task. Armand Assante is excellent as Ned Ravine, a man who is a policeman and lawyer and who does some excellent dancing in those red stiletto shoes his character seems to love. Sherilyn Fenn is the loyal secretary Laura. Kate Nelligan does an excellent imitation of Barbara Stanwyck as the scheming wife, Lana. Sean Young has some good moments in the film.Fatal Instinct is a film to watch with a lot of friends. Mr. Reiner shows why he has been one of the best comic writers in America. "},{"Title":"I Don't Know how this movie could be any better!!!!  Funny Film!!!","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Armand Assante plays a great distracted Ned Ravine and brings comic timing that Johnny Carson would admire. Kate Nelligan plays Lana Ravine (Ned's Wife)and does a great Barbara Stanywick imitation through-out the film.These two combine with Sean Young,Sheilyn Fenn ,and Christopher McDonald to make a hilarious film parody of the noir/crime movies that were serious and exaggerated that we all tried not to laugh at.When you're having a bad day turn this flick on and good tings will happen.A gotta see film.No matter what you have heard go catch Fatal InstinctIf you like Spy Hard,Naked Gun ,Airplane,etc.You'll like this film. "},{"Title":"Hilarious parody","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"16 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film has been repeated like 4 times on cable TV here in Sweden in the past year! I watched it the first showing (last year) and it is SO my type of movie. I read what it was about and thought I had to see it since I had seen some of the movies it made fun of. All I can say is that most, or all the jokes are so hilarious. They are very kind or shall I say simple ones, but this is the kind of movie you watch when you don't want anything deep, but just a funny movie which is easy watching. Not only is it funny, it also has the beautiful Sherilyn Fenn which is very nice of course ) I highly recommend you see it, because even though I didn't laugh my *** off, it was such an amusing movie to watch!Jens "},{"Title":" a spoof movie up there with the best of them ....","Date":"5 April 2003","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I am afraid I am a sap for the whole spoof genre, and this appears as funny as any to me. Armand Assante as the hero who is both a cop and a lawyer ( I am going to have to arrest you. Have you got a lawyer?) plays his role with a deadpan stupidity that is wonderful, and the jokes and the bits and pieces of business come thick and fast. "},{"Title":"Great Weekend Movie","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I stumbled upon this film late one night on TV a few years ago and laughed so hard that I could barely breathe. Armand Assante plays Ned Ravine, a totally clueless cop/lawyer. He is so clueless that he doesn't see that his wife (Kate Nelligan)is having an affair with a mechanic(Christopher MacDonald), or that his secretary (Sherilyn Fenn) is deeply in love with him (She also has an abusive ex-husband that's looking for her). Into the picture comes Lola Cain(Sean Young), a woman with shoe problems (everything sticks to the bottom of it). She also wants Ned.This film spoof Fatal Attraction, Basic Instinct, and every film noir movie ever made. Funny Carl Reiner film. "},{"Title":"A reminder of what good spoofs are made of","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Strange, but when I think about this one, the expression oldie but goodie comes to mind. After sitting through countless comedies and parodies with gross and often times just plain bad jokes (try scary movie) one might wonder if it is actually possible to have a really brilliant spoof without insulting humor. Well, it is. And just to see how good a well-made parody can be, try this one. Of course, it would help having been a late 80s early 90s movie fan, but that is not a prerequisite. And, without going into too many details, this one effectively proves that a parody/comedy can actually be original. "},{"Title":" On the Count of Monte Christo ?    Not guilty!","Date":"3 October 2008","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" When a producer selects the actors and actresses for a film, it's usually in his mind what he is looking for. The selection Mr. Carl Reiner made in this film Fatal Instinct is nothing short of incredible. Taking a cue from the film parried here ( Fatal Attraction) from the moment it begins, you will begin laughing, so one had better have a good grip on his chair. Whoever selected straight actors or at least actors with a serious streak to do comedy knew they were trolling for gold. What they achieved is memorable in various films, like airplane and Horror Movie. In this hilarious offering, Reiner combines the works of the 1950's black/white films with modern murder venues. Armand Assante is incredible as Ned Ravine, super sleuth and lawyer. Sherilyn Fenn as Laura Lincolnberry, Kate Nelligan is Lana Ravine and Sean Young playing Lola Cain. All take the hero for a mind-bending spin and spoofs and succeed. However, the best selection for real comedy out of his element is none other than James Remar (The Warriors) , who plays, Max Shady. The outcome is fantastic. You've got to see this film for all it's humor. *** "}{"Title":"Why the hell is this rated so low?!?","Date":"18 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I don't understand how a person can watch a very funny and entertaining movie like this and then go on IMDb and give it a low rating! What is wrong with these people?! Do they have no sense of humor? They are probably the same people who didn't see the humor in Airplane! This movie obviously spoofs, or parodies (please forgive me if I don't know the difference!) noir movies and murder thrillers like Basic Instinct and Fatal Attraction, hence the title. Armande Asanti is funnier than most people who are supposed to be funny, like Will Farrell! Also we have the classic beauty Sherilyn Fenn, looking her best as an old fashioned secretary. There are more laugh out loud parts than I can count. They tackle a lot of the clichés that have always bugged me, like when the bad person is killed, they come to and try to kill the good person again, and again! The comedic timing is right on the mark, unlike so many unfunny comedies that have come out recently. Also, this movie is light on the violence, language and sexual content, so even easily offended people can enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Fatally Funny Hilarious Comedy Out Of The Early 90's","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Fatal Instinct (1993) Starring Armand Assante, Kate Nelligan, Sherilyn Fenn, Sean Young, Christopher McDonald, James Remar, Tony Randall, Michael Cumpsty, Clarance Clemons...Director Carl Reiner...Writer David O'Malley Released in 1993, this comedy spoof film is top notch in much the same lines of The Naked Gun/Leslie Nielson movies and or the earlier Airplane! which means there are endless sequences of visual jokes, even if they are unbelievably unrealistic. Armand Assante (yes a serious actor in a comic role really works although they could have easily used Leslie Nielson for the part) stars as the victim of the scheming Lola Cain (Sean Young) who will stop at nothing to see his marriage ruined. She is a parody of the psycho bitches played by Glenn Close in Fatal Attraction and Katherine Tramell played by Sharon Stone in Basic Instinct. She hams it up as a scheming, evil temptress. Like the title suggests, the movie is a cross between Fatal Attraction and Basic Instinct. Those were the two most standard thrillers during the early 90's period. Both films starred Michael Douglas as the target of a scheming, sexually powerful and psychotic, dangerous woman. The laughs keep on coming as the obvious parodies are executed. I.E. the famous Interrogation Scene in Basic Instict, the murder in the bath tub and the cooked rabbit in Fatal Attraction. Also on here are parodies of Sleeping With The Enemy starring Julia Roberts and Patrick Bergin, a 1991 thriller about a husband who is obscessed with his own wife and who likes to have his own things in the house arranged his way. (same element here only funnier!) This movie is really great comedy and really will take you back to the 90's. The 90's is long gone and many were too little to remember everything in detail. But it was a time in which movies were full of thrillers. I wish they had made a spoof of The Hand That Rocks The Cradle on this film too. It was a time of laughing at criminals and their schocking crimes. Remember the Melendez Brothers ? Remember Lorena Bobbit ? And let's not forget the secret plotting of Tonya Harding against Nancy Carrigan. All this happened in the 90's. This was the time of the O.J. Simpson trial after all. I really recommend this movie. Many can easily dismiss it as cheap comedy but there are some genuinely comic moments, such as Armand Assante and Sean Young's lovemaking scene, the final part of the movie is funny too. A must have for fans of comedies of the 90's. "},{"Title":"Shameless spoof of other movies, somewhat funny.","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a parody of such movies as 'Basic Instinct' and 'Fatal Attraction', and others with strained male/female relationships. My neighbor Ron loaned it to me, a budget DVD.Armand Assante is Ned Ravine, cop and lawyer. So he can arrest you, read you your rights (with the help of cue cards), and then defend you in court. Sherilyn Fenn is Laura Lincolnberry, sweet, pretty assistant who secretly is in love with Ned. Kate Nelligan is Ned's wife, Lana Ravine, who is having a torrid affair with Frank, the auto mechanic who never seems to finish the job, played ably by Christopher McDonald (snotty golf professional in 'Happy Gilmore'). The joke is that Ned only sees a drawn out repair job, and is oblivious to the love affair. Tony Randall also does a good turn as Judge Skanky.It would be a mistake to call this a good movie. It has a number of funny moments, but I found it mostly a series of jokes woven into a thin story. However, I found it worthwhile just to see Sherilyn Fenn. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Spoof","Date":"29 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Fatal Instinct is one of those guilty pleasures.  It's incredibly silly and very funny.  Some of the dialogue sounds dead on fast-talking early detective thriller, but the actions are outrageous and the physical comedy non-stop.  If you liked the Naked Gun series, you'll love this one. "},{"Title":"Funny, but dated","Date":"20 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" A spoof of the erotic thriller genre in the Naked Gun mold, Fatal Instict must have been funnier back in 1993. Now, a lot of its references to other movies (Sleeping With The Enemy, Cape Fear, Body Heat), though still recognizable, have lost much of their topicality. The film is full of meta gags which are sometimes clever, sometimes derivative. The cast is certainly game Armand Assante is perfectly deadpan, and the women (devious Kate Nelligan, sweet Sherilyn Fenn and slinky Sean Young) are terrific. Also, Carl Reiner's direction doesn't over-rush the pacing like most such spoofs, and Richard Gibbs' music score is spot-on. **1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"Fatal Humor!","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a funny spoof in the ranks of the Naked Gun series, Airplane! and Spy Hard, where Armand Assante plays attorney/cop Ned Ravine, whose wife Lana (Kate Nelligan) is having an affair with a mechanic (Christopher MacDonald) and is plotting to murder her husband for the insurance money. Meanwhile, Ned is seduced by femme fetale Lola Caine (Sean Young) and his secretary, Laura Lincolnberry (Sherilyn Fenn), has a crush on him.The acting is well done and contributes to the hilariousness of the film, which spoofs a handful of murder mysteries and thrillers including Sleeping with the Enemy and Basic Instinct. Sean Young does a humorous imitation of Sharon Stone's character in Basic Instinct and Sherilyn Fenn does a great Sleeping with the Enemy spoof; it made me crack up at the towel-lining scenes! In addition, Armand Assante's bumbling and obliviousness to everything around him is priceless! There are non-stop gags and surprises from start to finish that will leave you horse-laughing. Even with the amount of comedy in the film, the actors kept their expressions serious and collected, rather than forcing out slapstick puns. This makes you appreciate the humor more.There isn't much plot to the story, though, and I wished some of the characters elements, including the abusive husband parody from Sleeping with the Enemy, have been emphasized more. But, other than that, it's enjoyable and fun stuff here. If you're stuck on what to watch but want a good laugh, this film is for you! Grade B+ "},{"Title":"An On Target Spoof of the Film Noir Genre","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" FATAL INSTINCT is a side-split-tingly funny spoof of film noir dramas, in the AIRPLANE/NAKED GUN mode that offers affectionate winks at films like FATAL ATTRACTION, BASIC INSTINCT, THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE, and CAPE FEAR, offering consistent laughs thanks, in part, to the self- assured direction of comedy icon Carl Reiner. Reiner smartly chose to cast strong actors instead of pure comics whose uncanny ability to play the funny material with completely straight faces is what makes the film so funny. Armand Assante is surprisingly funny as Ned Ravine, a cop and a lawyer who is being cheated on by a scheming wife (Kate Nelligan), being pursued by a sexy client (Sean Young)and being loved from afar by his faithful secretary (Sherilyn Fenn). There are also funny turns from Christopheer McDonald as Nelligan's dim-witted lover, James Remar, in a perfect take off of Max Cady from CAPE FEAR, and Tony Randall as a judge. The gags come fast and furious and most of them work, there's even a very funny cameo by Bob Euker, as a color commentator for a trial. Just sit back, relax, don't think about it too much and there's a lot of fun to be had here. "},{"Title":"Hilarious, yet flawed","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Written in the style of Airplane!, Top Secret! and The Naked Gun, this is a hilarious spoof that I find quite entertaining. There are numerous laugh-out-loud jokes and scenes throughout the movie (like when the characters suddenly begin talking in Yiddish), yet there are those that desperately try to be funny but aren't (such as the entire court room scene near the end). This movie is considerably funnier if you have watched the dozens of movies Fatal Instinct is spoofing. If you've not seen them, however, you will not be lost in the story. You'll merely sit there not realizing that you've just seen a comedy bit.As for the rest of the movie, it's filmed on what appears to be a shoe-string budget. But then again, there's nothing in the film requiring a big budget to begin with. The cinematography feels cheap and the direction is sometimes boring, but the actors (particularly Assante) provide great performances. The storyline is ridiculously boring, and there are some spoof jokes that seem incredibly out of place and unfunny (such as when Sean Young's character takes the Ravine family rabbit for a roller coaster ride, a la Fatal Attraction).Good jokes in the dialogue and original, if cheap, side gags distract from a poor overall screenplay. This isn't the best movie in the genre, but it holds it's own. This movie is probably even better than one or two of the Naked Gun films. Fans of the genre will be thoroughly entertained by it. Others might not appreciate the humor. "},{"Title":"Sporadically funny movie spoof","Date":"31 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Take the word Fatal out of the title of Fatal Attraction. Then take the word Instinct out of the title of Basic Instinct. Put the two words together and you have Fatal Instinct, a sometimes funny comedy spoof of sexy suspense thrillers such as Fatal Attraction and Basic Instinct with a little Body Heat and The Postman Always Rings Twice thrown into the mix as well as other movies of this genre. Fatal Instinct isn't the best of movie takeoffs but it does have some moments that made me laugh. The funniest thing about this movie is watching Armand Assante do comedy. Here is an actor who usually does drama, and when I saw him in one scene where he's dancing around in women's high heel shoes I couldn't help but laugh. Sean Young is also very funny as the blonde bombshell who's also the femme fatale of the picture. Kate Nelligan and Sherilyn Fenn don't fare quite as well as Young (as Assante's evil wife and secretary, respectably), but it's still fun to see them here in this movie. Carl Reiner direted this goofy film as he tries to go for the type of film his one-time partner used to make, Mel Brooks. Both filmmakers haven't fared as well lately like they used to. Over the years Brooks has fared better at comedy spoofs than Reiner has, but Fatal Instinct is at least better than Brooks' last two movies 1993's Robin Hood Men in Tights and 1995's Dracula Dead And Loving It). However this could have been a great comedy which it ain't.**1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"A little over the top","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This comedy was entertaining, but not the best I have seen. The movie contains quite a lot of silly scenes, and that can be funny from time to time. The problem here is that most of the scenes are just a bit *too* silly.The movie is comparable to the Naked Gun movies, but in my opinion NG was just a bit better.My vote 6 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A night of laughter","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  The fine touch of comedy mixed with the charm of the three actressess. Assante is great and has a real sense of humour as the famous detective/lawyer who defends his arrests in the courts. The film has many touches of famous movies as Sleeping with the enemy, Cape fear and many movies that I may haven't seen yet. "},{"Title":"An On-Target Spoof of  the Film Noir Genre","Date":"18 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" FATAL INSTINCT is a side-split-tingly funny spoof of film noir dramas, in the AIRPLANE/NAKED GUN mode that offers affectionate winks at films like FATAL ATTRACTION, BASIC INSTINCT, THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE, and CAPE FEAR, offering consistent laughs thanks, in part, to the self-assured direction of comedy icon Carl Reiner. Reiner smartly chose to cast strong actors instead of pure comics whose uncanny ability to play the funny material with completely straight faces is what makes the film so funny. Armand Assante is surprisingly funny as Ned Ravine, a cop and a lawyer who is being cheated on by a scheming wife (Kate Nelligan), being pursued by a sexy client (Sean Young)and being loved from afar by his faithful secretary (Sherilyn Fenn). There are also funny turns from Christopheer McDonald as Nelligan's dim-witted lover, James Remar, in a perfect take off of Max Cady from CAPE FEAR, and Tony Randall as a judge. The gags come fast and furious and most of them work, there's even a very funny cameo by Bob Euker, as a color commentator for a trial. Just sit back, relax, don't think about it too much and there's a lot of fun to be had here. "},{"Title":"Not 'Airplane', but quite funny at times in many of the same ways","Date":"14 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Ned Ravine is a cop and a lawyer. He has only lost one case--Max Shady was sent to Sam Quentin Prison and, now that he is about to be released, he wants revenge.Ned's wife Lana is cheating on him with Frank, the mechanic. There is a $3 million insurance policy on Frank's life, and under very unique circumstances (which Lana hopes to make happen) the amount will be tripled.Not that Ned is completely innocent. Lola needs Ned's help, and she's not wearing panties. Unlike Sharon Stone in 'Basic Instinct', she has her back to the camera when she makes this fact quite obvious to Ned.Ned's secretary has flashbacks of her abusive relationship at the strangest times. She is quite pleasant, though, and good at her job, and otherwise seems happy.This is what happens in the movie. How it all happens--that's what makes the movie unique. The opening resembles Film Noir, though it is in color, with a narrator and a saxophone playing. We eventually see the narrator on screen, and the man with him is getting tired of listening. Clarence Clemons, the sax player, also appears in the scene, and numerous others. In a later scene a trumpet is being played instead, by Doc Severinsen--the explanation is that Clarence is taking a break.Many of the gags involve breaking the fourth wall, such as when two people in a park speak in Yiddish so no one will understand. Bill Cobbs plays the man who offers advice about their situation. He can understand because he saw the subtitles.In a courtroom, Bob Uecker delivers play-by-play and Tony Randall impresses as the judge. When the court is in recess, this takes place on a playground. In another scene, putting flowers in water takes on a whole new meaning.Numerous other jokes in the style of movies such as 'Airplane!' show up. And as in that movie, they are delivered in such a way it's not clear they are funny. Some are so obvious, but then they would never be done in an ordinary movie. Others are not so obvious. The writing is quite clever, though not all the jokes worked for me. Perhaps this is because I did not know the movies that were being parodied. I did recognize a couple of scenes from 'Fatal Attraction'. One scene involving a pet on a roller coaster made no sense to me.I enjoy this type of movie, though some have been done better. "},{"Title":"Phenomenal world-class cheese!","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is Happy Gilmore awful! A sure sign I need to upgrade my cable (which, incidentally, I called to do today). I got bored of infomercials while grading student papers and surfed to this. I knew Assante from his Mike Hammer made-for-TV movie from the 80s, so I stopped. The plot seemed familiar and the gags were kind of funny, so I stuck around. Holy cheese-wiz, what a great way to spend a rainy Sunday! Sexy women, evil bad-guys and inept good-guys who'd make Frank Drebbin himself raise an eyebrow! Ned is a cop/lawyer (does Law & Order know about this concept?) who lost a major case 7 years ago. The defendant is getting released and vows his revenge. Viewers will recognize James Remar as the villain Albert Ganz from 48 hours. CLASSIC casting! Completing the certification of Happy Gilmore awful, Christopher McDonald also plays a major role. Man... just watch it. If you like cheesy spoofs, this is THE BOMB!!! "},{"Title":"Fatally cheesy and instinctively funny.","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"    The movie `Fatal Instinct,' is a campy film noir (color) comedy that  parodies famous film noir pictures from the past fifty years. A rich mixture of rapid corny one liners gives `Fatal Instinct,'  an `Airplane!' or `Naked Gun' feel yet funnier. This film is an evolutionary step up from Reiner's past film `Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid' which was a black and white film noir comedy.The Players (Some spoilers ahead)Armand Assante plays Ned, a married obtuse cop/lawyer who has no children and at the rate he is going, never will.  Sean Young plays Lola Cain, the ice pick wielding femme fatal trying to aggressively seduce Ned.Kate Nelligan plays the conniving red headed unfaithful two-timing (three-timing) wife who makes`Stanwyck' look virginal. Along for the `ride' is her dense cuckolding sidekick, Frankie, who helps her play Ned like a song over and over.Sherilyn Fenn Plays Laura, an overly attentive secretary and good woman who secretly loves Ned but will wait till Ned figures that out . . .  doubtful. Mix these characters together and let the jokes fly.  								 This is one of those films that you will either enjoy the wit or stare in disbelief wondering what's this all about? I have enjoyed this movie several times and each time I pick up a few more jokes. I would give  `Fatal Instinct' a 6.9/10 for style, cheese, and creativity. "},{"Title":"Comedy , Spoof, LA Detective Pulp Novelette, Brilliant Production","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" March 11,'06.....Oh! Why did it take so long for me to discover this gem? Only tuned in to view it as NCAA playoff's went to commercial, and then stayed with this Spoofy Comedy until the finish..Carl Reiner's directorial skill is only matched by his choices in 'shooting', editing..brilliant..I have been to recent comedies, a few, including Wedding Crashers, which was well done, BUT ,for scene to scene, shot to shot comedy, Fatal Instincts wins, 'high heels' down..Few of the Cameos get credit, but Carl's friends , almost all appear... I wondered where he was going with the wonderful tenor sax player following Lana, and then I hear a trumpet player, Doc himself...If you haven't seen it, SEE IT, and look in 'unsuspecting' places for Doc's trumpet..Brilliant, Thanks to Carl Reiner..... "},{"Title":"Subtle humor hits the mark","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Excellent send-up of detective/thriller movies. All the characters play the straight role well, and they need to, because it's deep thinking humor, but also very funny. Armand Assante surprisingly comes over well in a comic role, as does Sherilyn Fenn. Well-connected storyline which is unusual for a movie that parodies many others. Very good entertainment. "},{"Title":"A funny spoof of erotic thrillers.","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Armand Assante wasn't the type of actor you would have expected to be good at this type of comedy - but I think he is brilliant as the straight-faced Ned Ravine.  Sean Young fares even better as the femme fatale.  Not all the jokes hit the mark but most of them are funny enough to win you over.My favourite line comes from the judge played by Tony Randall. You will refer to 'Angel Tits' as Mrs Ravine!I'd give it 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Better than most spoof films.","Date":"29 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Fatal Instinct is better than most spoof movies that I have seen and I think it was very funny. "},{"Title":"As Funny As The Originals.","Date":"13 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Nice cast in a sometimes very funny spoof of erotic thrillers that were appearing at the time. Beginning with Body Heat in 1981, you could pick one adjective from Column A and one noun from Column B. From Column A Fatal, Basic, Dangerous, Lethal, or Deadly. From Column B Affair, Instinct, Liaisons, or Encounters. And then there was the anomalous Poisonous Panties The True Story of the Victoria's Secret Murders. This hectic farce rips off scenes and themes from innumerable noirish thrillers with base overtones. I caught Double Indemnity, Body Heat, Sleeping With The Enemy, The Maltese Falcon, The Postman Always Rings Twice. I'm not showing off. It's easy. And I'm sure I missed some. The Airplane people and those who produced this imitation of imitations -- a kind of meta-imitation -- must have just about run out of gags because there haven't been that many recently.There's no reason to outline the plot. It has something to do with a wife's wanting to kill her husband for insurance but the plot is pulled apart by so many exotic allusions and so much word play, so many quips and monstrous metaphors, so many catachreses and zeugmas and whatnot, that it's often forgotten and just as well. Not that it's a masterpiece of literary play. People are always falling down stairs and doing forward flips for little discernible reason. We're not talking Oscar Wilde, but the dialog is pretty funny. I should have taken notes but, as it is, I can't recall any lines. My short-term memory is getting shoddy. I think my brain is turning to tofu and I may leave it to the American Culinary Institute for analysis.Two observations though. One is that Armand Assante is an excellent comic character. I wouldn't have expected it from him. He put his arrant masculinity to ridiculous use. And Sean Young, for all her off-screen foibles, is a delicious creature, all cream and pearl.I think you'll enjoy this unless you're in an irretrievably dark mood. "}{"Title":"Love that man in High Heels","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" This is a pretty good satire but a movie you can watch without knowing anything about those movies. There is the hilarious scene where the secretary is trying on hats and the detective is dancing in high heels. I'm surprised he didn't break his neck. But the entire story can be revisited on most daytime soap operas. Is she a wife, is she a sister? And then there is the identical twin factor. Yes, it is full of nonsense but so what. And the drill scene was so much better than Body Double. A lot of good shooting scenes that are over the top. I was concerned about the skunk but they wrapped that all up nice and neat. "},{"Title":"Pretty good spoof","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen a few spoof movies, and this is definitely one of the better. It has very much the same type of humor for a spoof movie, and it delivers some great laughs if you're into this type of movie. The plot and acting is typical for this sort of movie, nothing really new there. No one has a breathtaking performance, and there isn't anywhere in the movie where you gasp at the brilliance of the script. It just is the typical spoof movie, nothing more, nothing less. I'd definitely recommend it to anyone who like spoof movies, especially if they've seen a lot of suspense/thrillers of the 80's and 90's, which the movie spoofs heavily. The movie primarily is for laughs, and many will say that it's very silly; and they're absolutely right. This movie isn't meant to be taken seriously, it's just a fun way to spend an hour and a half. The movie is a treat to fans of the spoof genre, but most other people probably won't like it. It doesn't feature any particularly big actors, but it doesn't need to. It's just mindless fun. Nothing else. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Halarious","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This film was great, much better than those naked gun pictures.  All from the pop up panties to that halarious schene with the power tools, and what about that Kamikazi Kama Sutra. That buffer scene gets me every time.Great, great film. "},{"Title":"another very funny spoof!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  this movie is bashed by critics. i don't know why,because i think it's very funny. this movie pokes fun at so many thrillers. most of the gags work in this movie. all in all very funny spoof movie! i give fatal instinct *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"One of my 10 comedy of all time","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Many intelligent jokes, silly jokes, quick jokes, sophisticated jokes, adult jokes, at times marathon of jokes, you can't stop laughing. If you like movies like top secret, airplane, hot shots, etc.. try this one! When I have money, I will buy the DVD. I recommend you see this movie alone, because you must be concentrate, all your mind into this movie, otherwise you will missed many jokes.About the Actors, Armand Assante is the only one cool in this movie, the rest turn around him like extras.Another important thing, I recommend this movie specially for adult people, more than 20 years old, because many things are related with old movies, old actors, & other knowledge.Finally, 10 of 10. If you love laugh, rent or buy this one! "},{"Title":"Fatal Instinct","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  Cheating wife plots to kill her busy husband in this sporadically funny spoof of cop movies and sexy thrillers such as Fatal Attraction. You would think you'd expect something better from Carl Reiner; at least I was.   "},{"Title":"Love Spoofs.. this is one to see, don't then skip it","Date":"16 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I personally love spoofs, and twisted views on various things (I am a fan of Twilight Zone, Night Gallery, etc... also loved the show Soap) For me this move is and always will be a kick to watch... Sure it is not an award winner, but it is fun and funny to watch. As with all good spoofs i enjoy it each time I watch it.. but again this is a personal enjoyment.. for many others they could easily find it dull etc, so just a point of view if for some odd reason you missed out on this movie the thousands of times it has been on regular TV. OK So in summary.. if you love spoofs this is a MUST See.. if you don't skip it, you know your category of interest, right? "},{"Title":"To pick up where The Cheap Detective left off","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this film just as much as I loved The Cheap Detective. It was the most ridiculous comedy throwing humor at every turn. Ravine even says to Lola, Mrs. Caine, I'll help you if I'm able. Although, it did pay a bit more attention to plot than The Cheap Detective. I thought Carl Reiner films were doomed for me, given the disappointing experience of Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid. But, I think it was just one bad banana in the bunch. "},{"Title":"Awfully hilarious and just plain awful","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  This isn't really even a movie more then it's a dumping ground for slapstick routines and refreshing silliness.  I am a big fan of slapstick routines so I like this movie, even though it is technically horrid.  The tone is depressing film noir era stuff which is great fun in low doses.  Armand Assante gets his crack to make a fool of himself at least once in a career and he's a naturally funny guy.  Sean Young plays the hyper feminine moll babe with some really nice intensity.  Kate Nelligan is really hot as the murdering wife and Christopher McDonald lightens the load with some twinkish hilarity.  Sheilyn Fenn is miscast as the mousy, admiring, love sick chick who falls in love with Assante's bumbling Ned Ravine.  Not much is mousy about Miss Fenn.  The scene where she has the beer hat on is hilarious and one of the best in the movie.  The courtroom sequence is made by the greatest announcer in baseball history, Bob Uecker.  There is some really funny stuff here and the movie sticks it's neck out to mock itself, which is admirable.  A non-movie that's great to watch once.   "},{"Title":"Nostalgic Noir parody....","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  I have seen this colorful parody movie twice now and the first time it was allright though I never felt it was great. This movie spoofs so many movies though, there ARE a few really funny moments and laughs-just look at the title!The movie features an incredible cast and it was fun to see some of my faves BUT(and this is a big but) when I saw it again I really found it kind of boring. I think at the time it came out it was funny but it doesn't hold up well and having seen alot more parody movies since then, I'll admit some of the jokes here aren't very good. It maybe ok to watch as a late night or if one just likes this type of movie in general(which I do!) but there are really better spoof movies around.   "}{"Title":"Tries Way Too Hard","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I absolutely hated this movie. I remember seeing it back in 1994 when I was 11, and hating it even then. Of course, back then I hadn't seen the movies it was spoofing, such as Fatal Attraction, Basic Instinct, and Sleeping With The Enemy. Over ten years later, I have seen all these movies, so I thought, Hey, I'll give this movie another try.I recently saw it again, and still thought it was terrible. I read a review Roger Ebert gave of it, and he gave the movie one and a half stars. Roger, in my opinion, was being too nice.Carl Reiner has directed some great movies (i.e. The Jerk), but this is easily his worst. The jokes in the movie ranged from mediocre to just flat out awful and predictable. One of the worst is in the courtroom scene, when the bailiff calls for a ten minute recess. Sure enough, the gag was that everyone went outside and played. Get it? Recess? Ha ha- not! Comedy is indeed hard, but this movie shows that editing your scripts is always a good idea. The kind of humor when the cast acts seriously while the gags speak for themselves worked well for movies like Airplane, Naked Gun, and Hot Shots, but not for this movie. I can't say if it was the acting, the jokes, or the sheer dislike for the characters, but something just wasn't clicking. I'm just curious as to how the cast members felt about this movie as they were doing it. Armand Assante in some scenes looked as if he was ready for Carl to yell CUT! any minute. He did not look comfortable doing this comedy. Sean Young looked like she was trying to have fun with it, and is pretty convincing in some scenes. Above all, though, something went terribly wrong with this movie. If you want to rent this movie, I would suggest not paying any more than one dollar for it on video. "},{"Title":"Fatal is right Fatally bad.","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" With the opening sequence there is a glimmer of hope but roll on a few minutes and it soon becomes clear that this is going to be well short of the mark of decent spoofs like Airplane, Naked Gun and Hot Shots. A good cast does nothing for the poor jokes and bad direction. Some of the cast were totally underused especially John Witherspoon who is extremely funny and might have added that something which was definitely missing from this film.I should have went with my Instinct after the first few minutes and stopped watching, that i'm afraid was my Fatal mistake. Overall if you like the above mentioned spoofs stay well clear of this one. "},{"Title":"If it wasn't for Sean Young looking like a fox, this movie would suck!","Date":"21 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":"  There's really only one thing I can say about this picture, besides the fact that Armand Assante is better at comedy than you'd expect him to be I am not a fan of Sean Young. I think she's a nutcase, but she spouts a blond wig here and she looks very hot. This alone makes the picture worth-viewing. The movie is not good at all, but I can stomach it simply to see her hot body every time I watch. I don't care that this movie is a comedy full of cliches, I would have had Assante's Ned Ravine end up with her at the end if I'd been writing it. She's too foxy to reject, unless like his character, you're a complete idiot! "},{"Title":"Fatally flawed","Date":"17 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" The multi-talented Carl Reiner blows the crime-drama genre wide open in this film, but the results are nowhere near as funny as intended. A handful of clever gags are interspersed with tons of leaden jokes. This over-the-top takeoff on movies like Fatal Attraction, Basic Instinct and numerous B movies tries much too hard. It announces its intentions with tough-guy voice-over narration delivered by the main character, Ned Ravine (Armand Assante), who is a lawyer/cop and an intended murder victim. Kate Nelligan is his cheating wife, and Christopher McDonald is her auto mechanic/insurance salesman/lover. These two hatch a murder scheme loosely based on the one in Double Indemnity, and they quote (and misquote) lines spoken by Barbara Stanwyck and Fred MacMurray in that classic 1944 film, but to no avail. Slapstick vies with verbal gymnastics and Hollywood in-jokes as David O'Malley's script lurches from one silly situation to another in an effort to get audiences rolling in the aisles. Maybe some audiences do roll, but unless you find bouquets flushed down toilets the height of hilarity, you probably won't. The sad thing is that this picture has an excellent cast&#151;including Sean Young as a film-noir temptress and James Remar as a maniacal goon&#151;and features cameos by Eartha Kitt, Tony Randall, Rosie O'Donnell and the director himself, who appears standing at a urinal. Reiner has done many good things on television over the years, and it's possible some of the hi-inks in this movie might work in a sketch. Here, unfortunately, the old pro steps up to the plate and swings mightily but whiffs. It's a strikeout, leaving several fine runners on base. "},{"Title":"Spoof comedy with Armand Assante pulling a Leslie Nielsen","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" Carl Reiner tries his hand at an Airplane!-styled spoof of crime-thrillers, such as Basic Instinct and Body Heat, but the results are full of cheap gags and silly smut. Armand Assante is the befuddled cop, Sean Young is the femme fatale, Kate Nelligan is Assante's two-timing spouse, Rosie O'Donnell is...Rosie O'Donnell. Assante, he of the droopy bedroom eyes and self-satisfied smirk, allows himself to be a little ridiculous here, but slapstick buffoonery just isn't in him, and he struggles manfully to have a good time. The movie just doesn't have the correct look of a crime-noir down--and worse, it appears to have been made by a filmmaker with a very standard, square sense of humor. * from **** "},{"Title":"A Fatally Flawed Comedy That Simply In-Stinks","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Thriller","Review":" I am well aware of the bad pun I just made in the title of this review. If you didn't think that was funny, all I can tell you is that it is probably funnier than 95% of the gags in this film. I will admit that a couple of the gags here and there elicited a few chuckles out of me, but for the most part, I kept watching this film wondering why a production assistant didn't pull Carl Reiner aside and say, Sir, this isn't funny. I recommend shutting down production.I'm betting that 1994 must have made for a hell of a family reunion at the Reiner household. Carl Reiner's son, Rob Reiner, ended his hot streak of memorable films when he released North (1994), the comedy that almost permanently derailed his career. The elder Reiner, who is also no stranger to funny and often times memorable films (The Jerk (1979), The Man With Two Brains (1983)), probably felt the same pain as Rob after releasing this forgettable mess of a film.Fatal Instinct is a comedy that is a spoof, but is sometimes unsure of just what it is spoofing. It is supposed to be a parody of erotic thrillers that came out in the late '80's and early '90's. Of course, there are many references to scenes in Fatal Attraction (1987) and Basic Instinct (1992), hence the name of the film. Scenes from other such thrillers like Sleeping With The Enemy (1991), Body Heat (1981), and Cape Fear (1962 or 1991) are also obviously repeated.There are two problems with this films repeating scenes from these movies. First, the key word is repeat. None of the actors in these scenes even try to reflect the irony of the most memorable moments in these crime thrillers. Sure they reference Sharon Stone's infamous lack of underwear in Basic Instinct, and Glenn Close's roasting a bunny in a pot in Fatal Attraction. Simple referencing of such scenes does not make them funny.Second, the film is rated PG-13, which means kids can see it. Because Basic Instinct and Fatal Attraction were R-rated movies that both came close to being NC-17, kids would not (or should not) have been able to see them. Therefore, any jokes about, or references to, these films, regardless of whether or not they're funny, are going to fly over kids' heads. If you're going to spoof R-rated movies, why not go edgier with the on-screen gags? Kids probably would not want to see the movie anyway, so why did the filmmakers not even think to make this movie R-rated?When the film is not reenacting femme fatale shots from movies adult audience members probably have already seen, it seems as though it inserts infantile gags in an attempt to be The Naked Gun (1988). Armand Assante is a good dramatic actor, but in this movie, it seemed as though he tried way too hard to be Leslie Nielsen. Nielsen was funny in the Zucker-Abrahams-Zucker comedies because he said ridiculous things while keeping a straight face. Assante all too often seemed aware of the absurdity of his lines, and his natural comic timing was usually way off.On top of all those errors, there were a lot of really tired running gags. Seeing gum and toilet paper being stuck to Sean Young's high heels wasn't particularly funny the first time, and was even less the fifth time around. The joke about Assante being both a cop and a lawyer was also about as stupid as his closet being full of the same suit. The film was also inundated with really stupid character names (i.e. Max Shady, Judge Skanky), and horrible, obvious puns.Nowhere were these terrible puns more evident than in the courtroom scene. Once the bailiff called for a ten minute recess, guess what happened next? Yep, all the members of the court went outside and played games. Get it? Like it's recess in elementary school!?!?! Ho ho HO!!!!!! Note By sheer coincidence, there was an equally bad courtroom joke in Rob Reiner's film, North. When the main character's parents are in comatose during his divorce from them, their attorney says, I'm afraid the defense rests. Which joke is worse? You decide.So this film was bad. It had very good actors in it that tried way too hard to be funny, and looked stupid as a result. Even worse, there was really no story. The writer of this film seemed to be so busy naming erotic thrillers that the audience never cares about the fate of the characters in THIS movie. The film spins its wheels while managing to go nowhere. Carl Reiner should be thankful to Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer, though. If they hadn't made their awful spoof movies, which are far more guilty of repeating pop culture moments, Fatal Instinct would probably be the worst parody film of all time. It is fatal to watch, and you should trust your instinct by not seeing it. "}]