[{"Title":"If this film doesn't touch you, you have no heart","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"43 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" HBO was beginning to choose projects other networks were afraid to touch. And the Band Played On is one of their all time top ten. The actors who participated in this film were only paid scale, and not a lot of money was used, but the message is the strongest. I viewed this on its premiere and couldn't sleep afterward. I view it more these days since I've had many friends die of red tape of AIDS.According to this film based in Randy's book, what bothers me the most was the opportunities that existed by several people to catch this disease at various stages and it just wasn't done. Sure the government played its part, but so did commerce, so did vanity and so did the need for humans to be sexual beings.Since the film I've read about the deaths of many as well as experienced deaths myself. One thing that stands out is Patient Zero. The family of this gentleman has fought long and hard for that stigma to be erased. As the character says in the film If I got it, then someone gave it to me. I do understand terms that mark things as the beginning of the identified problem but with this film you will know there was a beginning BEFORE THAT beginning. Where it lies is still a mystery.On the other hand if America could have shared information with other countries and paid closer attention we could have fought this is a world problem before it got to the point of where it did. But America was too busy allocating more money to military defense than to the medical defense.America had discoverable AIDS cases as far back as the 1950's, but it didn't reach total epidemic status until the late 1970's early 1980's. This film brings that information out. It also brings out the information that this disease, although concentrated in the gay community, had no specific target, anyone could/would get it. The people in my life were not all homosexual who contracted the disease but a few were just receivers of blood transfusions. At the time they received the blood, the test was not developed for screening. Just like the film points out, they too (family, friends, associates) suffered.There is so much to grab in this film, one or two viewings isn't enough. One or two pointed fingers is not the answer. It is equally as sad that almost 10 years later, I am writing this review and the band is still playing. It was my prayer that this would not be so. "},{"Title":"Awesome book and movie.","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"39 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I read this book in high school in the late 80's just as it was released. The book was excellent and gave a great educational lesson on HIV and AIDS. The movie was just as good. I was really touched at the end when The last song by Elton John was playing. The movie gave a great time-line of the virus.It is so terrifying to think AIDS has actually been around since probably 1959 when a blood sample from a man from the Congo had died of a mysterious illness, and tests run on the blood sample today showed he did indeed have AIDS. The movie was very touching, this whole topic leaves a lump in my throat. I was 13 when AIDS had started making the news and in 1985 or 1986 my dad had a blood transfusion. We spend months worrying if he had contracted HIV. Thank god he got clean blood and he dodged a bullet, unlike the 25,000 people in the 70 and 80's who received tainted blood.I got teary eyed when an HIV+ guy in the movie says This is not a political issue. This is a health issue. This is not a gay issue. This is a human issue. And I do not intend to be defeated by it. I came here today in the hope that my epitaph would not read that I died of red tape. The predictions were accurate. The scientists predicted there would be 40 million people worldwide infected with HIV by the turn of the century and that number has proved to be pretty much dead on, literally. "},{"Title":"Powerful...and Important!!","Date":"4 June 2006","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" And The Band Played On is an extremely powerful movie. This movie should be required viewing in any high school. The fact that it took so incredibly long for the then higher powers to admit to the existence of AIDS is stunning and sad. The performances throughout the movie were moving and effective. I thought that Sir Ian McKellan and Richard Gere represented respectfully the signs of strength and fear.I was also disheartened to learn that throughout this tragedy, there were individuals who might have been more concerned with helping and protecting their own reputation and agenda as well as accepting the credit for their work in breaking down point by point the disease known as AIDS. Alan Alda as Dr. Gallo was fascinating. In fact all of the performances from Matthew Modine and Richard Gere to Steve Martin and BD Wong were great. The most important thing here though is the history of this disease and the hope that we can learn from it. "},{"Title":"Excellent as was the book it's taken from","Date":"11 August 2005","Score":"21 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I decided to watch this movie again tonight for the first time in several years. I lived in San Francisco when the epidemic began and had a first hand view of the fear, paranoia, and grief.The movie brings back memories of worrying about my gay child and many of my friends. We attended more than a few memorial services. My son, praise be, is fine.The best thing about watching it so many years later is to realize how far we've come since then. AIDS is no longer the death sentence it once was. The book and the film did a great deal to raise public awareness. HBO was courageous, the actors were all first class and I believe it was realistic in its portrayal of the heroes, the villains, and the public ignorance and apathy of the time. "},{"Title":"If you don't remember the start of the epidemic, don't comment on the movie....","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"28 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've read far too many reviews of this movie that just don't seem to get it, even if they did enjoy the film. The purpose of the movie was precisely to show how the AIDS epidemics reached the stages that it did before anything was done, and how the Doctors, researchers and even the federal government and the CDC contributed as much to the progression of the disease as they did to discovering it. To state that this presentation, while not quite showing as much regarding the suffering of the early AIDS patients in some way makes less of an impact than it may have otherwise, is to basically state that you have no concept of what the purpose of the movie was! Anyone who actually WAS around when the AIDS crisis began can remember getting blood tests for Hepatitis, then something called HTLV III, then HIV, all with no explanation or understanding as to why. And that was only if you were giving blood! They misconceptions and fears passed on from scientists themselves made it far more difficult to actually understand what it was and how to be safe. This movie explained far better than any other resource exactly what was going on during a time when those of us who WERE alive were getting no answers at all.So, if you're going to comment on a movie, make sure you have some idea of what the purpose of the film is before questioning the point of view of the film. This is quite possibly one of the most important films of the past twenty years BECAUSE of its point of view. "},{"Title":"Remarkable, Disturbing","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"16 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Unbelievable, wrenching film. This movie is told so thoughtfully and well; the sequences are laid out thoughtfully, and this is one of those rare movies literally told from the heart. The cast is just remarkable. What a huge story to tell; this could easily have become garbled due to the overwhelming subject matter. However, it is sequenced well, and acted so well, that you sit there in astonishment that this could happen in a world full of otherwise brilliant people.I don't know what it will take to remove political considerations from life-and-death struggles...How about we work at saving lives, and worry about who gets credit later? If someone becomes injured due to gang warfare, we don't deny them care or drag our feet because we don't agree with the gangster lifestyle.Absorbing, heartbreaking and touching. A fantastic and, obviously, loving job by the entire cast. "},{"Title":"This is not a political issue. This is a health issue. This is not a gay issue. This is a human issue.","Date":"22 September 2004","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A real-life story about the discovery and destructive nature of AIDS, And the Band Played On is a gripping drama that not only takes you to the front line and behind the scenes of the HIV virus. To the bath houses in San Francisco to the research labs at the Center for Disease Control, there is no area that is not shown in this film. An all-star cast also creates the ambiance to this film. Powerful actors giving the performances of a lifetime. Richard Gere, Angelica Houston, Ian McKellan, Steve Martin, Alan Alda, Phil Collins, and even Matthew Modine are just a few of the actors who deserved Academy Awards for their work. While most of their parts were small, they were not unforgettable segments. Each cameo actor had a crucial role in leading us to the next segment and life of the HIV virus.We are first introduced to Modine when he is trying to help a tribe with the destructible Ebola virus. Then, just as quickly, we are in mainstream San Francisco. The booming gay community and the political figureheads that were pushing for rights. It is the beginning of 1980, the Democrats are pushing for a more liberal stance, while Regan is being sworn into the White House for his first term. The world is happy, yet timid. The gay community is growing, and discovering that a dark fear is lurking behind them. While the United States is beating a dead horse about closing bath houses and stopping the gay community, the French are looking at it outside of a sexual disease. Possibly a blood disease. While they research their ideas, America begins to see the full effect of AIDS. These scientists are predicting that in the next several years the fatality rate will be 100% if you contract AIDS. Ronald Regan has just had his second term and has still not mentioned AIDS in public. While the French work day and night to stop their public from dying, we begin shunning the gay community. Creating a phobia due to lack of education. We even see a well respected doctor steal the discovery from the French just so that he can credit the monetary value of this disease. While the ending to this film is very sappy, it still was powerful enough to not only be enjoyable, but also educational. A film that if you have not seen yet, you should...and if you have seen it, see it again.This powerful two and a half hour epic was the most entertaining informative film I have seen in ages. I rented it not knowing anything about it. I first picked it up for the actors to see what they could do in such small roles. Little did I know I was about to see everyone in the performances of their lifetime. Richard Gere proved once and again why he is an actor. It befuddles me why Modine has stopped working, because after seeing him in this film I would have liked to see him move further in the Hollywood community. It is not everyday that you find a gem as this film. If I was a superintendent of schools and I just saw this film, I would push with every ounce of strength to get this film into my schools. I learned more about AIDS than I ever had in my education career. It not only brought out a text book style of education, but it also brought a very humanistic approach to the disease. It also brought out a very dark political side that perhaps the general public is not as familiar with. Not only that, but it also brought out the dark side of human nature. In times of plagues, we rely to heavily on science to be our savior. While it will be the backbone to our cause, we do need to have a feeling for those that already have the disease. We, as a nation, need to look past social standings, sexual preference, and color of our skin to realize that we are all humans. If this is a human disease, then we need to research every venue, not just the most obvious ones. If this film doesn't scare you, I don't think any horror film will.Like all great films, it did have some horrible sides to it. McKellan's story was too cliché. The story of the homosexual politician who looses his lover because he is more involved with politics than his social life, who eventually reunite when it is discovered that McKellan has AIDS. Modine's flashbacks were unnecessary. I felt that we did not need to be reminded why he believed in human nature, and I don't think that we needed to be reminded by seeing a scene where he throws bodies into a fire. Something more substantial would have been nice. Finally, the ending was too much for me. I don't think it needed to have an Elton John (prominent homosexual figure in entertainment) singing one of his songs with flashing pictures of famous people, straight and gay, that we have lost to AIDS. Perhaps a more poignant picture would have been less famous people (every day Joes) who have died from the disease. Overall, the good well out weigh the bad points that I just mentioned. I guarantee that you will be surprised, educated, and emotionally enthralled by this film.Grade **** out of *****  "},{"Title":"It may seem a little hopeless. ... That's because it is.","Date":"15 September 2007","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" American doctors from the under-funded Center for Disease Control scramble to figure out the origin of--and the causes behind--the alarming rate of homosexual male deaths in the early 1980s; as a fatal strain of pneumonia and hepatitis B cases begin appearing, as Reagan-era Washington apparently vetoes the mysterious disease as non-newsworthy, and as the gay community (shown as not one radically adept at helping their own cause) label the early cases as products of the Gay Cancer, the CDC battles with the Blood Industry in coming up with an inexpensive way of filtering out contaminated blood. Adaptation of Randy Shilts' frightening, groundbreaking book was seemingly an impossible undertaking, yet HBO Films and co-producer Aaron Spelling manage to lay all Shilts' information out adroitly and adeptly, with some of the character interaction awkwardly interjected but with most of the principal players doing very well with technical roles. Alan Alda positively revels in the opportunity to play sniveling medical scientist Dr. Robert Gallo, who felt usurped when French scientists initially gained prestige for isolating the virus; as Dr. Mary Guinan, Glenne Headly does some of the best work of her career (while interviewing a sexually promiscuous airline steward, one of the earliest men to fall prey to the disease, Headly is remarkably natural and charming); and Saul Rubinek as Dr. Curran, who initiates the investigation and helps sort out all the jargon, is in masterful form. Some of the high-profile cameos aren't shaped for much satisfaction--they stick out as artifices--such as Richard Gere's bit as a stricken choreographer (it is commendable that Gere is here, yet his movie star aura looms larger than his part). The film isn't compact--it isn't a quick-fix wallow or a time-filler--it is a serious, frustrating, angry movie with no easy answers. And that's as it should be. "},{"Title":"Amazing movie","Date":"22 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" See this film. If necessary, discard your personal religious/philosophical/political prejudices and see it for what it is an incredibly heartwrenching account of a modern epidemic. Strong performances all-around, Modine, Gere, McKellan, et al. This movie makes me weep every single time I see it. Not tear up, WEEP. Some have stated that the political flavor is a bit too leftist for their tastes, or that the movie makes Don Francis out to be a hero, and villanizes the government. I find this amusing since the only mention of the government is that Reagan didn't say the word AIDS for years, which is a complete truism. And Don Francis, though he strives to help as much as possible, certainly is not the classic hero as he does not save the day (an impossibility since this particular day has yet to be saved). He merely works, like many others, as hard as he can while fighting a losing battle. "},{"Title":"Excellent cast in a landmark tv film adaptation","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  AND THE BAND PLAYED ON (MADE FOR CABLE TV/HBO-1993) ***1/2 Matthew Modine, Alan Alda, Lily Tomlin, Charles Martin Smith, Richard Masur, Saul Rubinek, Richard Gere, Ian McKellen, Anjelica Huston, Swoosie Kurtz, Steve Martin, Phil Collins.  Engrossing adaptation of Randy Shilts' landmark prize-winning document on the onset of AIDS and the fevered manhunt to find the cause and cure of the HIV virus.  Compelling storytelling and a remarkable performance by Modine as the head for the Centers for Disease Control facing impossible odds and heartbreaking frustrations.  Hallmark for cameo appearances and political correctness it may be but stirring and revelatory nonetheless.  Dare not to be moved during Elton John's The Last Song as images and names of the disease's victims roll during the closing credits.  Directed by Roger Spottiswoode for HBO. "}{"Title":"Tragic and moving history","Date":"30 August 1998","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This HBO TV movie is far better than the average TV film. It tells the frightening story of the evolution of AIDS which might have been slowed or even prevented if politicians had not been afraid to talk about it.The strong cast does an excellent job, especially Modine and McKellan. I found the story, based on Randy Shilts' book, very touching. The title metaphor is apt -- the band played on as the Titanic sank. "},{"Title":"well said","Date":"22 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" i was just looking at the comment the other person made and it was extremely well said and i just wanted to thank you! that movie gets my heart and soul every time. the Elton john song at the end makes my skin raise up. i tear up all the time. it was SO well made and done! i wish i could shake the hands of the people that put all the time and effort into this movie. i have known too many people to die from AIDS, and i always try to stay up to date with the news on AIDS. there is an organization called PWA - People With AIDS in Peoria, Il that i volunteered on for a while.i'm not looking for recognition, i'm just simple happy that someone actually make such a well comment on this movie. to you...my thanks. "},{"Title":"Dated and dispassionate?  Of course and of course not!","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" And the Band Played on is the greatest AIDS epic ever created. Others will claim this title should go to Angels in America, but in my opinion AiA (being a gay fantasia on national themes) tackles far more issues to make it an AIDS movie. And the Band Played on is a critical and historical dissection of AIDS, what it is, and how it came to be a pandemic. This film has been criticized both for its being dated and being too dispassionate. Well of course it's dated! It's a dramatized documentary. The movie came out in 1993 and the most important scenes take place in 1982 and 1983. I am part of the younger generation (i.e. under thirty) and we are already too young to remember the events of AIDS' emergence. It's important for us especially to watch this movie to remember the events of our childhood. As for it being dispassionate I adamantly disagree. If you can watch the 1983 decision (by this point in history there have been over 1000 deaths and over 2000 cases) where the national blood banks decided it wasn't worth the expense to test the nation's blood supply for AIDS, you are taking too much of history for granted. "},{"Title":"A true thriller","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie at a movie theater, after reading one favorable review. I didn't expect to be so thrilled, by the characters and the history. Being a physician myself, I remember quite well how despised the AIDS epidemic was at the beginning. That it became what it is today is also the result of society's and physicians' disbelief.The movie is great in portraying the scientific research in a way laymen can understand, and at the same time the struggle real people went through. The final heartbreaking real scenes remind us of how REAL they are.It's a must-see. Beautifully enacted (Alan Alda is perfect, but so are Lily Tomlin, Mathew Modine, Saul Rubinek), great story-telling. Don't think you'll be bored by a documentary, this is not a TV-movie, it's an adventure...and a wake-up call! "},{"Title":"Not perfect -- but necessary.","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Much has been made about the good guys and bad guys portrayed in And The Band Played On.  And with good reason.  I can't help wonder what personal agendas are being followed when a prominent 'real-life' scientist like Dr. Robert Gallo (Alan Alda) is portrayed in such a shallow way.  But simultaneously, the filmmakers coyly hide the fact from us that Richard Gere's choreographer is A Chorus Line creator Michael Bennett. They withhold that information like The Simpsons hide which state Springfield is in.  With a wink of an eye.While these imperfections in the film can be distracting, they are also quite trivial.  What many overlook is that And The Band Plays On is first...and foremost...a story of DENIAL.Throughout the first act, there is a reluctance to accept the seriousness of GRID (Gay Related Immune Deficiency).  Once there is no escaping the growing horror, the film accurately describes how all parties (The C-D-C, Bill Krause, gay groups, Jerry Falwell, blood banks, Gallo, The Reagan Administration, etc.) react to preserve their own best interests. And while those special interests clash on how to proceed next, thousands of helpless people keep dying. (There's your tie-in to the Titanic-inspired title).In the spirit of Jimmy Stewart and Gary Cooper, Matthew Modine is best-suited to playing an 'everyman'. Modine's 'everyman' in this film (Dr. Don Francis)understands the growing, deadly consequences of H-I-V, but has his own ghosts to exorcise (an Ebola plague victim who grabs his wrist, covering it in blood).  While Modine's character is the voice of reason, he is not immune from reacting irrationally to this plague.  It is only at the end of the film, as he comforts the dying Bill Krause, that Francis begins to overcome his own fears.The message of this film is simple  We must be pro-active in addressing our problems.  For if we wait for a reactive response, the resulting panic and confusion will only make things worse.  In that respect,And The Band Plays On is one of the most important films to be made during the 1990s.  For even with it's minor distractions, inaccuracies and agendas -- it truly is MUST SEE T-V.  "},{"Title":"Not exactly history","Date":"21 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This HBO movie does a good job of making the government look like the bad guy, but I'm not so sure that the whole truth was told.  The script writers needed a hero to turn to, so they placed Don Francis in a lot of scenes that didn't happen exactly as they appeared on screen.  The book, for example, speaks of no meeting between Francis (Modine) and Bill Kraus (Ian McKellan).  The movie makes Francis overly preachy and whiny when this wasn't really the case.  Shilts' book also slanted history in the favor of the CDC, when the CDC was actually part of the band playing on.  Francis' actual role in the epidemic was not very scientific at all.The movie neglects the fact that it is based on the opinion of someone (Randy Shilts) who was a gay man who died of AIDS himself, and it was thus slightly slanted against the government.The film is good for someone interested in some of the historical facts behind AIDS in the United States, but please read the book first if this is your intent.  The movie in its own right has little pure theatrical value, though, and would likely not interest anyone not interested in AIDS epidemiology or research. "},{"Title":"Cameos And Political Correctness Get In The Way","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a movie based upon the late Randy Shilts book AND THE BAND PLAYED ON , a book that I have never read but know has been critically acclaimed and praised for its readability since it is very similar in structure to a detective novel as scientists try to track down and identify a virus that is killing gay men . I also know the book also received some criticism because it was written by a HIV+ homosexual who seemed to have a political axe to grind . If that's the case ( Again I confess to never reading the book ) then all I can say is that this is a very well adapted story Certainly the story works best when the scientists are on the case . If the story about the nationalistic rivalries and plain old fashioned egotism ( A Nobel prize to the first person to identify this illness is a certainty here ) of the scientific community had been the main focus this would have been superb drama but ironically because of a need to make the drama more human we're introduced to far too many characters so that the story soon descends into mawkish melodrama and yes I did notice something of an agenda in here Take the bath house sequences for example where gay men congregate for casual sex and a character points out to Dr Harold Jaffe ( In reality it's being pointed out to a mainstream audience ) about how a hetrosexual equivalent would be somewhere a man would be able to meet lots of beautiful women for meaningless but great sex . This equivalent doesn't actually exist in reality though and we a mainstream audience are being asked to sympathise with homosexual promiscuity . In many ways it's a form of emotional blackmail , if we can't empathise with this lifestyle that marks us down as  homophobic  when homophobia doesn't come into it - Promiscuity is the problem here . Later the owner of the bath house Eddie Papasano speaks about how he's not going to shut his premises down because he'll lose money . Oh boy you can see where this is heading , greed is good for the pocket and bad for people who choose to have sex with complete strangers . Are we to take it the greed of Eddie Papasano and the people who use his bath house are comparable to the blood bank executives who scared of losing their profits don't screen blood donations for HIV+ Of course not , but this TVM makes out anyone wants to make money in whatever form is a cold hearted villain and anyone committing promiscuity is a hard done by victim . It should be pointed out that Phil Collins is laughable in the role of Papasano Phil Collins isn't the only inapprotiate cameo in this television movie , the whole TVM drowns in them , it's even more distracting than THE LONGEST DAY with big name or familiar face actor appearing in the shortest scenes Alan Alda , Richard Gere , Anjelica Houston , Steve Martin , Ian Mckellan and Saul Rubinek to name but some all make appearances which seems more like a parade of Hollywood liberals and makes you realise that you're watching a TVM . Like the story the familiar faces should have only been confined to the scientists working on the case rather have appear in pointless cameos AND THE BAND PLAYED ON ends with a poignant epilogue made even more poignant when one of those featured is Elisabeth Glaser who died on December the 3rd 1994 , the day after this TVM received its British network premier "},{"Title":"A good film, despite all its flaws","Date":"1 February 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There has been much criticism about &#x84;And the Band played on that there were too many characters, many of them drawn rather shallow (if not stereotypical), that it wasn't focused enough, convoluted. There is some truth in that, but mind you, this is a TV-movie after all with all its limitations and considering that, it's doing a pretty good job.I had watched this movie because virology is a hobby of mine and there are very few films that deal with the subject of disease (some going down the road of the dreadful Outbreak; others being plain boring). On terms of following the rise of an epidemic, And the Band Played on works perfectly. At the same time, it catches the atmosphere of the 1980s, the paranoia, the general fear and confusion that marked the first appearance of AIDS.There have been arguments whether the movie is too pro- or anti-homosexuals but I tend to think that it handles the story pretty neutral and hence can be enjoyed by people who themselves are neutral on the issue. True, it doesn't show the gay community, especially the one in San Francisco, in a particularly favorable light (rampant promiscuity, spokespeople in (self)-denial, etc), but then again, there is no denying that without hot spots like SF and the selfish, shallow mentality of the people living there, the epidemic might have taken a different course. The film isn't much kinder on other factors that have facilitated the spread of AIDS in this period, namely conservative politicians of the Regan-era, greedy pharmaceutical companies and self-righteous scientists (especially Dr. Vincent Gallo is painted as a virtual psychopath; doubtful whether the Doctor could very flattered by his portrayal), but then again, why should a film be kind to people and organizations that, in time, would be responsible for millions of death? Another factor that makes this a good film is the director Roger Spottiswoode; many less experienced film-makers would have chosen to press the tear-duct of the viewer in order to get a response, but Spottiswoode doesn't take the cheap option. He's painting a grim picture of a grim situation but he never makes it look melodramatic or, with a few exceptions, sentimental. There's often a fine chemistry among the cast, especially the research team around Don Francis (Matthew Modine) &#x96; on other times, the chemistry seems forced, not quiet natural (for example, we are never explained why there should be such a deep bond between Francis and Bill Kraus (Ian McKellen)).In essence, though many criticisms are true &#x96; especially that too many story lines are cramped into a mere two hours (the rather lengthy book by Randy Shilts would probably have been better served by a mini-series) and that the film is a virtual star-sighting tour (some of the cameos lasting merely a few seconds) &#x96; it doesn't make it a bad movie. I'd give it 7 from 10 points (deducting one point for the schmaltzy Elton John in the final scene, which seems to combine all the shallow cheesiness that the rest of the movie spared us). "},{"Title":"Not Entire Unto Ourselves.","Date":"16 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" HBO has this tendency to come up with occasional features that are intelligent, challenging, entertaining, and compelling, and this is one of them. They don't cost much money. I don't understand why Hollywood insists on grinding out senseless and unimaginative remakes of The Karate Kid. Mathew Modine is a doctor at the Center for Disease Control in Atlanta who undertakes the study of an outbreak of a new disease, ultimately called AIDS. He and his team run into all sorts of problems in their pursuit of the lethal virus. And there are a host of other recognizable faces in the cast, some of them, like Steve Martin and Richard Gere, amounting to not much more than featured bits. That they would volunteer for a project like this is surprise enough.Modine's team consists of about half a dozen investigators hampered by underfunding but still resolute. The investigation is blocked or derailed by a number of individuals and social forces. I'm listing them in no particular order.The gay communities themselves are at first uncooperative. A suggestion by Modine and the San Francisco Board of Health that the bath houses that serve as gathering places for strangers is loudly protested (and defeated) by defiant gays who are described as a vocal minority. They know there is a contagious and destructive disease about but they refuse to give up the bath houses that help spread it.AIDS turns out to be transmitted through blood transfusions but the corporate blood banks and the Red Cross refuse to use a test on their available supply because it is only 80% effective in detecting contamination and it would cost a great deal of money.The evangelicals, like Pat Robertson, are seen in video clips, claiming that AIDS is a scourge sent by God to cure the world of homosexuals. He wasn't alone in his sentiments. A candidate for mayor of Dallas at the time suggested that the best cure for AIDS was to take out all the homosexuals and shoot them.Ronald Reagan's administration cuts the budget for every social program, including the CDC, except for the Department of Defense, whose budget is increased beyond that requested by congress. Years pass before he mentions the epidemic publicly. The film doesn't show it, but Reagan's wife, Nancy, was more responsive and closer to the problem because one of her close friends, her hair dresser, died of AIDS.The media mostly fail to publicize the issue, even after it becomes clear hat it is a danger not just to gay men, but to women, hemophiliacs, new borns, Haitians, and anyone receiving a transfusion for any reason.Most interesting to me, as a scientist of sorts, was Robert Gallo, an ambitious virologist at the National Institutes for Health, who was a renowned scientist and whose organization had far more resources at its disposal than the CDC. The virus itself is discovered by the Pasteur Institute in Paris. And Gallo steals their samples and claims them as his own, so he gets to share the credit with those who actually discovered the virus and he wins all sorts of prizes and keeps his job. A professional committee is formed to investigate Gallo's shenanigans but is dissolved once the furor in the scientific community has faded enough. (The public was largely indifferent.) I'd have fired the SOB on the spot. In science, you don't ignore categorical imperatives in favor of hypothetical imperatives.I admired the film for its concentration on the investigation itself, without dwelling overmuch on the misery it caused. We can take it for granted, as adults, that death from AIDS is tragic in itself and rather more than that for the victims and those who love them. We see some of it, as we should, but not enough to obscure the main narrative. The sentimental element is handled with far better taste than it is in more expensive productions like Philadelphia or the documentary, The Life And Times of Harvey Milk. Carter Burwell's fine score is subdued and apt.The performances are as professional as we might expect from such a cast. As far as that goes, it may be Richard Gere's most accomplished performance as the director and choreographer who gets it and is both depressed and scared stiff. How often do we see Richard Gere act genuinely frightened? Ian McKellan as an activist and Alan Alda as a spiteful egotist are outstanding.A couple of personal observations. I lived in San Francisco in the early 1980s when AIDS was still mostly a mystery. I visited the bath houses as well (with my wife) and found them anything but the kinds of places that resemble an Egyptian whorehouse in 1910. Each rented room is full of plumbing, cement, and steam. No beaded curtains or incense.It was also interesting, and I'm thinking like a behavioral scientist, to witness the reaction of the gay community. No doubt opinions were diverse, but the visible graffiti of the time prominently proclaimed that AIDS is not a gay disease! An important process in defining yourself as a victim is to also define the perpetrator. In claiming that AIDS was not a gay disease (which, in strict reality, it was not), the victims in the gay community could aim the rage caused by their fear at an ignorant public. It was only later, when it became clear that unsafe sex was a major means of transmission, that politicians and the Reagan administration could be blamed for ignoring the epidemic and contributing to the number of deaths. That's as it should be. The turning point seems to have been the demise of several celebrities, gay and straight, including Rock Hudson, Anthony Perkins, Arthur Ashe, and Rudolf Nureyev.A fascinating and tragic tale, not yet finished. "},{"Title":"and it changed my life...","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was 14 when I saw the film on HBO. Before then all I heard of HIV and AIDS was from others my age in school or from family. Most of the information was wrong. And the Band Played On thought me the history of HIV and AIDS and how important it is to know the facts. It also helped to shape my view of sex. I am part of the group that grew up with a fear of HIV and a misunderstanding of it. It is still seen by many as only something gays get. That you can tell if somebody has HIV just by looking at them. That teenagers or young adults don´t get HIV, don´t get tested, then you´ll know! Every school, every home, everybody should see this film. It my not be the best film, some of the acting may be poor but it gets to the point in a clear and clean cut fashion. Cheers to the makers of this film for being it to light at a time when HIV and AIDS were still a dirty words.  "}{"Title":"Moving and thought proking","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There is a popular urban myth which goes along the lines that HIV/AIDS is a gay disease, that heterosexuality provides people with immunity from infection.  It does not.  What arrogance is it in the human race to imagine that a disease could prejudice on the grounds of sexual orientation?We are all at risk protect others, protect yourself.  Use condoms.  Don't share needles.And The Band Played On is an interesting, well-researched, well shot and acted drama about the outbreak, research, diagnosis and progress of a disease.  The punch-line?  It's real. "},{"Title":"This is the must-see story of the early days of the AIDS virus and the key individuals who led the battle against death by red tape.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This made for HBO movie is a little heavy handed and hard to stomach at times; but if you've ever known anyone with AIDS, or lost someone to this terrible disease, then you will probably share my feelings that this film was long overdue and very important. This may also be the finest performance of Matthew Modine's career. Personally, he is not an actor I prefer watching. But in this film he creates a very human, very accessible character. As a young doctor who has fought against incredibly horrible diseases in some of the remotest areas of the world, he paints the perfect portrait of a researcher for the Centers of Disease Control who is tilting at windmills in the earliest days of the battle against AIDS. The obstacles a government agency faces in obtaining funding and resources for simple day-to-day operations are minor compared to those required to deal with the sudden outbreak of a killer virus, especially on a national level.The film shifts between the efforts of the CDC's research staff and a few pivotal individuals in San Francisco, most notably Lily Tomlin and Ian McKellen. Initially, Charles Martin Smith is the connection between these two elements, as the CDC representative sent to San Francisco to investigate the outbreak in this major domestic city. He soon proves Tomlin's greatest ally and facilitator within the government, and she proves his greatest asset within the community. A rift develops within the community as the CDC pushes to close down the bathhouses, which is seen by many gay men in the film as a symbol of their sexual freedom. The community is typically divided between those who wish to give up their sexual independence and attendant identity, and those who recognize the threat to their health. The film also follows, briefly, attempts by other CDC researchers as they travel the country gathering evidence of a virus in hopes of finding a solution through knowledge of their common enemy. "},{"Title":"Docu-Drama about the early research and causes of the Aids Virus in the early 80s","Date":"23 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  And the band played is really the history of how the Aids Virus managed to spread throughout the world like few illnesses have.  The medical history, governmental ignorance and emotion surrounding this sickness all conspired against any rational approach to an early cure or intervention.Matthew Modine carries off his role with fire and brimstone, he is the consummate voice of positive cooperation and healing, and Alan Alda plays his evil counterpart.  Alda plays the egotistical, self-serving Dr. Robert Gallo, who made questionable progress fighting the disease.  There are those who believe that his research was all stolen from the French doctors who were also working tirelessly to defeat this sickness.  The movie explores that controversy, in the light of how much it may have slowed down the search for a cure.The cast of this movie is a virtual who's-who of cause fighting Hollywood. Richard Gere plays a particularly touching role as a choreographer who knows he is at risk, and sort of sneaks around helping financially and having himself evaluated.  He dies from the disease, but you get a real sense of his tragedy and it is easy to love this character.Lilly Tomlin, B.D. Wong, Glenne Headley and Steve Martin all play smaller roles and it always seems interesting to me that certain actors and actresses seem to appear together time and again.  B.D. has his best moments as the confused and weary boy friend of the tireless Bill Krauss, who was a continuous crusader against the inhuman attitude towards homosexuals. Glenne is a fierce researcher who actually seems to track down the zero case in the Americas, a French Canadian flight attendant named Dugas.The frustrations of the medical researchers at the CDC in Atlanta become more and more extreme as the Reagan administration chokes down on their research budget.  As there was a strange stigma attached to AIDS as a Gay disease, the ultra-conservative Reagan administration wouldn't widely support the necessary research.  Also, there were incredible problems with the Red Cross and their blood banks being infected with tainted blood.This movie is moving, touching, historically accurate and full of inspirational acting and dialog.  Don't miss the opportunity as it comes on the various HBO channels periodically.  "},{"Title":"A frightening realization about how AIDS came about","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I viewed this film in school as part of our AIDS Education and found it totally wonderful. It had an all star cast that delivered impressive performances. This exquisite portrayal of one of the most terrifying diseases of the human race, gives a new incite to the origin and manifestation of AIDS.It is a film that everyone should see to know the background of AIDS. Since it is one of the biggest problems facing the world today. "},{"Title":"Disturbing.","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this movie to be profoundly disturbing, simply because everything in it is true.  What is also disturbing is that the bureaucracy and obscene concern with politics and public image that are so frustrating to the protagonists in this story have not changed.  In an interesting coincidence, earlier in the night that I saw this movie on tv, I saw a story on Dateline NBC on Don Francis, the outspoken researcher and I guess activist, due to what he runs up against.  In the report, Dr Francis discussed the problems he has had getting funding from the US government to test an AIDS vaccine, despite an AIDS vaccine supposedly being the most important avenue for research.  The government (according to Dr Francis) basically said that successful research on chimps and the like did not constitute enough proof of success to warrant human trials; the question that then begs to be asked is what WOULD be enough proof, if animal research is not good enough and testing cannot be done on humans? The US government has only very recently (I believe Dr Francis said he hit upon the vaccine in 1994 or so) decided to chip in some money, though only a small portion of the cost, to test the vaccine, after Dr Francis managed to raise millions of dollars himself and had begun human trials.  A person wonders what will happen if- or more likely when- another horrific disease develops and starts claiming human lives.  Also, as a Canadian with poor health herself (though fortunately nothing even close to being as serious as AIDS), I find it unconscionable and difficult to understand why a country with more money than basically every country in the world does not provide health care on a socioeconomically blind basis.  Never mind AIDS- there are so many treatable ailments that people come down with but can't recover from because they don't have insurance or whatever, and it makes me sick to think that people die from something we CAN fix because some big whigs in Washington are too, I don't know, greedy or ignorant or prejudiced to recognise the horror of what these people go through, or the financial burden it creates when these people do get treatment and end up sometimes hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt and have their house taken away and their children's college funds drained and the like.  Basically every country in the Western world provides full (for the most part) medical coverage for every one of its citizens.  Maybe the US government should spend less money on missiles and more on medical treatment and research.  Maybe they should focus their attention on saving lives instead of destroying them.But enough of my little diatribe.  The point is that this movie points out so many of the flaws that exist in the way the government operates.  This movie was not made to be ignored or to enjoy like it's some meaningless Ace Ventura or Batman movie.  This movie has a strong message that seems to have been basically pushed aside by the very people it needs to affect.  I'd like to think the future will be different, but i have my doubts. "},{"Title":"impressive","Date":"16 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This impressive movie, about the onset of the AIDS epidemic in the early 1980's, was good. I found everything about it to be first-rate, from the performances and portrayals to the very writing. An impressive cast (Matthew Modine, Richard Gere, Richard Masur, Steve Martin, etc.) contributes to a very powerful film.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Compelling subject, but not well told","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The sad and tragic development of this terrible disease is certainly a good subject for a great movie, but this is not it. Modine was not a good choice, and the movie does not grab you like it should. Also, it is too easy to paint the government so broadly as the bad guy, governments and big businesses act slowly due to inertia and soul-draining bureacracy, not always out of homophobia. Also, the responsibility of the gay community itself should not have been soft-pedaled, they 'played on' too long as well as others, namely the refusal to accept and deal with the risk brought on by promiscuous lifestyles within their community. A better and more powerfully written script and acting combined with a more honest and courageous examination of the early days of aids could have achieved greatness. "},{"Title":"A life-changer","Date":"25 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I highly recommend that anyone see this HBO movie!! Even if you're not in the health field like myself, anyone who wants to know more about a huge issue that affected industrialized and developing communities alike would benefit from seeing this movie. My life was changed after seeing this movie when I was 15 and it has continued to guide the future of my life. And the Band Played On vibrantly illustrated the original outbreak of HIV and AIDS across the world, with an A-list cast and great storyline depiction of a true historical event that significantly affected the world in the 1980s. It very accurately depicts the timeline and development of a disease of unknown origin that ended up in epidemic proportions, and showed it well from a scientific, sociopolitical, and epidemiologic point of view. It will continue to be one of my favorite movies that always provides the necessary inspiration for my career and life. Definitely recommend to watch! "},{"Title":"And the Band Played On","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Document of the tragic beginnings of AIDS from when it was considered gay cancer and started to spread throughout the gay community (it was reputed to be especially set off in bathhouses where sexual transmission between numerous partners was the norm) killing at an alarming rate but not recognized by our government or provided proper funding for scientific research, even though it was clearly an epidemic deserving of attention. There's an emphasis on the frustrations of those working at the CDC in Atlanta (Matthew Modine, Saul Rubinek, Glenn Headly) and how a French lab is at odds with a renowned scientist's (Alan Alda; this actor is always good at playing snobbish, condescending assholes with a superiority complex) over who can name the AIDS virus as their own discovery (although you wouldn't think they were rivals if Alda's Dr. Gallo's we are all getting along swell behavior in front of the media was any indication). The film traces the virus to a flight steward with over 70 + lovers all over the world. He's interviewed by Richard Masur (part of the CDC team trying to uncover the meaning behind the virus and its origins), who successfully builds a history of where the virus starts and how it spread from the main person. &#x85;And the Band Played On is a real behind-the-curtain look at those affected by AIDS and the scientists/community so desperately wanting to understand it so its damage (or at least a method to halt its quick effects from killing those with it so soon) can be deterred. Ronald Reagan spent a considerable amount of time, when President of the United States, not even mentioning it or recognizing AIDS in the media. That frustration in Modine just to get funding so he and his team could understand the damned virus is palpable enough, but to see Alda's ego getting involved and increasing the difficulty further must enrage those who lost friends and family to AIDS. And the absence of even an electron microscope and proper lab facilities for the Atlanta CDC team shows the extreme lack of initiative by the government to study and deter AIDS establishes that so much time, important and valuable, lost in the combat against this virus is illustrated really well. A tremendous cast with the likes of Donal Logue, Richard Gere, Bud Cort, Swoosie Kurtz, and Ian McKellen as victims of the AIDS (each contributing to the fight and research against it, or abused by it), as well as, Angelica Huston, Richard Jenkins, and Steve Martin in parts revolving around the epidemic. The sheer magnitude of the ravages of AIDS is shown in updates as, on occasion, the director provides us with the numbers of cases reported and the victims of it. Important film that says that human beings, regardless of sexual orientation, age, or color, fell (or fall) prey to AIDS for a number of reasons, not just homosexual sex. Modine, a fine actor, excels in the lead. There's an epic scope to the film as it covers a lot of ground. The politics involved get major focus; not to mention, blood distribution led to transfusion patients getting AIDS, but the enforcement of regulatory checking of the blood for the virus needed to be addressed. This is an impassioned outcry for those undermined by the virus, and the precious lives lost because of it. "},{"Title":"A film that should be mandatory for everyone to watch.","Date":"9 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" And the Band Played On, essentially a drama documentary about the battle against one of greatest destructive forces man kind has ever faced and based on the book of the same name. Criminally, this film was all but overlooked in the UK on the time of its release, which was a complete travesty. Unfortunately it came out in the same year as the Tom Hanks vehicle, Philadelphia, which overshadowed any other film on the same subject, but arguably this film is also not only more important, but I would suggest more informative and ultimately more tragic and far more moving than the sentimental yet worthy Hanks/Washington effort.At the time with its chronological depiction of the unfolding of the AIDS crisis in America in the early 1980s this film received Luke warm reviews and a limited cinema release in the UK in 1993, but following the death of my cousin in 1991, I was keen to see it, and made the effort. When I came out of the cinema I was numb, angry and given a thirst for knowledge on the film. I immediately purchased the book by Randy Shilts, which told the story on a far wider perspective and from many more angles. One of those that were dropped were the perspectives of the Gay men from New York who made up its then social elite and enjoyed their summers on Fire Island. However, one can see that with the films limited budget and running time decisions had to be made to determine what were the right choices to take from the book, that would work effectively and distill into a manageable story. Fortunately all the choices made here, were the right ones. The story switches successfully between the small group of Doctors at the CDC working to combat the virus from day one in appalling conditions with little or no help from an uncaring Reagen era Adminstration who showed disgusting indifference at the events that were unfolding before them - and the group of Gay Activists that began to form in San Francisco who were having their own troubles convincing the gay community to unite under one banner against a disease that no one wanted to admit might be advancing rapidly in their own community through promiscuity. These difficult and complex subjects are well complimented by stock news footage of the time and the superb leading cast, all excellent, without exception are backed by all manner of big names in key supporting roles. (A worthy commitment from all those involved who did the film for basic scale pay) Director, Spottiswoode handles very moving scenes with great care and has the camera linger at all the right moments. Special mention must go to Lawrence Moonsoon, who deftly handles a dying mans confused re-collection of how his lover and friends died, to Swoozie Kurtz in the scene where her and her husband discover by accident she has been exposed to the virus through a blood transfusion. Ian McKellen is brilliant as gay activist Bill Krause, who tries to convince his own community to act before they have no community leftMathew Modine anchors the piece nicely as a doctor fighting the bureaucracy and sheer stupidity in a race against time to save lives as more and more Americans drop by the wayside. The subplot involving Doctor Gallo (Alan Alda) who tried to sideline the French and claim discovery of the virus gives real insight into the disgusting level of politics that went on even among health professionals during this critical time.This is a movie that every teenager in every school should be made to see, not only for the benefit of their own sexual health, but to honour those like Bobbi Campbell (Played by the brilliant Donal Logue) who stood up to be counted in their battle against the virus. It gives a brilliant overview of what happened back in the 1980s and the film has aged well and still stands up today, making it one of the most important films about the AIDS virus ever made.Prehaps it is time for a bigger budget mini-series which could cover the Eastern Coast perspective of the book, so as to not repeat all the same characters and material.For anyone with the slightest interest in this subject, this film is a must watch but I would go one stage further and say, that it is a film everyone should see in their life time, even if its not going to be the easiest two hours of your life. "}{"Title":"An Excellent TV Movie On The AIDS Epidemic","Date":"10 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" And the Band Played On is a television film docudrama that includes an all-star cast that includes Lily Tomlin as San Francisco health official Selma Dritz, Matthew Modine as Centers for Disease Control researcher Don Francis, Alan Alda as NIH official Robert Gallo, Ian McKellan as gay activist Bill Kraus together with Glenne Headley, Steve Martin and Anjelica Huston in cameo roles.It was directed by Roger Spottiswoode. The teleplay by Arnold Schulman is based on the best-selling non-fiction book And the Band Played On Politics, People, and the AIDS Epidemic by Randy Shilts.In 1981, researchers begin discerning a mysterious new disease that apparently affects only homosexual males. Working independently, and with marked hostility toward one another, an American and a French research team manage to identify and name the dreaded HIV virus. The long-range effects of AIDS is experienced through the first- and secondhand experiences of several unfortunate individuals.Don Francis becomes aware of a growing number of deaths from unexplained sources among gay men in Los Angeles, New York City and San Francisco, and is prompted to begin an in-depth investigation of the possible causes. Working with no money, limited space, and outdated equipment, he comes in contact with politicians and numerous members of the medical community, many of whom resent his involvement because of their personal agendas, and gay leaders. While Francis pursues his theory that AIDS is caused by a sexually transmitted virus on the model of feline leukemia, he finds his efforts are stonewalled by, among others, the CDC, which is loath to prove the disease is transmitted through blood, and competing French and American scientists, particularly Dr. Robert Gallo, who squabble about who should receive credit for discovering the virus. Meanwhile, the death toll climbs rapidly.This was a pretty powerful TV film about the AIDS epidemic and government inaction.It also shows the ignorance of people back then and how politics and discrimination against homosexuals stonewalled the immediate discovery of a cure that could have alleviate the newly discovered disease.It is also worth to commend the all-star cast on their commitment in re-creating the events the surrounds the early days of the discovery of AIDS.This was definitely one of the best TV movies ever made!!!! "},{"Title":"Informative and Enlightening. A movie that will keep you begging for more","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have never watched a film that covered so much information the way that this film had. Based on years of dedicated research. Questions were now answered. Myths were put to rest and facts and not fiction was distributed to the public. I thought I knew about the early years of AIDS how wrong I was. And The Band Played On gives its viewers insights both in the medical field and into the lives of the countless people it infected and affected. It takes us down a path where young, old, poor and rich feel the deadly affect of being diagnose with HIV or AIDs in the 80's.Watching this film I became somewhat disheartened by the way the scientist fought over who would receive credit for finding the HIV virus. It is sad to know that while millions of lives were ending, politicians and some of the medical professions did not find it very important to tests the blood supplies until some one prominent was diagnose with AIDS. True to life the film delivers knock out performances by Ian McKellian, Alan Alda, Matthew Modine, Lilly Tomlin, Richard Gere, Anjelica Houstan, Phila Collins and well the lists goes on.I applaud every one who made this movie. I loved it so much I went out and bought it. This is a must see! "},{"Title":"Well worth the watch","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well told history of the beginning of the AIDS crisis in America and the world. It showed the slow and inept response of the Republican lead government. The performances are brilliant. Ensemble cast brings a complicated story, to fruition by showing that AIDS is not merely a disease to study underneath a microscope, but a social typhoon that changed society as a hole. I think they should show this movie in high schools. An influential movie that stops and makes you think. I thought that Alan Alda's portrayal of Dr. Robert Gallo was a great departure from his normal MASH fare, I found a new respect for Matthew Modine after seeing his portrayal in this movie. Swoozie Kurtz is only on screen for a brief time, yet she pulls you into her characters desperation, sadness, and anger, at being kept in the dark by her own Dr's. Her Dr's never tell she has AIDS. The stigma of AIDS still stands today. I hope to one day live in a world when AIDS has been eradicated. "},{"Title":"Wonderful and sad","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie tells a remarkable story about the beginnings of the war on AIDS. It is wonderfully acted and directed and serves as an excellent primer for those who do not know the history of this deadly disease. It also angered and saddened me to see that this could have turned out so differently. If the politicians hadn't been so bigoted and the researchers (one in particular) hadn't been so desperate for accolades, the testing and warnings could have started years earlier and so many lives could have been spared. This is a very honest account of what happened when AIDS first appeared and how a handful of people refused to give up the struggle to to understand and fight it. I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"knowing its true made it that much deeper.....","Date":"20 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" when my teacher was about to put on the movie i was like 'oh ya another educational film  but i was way wrong!i watched this movie in my Biology class and became infatuated by it. the title gives a good metaphor of what its about. i loved this movie because it was a true story. this adds to the emotion the story gives you. like to imagine this is really how people acted when a unknown epidemic is killing people. its unbelievable what happens to people when its money vs. lives, and which sides people will take to end up famous, who really cares and to what extreme will they take it to make things right. as a quote from the movie who do you turn to for doctors-when your doctors start acting like business men?.the movie used real facts with some dramatization. this movie had a great plot and awesome set of characters that added much to the story. the emotion of the story hits you hard and deep. i highly recommend this movie if you are studying aids or just to learn something...it was great just to see. i became very interested in epidemics and the whole world aids thing afterward. =) "},{"Title":"Great Movie about the History of the AIDS Crisis","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just saw this movie on HBO and it is riviting. People are dying. Nobody knows the cause. A determined but very small group of scientists are trying to find out, but are faced with strong opposition from the homosexual community, the medical community, the scientific community, the government and from religious leaders such as Jerry Falwell who is shown in the film.What I personally found most interesting is that, according to this movie, the HIV Virus was not discovered by Dr. Robert Gallo at all. Dr. Robert Gallo was out playing tennis and had no idea about it. Rather, the HIV Virus was discovered by the Pasteur Institute in Paris, France, which was founded by Louis Pasteur who invented the Pasturizing of milk. Later, after the French had done all the work, Dr. Robert Gallo filed a lawsuit which was settled when the French agreed to give Dr. Gallo credit for being the co-discover of HIV, even though he had nothing to do with it.  "},{"Title":"A message to us all","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've seen this movie a few times. Every once in a while I want to watch it by myself, it never gets tiresome, sometimes I show it to a friend, a relative, or a partner. This movie is made in documentary style, so no wonder it was made for TV as well. The all-star cast and the depth of the plot probably deserved a wider range of viewers. It tells us a story, in a simple, familiar way about the outbreak of an unknown disease in the U.S. in the early 80's.  This disease seemed to aim at a particular section of the population, the homosexual. No wonder AIDS was soon labeled as `gay cancer', but soon it was found it reached a wider section of the population, and we see the day to day drama of a fully aware doctor trying to convince the average Joe that AIDS was everyone's concern, against prejudice and discrimination. The movie star Matthew Modine and Alan Alda in main roles, and brilliant cameo/guest star appearances by Steve Martin, Richard Gere, Anjelica Houston and Phil Collins, among others, Worth taking a look at. 8/10.  "},{"Title":"One of the most touching and emotional films I've ever seen","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The very first time I saw this film, I wasn't quite sure what to make of it (I was 12!) But over the past 7 years, I've seen it a number of times and it never fails to touch the heart.  Seeing how blood bank officials and Ronald Reagan ignored thousands of infected people as they suffered and died is something that I'll always remember.Since I am dead-set in pursuing a career in medicine, AIDS and its evolution is of great interest to me.  For all you ladies out there, get a box of kleenex ready at the end;  the photo and video montage of victims like Ryan White and Arthur Ashe set to The Last Song by Elton John is strong enough to draw a tear from my eye every time I see it.  Don't miss this one, especially if you know people afflicted with this terrible disease or friends that have passed on.  Definitely one of the most emotional films ever. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Dramas Around","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie countless times. I was so touched with the story that I became active within my own community by volunteering and fund raising for various HIV/AIDS foundations. This film IS one of if not the best based-on-a-true-story dramas I have ever had the privilege of seeing. "},{"Title":"Fine Production","Date":"5 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Arnold Shulman's teleplay is an intelligent realization of Randy Shits' important book, chronicling the rise of the HIV strain. Although now a dozen years old, it stands as an authoritative visual history of the early period of the health crisis.Roger Spottiswoode's direction is commendably consistent in style, especially considering its large cast, with star cameos that are smoothly integrated, never calling undue attention to themselves.We gain an understanding of personal, group, professional perspectives as events unfold themselves in a unique socio-political-medical situation that is history-making.And the Band Played On is a made-for-TV movie that's done with great care, taking its multi-leveled subject and treating it clearly from all aspects. It stands as a definitive study of the disease outbreak period--a situation which continues to this day to be escalating, with apparently no end in sight. "}{"Title":"Let's think about some contemporary analogies.","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" 1993 saw two movies about AIDS. The famous one was Philadelphia, but And the Band Played On is also important, focusing on the virus spreading in the '80's and how the Reagan administration acted like it didn't exist. If the movie has any problem, it's the number and range of big names. Matthew Modine as Dr. Don Francis is the nominal star, but also appearing are Alan Alda, Phil Collins, Bud Cort, Richard Gere, Glenne Headly, Anjelica Huston, Steve Martin, Ian McKellen, and Lily Tomlin, to name a few.Maybe they felt that they had to make this movie do to the fact that gays were portrayed so negatively in movies for so many years (see The Celluloid Closet). All in all, a very good movie. The way that Reagan denied AIDS mirrors how Bush denies global warming. "},{"Title":"A moving part of history and made into a great movie","Date":"15 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" And the Band Played On (1993)A vivid, well-acted tracing of the history of AIDS from the point of view of epidemiology. That sounds boring, but just the opposite. The intense pressure on the early researchers is part of the drama. And the injustice of the politics getting in the way is important. Most of all, of course, is the terrible suffering of the victims, which is a small but key part of the story.All of this is really well done, no fat to the story, moving along and keeping the progression of events clear. I resisted watching this for a long time thinking it would dry, or that the story is well known and would offer no surprises, but I enjoyed it all. The director, Canadian Roger Spottiswoode, has done nothing else on this impressive scale. Even working with the stellar cast (many famous actors with small roles, and a couple, like Alan Alda, more prominent) requires a kind of juggling and intelligence that's great to watch. Is the movie perfect? In a way, yes, given the choice of subject matter. "},{"Title":"Effective history as horror thriller and personality clash","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a HBO movie about the first few years of the AIDS epidemic in America. Dr. Don Francis (Matthew Modine) is an immunologist with experience with WHO in Africa. He joins the CDC to investigate the new disease. The gay community in San Francisco led by Bill Kraus (Ian McKellen) is divided about the mysterious deaths and the fear of the new Reagan administration. Dr. Robert Gallo (Alan Alda) is the arrogant American virologist who discovers the first human retrovirus in competition with his French counterpart to lay claim and credit for the discovery.This is a big vast complicated story. The beauty of this movie is its ability to maintain the narrative. It is a compelling watch despite the wide ranging story and the variety of characters. It is really a horror thriller at its core with AIDS as the bogeyman. The cast is deep and talented. When Gallo enters the picture, this movie transforms into a personality clash. There are many outstanding performances including Alan Alda, Saul Rubinek and the easily dismissed Matthew Modine. It would be a mistake to forget about Modine who must embody the frustration of the audience. This is a well made understandable movie of a complicated issue. "},{"Title":"extraordinary depiction of new threats in a changing world","Date":"11 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" What do you do when your entire worldview is shaken? The advent of a threatening disease that inexplicably dropped people in their tracks forces scientists, policy makers, medical experts and ordinary individuals to reevaluate fundamental assumptions. No one comes off totally unscathed in this gutsy, gritty movie. None of us want to hear upsetting news, nor do we want to discover the world isn't as safe as we thought it was. Heroes and villains abound and reveal complex nuances in this remarkable window on one of the most life-changing events in several generations. Brilliant script, brilliant acting and directing. We learn a lot about the world, ourselves and each other just by watching! Sombre, yes -- but one of my favorite movies of all time. A great example of how film can awaken us to new insights on issues we don't even realize that we haven't yet considered. "},{"Title":"An Eye Opener","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is a must-see movie!  It is the story of AIDS & how it affected so many lives silently for so long before it broke the news barrier.  Scene by scene, I watched the numbers on the bottom of the screen add up as the deaths grew.  When it was thought to have been prevalent among gays only, it did not make the news.  When it broke into the rich & heterosexual families, it became known.  What does that say about our society?  How could we ignore the suffering of one group just because we don't agree with their way of life?  Oh, the horror, the horror!  This film makes me think about how precious life is for all of us.  I found myself crying at the end of it. "},{"Title":"Gripping","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was one of the best made for T.V. films that I've ever seen. Matthew Modine was intriguing as Don Francis, as HBO shows the struggle that one man put up for the safety of the country.The story will break your heart as it shows how Don Francis and the CDC fight to show the country the danger of the then unknown virus, AIDS.It's a positively gripping movie, even if it had a little tinkering.  AND THE BAND PLAYED ON shows the how some people are willing to fight for the good of the country. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good HBO film","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  HBO's original programming has generally been of superior quality for quite some time, and 1993's adaptation of And the Band Played On is no exception.  This is a haunting story of how one of the most baffling diseases in modern times turned into an epidemic.  As I was born in 1978, I do not remember the time when people were dying mysteriously of opportunistic infection with no consensus from the scientific community as to what the root cause of these deaths were.  To see this era recreated was tremendously powerful for me.  I can't imagine imagine anything more horrifying than people dying with no understanding as to why.  And the Band Played On focuses more on the doctors who were responsible for early research on AIDS more than they are on the AIDS victims themselves.  This in some respects makes the film less powerful than it might have been, but it also provides some profound insight into why it took so long for the virus and test therefor to be discovered.  Of course, the film and the book from which it was extrapolated could be criticized as an over-simplified exercise in finger-pointing directed towards everybody from sexually promiscuous gay men to Ronald Reagan to callous blood banks to glory-hungry medical researchers.  And to extent, such a criticism is valid.  However, And the Band Played On is best interpreted as a cautionary tale.  Although HIV in the developed world is not so much the killer it used to be, the damage has been done, and continues to be done, both here and especially in Sub-Saharan Africa.  The lesson of HIV will be told in its human face, and that should our species be faced with similar circumstances as we were in the early 1980s, that our action will be more decisive earlier.  This adaptation serves as a powerful medium to convey this message, and it is something everyone should watch.8/10 "},{"Title":"Life is what happens","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I began watching this movie not knowing if this would be a fiction drama or a documentary involving everything that happened with AIDS in the nineties. The get go made me believe it would show the beginning of the disease's discovery, and would later focus on the bad lifestyle one or other character would face. However, And the Band Played On never decides where it wants to focus. Most of the time it gave me the idea that they wanted to show the political conspiracies that involved the subject-- and they really do that--, but there is too few about the lives of those who got infected. When director shows the political arguments between the important people involved in the problem, we aren't able to know whether he's telling a real story or not. The movie ends and we-- I, at least-- don't know if it really happened that way or not. That's why I think this could have been much better. I'm giving it 6 stars in respect of those who find the theme extremely delicate-- maybe due to personal problems-- and for the brave people involved in the project, but I'm not recommending it anyhow, since I believe there are better works involving such subject out there. If you know any, please let me know! "},{"Title":"Best made for TV movie ever","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've watched this movie several times; actually I watch every time I need to be reminded of the cruelest and most vicious disease that has ever graced the face of the Earth. 	It was made for TV, most unfortunately, because that limits it's viewing to few, when it should be played as more than a movie, an infomercial about the disease itself. 	The all-star cast lives up to itself, we see  Matthew Modine, Richard Gere, and even cameos by Steve Martin and Anjelica Houston. The movie it's never boring, and it's quite intriguing and informative. I specially enjoyed Saul Rubineck's performance as the cold and realistic head of the CDC.	I had the chance to watch this on VCD, and I encourage everyone who hasn't watched it to do it, it will change your views on the disease just as it changed mine.  "},{"Title":"Well made but ultimately depressing","Date":"22 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This 1993 release produced by HBO Films for airing on the popular cable network is based on fact which in turn was made into a bestselling and controversial 1987 book of the same name about the AIDS epidemic. An all star cast headed by Matthew Modine, Alan Alda, Ian McKellen, Lily Tomlin, Glenne Headly, Richard Masur and Saul Rubinek along with several star cameos give outstanding performances in this story about the rise and investigation of a formerly unnamed virus that was killing off people who were homosexuals. Several highly publicized courtroom press battles and expensive experiments went into the extensive research which has lasted for many years and continues on to this day. The film successfully pays attention to fact and in so doing adds some touching and depressing scenes about the effects of the virus. May be too disturbing for certain viewers. "}{"Title":"The band is still playing....","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  And The Band Played On is an unusually better TV movie than would be expected. It's a worthy, if flawed, attempt to tell one story of HIV (HIV is the virus, AIDS the condition). It is taken from Randy Shilts rather large, and now largely discredited, book of the same name.Actually there are several major flaws in the film. Shilts book is huge telling a very detailed story; a two and a half hour film can never capture all that. Inevitably details have been simplifiedATBPO was produced at a time when Hollywood was on it's AIDS binge; red ribbons were sported on every public occassion. The film suffers from 'spot the cameo'.Both the simplification of the story and the inclusion of so many big names distract from what the story is really about; a real life tragedy. It's a pity because in many both writers and director obviously feel for their subject.One day perhaps the story of HIV will be told on film. Unfortunately this film, with it's obvious heros and villans and its determination to portray it's stars in the best possible light, isn't it. "},{"Title":"Simplistic, melodramatic","Date":"1 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  And The Band Played On overlays all the flaws of a film condensation on all the flaws of Shilts' book. Characters are black or white (loved McKenna, hated Alda), except for Modine, who I found colourless. The myth of Patient Zero is recycled (poor scapegoated Gaetan Dugas was just one of many, and for the most part spread the virus in all ignorance). The meetings are all shouting matches (does nobody know how to chair a meeting in the US?) and issues - especially the closing of bath-houses - reduced to nonsense did nobody ever have the sense to ask whether closing bath-houses would stop a single man from having sex? Tragically this attitude continues in the US, with bathhouses open again but condoms not provided - a recipe for disaster. "},{"Title":"well made, but too much of an anti-regan focus","Date":"28 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Very interesting documentary/film about the explosion of the AIDS epidemic across America.It looks at the scientific side with getting itself bogged down in the detail. It looks at the human side without getting too sentimental. It looks at how competitive some scientists can be without over-blowing the issue or painting every doctor/scientist with the same brush.But one thing it did overcook was its hatred of Regan and the attempt (in part) to shift blame to him for the epidemic. Unfortunately, there was a dramatic presumption that if a liberal government had been in place, then more would have been done earlier. At the same time, it correctly points out that AIDS has a long incubation period - meaning that people had been transmitting HIV to each other for years before patients even turned up with symptoms. By its very nature, AIDS will not show up until it's almost at micro-epidemic levels. Only a government with psychic powers could have done something sooner to prevent the first wave of the AIDS virus spreading throughout the gay community.Ah ha - some of you might say - but increases in funding at the early stages could have prevented it from becoming worse! Well that's not really true either. Dr Gallow was given the preliminary data and samples. He had top rank scientists and resources at his disposal.... and yet he was unable to isolate and identify the virus. That's pretty remarkable considering he was the father of retroviruses. Now let's look at numbers. The movie frequently updated us with the Butcher's Bill  how many suspected cases and how many deaths. At times when the movie suggested Regan should have taken more action and endless funding to the CDC (an instrumentality chronically underfunded throughout it's history and under all kinds of administrations), the deaths were still only in the hundreds, it hadn't even been identified as virus and the transmission models were not backed up by science whatsoever. So if you think that miracles would have occurred under a different administration, think again. Look at where we're at now. No cure or vaccine has been successfully developed, it is one of the fastest growing infectious diseeases in the world, despite the fact there is now an endless stream of money, education and awareness out there these days. It appeared all too often that the film makers and Shiltz had a political axe to grind and took comfort in retrospect. Little would they realise that the eventual epidemic that transpired would have occurred under any government; and would have most certainly occurred in more or less the same way under a Democrat administration.Then again, I won't let that take the gloss off a very human and natural film. The production qualities were not high standard, but they didn't need to be and it is very much essential viewing for anyone who wants to know more about the origins of the AIDS epidemic in America. "},{"Title":"Well-meaning, well-made but no impact","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All star adaptation of Randy Shilts book on the AIDS epidemic from 1977-1985.  It follows Matthew Modine as a doctor trying to find a cure for it in the face of homophobia and government bureaucracy.It's very well-done, has a great cast (except for Alan Alda who's really bad) and does a very good job of adapting a difficult book...but it lacks any real power.  It's dated (of course) and AIDS is no longer the death sentence it was when this movie was made.  The movie should be more angry than it is and it concentrates on the doctors, not the victims which distanced me.  It also has its dull stretches and is also at least 20 minutes too long.  Sincere performances by the entire cast help.Still, it's a groundbreaking movie (for TV).  It just should have been better. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable and commendable . . . but not fact-based","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a very enjoyable film, and much better than you would expect a TV movie to be with great acting from a number of good character actors and top performers.  The good part of the movie is that it shows part of the trouble that AIDS researchers had in the early stages of identifying and treating the disease, and that it was initially considered strictly a gay disease, therefore, in-depth work and effort on finding a cause and cure was inconsequential within the bureaucratic infrastructure and the heads of the blood supply, which is the main reason AIDS has become so widespread today.But the basic premise presented by the author of the film, that AIDS was introduced in the USA by one man, Patient #1 (the part of Gaetan Dugas), is not only a Typhoid-Mary-inspired myth, it's also ridiculous.  Where AIDS started is still a controversy, though most mainstream researchers follow the original hypothesis, that it started in Green Monkeys in Africa and jumped species, whereby it was carried into the African Population, then to Haiti, where ?gay? men then brought it to Manhattan!  This is the official story, but it's fraught with all sorts of inconsistencies that this space doesn't allow me.Near the end, the movie did touch on what many believe may have been the actual culprit, the experimental Hepatitis-B vaccines which began in Manhattan in 1978 and in San Francisco & L.A. a year later.  The fact that those men fit the typical AIDS victim profile in its early years (young, white, professional, gay) and that the first reported cases worldwide began only 6 months later in each city are startling.  It's ironic that Dr. Don Francis, played by Matthew Modine, actually was a part of the S.F. vaccine operations at that time.By the way, I'm not gay, so don't think this is a diatribe by a person sympathetic to homosexuality.  I don't care one way or the other about gays or lesbians, no more than I care about the French or British; they annoy me a lot, but they have a right to live like we do.  No, basically, I just hate it when the truth is kept from us by the government and special interests within and around it at the expense of innocent lives.  You can thank bureaucrats worldwide for the AIDS problem, treating just as Jerry Falwell did in the cameo in the movie, like it was a gay plague, like they deserved it or something and it couldn't harm us normal people. "},{"Title":"Simply Beautiful...","Date":"15 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A doctor attempts to discover more information about a deadly epidemic, but the government, press and even those in the medical field thwart his plans, causing the disease to spread. Modine is miscast as the doctor, while Ian McKellan gives a brilliant performance as one of the many inflicted with this deadly disease. There are fine cameos from Richard Gere, Steve Martin, Phil Collins and Alan Alda. Based on Randy Shlit's book about the history of AIDS.    "},{"Title":"Bad acting, bad writing, totally contrived... Doctors talking like teenagers","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was really disappointed to see how badly this movie was made. Obviously it was well received because of the subject matter, not due to the quality of the film itself. I lived and worked in Atlanta and have been to the CDC, and I can assure you no Georgians talk like the characters in this movie (mostly badly cast New York actors, with people like Richard Gere and Steve Martin brought in to do cameos). But this movie is just plain badly made, even for a TV movie. All the stand up and shout moments are clichéd one-liners (How many people have to die before this disease is recognized? Do you mean to tell me, that they knew they were giving AIDS to people, and they continued to do it? etc). At one point the researcher is drawing on a chalkboard and checking off items as if he's explaining it to a soccer mom, when the other character (supposedly another doctor) obviously wouldn't need the dumbed-down version the writers think the audience requires. It was like watching a bad play. I wish I knew of better AIDS movies out there. This is a really bad movie. "}]