[{"Title":"The best mockumentary ever made","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"14 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Fear Of A Black Hat is everything the (much weaker) CB-4 SHOULD have been. Rusty Cundieff's satirical eye is ruthless, as he folds, spindles, and mutilates every aspect of hip-hop trends and culture. Does FoaBH resemble Spinal Tap? Yes, a bit. Is it derivative of Spinal Tap? No, not really. The aim is more focused, the satire is better focused, and to be honest, it's funnier. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"3 November 1998","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  After a big tip of the hat to Spinal Tap, this movie is hilarious.  Anyone who grew up watching MTV will love it and if you didn't, rent it anyway,the My Peanuts and A Gangster's life videos are worth the three bucks alone. "},{"Title":"An Excellent Comedy.","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Rated R for Strong Language,Violent Content and Some Nudity. Quebec Rating13+ Canadian Home Video Rating14AFear Of A Black Hat is one of the funniest, most original comedies I have ever seen.Its basically a gangsta rap version of the film This Is Spinal Tap.Its a shame not many people have heard of this gem of a film.If you manage to find this film anywhere don't hesitate to buy it even if you don't like rap music.There are not too many comedy films that I give a perfect 10/10 to.The only ones I can think of at the moment are this film,Clerks,The World According To Garp,The 40 Year Old Virgin and Chasing Amy.This film is a hilarious stereotype of the gangsta rap culture.The movie is about a woman named Nina Blackburn who is making a documentary about the fictional rap group N.W.H(N****z with hats).They are basically the stereotype of a rap group making many controversial rap songs about killing and being a gangsta.Fear Of A Black Hat is an excellent comedic film and I recommend it even if you are not a fan of the gangsta rap scene.Its a shame this film is not in the Top 250.Runtime88min 10/10 "},{"Title":"The wit and wisdom of Tasty Taste","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  C'mon...how can you be against a rap-mockumentary that features the lineI want to make you mine, slap yo fat behind, tie you down and make you whine. I want you to scratch my itch and be my b***h....cause I luv you girl.One of the most consistently funny movies I've ever seen.  "},{"Title":"Overall, pretty funny","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Although it rips off SPINAL TAP scene-by-scene in some instances, FEAR OF A BLACK HAT offers up enough belly laughs -- some of them very large -- to make it worth a look. Rusty Cundieff, who did some hysterically funny segments for Michael Moore's TV Nation program, proves himself to be a solid director with an eye for biting satire. Unfortunately, some of the jokes are a little weak. That said, there are moments when this movie nails some of the hypocrisies of pop music (not just hip-hop). Pretty good performances all around, too. "},{"Title":"Brialiant stupid comedy, love it!","Date":"21 October 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is a really funny film, especially the second, third and fourth time you watch it. It's a pretty short film, and i definitely recommend watching it more than once, you will 'get it' more the second time.It's like spinal tap but the rap version. It has a lot of attitude in it which can be a negative thing in rap influenced films, but it's just a total p**s take and isn't a problem because of the irony it creates.Plenty of stand-out bits, one of those types of films which you will find yourself quoting lines with your mates, and it WILL raise laughter.My personal favourite part is the 'guerrillas in the midst' section. Great video, superb! "},{"Title":"man, that ain't nothing! tasty was shot with a bazooka!!! he used to be 6 foot 4 before he got capped!","Date":"22 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" i've just read the most recent remarks about this movie and i would like to respond. you're probably not familiar with the original story of rap group N.W.A. which dates back to the beginning in 1988, in 1989 ice cube left the band to go solo and ultimately in 1991, the band breaking up when Dr.dre left. which led to a lot of beef starting with the departure of ice cube and dr.dre in 1991. this story was somewhat based on that.further more this movie was a 90 minute laughing spree, the way they explained the bootie juice song to be a political statement was hilarious. not to mention the love song tasty was hooking up. and when vanilla sherbert got his ass kicked, just like the record company executive is also hilarious and having they're managers getting shot every time too.people who didn't enjoy this movie probably didn't get it or were complete idiots, my opinion "},{"Title":"More than just The 'Tap of Rap","Date":"22 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Okay, my title is kinda lame, and almost sells this flick short. I remember watching Siskel & Ebert in '94 talking about this movie, and then playing a clip or two. Not being a rap-conscious guy (although I could identify Snoop Dogg, Vanilla Ice, and MC Hammer music), I wasn't much interested when they started talking about the film. But then, S&E showed the scene where the band explains how they picked their name (using some shady logic and a bunch of made up facts), and then another scene where the band, and their rival band, both visit a school to promote getting involved (and, of course, NWH comes up with some info about how the rival band leader is a loser because he got good grades in school and was on the yearbook committee). So I filed it away that I should see this movie.A couple of years later, this thing shows up on HBO and I recorded it, only to laugh my butt off for hours. Yes, it has a Spinal Tap kind of rhythm to it...even the documentarist takes essentially the same tone in setting up the clips, and the band follows a similar path (what I now call the Behind the Music phenomenon - smalltime band has good chemistry, gets famous, too much money too fast, squabbling, drugs, some type of death, band breaks up, then reconciles, finishing with a hope for more albums in the future, and fade to black). The one thing that is true is that in Spinal Tap, you catch the band perhaps with a little more success in their past. But Tap drags at some points, and in my mind is reduced to laughs that are set up by specific scenes. Oh, this is his rant about the backstage food, this is spot where he wants the amp to go to ELEVEN, this is the spot where the guy makes the pint-sized stonehenge, etc...Contrasting to FoaBH, which seems to have more unexpected humor. You can see some of it coming, but there isn't a big setup for every joke. Sometimes, the jokes just kinda flow. Cundieff and the other actors in the band had a real chemistry that worked. Also, the direct references to Vanilla Ice, Hammer, and a bunch of other caricature-type rappers really worked well. This strikes me as a film you watch once to get the main story and laughs, and then go back and watch to catch the subtle jokes. And the songs. Is My Peanuts better than Big Bottom (from Spinal Tap)? I don't know - but they're both damn funny. Tone Def's awful video during his awakening phase is so bizarre, yet so funny.I could go on awhile, but save your time and don't waste it on CB4. I watched the first half hour, and got bored. You don't get bored on FoaBH. There are slightly less funny moments, but you can never tell when something good is about to happen. Perhaps my favorite scene is when Ice Cold and Tastey Taste (name ripoffs if I've ever heard any) discover they've been sharing the same girl....at one point, you've got those two pointing guns at each other, and the next thing you know, the manager, the photographer, the girl, and I think even Tone Def are in the room pointing guns at each other, switching targets back and forth. And, of course, someone does get shot.I did find it odd that NWH's managers suffered similar fates to Spinal Tap's drummers (although none spontaneously combusted, I don't think). There were enough similarities that I cannot ignore the likelihood that Cundieff saw Spinal Tap prior to writing this film, although this is clearly much more the Spinal Tap of hip-hop. While some similarities exist, the humor is different, and the movie seems more like a real documentary (maybe because we don't recognize a single actor in this thing, even the guy who played Lamar from Revenge of the Nerds). All in all, this movie has, in my opinion, street cred. Kinda like NWH. "},{"Title":"A must see satire!","Date":"15 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This movie is hilarious and while the satire leans against material dated from the 80's and early 90's, if you know enough hip hop and pop culture then you'd find it funny, even today. The writing is excellent, the jokes are funny and well delivered and the songs are hilarious. Two 'videos' in the movie, one titled 'Booty Juice' and the other A Gangstas life ain't fun hit home today just as well as they did when this movie came out. It appears that much of the hip hop life style and creed hasn't changed much over the years. The movie is consistently funny from beginning to end, with many of the jokes dead panned and often subtly delivered. It's easy to miss a lot of the jokes during the film if you aren't familiar with the subjects that they are poking fun at. But again, much of what the director delivers is still funny and relevant even today. A must see satire! "},{"Title":"Outrageously funny and on-target....","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I saw it in a posh movie theater where the audience is usually white, educated, and urban. The showing I attended had a sprinkling of African-Americans, and it made the difference in audience-reaction between the two groups a wonderful social commentary on the state of race relations in this country. Basically, the white folks were AFRAID to laugh or laughed nervously at the funny bits --and there are many! -- because they'd be laughting at Blacks, while the Blacks also stayed pretty silent because many couldn't laugh at themselves in front of the whites. I, on the other hand, being Asian (and thus belonging to neither group), had a great time viewing this satire of rap culture and its egos/trappings/values/pseudo-philosophies. The cast is talented and does at great job becoming the characters portrayed. The songs are too funny to be believed.This film is one of the best pseudo-documentaries to come along, including A Mighty Wind "}{"Title":"Forgotten Silver","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" My, Kasi Lemmings certainly is a fair looking woman. This film is a lost gem, a dead-on satire mockumentary of the early 90's Hip Hop scene, when MC Hammer had just began to fade away into that good night. We follow the three members of the NWH as they embark upon their picaresque journey of would-be riches and fame. And like Nickolas Nickleby, at the end, they finish their journey not far from where they started, but at least a little wiser and lot less naive. This is one of the best films that no one has ever heard of, but it's the kind of film you either love or hate, a lot like Company Man in this regard. I regard this movie like the 1000 islands of upstate New York it's a wonderful little secret you want to keep to yourself. "},{"Title":"Dead-on cheaply produced rapumentary","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" If you like rap or hip-hop, watch this movie, although it's funny if you don't get the references, as a straight comedy.Haven't seen much of the much hyped CB4, but what I did see didn't have the heart that this little stormer has.Haven't heard from the people involved since, which is a surprise. The film is very similar to Spinal Tap, which is no bad thing, and I think a lot of the dialogue, while priceless in Tap is funnier here, probably because I'm more into rap than rock theses days, so my own judgment does cloud that point.The rap songs are funny as hell, and it's basically spot the reference for most of the film, not all of them are in-your-face, which means the physical comedy and the one-liners get priority over the take-offs.Great fun, one to watch twice if there ever was a movie. "},{"Title":"Brilliant Mockumentary","Date":"1 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I first saw this movie when it came out in 1994 and just watched it recently and it is STILL funny. I don't know if you have to understand hiphop in the 90's, but it helps if you do. In the 90's when NWA and Public Enemy were at the top, there were internal strife within the groups and members when their separated ways (Ice Cube, Easy E, etc). Also there were the wanna b's, accessible rappers that start making the scene (Vanilla Ice, Freedom Williams from C&C Music Factory, etc). This movie makes fun of all of that in a way that seems like it's an actually documentary. Kasi Lemmons plays an interviewer that spends a year in the life of a fictitious rap group name N.W.H. The members of the group are Ice Code (Rusty Condieff/director), Tasty Taste (Larry B Scott/Revenge of the Nerds, and Tone Def (Mark Christopher Lawrence). They are an up and coming rap group whose politics makes them controversial. Whats good about this film is that it is so thourough in its portrayal of the hiphop industry of the 80s and they way it pokes fun at it. But, if you know 80's/90's rap, you know how much of this stuff is true. Still, on it's own, without hip hop knowledge, it is still a funny funny movie. And for all of those who ask, yes Spinal Tap came first, but Spinal Tap is not the first spoof movie either. This, in my opinion is equally as funny and in some ways, better than Spinal Tap. As Spinal Tap is to heavy metal, Fear of A Black Planet is to Rap. And the songs are off the hook also. The DVD is chalk full of extras to include music videos of NWH as a group and as solo artists. Brilliant performances by Rusty Condieff and Larry B Scott. "},{"Title":"A cool spoof","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I have zero interest rap and in ghetto culture, i'm white and like classic rock, however, that did not stop me from appreciating this fantastic comedy. Its pretty much a sequel of This Is Spinal Tap in the sense that it is the same movie, just about rap instead or rock. Yet it's hilarious. There are many funny jokes but not without a few jokes that just fall flat. The characters are all very funny and believable. I watched just because it made me laugh at 3 a.m., and any movie that can do that warrants at least a test screening. One of the reasons why this movies was so funny was that it makes fun of rap from a different. Rap today is concerned with the wrong things and get by with studio noise and little talent. This movie comes from a time where rappers deserved more credit. Overall, it's a funny movie with many jokes about racism, sex and music culture among the more obvious themes of humor. This is highly recommend for any fan of This is Spinal Tap. They are essentially the same movie, just about different worlds, and yes, the same jokes work in both movies. "},{"Title":"Wonderful creative effort","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This picture apparently was largely the work of the lead character Rusty Cundieff.  Mr.  Cundieff wrote, directed, developed most of the MTV-like song and dance scenes, and,  of course, starred in this film.  This was a very good effort and one of my favorite all  time films.  This is a parody mocumentary of the life and times of an up and coming rap group.   This film shows the rise, fall, disintegration, and reuniting of this group.  Note - Mr. Cundieff has also worked with Michael Moore in the past on TV Nation. "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This Movie is excellent. if you get the DVD Version make sure to put the commentary on.. Rusty is a true talent, and the rest of the cast do a great Job. If this is any consolation to Larry B. Scott, I'm also a fan of Revenge of the Nerds but I swear I can not connect those two characters to one actor, excellent Job..  "},{"Title":"Truly hilarious satire spotlighting culture clash on several levels - something for everyone - not to be missed","Date":"13 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  You don't have to know a thing about rap music to love this screamingly funny satire about culture clash, the media, fame, hypocrisy and a lot more.A black woman (college-educated, oh-so-serious public TV type) is filming a documentary on a three-man rap group from the streets. Calling their mean selves Niggas With Hats (NWH), they're very concerned, at least while on camera (which is all we see) with maintaining their `hood' persona.All their managers are mysteriously shot dead while NWH are `out of town' (wink, nudge). Early on they switch from using family members as managers to employing Jewish white boys. Before the film ends, they go through six of these poor fellows.The dialog between the group and their middle-aged Caucasian record company owner is sidesplitting. With misplaced confidence, the businessman feels compelled to speak street talk in a doomed attempt to bond with his artists. We watch the astonished faces of our rappers as they listen to his ludicrous slang, which dates back to Malcolm X's time.NWH even puts out a Christmas album called `Ho, Ho, Ho's.' A rival rap group dogs their rise to fame, each outfit trying to destroy the other. NWH finally prevails, however, when it's discovered that the opposition's lead singer went to a prep school and even edited its yearbook. His career ruined, the antagonist and his crew are banished in shame.There's an angry Spike Lee wannabe and an opening act, Vanilla Sherbet, a bouncy white rapper who insists he was raised by a black family. The concert audiences are pimply white youth who ape the group's moves, clothing and speech mannerisms and for whom the rappers can barely disguise their utter contempt.Relating these details in no way spoils the fun, for it's the telling of the tale and the facial expressions of those to whom all of this happens that make the movie.No matter what your age or background, you'll be howling out loud through many parts of this parody. See it soon. "},{"Title":"A hilarious spoof of hip-hop culture","Date":"26 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Fear of a black hat is a hilarious spoof of Hip-Hop culture.  It is just as funny as This Is Spinal Tap, if not funnier. The actors are incredible and the documentary style is superb.  Mark Christopher Lawrence is a tremendous talent that should be starring in a lot more films. This film is a true cult classic! "},{"Title":"RUDE!  OFFENSIVE!  OUTLANDISH!  BRILLIANT!!!!","Date":"7 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I cannot stop saying how much I loved this movie.  This movie is one of the least known and one of the funniest movies I have ever seen.  The movie follows the exploits of a rap group, NWH (Ni#$%rs with Hats)  It goes from the beginning of the group to the end of the group, after it's tragic break up.  Following the group is documentary maker Nina Blackburn. The movie is on a shoestring budget, but it does not seem to matter, this is a very well made, well produced film and the performances by all of these actors and actresses are excellent.  The main strength of this movie is the writing, there are so many brilliant lines and takeoffs on rap in this movie, it is unreal.  SPOILERThere are takeoffs on actual rappers, like MC Slammer, Vanilla Sherbert, Ice Cold, Tone Def, Tastey-Taste, and songs (Booty Juice, Grab Your Dick, Etc.)  Rusty Condieff has made an excellent film.  In the movie he plays rapper Ice Cold.  The movie does not quit, it is funny from the beginning to the end. The movie works so well because it becomes outlandish on occasion, but it strikes that line where it is funny without going too far out there.  Listening to the three leads try to talk some kind of philosophy was one of the best parts of the movie, like Tone Def telling a record producer, &#145;when you take the bus, you get there', and the producer responding, &#145;that's deep!'The group portraying N.W.H. has some sort of natural chemistry to them.  They work so well together, and they manage to pull this movie of to where there is not a week moment in the film.  What really makes this movie so good is how true to some of the rap groups of the time this movie is.  Many rap groups had problems with violence, with censors, and like NWA, the group only became popular when the establishment began to make a big deal out of the controversial lyrics.I like this movie because it is offensive.  There is something here to offend everyone in a good natured way.  The movie has a takeoff on a good number of people too outside of rap, the funniest being of Spike Lee.  Where they came up with this dialogue I cannot imagine.  The movie has line after line that will have you rolling on the floor.  As I said before the writing is just excellent.I am not surprised that this movie met such limited release.  It is an intelligent, controversial, and even thought provoking film.  This is too much for mainstream, despite the fact it is hilarious, and nearly flawless in it's production.  There are no major stars, but a lot of familiar faces, including Marc Lawrence, who plays Tone Def.  Watch this movie, at the very least you will definitely have an opinion of it.   "},{"Title":"Funny Funny Funny","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I first saw this movie about 4 years ago and i was expecting something funny, similar to CB4.  I was blown away. I was on the floor laughing my butt off this movie is so great.  Way better than CB4, the characters, the songs, the plot, everything.  Top notch independent film that was given Two Thumbs UP by Siskel and Egbert (and if two old white guys can understand the humour in this flick, you know it's good).   "}{"Title":"A great piece of work","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Having seen both Fear of a Black Hat and This is Spinal Tap, I can honestly state that while similar, both movies are truly must see. There will be many times in Fear that will have you in hysterics. It is no wonder why both movies have such a huge cult following. Fear will soon be available on DVD. Rent it if you must, but the only way to fully enjoy this movie is to have it for yourself.  "},{"Title":"best movie none of my friends have ever heard of","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  its too bad that no one knows anything about this movie, and it gets old telling people it's rap's version of spinal tap.  and you know, im sorry i dont have any better comments, but damnit, go get the movie and watch it, and then make all your friends watch it too, just like im gonna. "},{"Title":"Most original Mockumentary made for rap music","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Chances are, you'll think this movie is incredibly stupid the first time you watch it.  But if, by chance, you watch it a second and third and fourth and fifth time (I'm well into the hundreds by now), you will find yourself spitting a line from it here and there and cracking yourself up!  My friends and I have actually thrown Fear of a Black Hat Parties to get more of our friends, as they say, down with the riots. "},{"Title":"One of the funniest movies I have ever seen.","Date":"1 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I picked up the movie with no cover and not even knowing what it was, but when I watched it I laughed so hard. It is now one of my favorite movies of all time. Rusty and the guys created a masterpiece I would highly recommend this movie to any one with a sense of humor.   Thank You Rusty for giving us something to laugh at. "},{"Title":"Best mockumentary of the 90's","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I first saw this movie on some movie channel (HBO?) some time ago. I was a fan of Public Enemy, NWA and other early rap and had seen CB4 in theaters. Anyway, the promo for it caught my eye, and I wanted to see what it was all about. Well, right off the bat I knew it was going to be good (WARNING!) and I was right. The parody songs alone make this movie worth watching over and over (My Peanuts), but the overall flow and delivery of the movie was great. You've got to love the satire of rap groups (obviously NWA), certain rappers (Eazy E, Flava Flav, Ice Cube), and the humor of the three members of NWH. Who can forget Tone Deaf scratching with his ass? It's too bad this movie didn't get the credit it deserved, as it was overshadowed by CB4 during their releases, but in my opinion is a much better film. If you know and like 90's 'gangster' rap, you'll be watching and laughing with this movie for a long time. If you aren't into or don't like 'rap', you'll enjoy the jokes at the expense of the genre. "},{"Title":"over the top","Date":"18 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  a group of my friends and i got together and watched this is spinal tap, immediately followed by this movie. as any of the other comments will tell you, the movies are almost exactly similar, although the jokes all work a second time in the rap genre, which was due for some good self-referential humor. the one thing i would note is the humor in black hat is much more heavy-handed over all when compared to spinal tap (although i suppose it doesn't get more blatantly comical as christopher guest's character in that movie), which is probably why some of the commenters here found this to be funnier. regardless, a fun and witty movie, and one geared more to the mtv generation, so give this a chance if you liked tap. "},{"Title":"awesome","Date":"19 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Fear of a Black Hat is a superbly crafted film.  I was laughing almost continuously from start to finish.  If you have the means, I highly recommend viewing this movie  It is, by far, the funniest movie I have had the pleasure to experience.  Grab your stuff! "},{"Title":"Rap parody in the tradition of Spinal Tap, but far outclassing CB4","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  CB4 was awful, but it may have given Cundieff the idea to it better. More like Spinal Tap than anything else, the film is clever from the start. Surprising anyone who saw it back in the mid nineties. The performances are played for laughs but not so much so that they are cartoon characters, more like Marx brothers. These guys are real and slightly diverse. They react to situations like any of us might. Well, we may not throw a tantrum when our performance hats are late to the gig, or pull guns and beat down a record company exec, but you get the picture. N(n***as) W(with) H(hats) takes itself seriously enough to reel you in, then you're hooked. rent or get this at all costs, even if you're not really into rap music, this will still leave you gassing out loud. Comparing this to CB4 is like comparing George Lucas' Star Wars to Gil Gerards'Buck Rogers' I think you see my point "},{"Title":"Unbelievable","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  If you like CB4, you have no idea what you're missing if you haven't seen this film yet. This movie is crazy hilarious, and incorporates a lot more about the hip hop industry than any other parody movie... It is unfortunate that this movie has not been released on dvd because it is one movie that everybody I've ever watched it with has loved and wanted a copy. If you really want a good laugh and you like hip hop and are a little familiar with some old-school performers, definitley rent this movie. There aren't that many video rental places that have copies of it, but if you happen to come across one you will not be disappointed.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious even for a white boy","Date":"28 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie is a great mocumentary.   It follows the rap group, NWH, made up of Ice Cold, Tasty Taste and Tone Def through their unique path to gangster rap highs, lows and back to highs.  Through trouble with women, egos, cops and whitey, this group gets to the top of the gangster rap world, as this movie goes to the top of mocumentaries.  I know everybodies favorite mocumentary is This is Spinal Tap, for very good reason, however I think that if in the right mood, this movie is simply better.  The laughs never end, even for someone not into the rap culture.I'm a white guy, that has no interest in rap music, culture or anything else associated with it, however I love this movie.  Rusty Cundeif, who wrote the screenplay, songs and starred in it showed great potential and it is a shame that I haven't seen him since Fear of a Black Hat.  However, I have seen him one more time than you have, and is that, that I recommend Fear of a Black Hat to you for quick laughs.Remember, Don't shoot to you see the whites!....of their eyes? No don't shoot to you see the whites.FYM and enjoy the movie. "}{"Title":"ONE WORD FUNNY! FUNNY,FUNNY,FUNNY!!! this movie is by far one of the 5 funnyest movies ever made even if you don't like rap music you will love this movie it's a riot of laughter and an explosion of insanity","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  warning! this may contain a spoiler I LOVE! LOVE! LOVE! THIS movie it's insane hilarious and all around brilliant from begining to end non stop laughter if only all movies were this funny a must see movie you've got to see this movie for yourself and then see it again you'll love the music video's all of them are great! and and why do people compare this movie to that stupid spinal tap movie this movie unlike that one is actually funny you'll love tasty Taste and all his insanity and the music vidoes O boy the music vidoes LOL! are my favorite please see this movie I only wish that these guys in this movie were a real band with albums out there to buy and I wish that they would make a sequal to this movie  if you like this movie then please also see fear and loathing in las vegas and cheech and chong's nice dreams you'll love them to. "},{"Title":"A must-see for all hip-hop fans","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  this movie is more than just an urban remake of spinal tap. Fear of a Black Hat offers more inside jokes and more  subtle humor and at the same time more poopoo humor  than any other of the genre. i first saw this movie as a hip hop fan and only got a few of the jokes.  but after veiwing it over and over and over (trust me, its worth it) i began to catch on to more and more of the hidden jokes and references to the rap industry.  this movie is more than a mocumentry  its also smart and crude, in a good way.  and for all hip hop fans, spotting which real-life songs are parodied by NWH, is a true test of your hip hop trivial value.  the movie also has a soundtrack that allows you to hear the songs performed in the movie in greater length and even has some extra songs.  both the movie and the soundtrack are record and video library staples for any true hip hop head.   "},{"Title":"The archetypal mockumentary","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I am shocked.  Shocked and dismayed that the 428 of you IMDB users who voted before me have not given this film a rating of higher than 7.  7?!?? - that's a C!.  If I could give FOBH a 20, I'd gladly do it.  This film ranks high atop the pantheon of modern comedy, alongside Half Baked and Mallrats, as one of the most hilarious films of all time.  If you know _anything_ about rap music - YOU MUST SEE THIS!!  If you know nothing about rap music - learn something!, and then see this!  Comparisons to 'Spinal Tap' fail to appreciate the inspired genius of this unique film.  If you liked Bob Roberts, you'll love this.  Watch it and vote it a 10! "},{"Title":"Rusty's Brilliant Homage to Spinal Tap","Date":"24 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" . . . is just as good as the original.  Very nearly achieves greatness because of Cundieff's remarkable ear for music and dialogue.  Skewers the self-important swagger of the hip-hop poseurs. The group Niggaz with Hats (NWH) are every rap group you ever heard and utterly self-parodic. Wardrobe is unbelievable. Buy the OOP soundtrack if you can.   "},{"Title":"Even whitey likes it","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Well I don't personally like rap, but I still found Fear of a Black Hat hilarious. I'm sure I didn't get some inside jokes, but some I knew, and it was funny enough to make me laugh just after I'd stopped laughing. I'm a big fan of Spinal tap, so naturally I had to check this out. It was deriviative from This Is Spinal Tap, sometimes blatantly, but this film still stood on it's own as an original, intelligent, and funny satire. My personal favorite Back in the time of slaves, they didn't have hats to protect them from the sun, so at the end of the day they were too tired to revolt. Now we have hats. "},{"Title":"Hilarious movie!","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The whole movie was done very well in terms of satire and sarcasm.  A knowledge of many of your more popular Hip Hop/Rap performers greatly enchances the enjoyment of this movie.  There are so many little 'inside' jokes that you could sit for hours trying to figure out on who they were based upon, such as Vanilla Sherbert and my personal favorite, Tone Def's spirtual P.M. Dawn like 'awakening,' harkening his music video I'm Only Human. Overall, it's too bad this movie doesn't get more press than the overhyped Friday. "},{"Title":"I'm Down with the Hats!","Date":"2 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie, Fear of a Black Hat, is an amazing comedy! With its wild zany, humor, it left me holding my stomach and gasping for air. This movie, a Mock-u-mentary of the Rap scene, follows around the rap group N.W.H. or Niggas with Hats on thier rollercoster ride tour that has them running from the cops, fighting censorship (and the white man), Finding new managers (after losing all of them to gun fire) and climbing the Rap charts. All in all this movie is a great film right down till the very last beat is dropped and N.W.H.'s final manager is shot! "},{"Title":"Rap's Spinal Tap","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  If rap is not your thing, forget about this movie as it relies heavily on jokes and references derived from the rap/hip-hop culture. However if you can tell your Ice Cube's from your Ice T's then Fear Of A Black Hat is an amusing satirical look at the rap music industry.The movie adopts a documentary style formula as seen in movies like Spinal Tap and CB4. Three hip-hop wannabes manage to stumble their way into becoming gangsta rap superstars and have to deal with the pressures of women, managers, political indifference, a criminal who they ripped their image off, record labels and ultimately each other.While there are no outstanding performances like Chris Rock's character in CB4, Fear Of A Black Hat works in that it plays on the various character stereotypes in a humorous style while integrating them within the documentary framework. Put simply, if you liked CB4, you'll love this.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious parody of the hip-hop world.","Date":"5 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I don't remember when I first heard about this movie, but I rented it about six years ago, and it still remains one of my favorite comedies.  I will admit, you probably will despise this movie if you know nothing about rap music.  But if you are a rap fan, even a casual one, you will love the inside jokes and references.   One of the best lines in the movie is about the difference between a b**** and a h**; I still use this line today and get lots of laughs with it.  One of the best performances comes from Larry Scott, who played nerd Lamar in `Revenge of the Nerds'.  It is unfortunate that this movie will likely never get a DVD release.  "},{"Title":"Finally, a rap comedy for opera lovers","Date":"16 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I'm too old to know (or care) exactly what the difference between rap and hip-hop is. And, being Canadian, it's likely that I've never actually seen MTV, but I'm not certain.But I thought this film was very funny when I saw it, a bright little satire. Hip-hop culture is so pervasive these days that it's difficult not to keep hearing about it over and over. (If only we could say the same about bagpipe music.) I got most of the jokes (at least I think I did). Sure, it's derived from Spinal Tap, but there are lots of targets that could stand a Tap treatment. Just not the Carpenters, they're sacred.  "}{"Title":"Not many laughs","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" A spoof documentary charting a year in the life of rappers Tasty Taste, Ice Cold and Tone Def. Those names are funny, but the movie isn't.Raiding 'This Is Spinal Tap' for vast chunks of his film, writer, director and star Rusty Cundieff fails to strike the almost believable tone a mockumentary like this needs, but I don't suppose it matters when the only worthwhile scene involves the band meeting a white rapper called Vanilla Sherbert. The rest is made up of digs at rap stars (M.C. Slammer, Ices Tray, Coffee, Box, Berg) and film makers (Jike Spingleton) but these references are run into the ground without ever going anywhere. The music isn't bad though. "},{"Title":"Broad comedy that isn't helped by lack of edge and obvious reference points which aren't expanded upon","Date":"8 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" It had been so long since I first (and last) saw this film that I honestly could have told you nothing about it in detail. Recently in a discussion with other fans of hip-hop music, this film came up and was roundly lauded by those that had seen it as being hilarious, smart, cutting and a classic (albeit that that final word tends to get thrown around by fans of this genre so much that it really means nothing). As a result I eventually got around to watching it again. The structure of the film is very much Spinal Tap and it owes a huge debt to that film &#x96; right down to the short clips playing out under the closing credits and of course the running joke of one specific role always ending badly (in Tap it was the drummer, here it is the manager). The plot therefore follows the group coming up, falling apart and then being put back together again, but it isn't really the plot that matters here.What matters is that the film is a comedy set in the rap world of the early 90's and as such it has plenty of artists and aspects of the culture to make fun of. This it does but unfortunately it doesn't do it particularly well. The reference points and the artists targeted will be clear to anyone with a reasonable knowledge of the period, but it doesn't really do anything with it other than present slightly exaggerated and slightly renamed versions of these people, situations and events. I was surprised by just how little of anything was behind these because they don't seem affectionate, they don't seem to be satirical, they don't seem to be cutting and they rarely seem to be particularly funny. Mostly they just are; so references to various artists and types of artist are mostly just done and we are expected to laugh because oh look they going Ice-T/De La Soul/MC Hammer etc. This wasn't enough for me and I was surprised by how little I was even amused by the film, much less laughed.The exaggerated humor gets broader and broader as it goes on; with lots of excess. The cast are part of this and of course the main place for blame is Cundieff himself. As the lead actor I liked him and his Ice-T impression throughout was pretty good, but his script is not up to scratch. In terms of his direction I had no issues but to be honest it did feel like he must have watched Spinal Tap every single day before shooting, so similar was the style. Scott and Lawrence are funny while Lemmons plays her part well. Johnson's turn as a groupie is a surprising find once you recognize her as being Sherry Palmer from 24! Overall Fear of a Black Hat is a broad spoof of hip-hop culture but one that doesn't seem to know what it wants to do. It owes so much to Spinal Tap but yet is not as funny; it apes hip-hop culture but yet cannot work out if it is doing it affectionately or with an edge, so ends up doing neither. What is left is occasionally amusing but is mostly just a load of reference points without context and expansion to an end. This is remembered as a classic and I would suggest that in many cases it is being remembered by those people, not watched recently. "},{"Title":"Great movie if you remember the 80's rap culture","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Although another reviewer didn't like it because it was too much like This Is Spinal Tap, I have to say that I loved it. I won't argue that it is very similar to the Spinal Tap movie, but in my opinion it doesn't harm the movie. If anything, it pays homage to it. I thought they did a wonderful job making fun of all aspects of the Rap industry, which in the 80's and 90's took itself WAY too seriously. I found myself laughing so hard, my sides were hurting. I have seen the movie many times and have bought it on VHS twice and on DVD once.I think it is at least worth renting, if you aren't offended by the pervasive sexuality and language.  "},{"Title":"Yes, Another Mockumentary, But a Great One","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is Spinal Tap unleashed a whole slew of mockumentaries, lo unto this very day - many of them (A Mighty Wind, Best In Show, Waiting for Guffman) done by Christopher Guest himself. Fear of a Black Hat was unjustly ignored on its release, and, surprisingly, is just as funny and clever today as it was then. In fact, I find it even funnier now than I did when I saw it originally. It takes a few plot points from the immortal Spinal Tap - girlfriend troubles, problems with the album cover, an acrimonious break up and subsequent reunion - but this doesn't stop the acting from being great, the song parodies from being spot-on, and the dialogue from being incredibly funny. Highly recommended.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie!!!","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I was up late one night and this was the only movie on so I decided to watch it. I'm so glad I did. It was very funny. I believe NWH is a parody of NWA (Ice Cube, Easy-E,& Dr. Dre). There are also parody appearances of Vanilla Ice and a couple of other 90's artist. NWH's videos even resemble videos of other 90's groups. There are references to the style and culture of the 90's in an all but too funny way.  I would recommend even non-rap fans to watch this movie. Although this movie is low budget it definitely just adds to the comedy. The cast really pulls off a serious yet ridiculously funny performance.I had know idea what this movie was about, but after the first 5 min. I knew I was going to like it.Overall this is just a great flashback laugh. "},{"Title":"Saddest example of 1980s humor I've seen","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Man, does this movie suck.  I was throughly disappointed all the way up to the end.  I'm familiar with rap music, I see what this movie is trying to achieve, yet I still do not find the humor.This movie pokes fun at Hammer, CC Music Factory, PM Dawn, LL Cool J...and countless other rappers.  In my opinion, these artists complete lack of taste isn't funny enough to base an entire movie around.  When LL Cool J's Mamma Said Knock You Out was originally released, the video was nothing more than a step in the direction of rap becoming its own genre of music.  Not really a hilarious time, just a part of the process.  If you're going to poke fun, it shouldn't be a rip off that could almost pass for the real thing.Plus, Rusty Cundieff's character, Ice Cold, is reminiscent of Damon Wayans homeless, booger-eating character from In Living Color...and the similarity becomes obnoxious as the movie progresses.I will say this movie had two really good chuckles in it.  When the record executive tells them to dress more like Hammer, I definitely laughed out loud, but aside from that, I believe its a waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Wait a sec. mate.....","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Just a note to add to the above comment. Fear of a Black Hat doesn't have the criminal who's image has been ripped off by the band, that's in CB4.  Easily confused as the two films are so similar, but Black Hat is vastly the superior of the two..... yeah. "},{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"16 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I really wanted to like this movie, but it never gave me a chance. It's basically meant to be Spinal Tap with a hip hop theme, but it fails miserably. It consistently feels like it was written and acted by high-school kids for some school project, and that's also the level the humor seems to be aimed at. There is no subtlety and, more damningly for a mockumentary, it never once feels like a documentary. And while the lines aren't funny in the first place, an attempt at dead-pan delivery would have helped -- certainly, anything would be better than the shrill overacting we are subjected to.I'd recommend this to people who like comedies in the vein of Big Momma's House or Norbit; people who think that words like butt are inherently hysterically funny. Other people should stay away and not waste their time. "},{"Title":"Can We Get a Jike Spingleton Sequel Please?","Date":"28 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" FEAR OF A BLACK HAT (3 outta 5 stars)Nice try at making a spoof documentary (a la Spinal Tap) but directed at the world of gangsta rap. The film tells the story of N.W.H. (N*gg*s With Hats) and of their rise from obscurity to... even more obscurity. The movie is really fun to watch... the characters are well thought out and the music is great. The only trouble is... it isn't really all that funny. Sure, they are tons of jokes (mostly in-jokes about the rap world that are going to be pretty hard for future viewers to figure out)... but they tend to be more funny-clever than funny-hahaha, y'know? Of course, I laughed at Jike Spingleton but you almost need to be a hardcore movie buff to get the joke.Plus, the thing about the song parodies is... most of the so-called joke lyrics aren't all that different from what rappers are singing *for real*. Ditto for the videos... if you showed the funny videos side by side with some actual rap videos... well, you'd have a hard time telling which was the joke. Still, you have to admire the energy and style that writer/director/star Rusty Cundieff put intro this movie. I like it a lot... I just don't think that it's quite up there with Spinal Tap or The Rutles. "},{"Title":"Up to individual tastes, but I loved it","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Personally, I have loved this film for a decade, since way back in 1994 when the vhs copy began with the Ice Froggy Frog video. To like this movie, you must have at least an interest in black culture and, more specifically, an interest in the rap/hip hop culture, whether positive or negative. I myself am a 25 year old white man, and used to be more or less indifferent to 90's hip hop but quite dislike the current trend of rap (which covers a total of four subjects Violence, racism, misogyny, and superiority to others in some way or another). I can handle those subjects fine, I just don't like hearing about it nonstop with little change. Eminem wants to shoot somebody? Gangsta A wants to have sex with woman B? The east coast rappers hate the west coast and vice versa, and will do drive by's to all who oppose them? See, I just don't care, because it's all the same and I don't find any of it very entertaining or intelligent. Nothing against the rappers personally, I just don't know how singing about women being sex toys or slapping a band-aid on your face translates into billionaire-worthy genius, as it does to every new person who rhymes nowadays. Oh and don't worry all you rappers out there, I'm not a big fan of my current pop selections either. Britney's not a virgin/got married/annulled/made an angry video/jumped into religion? Jennifer Lopez is on the tv so #&%^$ much that she's going to become a seperate button on all future television sets? Good God, do I wish people just sang a little bit and then got the hell out of my life. Well I digress. See, I'm bitter, because I can't stand today's music, be it white or black or whatever. But Fear of a Black Hat (FOABH from here) takes me back to the early 90's, when all kinds of musical styles existed and singers were judged more by talent than how they dressed. Well, that stopped with such cultural phenomenons as Kriss-Kross and Nirvana, but I digress again. In FOABH, we follow the brief career of rap group Niggas Wit Hats (NWH). The movie is fictitous and the people are all actors, but it is filmed in a documentary style with the gimmick in mind although these characters don't really exist, people quite similar to them do, and this is the movie that makes fun of them. In this film, which is so well done that at first glance it DOES look genuine, subjects such as gun obsession, racism, misogyny, white rappers, and even the aforementioned Kriss Kross and made fun of and/or explored. The director, Rusty Cundieff (playing Ice Cold) has a great ear for dialogue and an even better one for melody, as the film contains a dozen NWH songs, each with its own theme and almost every one of them catchy despite being parodic material. We don't really see NWH's beginnings, but we do hear about it as we learn information such as the fact that the group's last several managers have been white, and killed mysteriously as well. This leads to questions of racism, even more so when one of the group's albums was called Don't shoot until you see the whites. But being white, I still wasn't offended because the jokes are tongue in cheek, and no genuine ill is intended. These characters are exaggerated stereotypes, not offensive but rather playful in exploiting and making fun of the genuine issues at its core. If I'm gonna get offended at the notion of these characters wanting to kill white people, then the black members of the audience can be upset at the portrayal of a black character who loves guns and threatens to shoot anything he sees. But we shouldn't, because this movie doesn't take itself that seriously and neither should the viewer. It's also acted well, with the characters coming off as believable yet ridiculous, with their giant goofball hats (which are in fact explained in a stupid yet thought-provoking diatribe) and their silly habit of making every ostensibly crude song actually stand for something much more intelligent. Yet for their wit, it's funny to see the group more or less made fools throughout the film, as they have to struggle to get their name on the signs and a rival, more hardcore rap group dismisses them at every opportunity. It's somehow fun to watch these tortured geniuses at work, doing their best to carve a niche in the transitional period between early 90's hip hop and the edgier stuff we know today. As for laughs, I can't honestly say I do more than chuckle with it when I watch, but that doesn't mean much. What should matter instead is the fact that I laughed good and hard when I first saw it, and have watched it regularly in the ten years since. However, that does give the film and unfortunate outdatedness, as some joke characters (an MC Hammer parody) and now-uncommon phrases (Word, Kick It) fall a little flat. Much of the film is still strangely relevant though, such as the gun fascination, the harsh attitude towards women, and still rocky race-relations. But I can only say that the movie was definitely timely when first released, and can't help if things change later on. I just doubt as many people will be kind to it now, having never seen it when it was first meant to be seen. Still, I definitely found it worth a look, especially to the black community or those interested in rap/hip hop culture. And for all Spinal Tap fans, this is the ultimate companion piece.  "}{"Title":"Mildly amusing but too much like Spinal Tap","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" It's obvious that the makers of Fear Of The Black Hat had a HipHop-version of This Is Spinal Tap! in mind. The only difference is, Rob Reiner & Christopher Guest invented not only the mockumentary-genre, but also pointed out metal's silliness when it hadn't been that obvious, yet. In 1982 metal was relatively new, and the makers of Spinal Tap had already recognized its stupid side. They practically predicted every metal clich that was about to come.Now, by 1994 the type of HipHop that's parodied in this movie was already on its way out again. All the jokes here about guns, censorship, racial slurs, Spike Lee etc. are amusing, but nothing out of left field. Just not very original or unexpected. What's worse is that a lot of jokes are directly lifted from Spinal Tap. (One example Spinal Tap have problems with their drummers always dying in freak accidents. In Fear Of A Black Hat the main group's managers tend to get killed by accident.)So, Fear Of A Black Hat is to This Is Spinal Tap! what Hot Shots is to Airplane!. It's got its moments, but it's nowhere near as funny or inventive as the original. "},{"Title":"unaffecting, unmemorable, but kinda decent","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Fear of a Black Hat did not affect my life negatively or positively. I did not make me a better person, nor did it enrage me with dislike. It just hung there, like a limp fish. Some jokes were funny. Most weren't. In a few years, I'll probably forget most of what happened. Fear of a Black Hat reached whole new levels of mediocrity. Just my opinion, anyway. "},{"Title":"Rob Reiner's lawyers on the phone","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  From the moment Nina Blackburn (aka Marty DiBergi as an African American woman) appears on the screen, you can tell they copied This Is Spinal Tap from the get go. There is zero creativity - everything has lifted nearly verbatim. From the dressing room complaints to the Ian Faith-wannabe.Worse, not only doesn't it copy Tap wholesale, it's acting and energy level is horrible. Avoid. "}]