[{"Title":"INTELLIGENT AND MATURE BATMAN CARTOON","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"55 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Firstly, let me say that the 1992 Batman cartoon series was the best Batman cartoon series ever made. Just like the 1989 Batman movie it returned Batman to his dark roots and was a fantastic series.This was a great cartoon film. I haven't seen many great cartoon films but this was one. It has an interesting storyline, an interesting villain (The Phantasm), interesting subplot for Bruce Wayne and it's even got the psychotic Joker as well.The Phantasm is the most interesting cartoon villain in a long time and with the Joker in this movie as well it makes for an exciting movie. If you want an intelligent and thought provoking cartoon film then this is the one for you. "},{"Title":"An absolute classic, the best Batman movie so far","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"48 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Out of all the Batman films so far, including all the live action films, this one is still the only one to really explore the character of Bruce Wayne/Batman and examine what drove him to becoming Batman.It has a great story that flashes back to just before Bruce took up the mantle of the bat and the woman he was involved with at the time, then skips forward to an unknown assassin killing Gotham City's mobsters, and we see how the 2 story's meet. The writing is top-notch, in no-way predictable and the voice acting by Kevin Conroy as Batman and Mark Hamill as the Joker truly amazing and bone-chillingly scary.The only complaints is that the animation could have been better at some points, but that is because it was originally meant to be a straight to video release before Warner's saw what a masterpiece they had created, and also it should have run for a little bit longer, but oh well. If you haven't yet seen it i highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"If you liked the first two Batman movies this is a DEFINITE must see","Date":"18 February 2002","Score":"42 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is just one of the greatest animated movies of all time. No exaggeration. From the almost poetic opening sequence, accompanied by a great, great score till the very ending this movie will not disappoint. A dark story, darker than in Batman Returns, but also an excellent portrayal of Batman. The characters are nicely drawn (the female character is very attractive looking) and the voices are perfect. The origin of my favorite superhero has been overdone so many times and yet the filmmakers easily succeed to bring new insight and depth to the man that is the bat. I feel like I should write something more about it, there's definitely a lot of stuff I forgot since seeing it, but this was definitely an overlooked movie.8/10 "},{"Title":"Best portrayal of the Dark Knight.","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"31 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Ever since Phantasm came to the theaters, I was hoping that WB would put another animated movie of that caliber on the big screen again.  Phantasm is the essence of the true Batman.  No bogus sidekicks, the Gotham PD hunting down Batman as if he were a threat, and a great interaction with Alfred. For any die hard Batman fan this is truly a must. "},{"Title":"Along with Tim Burton's Batman Returns the best Batman movie to date.","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"30 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is easily the best interpretation of Batman I have seen in animated form, and along with Tim Burton's sometimes unfairly maligned 'Batman Returns', the best Batman movie to date. There has been a lot of speculation in recent years about movie versions of Frank Miller's 'The Dark Knight Returns' and/or 'Batman Year One' (the latter being an obvious inspiration for 'Mask Of The Phantasm'), I just hope that if either eventually get made they are as good as this. The popular 1960s campy TV series was an absolute hoot, but unfortunately has permanently coloured a lot of people's expectations of Batman, a character generally a lot darker and more twisted than most people expect. The animation in this movie is excellent, the script isn't a masterpiece but it's very good, and the actors involved include some great talents like Stacy Keach ('The Ninth Configuration'), 'Star Wars' Mark Hamill (as The Joker), John P. Ryan ('Runaway Train'), and Roger Corman legend Dick Miller ('A Bucket Of Blood'). I think most fans of Batman in any of his comic book incarnations over the years will enjoy this one a lot. It's first rate. "},{"Title":"The Greatest of all the animated Batman films!","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Not only the best animated flick but one of the greatest Batman movies ever made!Alan Burnett, Paul Dini, and Bruce W. Timm are without doubt the best creative team of any involved in a Batman film or/television show. In this first animated film based on the animated series, the creative team does both a prequel and a sequel to the show as it introduces the characters of Andrea and Phantasm. Which both have an enormous impact on Bruce Wayne's journey to becoming Batman. And the character of Andrea helps us understand Bruce Wayne a little better. And know him a little better before becoming Batman.Inspired by Frank Miller's Year One comic and Tim Burton's 1989 Batman film, Burnett/Dini/Timm create a magnificent Batman movie and a great movie as well!4(****)out of 4(****)starsAN ANIMATED MASTERPIECE!!!! "},{"Title":"Aww yeah--one of the best.","Date":"29 October 1998","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is incredibly cool.  It's the most accurate film portrayal of Batman yet.  Not only is this movie well-animated, exciting, and tautly-plotted, it's also refreshingly understated.  Unlike its live-action cohorts (more specifically, the Schumacher duo), Phantasm does not rely on splashy effects, ridiculous action sequences, and a hokey soundtrack to pull it through.  As much as I love *Batman Returns,* I have to admit this is probably the best-written of the Batman films.  And tell me you don't get chills down your spine the first time Bruce Wayne puts on that cowl.  Awww yeah!!  "},{"Title":"The psychological, the subtle, and the emotional side of Bruce Wayne are all more deeply looked at in this fantastic animated movie","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"28 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Mask of the Phantasm is one the best Batmans movies ever conceived. It gives that dark brooding look of the batman TV show, throws in an amazing original score, excellent voice acting, and a storyline that encourages us to look at the Batman story in a more human and emotional way. We have well established bad guys instead of just having a guy escape from prison, we have strong inner-conflict dilemmas and very well drawn action scenes. The only downside is that it could have been longer, although the rather short (compared to most movies) length does a good job of not making the flow feel dull or boring.I highly suggest this movie. "},{"Title":"Measures up","Date":"14 January 2000","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie measures up to the first two Batman movies and surpasses the last two in quality and story telling. The animation was fantastic. It was dark and mysterious, and that is way Batman should be done. Kevin Conroy's voice is perfect for Batman. Of course, when speaking of the voices for this movie, Mark Hamill can not be ignored. He gives a great performance as the menacing and hilarious Joker. My problem with this movie was the very short confrontation between Batman and the Phantasm. But the fight with the Joker makes up for it. This is a great Batman movie, even though this is animated and made for the kids. "},{"Title":"like a brilliant four-part episode from the series; lots of personal wounds revealed, and the Joker to boot!","Date":"25 December 2007","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Batman Mask of the Phantasm stands on its own feet extremely well, when at least compared to some of the lessor Batman animated movies (Batman vs Dracula anyone?), and packs a good punch for fans so many years later. The original series was in its own other region- taking what more stories from the comics (if not overall style and atmosphere like Burton or Nolan)- and was able to cover some fine ground with our troubled hero the Dark Knight. This story tells of a character, not ever quite named but called here as 'Phantasm', who is killing off some of the high-rolling gangsters in town. Meanwhile, Bruce Wayne meets an old love of his, Andrea, and old wounds are opened over a brief and untimely ended engagement. And then there's also Andrea's father, who... OK, not much to try and spoil here, lets just say at some point the Joker gets involved, and everything jets into a 'laughing matter'.Even as it was meant originally for TV, the directors Radomski and Timm, through their writer collaborators, have applied a drawing style that is distinctive amongst other cartoons of its ilk from the period very direct lines and sharp, jagged edges, lots of smoke at (specific) times, the right blend of noir when it comes to revealing the caped crusader when he enters a room in the dead of night. In a sense they're stylists as are the (good) directors of the franchise live-action films. Only here there's a catch the running time is short (originally the filmmakers thought it would be meant for TV before WB changed their minds), so there's only so much time to dig into the dilemma Wayne is caught in in the movie, where his identity is being cross-checked all over as the killer of the gangsters, and then the personal connection with Andrea and her father. Its some fairly significant probing into the character, if not the deepest there's ever been.But also, aside from the slightly darker impulses, Mask of the Phantasm is a lot of fun, even up to a point if you didn't watch the series much. Just seeing Hammil ham it up as the Joker is a blast, even though he doesn't appear (almost, one might think, as a lark) until halfway through the movie! But he (via the filmmakers trying their best to give fans the best of the animated basics) supplies a hugely entertaining climax, one which involves a big fight among an immense diorama of Gotham City, rigged with explosives! "}{"Title":"The Way Batman's Origin was meant to be told","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" From the dramatic scroll through Gotham city in the opening theme to the duel with the joker, mask of the phantasm is an incredible ride, following the origins of how Bruce coped with the loss of his family.SPOILER the BEST scene in the entire movie was after Andrea returned the ring to Bruce. the music saddens a bit, the camera scrolls to Bruce's parent's portrait. then, a chilling upbeat song begins as the camera then scrolls down into the bat cave. we see Alfred with a saddened face as he watches Bruce donning his destiny. after putting on his utility belt, he extends his hand for his mask. Alfred hands it to him. the main theme starts up and there is a pause as Bruce stares at the mask briefly, possibly thinking, this is the only way now. the camera goes to a close view of Bruce's lower torso, Alfred still in the background watching. Bruce puts on the mask, Alfred looking a bit unsure. Bruce turns and Alfred gasps in shock. the main theme picks up into more of a choir theme and batman's eyes are shown up close, those white eyes in the darkness. he narrows them. Alfred cries out my...god... as batman walks past him and out into destiny...i get tears each time i see that scene you MUST see this movie if you are a batman fan. your life depends on it. "},{"Title":"Completely made by the Joker!!!! The rest of the Storyline was kind of lazy.","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This was a good film but I cant help but feel that it was completely made by the joker, none of the other characters were really put any emphasis on at all, so it was once again left to the Joker to make it interesting, the idea of having him in some rundown old theme park was great idea as it gave so much diversity in his weird and whacky creations.The character of the Phantasm was mildly interesting but, I still don't get why she took her mask of, or more importantly why it gave her the magical power to teleport, as it was never really described how she was doing this. There was also no real end to the mob boss storyline, it was just kind of all left again on the joker, and that was what was annoying about this film.Batman and Bruce Wayne were played fairly well and it was pretty enjoyable to see this character in this situation, but most of the answers were given to him rather than him having to use any real skills to uncover the mystery and at the end he just kind of guessed who the phantasm was in my eyes, and it was pretty obvious as the only new person in town.All in all I enjoyed the film, but to some reviews I've seen say ti s the only batman that could rival the dark knight I simply don't understand, it was good as just a bit of extra context and worth a watch but not as good as made out. "},{"Title":"The Hunted (And Haunted) Knight","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Animation is all too often written off as being excursively for children. Yet occasionally there comes along something that, while ostensibly for children, that works perhaps better for adults who might be watching. Batman The Mask Of The Phantasm (and the TV series Batman The Animated Series it was spawned from) are perfect example of that. While there's plenty of action in it, the story is full of details and depth that adults would pick up on. The result is an action story with a surprising amount of characterization and plot that puts head and shoulders above many other films both animated and live action.Much of the films success is done to the voice casting, many of whom reprise their roles for the TV series. Kevin Conroy has proved himself to be practically definitive with his performances as Batman/ Bruce Wayne over the years and this film is no exception. In fact, this film takes Conroy's performance as Batman one step further as we learn of his lost love and how the past continues to haunt this man. The result is a Batman that, while a man of action, is very much human as well and the film is all the better for it.The rest of the voice casting is splendid as well. Dana Delany gives a moving performance as Wayne's lost love Andrea 'Andi' Beaumont whose past relationship with Wayne, and the secrets surrounding it, lie at the heart of the film. Character actor Stacy Keach gives a fine performance as Andrea's banker father as well as supplying the voice of the mysterious Phantasm. Hart Bochner gives a fine, if somewhat over the top performance as the sleazy Gotham City Councilman Arthur Reeves who orders the hunt for Batman. There's also the performances of Abe Vigoda, Dick Miller and John P. Ryan as the mobsters being hunted by the Phantasm. Not forgetting those who reprise their roles from the TV series such as Efrem Zimbalist Jr. as Alfred, Bob Hastings as Commissioner Gordon and Robert Costanzo as Detective Harvey Bullock or of course even Mark Hamill as Batman's arch-nemesis The Joker who gives a menacing, yet maniacal, performance that's become a trademark of the animated series. All together they round out the film's excellent cast.The films animation is as fine as well. Using the same animation style as the TV series it was spawned from, the story is perfectly set in a world of shadows where the modern exists blended seamlessly in with art deco influences. This is used to good effect both in the film's flashbacks and its finale as well with the use of a World's Fair like exhibition that serves a fine metaphor for the story as well. The animation, coupled with the score of Shirley Walker, helps brings the world of the film to life.It is perhaps the films story that is its biggest highlight. The TV series was praised for not dumbing down its stories and the film is no exception. As I wrote at the beginning, this is a film with plenty of action in it with a story full of details and depth that adults would pick up on. Mask Of The Phantasm uses its expanded length to go into back-story that the TV series could never do and the result is a film the is as much as tale of love and loss as it is an action film with rooftop chases, fist fights and the like. There is a genuine love story between Bruce and Andrea and it is that love, its loss and secret consequences that are at the films heart. Yet all the while, Batman finds that the city he's sworn to protect hunting him due to the deaths of mobsters at the hands of the mysterious Phantasm which brings the action and love story together for the films incredible revelations and its finale. The result is one of the best written Batman films yet written.Overall, Batman The Mask Of The Phantasm is one example of what animation can do at its best. This is thanks to many elements such as Kevin Conroy's haunted performance of Batman to the fine supporting cast, fine animation, the score of Shirley Walker and one of the best Batman scripts yet written. The result is a film that is, for all intents and purposes, head and shoulders above many other films both animated and live action. "},{"Title":"very good batman movie","Date":"14 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" i bought this because it was cheap and i had read up on it and i realised it was a continuation of the 90s Batman cartoons i had grown with.I've always liked the character of Batman and i enjoyed this muchly. the use of flashbacks to show Bruce Wayne's life before he took up the bat and the woman he was with. then another flashback shows Bruce starting to want to fight crime but not knowing how to go about it right.there is a mysterious killer that is going around Gotham that is murdering a gang of now old gangsters and Batman is being blamed. The Joker is also involved in this movie and is very entertaining to watch. voiced by Mark Hamill. oh and Kevin Conroy was a great voice for Bruce Wayne/Batman.the movie has a good twist, decent animation, good voice acting and great plot. all in all a great edition to the Batman collection. "},{"Title":"Watch this, not the live action movies.","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Phantasm puts the live action movies to shame.  It depicts Batman as what he is supposed to be, the Darknight Detective.  The live action movies leave out the detection and concentrate on the action.  This is also one of the best animated movies I have ever seen.  The quality of the artwork is amazing.     "},{"Title":"Brilliant Batman","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" But it's way too short. At only 76 minutes you begin to wonder why they bothered. The story is barely given a chance to be intriguing and it is told in a very confusing way with too many flashbacks and flashbacks that go into their own flashbacks. But it still retains that dark edge the 2 previous movies had and many visual thrills.This movie tells the tale of how Bruce Wayne became Batman in a little more depth than the live-action films and gives us the discovery of the Batcave in a slightly different way than that in Batman Forever. The Joker is as crazy as ever, the thugs and hoods are as nasty as they have always been and the identity of the Phantasm surprised me. Although much of Danny Elfman's theme is missing the music is still powerful and involving. The animation is very good and has many elaborate 'sets' and locations. The visual style still sticks to that of the comic book like glue and it all makes for a very exciting film. Even if it is a bit of a confusing one, especially for kids. But this animated incarnation of Batman is truly the best. "},{"Title":"When is the next one?!","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There's not much I can add here except, when are these guys going to make another animated Batman movie?!  The combined quality of all the other movies with Batman in the title aren't half as good as this movie!  Skip the rest, see the best!OK for kids too! "},{"Title":"A true classic.","Date":"24 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Batman - Mask of the Phantasm leads on from the critically-acclaimed Batman The Animated Series, retaining many of the same voice actors and crew members. In this adventure, Bruce Wayne/Batman (Kevin Conroy) is framed for a series of murders on Gotham's mob bosses, which were actually committed by the Phantasm (Stacy Keach), and in a bid to stop the killings and prove his innocence, has to fend off not only arch- nemesis The Joker (Mark Hamill) but also councilman Arthur Reeves (Hart Bochner), all while reconciling with former flame Andrea Beaumont (Dana Delaney).The plot of Batman - Mask of the Phantasm is easily the film's strongest point, and helps it stand out as one of the Caped Crusader's greatest big-screen adventures. Unlike the Burton films which had come before it, that primarily focused on the villains instead of devoting time to Batman himself, this film is rife with flashbacks detailing how and why Bruce Wayne put on the cowl and became Batman, and it really helped flesh out his character and made the whole film more believable, especially allowing the emotional moments to pack more of a punch. The origin scenes are brilliantly done and at times are incredibly emotional, and I believe the origin told here is on a par with 2005's Batman Begins. Although the third acts ends up as a bit of an action- frenzy, the film is rife with character development, delving into the past of not only Bruce Wayne but also original character Andrea Beaumont, who you come to care about, particularly towards the end. The film's plot is a lot deeper and human than not only most animated Batman films, but the live-action films too, beaten only by Nolan's Dark Knight trilogy, and although I wasn't expecting it, deeply appreciated it. When the true identity of the Phantasm is eventually revealed - don't worry, I won't spoil it here - you definitely don't see it coming and it packs one hell of a punch, and gives the character in question much more humanity than before, actually making you feel for them. The story of Phantasm is remarkable, and is easily the best part of this film, and at the time, helped make it the best Batman film thus far.The characters, however, are not always able to remain on a par with the plot. Obviously, Bruce Wayne/Batman is fantastic, easily the most fleshed-out and human character here, and thanks to plenty of flashback scenes and inner monologues - compounded by Kevin Conroy's superb performance, which I would say is his best ever - make the eponymous hero the film's best asset. Other characters such as The Joker are fantastic here too, with Mark Hamill's performance as terrifying and deranged as ever, and thanks to The Joker's devilish design as well, make him a truly fantastic villain. However, the Clown Prince of Crime is not the main villain here, for it is the Phantasm that takes the limelight. Designed brilliantly to look like a polar opposite to Batman and with brilliant voice acting, the Phantasm is terrifying and threatening, finally giving Batman a foe that is on a par, making their meetings a lot more tense. However, I felt that the film tried to introduce too many new characters into such a short space of time, which ended up making the plot feel bloated. We meet a wide variety of mob bosses and some of their relatives for the first time here, and it's a lot to take in, especially when considering the film is less than 90 minutes long, making the scenes that are trying to tug on your heartstrings a little less effective.As with Burton's Batman films and Batman The Animated Series, the design of Batman - Mask of the Phantasm is incredible. Batman's costume is classic and timeless, clearly showing lots of respect for the source material, making this the definitive animated Batman. His city - Gotham - is stunning as well, with the timeless design of buildings and vehicles meaning this film could be set whenever - a true classic. The music is brilliant too, and although Danny Elfman's formidable score isn't used, the soundtrack still packs a punch, particularly with the choir singing hauntingly throughout the film's tensest and most emotional moments. The tone, like Burton's films and the TV show, is incredibly dark, and there is a surprising amount of blood for a PG- rated film, but it proves that the filmmakers weren't afraid to follow through with their designs even if they weren't the most marketable, unlike Schumacher's kid-friendly entries. Some moments are terrifying, and it is all intensified by the bleak tone and brilliant performances.For its time, Batman - Mask of the Phantasm was a triumph, better than anything we had seen before of the Caped Crusader on the big- and small- screen, and it pleases me to say that it is as ground-breaking today as it was in 1993. This is the definitive animated Batman adventure, and comfortably the best Batman outing for its era, and I highly recommend that you watch this dark, character-driven and marvelous classic. "},{"Title":"The Best Batman Movie of All Time","Date":"4 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie made perfect use of the BTAS theme music for Bruce Wayne/Batman several times. The best example of such use was in THE BIG CHASE. THE BIG CHASE is the greatest Batman Scene ever made. The story is quite tragic and doesn't have a happy ending. Batman is being blamed for a series of high-profile murders in Gotham and the police quickly turn against him. In reality, the Phantasm is the one killing the mobsters. Andrea (Bruce's former love) flies into Gotham weeks after the murders begin.She triggers several flashbacks throughout the story that show us the events that led to Bruce becoming Batman. This includes the incredibly sad movement that prompts Bruce to don the cowl. Alfred's shocked gasp of, My God . . . says it all.This is a continuation of the famous BTAS (Batman the Animated Series) of the 1990's. Many fans consider it to be the definitive version of Batman. Kevin Conroy is THE voice of Batman.The series was widely praised for its thematic complexity, darker tone, artistic quality and modernization of its title character's crime-fighting origins. IGN listed The Animated Series as the best adaptation of Batman anywhere outside of comics, the best comic book cartoon of all time and the second best animated series of all time (after The Simpsons). Wizard magazine also ranked it #2 of the greatest animated television shows of all time (again after The Simpsons). TV Guide ranked it the seventh Greatest Cartoon of All Time (out of 60). The universal acclaim led the series to win four Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Animated Program. "},{"Title":"My favorite Batman movie","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I guess to some viewers, Mask of the Phantasm probably would be nothing more than an extended episode of the Batman animated series from the nineties, but considering that said series was excellent (In fact, I consider it to be the best adaptation of the Batman comics ever made) this movie obviously doesn't disappoint, establishing the foundations for the future films inspired by that character, particularly the trilogy directed by Christopher Nolan and later Batman animations (such as Batman Under the Red Hood, which in my humble opinion isn't as a good as this)Personally, I'm actually impressed of how dark and mature this film was, specially in comparison with other animated film done in the same year. In many ways, it was way ahead of its time, daring to be surprisingly gritty and solemn in way in which no other Batman film (Not even those directed by Tim Burton) was before.The animation is dark and brooding, the characters are fleshed out and complex, and the plot is very deep and compelling. The viewer is given a true insight into the troubled psyche of Batman, the archetypal Byronic hero and the continuous tribulations that afflict his life as a superhero, from his complicated relationship with Andrea to his inner conflicts with his level of responsibility and his uncertainty that arises from it.One scene in particular - in which Bruce kneels at his parents' grave and begs them to let him live his own life - gets me a tad choked up every time I see it. This is powerful, serious drama, as any Batman story should be.Batman Mask of the Phantasm is a fantastic film, which I highly recommend to any fan of Batman, the DCAU, and animation in general. "}{"Title":"My Favorite Batman Movie!","Date":"29 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Batman Mask of the Phantasm is easily my favorite Batman movie to date. Batman the animated series is my favorite incarnation of Batman. This is based off of that show, which plays a big part in why I love this film.Firstly, Kevin Conroy's Batman is my favorite incarnation of Batman. He has this presence that, in my opinion has never been topped by any other Batman put to screen. This film delves into his origins and the reason he became Batman, which factor greatly in the story. I really liked what they did with Batman' origin. In my opinion, his origin is handled better here than in even Batman Begins.I also like Bruce's love interest, Andrea. She is different from most love interests in Batman. She strong and she can take care of herself. I also really bought into their love story, which also plays a big part in the. What I never liked about Batman films and superhero films in general, is that the love interests feel very tacked-on and forced as an attempt to bring in a broader audience. Here the love story is one of the driving factors of the movie.The Phantasm is a good villain. In fact, he is probably one of my favorite Batman villains. I loved the mystery surrounding the Phantasm. The way everything is unveiled is expertly done. The mystery is very complex, which is something you do not see in a lot of kids films, or even adult films. The Joker also appears in this. He is not the main villain, but definitely had a significant role to play. Mark Hamill's Joker is my favorite incarnation of the Joker. Like Kevin Conroy, Mark has a presence to him as the Joker that has never been topped, in my opinion.The art and animation is great. It feels very cinematic. The film has a great atmosphere. The score is beautiful. Most of the music is from the animated series, but there is some new music here. Like the animated series, this movie takes a darker tone. This movie, like the animated series, treated its audience more like adults than the live action Batman movies coming out at the time.Overall, for anyone who is a fan of Batman, this is a must see. I think it is criminal that this film bombed at the box office when it was in theaters, while the childish Schumacher Batman films made all of the money. However, it made back its budget with the video sales, which I am grateful for. This is easily one of the best Batman movies ever made! "},{"Title":"Excellent Superhero Movie!","Date":"16 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The 'Batman The animated Series' from the '90s was perhaps the best representation of Batman on film (whether animated or live action, TV or Big Screen) that has ever been produced. The character of Batman was nuanced, the plots diverse and multi-faceted, the animation innovative. It defined who Batman was for an entire generation of kids and is, in my opinion, superior to even the Blockbuster Nolan version of the hero.This movie continued that trend. While is shares many similarities with the series (from the animation to the director to the voice actors), it is more than simply a long episode. The plot is engaging and doesn't feel stretched to fit a full-length movie time frame. It was the first of many direct-to-video animated superhero movies and set the bar for those which followed.Although perhaps not perfect, I would rank this movie as one of the top Batman movies and thus top superhero movies ever. For anyone who enjoys superheroes, Batman, comic books, or simply excellent animated movies, I would highly recommend this! "},{"Title":"The Best Romantic Film I've Ever Seen","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" For me this is the best film of batman, it is in the same level or even better than Tim Burton's Version ( batman 1989).For me The best thing in this film is the story it is full of passion in a very good way that both children and adult can watch it without feeling sick of their stomach with those nude scenes that are featured now these days in movies. I loved the flash back on this film it tells u the story of Bruce Wayne before becoming THE DARK KNiGHT and the LOVE OF HIS LIFE.The Love Story was made in a very professional way thanks to the writers, Kevin Conroy & Dana Delany who performed the voice of the two leading character (Bruce Wayne and Andrea Beaumont) and the brave Directors who had done a brave job by turning this TV version into a fantastic theatrical version. and who could forget the magnificent Mark Hamill as the joker who stole many scenes by his fabulous performance.For me this is my number one Romantic Film along side (GWTW 1939,Atonement(2007)and now voyager 1942).there are unforgettable scenes on this movie The rain scene when Bruce talks to his dead parents grave and Andrea came to him ( That was my favorite one) and when they first saw each other after 10 years, and the first spoken scene between each other and of course the final scene for both Andrea and Batman.The Final song I Never Even Told You bye Tia Carrere was one of my favorite song all the time.I wish if in the future they would made a new version of this film with real actors.Finally I recommended this film for everyone who is had once a love in his life or having a new one now. "},{"Title":"In Blackest Night","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Regarded by some as the best Batman feature film, Batman Mask of the Phantasm is an animated Batman movie released in 1993 to limited box office success. The film's reputation would grow over the following decade. Today many regard it as being superior to Chris Nolan's trilogy.The brainchild behind Phantasm was artist Bruce Timm, the man responsible for the look, style and tone of Batman The Animated Series. When he entered the DC universe in the late 1980s, Timm began to popularise a very specific drawing/animation style a distinct form of Art Deco, with angular characters, hard, geometric shapes, retro minimalism and strong nods to 1950s modernism, futurism, and Old Hollywood. There's also a deliberate attempt to recapture the magic of Max Fleischer, the man responsible for the iconic Superman animated series of the 1940s. Your typical Bruce Timm female was also markedly different to previous comic book femmes either angular noir women (Lauren Bacall, Jane Russell, Veronica Lake et all), or near pre-pubescent sexpots (small busted, lithe, teenage yet suggestively curvy). He'd release a sketchbook collection of simple-yet-hyper-fetishized nude girls/women a decade later, which would quickly become the dirty bible of many comic book artists.Today a lot of superhero cartoons poorly copy Timm's style &#x96; the style's now been played to death - but in the 1990s he revitalised DC and helped pull Batman away from the grip and stylistic influence of Frank Miller, who typified Batman of the 1980s.Mask of the Phantasm features a weak villain and unnecessary action sequence too derivative of James Cameron (Terminator 2 was released the year before), but it's nevertheless a very moody picture, structured as a series of wistful dreams or tragic recollections, and features a genuinely affecting Gothic love story. Like the best Batman tales, Phantasm is more about detective work than fisticuffs. This Batman is voiced by the inimitable Kevin Conroy. It contains one of the best lines in Batman history.8/10 &#x96; Worth two viewings. "},{"Title":"These people know what they're doing.","Date":"14 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" One of the greatest big screen incarnations of Batman ever put on screen. And when you consider just how much the filmmakers got right, you'll see that's not an exaggeration. Batman Mask of the Phantasm is based on Batman The Animated Series - so right there, you know it benefits from incredible voice casting, production design, and a tone that's just right.What's remarkable about Mask of the Phantasm is that it dares to be both a love story, and an origin story, coming in the wake of the Tim Burton blockbusters which handled both subjects rather poorly. The movie traces Bruce Wayne's relationship to Andrea Beaumont (Dana Delaney), his very first love; a relationship that blossomed at the very beginning of Bruce's career as Batman (told through flashbacks). When Bruce is not reminiscing, he's dealing with a new menace in Gotham; one who's taking out the city's crime bosses, one at a time. The demonic vigilante (the eponymous Phantasm) has a look that's mistaken by the police for Batman, putting the Dark Knight on the run, as he struggles to solve the mystery of why Gotham's organized crime is tumbling like a house of cards, and who's behind the murderous mask.I consider Batman The Animated Series to be the greatest treatment of Batman we've seen, so far. They nailed everything the score (the late, great Shirley Walker can go toe-to-toe with Danny Elfman), the writing, the voices (you won't find a better Batman or Joker than right here . . . hell, even Alfred or all of Batman's rogues gallery, for that matter), the mood, the production design (gotta love that dark deco), all of it. But just seeing a Bruce-centric storyline just puts this film head-and-shoulders above the rest, for me. And in a film that's well-acted and beautiful to look at, no less. It's a rock-solid script that delivers a great mystery, great characterization and even some nail-biting suspense. And just seeing how the writers manage to fit the Joker into the film's goings-on (without shoehorning) goes to show that these people were out to tell a great Batman story.And they went above and beyond.9/10 "},{"Title":"Vengeance Blackens the Soul.","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I honestly had not seen this movie until a friend of mine recommended it to me. As a die-hard fan of the 90s show as well as Batman in general, I had to check this one out. And this film delivered way beyond my expectations. Even though many will brush it aside due to it being an animated film, this movie has enough atmosphere and depth to match up to its live-action counterparts. The animation itself is just as incredible as the TV series', obviously seeing as it is was made by the same cast and crew for the most part. The artwork is still the gorgeously dark color pallet used for the show, and to extremely good effect. The score by Shirley Walker still uses the good old Danny Elfman theme as its base but she goes in a lot of directions with it. Every second of the music is just ominous, heroic and ultimately awesome.The voice acting is pure bad-ass, with the always appreciated Kevin Conroy as the Dark Knight, and Mark Hamill as the demented Joker.Both do superbly. Also, Efrem Zimbalist Jr. is great as Alfred and Dana Delany, who would go on to voice Lois Lane in the Superman TV series also headed by Bruce W. Timm, does excellently as well. The story offers plenty of great dialogue, speaking of which, it's simply put one of the most outstanding pieces of writing I've seen in the animation genre. The story being told is dark, involving and gives the characters greatly needed depth. It moves briskly, but never fails to build tension until it finally answers the question of just who is behind the grisly murders. Along the way, you will see Bruce Wayne's trail to become the Caped Crusader in one of the best tellings of this particular tale. Few of the live action Batman films have touched upon the hero's origin's as so in this film. All of the characters are very interesting, and all are intertwined beautifully. Hamill will always be the Joker to me. The best line in the entire movie, to me anyways for purely sentimental reasons, would be when Joker viciously says Don't touch me, old man!, but then almost light heartedly and comically adds I don't know where you've been. It's just great to see.So, in the end, the movie has great artwork, solid characterization, a very intriguing mystery storyline all backed by a thundering and magnificent score. I won't spoil the conclusion of it all, because I'm sure there are plenty of others out there who have yet to experience this great movie. "},{"Title":"The best batman film to be made","Date":"26 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" To me this is the best batman film to be made this film was made for the fans of the series but even if you haven't watched the series you will still enjoy the film because of its great story telling, great music score but what makes the film for me was the voice acting its excellent the performances that stick out are Kevin Conroy who plays batman and mark Hamil that plays the joker, mark Hamil should of won an a Oscar for that performance. overall this is one of the best animated films ever made its better than all the batman films old and new if your your a batman fan watch this film even if your not a batman fan still watch this film you will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Phantastic...yeah I know, lame catch phrase, but this movie rocks.","Date":"4 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I finally watched this tonight, I had been wanting to for a while, I just wasn't in the mood at the time...was trying to do more work for my animated series...this movie just blew me away. I can't say enough about how great the writing was, along with the animation, but that's a given when you have Bruce Timm and company working for you.If I talked about the Phantasm, I'd be giving away the ending, so enough about that. Kevin Conroy has always provided Batman with a perfect voice. There is a particular weight to his performance here that I believe makes it one of his best performance as Batman. Some examples of this are; when he's being chased by the SWAT team and removes his cape and cowl to serve as a decoy COMPROMISING HIS IDENTITY (gasp), when he pleads before his parents' grave, and when Andrea returns the ring.I can't think of anything I didn't like about this movie, which these days for me is a rarity. I'd recommend this movie to everyone, but more specifically animation students. "},{"Title":"A Great Batman in a list of films","Date":"2 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie was fantastic. Me being a fan of Kevin Costner's role as Bruce Wayne/Batman since the part he played in the animated cartoon series from the 90s I would just look at the cover of this movie and all ready assume it is a great movie. This movie is a must watch for all Batman fans, especially fans of the animated series, I myself am still looking to purchase this and add it to my Batman library. The story is great the plot is great as well and the voice acting is excellent, Siskel and Ebert under rated this movie, Mark Hamill's voice acting for The Joker is excellent. Great movie great voice acting and great story again a must watch for Batman fans. "},{"Title":"A True Buried Treasure","Date":"11 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" There have been few entertainment franchises that have as successful and impressive as Batman. He is one of the most iconic comic book characters of all time and has thrived in almost every media source the series has adapted to. Of these extensions the most famous is the film adaptations. Tim Burton's Batman pushed the limits of what is considered to be children's entertainment and intense adult action and drama. Christopher Nolan reboot series has been equally influential, showing that a comic book film can take place in a realistic environment. However, one Batman series which is often overlooked in the character plunge into the animated world. Batman The Animated Series is considered to be one of the best cartoons shows of all time and Batman Mask of the Phantasm does for film what the cartoon show did for television, Batman Mask of the Phantasm is able to fit two well developed stories into only 76 minutes. The first and primary plot focuses on Batman tracking down The Phantasm, a mysterious vigilante who has been systematically killing off mobsters while Batman is blamed. The second story focuses on the young fledgling crime fighter Bruce Wayne and how close he came to quitting in order to have a normal life with his love interest, Andrea Belmont.The movie begins with Batman breaking into a mob runs counterfeiting scheme, Batman deals with the henchman while the boss, Chuckie Sol, makes a beak for it. Before Batman can catch him he is murdered by the Phantasm. Batman is blamed for the killing and is forced to track down his imitator. Things grow more complicated as Andrea interest returns to Gotham City and Bruce believes that her father is somehow connected to the murders. This triggers Bruce's reminiscing about how his life would have been if he stayed with her. The film does a great job in juggling these to plots without ever being terribly predictable.The voice acting is equally admirable. Kevin Conroy's portrayal as Batman/Bruce Wayne is one of the most overlooked performances ever. He gives both Batman and Bruce Wayne different voices and speech patterns. He even makes the younger Bruce Wayne speak more energetically and innocently. The same can be said for Dana Delany who plays the young Andrea Belmont as naïve and playful while the older version is more dark and isolated. The one performance that stands out, however, is The Joker, voiced by Mark Hamill. The Joker one has a few scenes but steals every shot that he is in, perfectly balancing the clown and the killer.However, as good as the story and acting is, it is the drawing style and animation the really stand out from the rest of the animated features. Unlike other animated films, Mask of the Phantasm focuses on a dark art deco design to show the vastness of Gotham City and to show the range of character emotions.The only negatives about the movie would be that the stories are very tight, which causes some scenes to feel rushed and less significant than it should, such as when Bruce first suits up as Batman. That and a few corny lines and cliché morals really stick out from the high quality of the rest of the film. Still, Batman Mask of the Phantasm is a terrific piece of entertainment that should not be skip by anyone that is a fan of Batman, animation, or film in general. "}{"Title":"Great as the animated series.","Date":"8 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Another great addition to the animated series. Haven't seen it in theaters, I decided to rent it. And boy did I enjoy it. Oddly enough it was intended as the series finale, but thankfully it wasn't as later on in that decade we were treated to another series which was also great. It's everything like it's serialized counterpart but a bit more with adult situations and dialog that are by far appropriate for this kind of film. And the end song I Never Even Told You performed by Tia Carrere is nicely well done. Aside from being an actress, I never knew she could sing!!! I only wished that the film was longer and more ambitious in it's subject matter and dark violence. Get this along with the animated series and The Dark Knight to really get your Batman fix. I recommend it for all who want to enjoy. "},{"Title":"The Animated Adventures...","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" With the critical acclaim of the syndicated cartoon, receiving awards and praise for groundbreaking animation and stories, it was only a matter of time.With a story that rivaled Val Kilmer's turn in 'Batman Forever', this shorter and crisper version actually out does the Schumacher film.With flashbacks and a well paced script, our animated hero faces old flames, new foes and of course, saves Gotham from the Joker.A Joker very much based in the comic books but surprisingly more realistic than Jack's. Combine that with the retro style of the series and it transitions very well.If your either a fan of animated films or just a Batman fan, this film will appeal to most. "},{"Title":"Batman, past, present, love, revenge, gangsters, the Joker&#133;","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This Batman is the one from my childhood however it's been a long time since I don't watch an episode from the animated series and frankly I don't remember a lot of it. Now I have been adding some Batman titles; I began with the Batman and Superman movie, a movie that I found just good by the way (later I will be writing on here a complete comment for that movie), and later I began to watch Batman Beyond, a series that I never watched before and that right now I'm enjoying a lot (soon I will be writing a full comment for Season 1). This was my next step and I must confess that I had never watched this movie before, now I'm really glad I watched it. This one does feel like a feature film; very soon there's a new problem for our Dark Knight since Chuckie Sol, a crime boss, has been killed and our hero is the one everybody is blaming of that killing. The past will come back to Bruce's mind and with that we will watch a love story before the Batman days, a love story that for Bruce ended in a very surprising and painful way, ended in the Dark Knight. Here we see again why Batman is quite unique since we see another person similar to Bruce Wayne. Both suffered the killing of their familiars and both were looking for revenge. That character is Andrea Beaumont, the girl of that love story before the Gotham Knight days. One of those important differences between Bruce and Andrea is the fact that Bruce at a point was going to stop being a vigilante for love. for the woman he loved. Andrea after suffering the killing of her father could not think in other thing but justice just like Bruce after she leaved him, then for an unknown circumstance, but the other difference is that Batman doesn't kill, the Phantasm does. There are great flashbacks but you may be wondering something like when does the fun begin? well the Joker is enough for you? Here the Joker has also an important place on the flashbacks, he is one of those that the Phantasm is looking for. Definitely when the Joker appears is when the fun and the best part of the movie begin. He is also another aspect to think by watching this, this one is actually something very special.Batman Mask of the Phantasm is like everything we could have expected from an animated movie of the Dark Knight. The beginnings of Batman, a present with gangsters fearing of Batman and the police (except Gordon of course) wanting to catch our hero, a mysterious new enemy, a love story, a story about the family, justice, revenge and the Joker. What else you want? "},{"Title":"The Citizen Kane of Batman movies.","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I grew up watching the animated series as a kid so all you other fans probably know the excitement I went through. When your a kid you don't really care about the story you go to see it just because it's Batman, but when your older you can really get involved and begin to sympathize for the character's. All the music by Shirley Walker really heightens the brooding and operatic feel to this movie. Now the design, the whole art deco look is just spectacular to look at and sometimes you can lose yourself just in the visuals. All the performances are top notch, Mark Hamill is wild and crazy as The Joker and he really goes to town and has a lot of fun like Nicholson in the first movie, and Kevin Conroy is absolutely stunning as Bruce and Batman, his voice is so intimidating and kinda scary. I'm sure a lot of other fans would agree with in saying that Kevin Conroy IS Batman because he's been doing it for so long. To this day this is still my favorite Batman movie, in my opinion it dwarfs all the live action movies, yes even The Dark Knight! So go buy it, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"One of the ultimate Bat-films.","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Batman The Animated Series was one of the best animated shows of all time. It was one of the cartoons that defined the 90s and, thanks to that very animation, will eventually become a timeless classic. Mask of the Phantasm was one of its defining moments. An executive decision to put the film on the silver screen instead of straight-to-video or leave it for the time slot on television shows how good this really is. And for any Batman fan, this is simply not-miss stuff. An alternative take on how Batman found the Bat-Cave and put together his suit, topped off with one of the definitive Joker appearances and, simply put, Mask of the Phantasm is a must watch film for any fan of Batman, animation, movies, you name it. "},{"Title":"Best batman cartoon in the world.","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This was the first Batman cartoon I have seen I first seen it when i was about 5 years old and this is how i got the cartoon batman also staring Kevin Conroy as batman and mark hamill as The Joker. The things that make this movie so good are that there is lots of action in it the storyline is great. The Cartoon effects are really good. The way the movie is set like it is really dark and it just makes the movie a classic. Also the voice over actors are really good such as Kevin Conroy as batman, And Efrem Zimbalist Jr. as Alfred. And the villains are great such as mark hamill as The Joker, and Dana Delany as The Phantasm. So I am sure that you will not be disappointed with Batman Mask of The Phantasm because it is really good. So make sure that you rent or buy Batman Mask of The Phantasm because it is a great movie.Overall score ********** out of ********** ***** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Very good, the original Batman series should have been depicted the same way.","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It was great to see a Batman film that remained faithful to the comic books and also consisted of a bit of creativity. Its only downfall was that the person portraying the Phantasm was a bit of a giveaway. Other than this though the film contained a strong and moving plot, which particularly put emphasis on the torture Batman has to go through for the girl he truly has feelings for that was a change from just him grieving over his parents. Unlike the cartoon the Joker was given a bit more origin and because of this he played an even more darker character, as he actually kills one of the mob bosses in terrifying circumstances. As a result he lost that silliness that the character was more based upon in the series. What the film does as well is that explores Batman's origin with a similar theme to Year One. The scene that will always be remembered is when Batman puts on the cowl for the first time, putting fear into Alfred. The score was absolutely fantastic, in many ways it is better than Elfman's and what gave it that edge was that it was a more climatic version to that of the series.Overall great plot and score, the way Batman should be portrayed. "},{"Title":"Excellent and just absolutely freakin awesome!!!","Date":"22 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I cant find any obvious flaws with anything in this superb Batman film with a fast-paced story that never gets boring.the animation is completely stylized just like in Sin city which of course look perfect in a Batman movie. The script might be silly and childlike at times but it's hardly noticeable and I find myself thinking how a simple story like this can be both interesting, smart and above all very emotional.The amount of violence couldn't be better it walks a fine line between being a serious action-thriller and just a good cartoon which in my opinion makes it timeless.Speaking of timeless the music should get every award i could possibly get because this is THE best part of the movie and if i find the soundtrack I will buy it for sure.I shall wrap this up by saying that this is a movie no ACTION fan should miss because of its brilliant cinematography, tempo and the excellent orchestral score by Shirley Walker. just do yourself a favor see this movie NOW I promise you that you will LOVE it. "},{"Title":"How Batman should be done","Date":"15 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Spoilers Ahead. This has to be the greatest Batman film ever made. It may be a cartoon but sometimes a great story is strong enough however it is delivered and this is a great example of this. It makes all the live action films look painfully silly, particularly the later ones and is truly worth hunting down.This is what and who Batman should be. Someone who is driven by vengeance, who cannot reconcile love and his obligations to protect, someone who uses physical violence and intelligence, not a plethora of gadgets that he just carries around to bail him out of that one in a million tight spot, to fight crime and restore order.The animation is good, it's the only cartoon drawn on black paper to aid in its dark feel, the music score is powerful, dark and brooding, the voice acting is top notch with Batman and Andrea played wonderfully by Kevin Conroy and Dana Delaney although the film is stolen by the Joker who is played by Mark Hamill from star wars fame. He brings something magical to the role, perfectly nailing the mix of being cool, funny, evil and sinister. Like the film, this is the perfect embodiment of who the Joker should be. The story is excellent keeping up with the mystery surrounding the phantasm and also telling Bruce Wayne's back-story, how he discovered the bat cave, bat car and what drove on his hunger for revenge.The ending with him standing dejected having lost his love and his foe and the world seemingly in flames is pure poetry. Batman is a character that should have everything but still not be able to obtain the small things that we normal folk hold dear. Someone that carries on his fight alone and doesn't 'get the girl' every time. We as the audience want to feel a connection to him and I feel I understood more of what was going on in this character then any of the live action versions. "},{"Title":"The Dark Knight in a tale of love, betrayal and murder...","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" An unfairly forgotten film, Mask of the Phantasm is not only a great animated film &#150; it is also the best of all the Batman films after Burton's original. The animation is not very detail-oriented, but it does a very good job of showing the emotional drama and turmoil of the characters. Bruce Wayne is a man who finds himself torn in two as Batman, he's a fearsome avenger of the night who is always alone and as Bruce Wayne, he's a rich fop and a womanizer who is also always alone. At a party, he thinks back on his first romantic love with a beautiful heiress named Andrea Beaumont and what his life could have been like with her. Andrea's reappearance coincides with the sudden arrival of (another) masked avenger named the Phantasm who is killing the mob bosses of Gotham &#150; and letting Batman take the blame for the murders. The last mob boss, convinced that Batman has gone nuts and is murdering his old compadres, offers the Joker $5,000,000 to kill Batman&#133;an offer that the Joker gleefully accepts. So, you've got Batman battling the Joker, the Phantasm, and the Gotham PD who want to bring him in for murder. On top of that, he's got the emotional turmoil of reliving his first love and the reasons she left him&#133;and the fact that maybe he's tired of being Batman, that he wants a normal life but he still feels driven to work off the guilt of his parent's death and the pressure of the vow he made to them. It all collides at the old Gotham's World Fair in a spectacular animated fight sequence between Batman, the Joker, and the Phantasm. This is an animated film with an unusual amount of emotional weight and resonance that is balanced with a strong dose of action &#150; a gem all the way. "}{"Title":"I always thought it was Mask of the Phantom","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I agree with Infofreak. People seem to have this constant delusion that Batman is all colourful backgrounds, grey and blue suits with Robin wearing and ballet costume. If some adults who read and saw the camp show really saw underneath that to find their beloved hero a dark, bitter, twisted vigilante who roams Gothem City, a dark and depressingly fantastic city, then they would see the real Batman. I first saw this film only last year but have wanted to see it for years. Finding the video was no easy task, found it, DVD just came out, sold VHS. It was worth it I love the whole evolution of Batman and his extremely dark past. I first saw the dark side of Batman when I was 5 years old on Christmas night 1990, and I saw Tim Burton's Batman. That whole image of Gotham City has been in my imagination and mind and still remains a magical place to me.Tim Burton to me is the saviour of Batman but I cannot wait to see Chris Nolan's Batman Begins to see the main Bat in town. "},{"Title":"Much better than the last three live action Batman flicks put together!","Date":"27 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Fun cartoon Batman film that follows the course of the (excellent) animated television show. I've always preferred the dark, graphic cartoon to the 1989 film's three (now four) sequels--and I don't like cartoons/comics very much. Very good!4/5 stars.- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"The way our hero was meant to be told","Date":"21 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Throughout the years, people have been waiting to see the perfect Batman movie; people complained about the live action versions that there was no relation to the Bruce Wayne character but about the villains. I remember staying up all night in the summer of 2001 for no reason, I was bored so I decided to go to the living room and find a movie to watch. I remember seeing the tape on the front of the living room set, so I pick it up and watch it and it was breathtaking in every direction, and finally gave Batman fans something to care about.This is the first film from the Batman The Animated Series in which the film's plot involves Batman being framed for killing a group of gangsters; but here's the catch, the new villain is identical to Batman in terms of the cape.The villain is known as the Phantasm in which he makes his appearance in a gray cloak, a blade for a hand, and a silver mask (almost identical to Doctor Doom) in which his weapon is not only hand-to-hand combat, but also uses smoke as a weapon as well for distraction, and that's what he uses to kill off the first two victims in the story; by leading one to crash his car on the street from a garage to crushing a mobster with a headstone at a graveyard (this might not be suitable for young viewers); and yet, both the gangsters and the cops work together to kill Batman and the only person who believes that the caped crusader isn't a murderer is Commissioner Gordon. Even the District Attorney Arthur Reeves, wants him dead and yet he's working with the same gangsters that are involved with the Phantasm.Throughout the film we encounter a beautiful woman name Andrea Beaumont who makes a fool out of Bruce Wayne, and in a flashback of Bruce Wayne, its explained that the woman was the first love of Bruce Wayne, but it tears him apart when Andrea abandons Bruce by leaving with her father to France after in tides with a local mafia. The flashback also shows how Bruce Wayne started out as the caped crusader by going through different fights with criminals disturbing the peace. He uses smoke bombs and jacks to stop the bad guys and vehicles along with different techniques of combat. He discovers later in his mansion that he has a cave and in one scene of the film he's at the funeral of his dead parents and tells him that he doesn't want to fight crime; I felt Bruce's pain in this movie, unlike the other films because all he wanted to do was lead a normal life.With people believing Batman killing the mobsters, there is one gangster who is scared to death, Sal Velestore, who pays a visit at the old Gotham Exhibit, which the Joker lives there. Sal pays him two million dollars to get rid of Batman. The Joker makes Sal laugh to death while getting the Phantasm on tape, and now The Joker knows the true identity of the vigilante.During the film, Batman discovers that the gangsters who died are related to the same mafia that Andrea's father was working with and discovers that The Joker used to work for the organization. Realizing that Andrea comes back into town, he realizes that he will do everything to protect his love and try to reveal who the killer is before it's too late.Batman Mask of the Phantasm proves to be one of the greatest animated films ever and the best Batman ever made. "},{"Title":"Best of the Bat","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Why was this cartoon the best depiction of all the other live-action movies? Simple.  BATMAN DOESN'T KILL.  Ever. In the first three movies (starting with 1989, I'm not counting 1966 and I refuse to acknowledge that it even exists), Batman wins by KILLING his opponents, either directly (like Two-Face) or indirectly (Penguin). At that point, Batman ceases to be the heroic figure and becomes just another thug.  I mean, he doesn't even attempt to save them!Batman exists to save people.  All people.  Even the bad ones.  Any movie that deviates from this isn't being true to the character. "},{"Title":"A lot better than I expected!","Date":"18 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I stumbled onto Mask of the Phantasm a lot later than most Batman fans, so I must admit, I was pleasantly surprised to say the least when the end credits were rolling.  I actually--no, I REALLY--enjoyed it.  Given the Batman track record at the box office I was expecting and somewhat hit-and-miss affair. But wow, this movie really kept me on the edge of my seat.  Finding out about Bruce's earlier years was really cool.  And I was not expecting the villain to be who it turned out to be.  I would strongly recommend this film to any older Batman fan who had given up after Batman & Robin.  Ever since I have seen the movie I have tried to catch up on the animated series.Also don't hesitate to check out the Batman Beyond Movie.  It's pretty good, too.  "},{"Title":"Best Batman yet","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is the best Batman to be seen on the big screen.  Far better than any of the previous live action films, Mask of the Phantasm captures the moodiness, the angst, and the pathos of the Batman comics.  Here we see Bruce Wayne as the dedicated but torn and tormented soul he is.  Here also, we finally see Batman fighting crime in all his proper glory flying from the rooftops, crashing through windows, kicking serious booty and demonstrating that he is the most amazing normal human on the planet. This movie presents Batman as he was meant to be.(And as an additional bonus, the mania of Hamill's Joker buries Nicholson's attempt.)  "},{"Title":"This Batman is far better than ANY of the live action movies","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I hated all of the live action Batman movies (yes even the first one). But the animated Batman has always remained true to the comic book, so when they made a movie I had to check it out.  This movie had a spectacular story and the Instrumental score was breathtaking.  This is one of my favorite movies! "},{"Title":"What Batman is all about.","Date":"15 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  When I first saw this movie, I was totally blown away. I love it! It's pretty cool to see all the flashbacks and get to know what Bruce did throughout his life. The Phantasm is a great new addition, the whole Angel of Death thing might be a little spooky for the younger kids, but it's great because it can go further than the series ever could. The voice acting works well, and I was startled to see the credits of Mark Hamill as the Joker. My only regret is that my friend told me who the killer was before I watched it. I give it four 1/2 stars. "},{"Title":"Far better then the live action films","Date":"24 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie greatly exceeded the live action movies (especially the Schumacher ones) in every way. It had a better plot, acting, atmosphere then any of the movies. Personally, I felt more people should have gone to see this movie, it passed through theaters fairly quick and went un-noticed by most. I happened to see it in a cheapo theater and wished I would have seen it in a quality theater. I bought it nearly right after it came to video and have watched it almost as many times as I have Akira. If you haven't seen this, it's a must. "},{"Title":"Better than the live action films","Date":"16 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Batman mask of the phantasm is really cool on many levels,the voices  bring the characters to life (especially Kevin Conroy and Mark Hamil. this is a must see classic "}{"Title":"The first great animated Batman movie.","Date":"1 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Superhero fans of my generation had tons of great cartoons to watch while we we're growing up, and Batman The Animated Series was right up there among the best. It combined action with a cool art style and serious plots that made the show just as appealing to adults as it was to kids. Mask of the Phantasm is a side-story of that amazing show, so it's no surprise that I still love it all these years later.Phantasm works so well because it pairs the usual themes of the show with an extremely bittersweet love story and tons of the detective elements that are always present in Batman's best tales. Equal time is spent with the present day mystery of the Phantasm, and Bruce's early experiments with vigilante justice. It's great to see Bruce Wayne get equal focus in the story, and in many ways the scenes with him out of costume are the most interesting and pivotal to the story. The Joker plays a crucial part in the plot, and a woman is introduced who had a powerful influence on Bruce's decision to become Batman. What more could the true Batman fan ask for? Mask of the Phantasm is worthy of being mentioned in the same breath as The Dark Knight and Batman Returns. There's a classic story within its animated trappings. "},{"Title":"Batman ! Need I say more ?","Date":"7 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Batman Mask of the Phantasm is a great animated movie where we find our beloved caped crusader facing an unknown and mysterious persona, the Phantasm. I watched this movies after I finished enjoying the Batman Animated Series and it captures everything we love about Batman. We get to see the greatest detective in the world in action, following the lead of a couple of mysterious murders for which he is wrongly accused. We get to see some interesting back story about Bruce Wayne in his early days of becoming the Dark Knight. Kevin Conroy as the voice of Batman will always be my favourite and Mark Hamill as the Joker is exceptional and without an equal. I recommend this movie to all Batman fans and to everybody who enjoys a great animation with a captivating story.I give 10 to all the movies I've seen because I don't like grades, all I can say is I AM BATMAN ! "},{"Title":"Best Animated Batman Movie Ever!!!","Date":"19 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This film is terrific this is how Batman should look like and not some crazy Joel Schumacher Bat Nipples creature. Kevin Conroy returns as the Dark Knight for the film that is truly considered one of the best batman films ever made for some even better than the Dark Knight Trilogy and i think that the Phantasm was a very underrated character Mark Hammil also returns as Joker enough said and i believe this one has a very awesome Batman theme and a great way to show the birth of the Batman. It has also some cool fight scenes and it's always awesome watching Batman going against the Joker. Batman Mask of the Phantasm is Awesometacular!!! "},{"Title":"Awesomeness!","Date":"15 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Based on the 1990s Batman The Animated Series, 'Batman Mask of the Phantasm' is pure Awesomeness! A very fun ride, that's packed with twists & sharp action-sequences. 'Batman Mask of the Phantasm' Synopsis Batman is wrongly implicated in a series of murders of mob bosses actually done by a new vigilante assassin.'Batman Mask of the Phantasm' works from start to end. The main plot is extraordinary, offering an all twist in the caped crusader's legend, while the romantic-track, though slightly lethargic, has moments of emotions. And the Action-Sequences are sharp. In fact, the Animation is just top-class! Alan Burnett, Paul Dinim, Martin Pasko & Michael Reaves's Screenplay is excellent. Eric Radomski and Bruce Timm's Direction is of high-standard. Vocal-Performances are sure to mesmerize. Kevin Conroy as Batman, gives the legend a voice with sheer restrain. Dana Delany as Andrea Beaumont, is a delight. Hart Bochner as City Councilman Arthur Reeves, is deliciously despicable. Stacy Keach as Carl Beaumont, doesn't lack conviction. Mark Hamill as Joker, however, steals the show. What a frighteningly stunning performance! On the whole, 'Batman Mask of the Phantasm' is a massive winner! "},{"Title":"The Most Absolute Batman Animated Movie Of All Time","Date":"8 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Batman has always been my all time favorite superhero besides Superman, Spider Man, Hulk, Wolverine and many other superheros. Now, Batman Mask of the Phantasm is not only the best Batman animated movie, but it is one of my favorite Batman movies along side with Tim Burton's classic 1989 movie and the awesome trilogy by Christopher Nolan. This movie gets so overlooked, and it deserves to be talked about as it has already become a cult classic. The movie centers around Bruce Wayne's past about as he once had a love one named Andre Beaumont as they were going to spend the rest of their lives together. Sadly, Andre breaks up with Bruce as he now turns himself into the Dark Knight to fight crime. During the present, the mysterious figure known as the Phantasm hunts down some of the crime bosses as Batman is being framed and goes out to find who the Phantasm really is. What can I say? Of course, you know the movie is based on a popular animated TV series which it is without a doubt one of the greatest animated shows about Batman. The movie is definitely larger than life as the movie went into theaters instead of being straight to video as it was originally intended. The movie open to great reviews, but did not perform well at the box-office due to how bad the marketing went. However, it did well for being success as it was first released on both VHS and Laser discs. I have it on VHS, and now I have it on DVD. Unfortunately, it has never been released on Blu-Ray yet which I will get to that later. I thought the animation is incredible as it does add a stylish look into as it represents what the comic books were. Also, the story is perfectly well told for showing the psychology of Bruce Wayne and following the path of becoming Gotham's greatest protector. The direction by Eric Radomski and Bruce W. Timm is absolutely top notch perfect. The voice acting is indeed perfect. Kevin Conroy does a heck of a job to voice both Bruce Wayne and Batman, as well as Mark Hamill for voicing the Joker. Of course, the late Gene Siskel from Siskel&Ebert did not like Hamill's voice, but that is his opinion. At least both Siskel and Roger Ebert gave the movie a two thumbs up which it deserves to. Dana Delany has also done a great job for voicing Bruce Wayne's love interest. The movie is 76 minutes long which it does go by at a very good pace, when it does keep you interest with the story and characters. I do love Shirley Walker's music which it is whether or not one of her greatest achievements. Now, about this movie for not being released on Blu Ray. Like Disney's remake of Mighty Joe Young, the movie does need another release on DVD as well as an official release on Blu Ray; it needs a heck of a restoration for cleaning up the movie's transfer, but no DNR like what Fox did to Predator because if it did then it will loose some of its textures and details. Warner Bros. needs to be faithful on how this movie looks, and maybe have it be supervised by Bruce W. Timm and some of the people that work on this movie. Also, the DVD only has a trailer but no audio commentary from the cast and crew as well as having deleted scenes, still galleries, maybe other trailers and TV spots and most of all a documentary on how the film was when it came to make a Batman animated feature film as it went from straight to video to theaters, and how the marketing turned out to be a huge disappointment but thanks to the fans for having it become a cult film. There is a petition that I found online, which I did sign it and I hope that Warner Bros. release this movie on DVD again, and making an official Blu Ray release with an all new video transfer with sound and an amount of special features. If you aren't interested to sign it, that is fine and I am not going to be upset or anything like that. I just want this to be release as soon as possible. If you are interest, then that will be wonderful. I will put the link on it whether you are interest to sign the petition to have this movie be released on Blu Ray. With that said, Batman Mask of the Phantasm is the most absolute Batman animated movie of all time, and it will continue to be a classic movie. I give it a 10 out of 10.Here is the link for the petition http//www.ipetitions.com/petition/release-batman-mask-of-the- phantasm-on-blu-ray For a reminder, if the link has issues just type the movie's name with petition on Google so that it will take you there. Thank you. "},{"Title":"Very well made, mature and entertaining","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Batman The Animated Series is superb, one of the best TV shows I've ever seen. It is incredibly consistent in quality with its excellent writing, voice-acting, animation and music (really powerful and gorgeous). New characters were created (Harley Quinn), deeper back- stories were developed (Mr. Freeze) and countless other ideas were first seen in this series to later become an integral part of the Batman mythology. Its tone found a perfect midpoint between the darkness usually associated with Batman and a children's action cartoon; both adults and kids can enjoy it. And this feature film lives up to all of those standards in a very satisfying way.There are many twists and turns in the plot of Batman Mask of the Phantasm. Like The Usual Suspects, you'll probably think you're clever for guessing certain things only to find you were way off the mark. The story is original although the Phantasm is apparently based on the Reaper from Batman Year Two. There are many flashbacks that give insight into Bruce's personal evolution and struggle as Batman. They tie-in to the events of the movie naturally.There are many little moments of humour, especially between Alfred and Bruce (or when Bruce is in public with his playboy persona). Their banter is often understated and hilarious. It's not based on shallow gags but centred on the characters so it has a long-term resonance. The more you see of them, the stronger and more entertaining their relationship becomes.The action is really well done. It's not just the same every time, there's always creativity like in a James Bond or Jackie Chan movie. Batman might have to avoid the police while also chasing a suspect or grab and use an unexpected weapon or dodge bombs thrown at him or have to create an impromptu distraction, etc. All the same, he still manages to constantly beat up thugs and outsmart his opponents. And of course, he always has to find a way to fight without ever killing anyone, his most fundamental rule.Speaking of which, the film-makers are clearly passionate about Batman and all of the mythology and fiction that's been created over the years about him and Gotham. They are true to it, honour and respect what they like best about it and regularly take it in new and interesting directions.This is actually a fairly sad and reflective movie. There's plenty of action but it has personal themes and probably more depth than a first viewing would allow one to properly absorb. And that's infinitely better than if it was just another entertaining but typical action movie. It will surely continue to grow in stature over time. Batman is perhaps the most popular superhero of all time (he's certainly my favourite) and here he is aptly represented in a very original and self-contained story. It's rare for love, expertise and talent to come together like this. "},{"Title":"Very Moving and Fantastic! Without doubt the best Batman movie of all time!","Date":"15 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I'm not a huge fan of Batman, I don't like The New Batman Adventures and not the episode version of Mad Love(the original version that means the comic book which came Before season 2 of BatmanTAS is better)I don't like Batman Beyond Return of the Joker either. I only like BatmanTAS, the Arkham video games except origins, the dark Knight Movies and and this Movie. A new villain in Gotham Phantasm is murdering the members of the gangster mob, and it's up to Batman to figure out who is the murderer and later he starts to reflect the first time of his true love Andrea Beaumont and how Bruce became Batman. When the phantasm is continuing with the murdering of the mob, the Joker returns for his rival against Batman. The story in the Movie is for me the best Batman story ever made in the franchise of the Batman things I only like, the animation is truly beautiful, the Music is Epic and the voices as Kevin Conroy as Batman and Mark Hamill as Joker is still incredible. This Movie has Everything,movements, romantic, action and excitements. Batman Mask of the Phantasm is not just the best Batman movie of all time, it's one of the best animated Movies i've ever seen. See it! "},{"Title":"A feature film from the classic 90's cartoon series where a new figure is killing old mobsters and Batman gets the blame as well as deals with the consequences of his past.","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This is one of the greatest batman feature films of all-time. I'm a big batman fan and I love the animated series, it's one of the greatest interruption of the iconic character. This is a perfect feature film spin-off to the classic series. This film works well as an addition to the animated series as well as a stand alone film. You don't really need to see the cartoon series to watch this film. Bruce Timm, Paul Dini and co. took full advantage of this being a feature film and not an episode of the series. The background animation is much better here with the use of some cgi, Gotham city looks great and bigger then in the series. The new opera music at the beginning(instead of the classic Danny Elfman score)is great! It's really powerful and haunting and really brings you right into the movie from the start and let's you know that this isn't the cartoon series. But the best thing about this movie is the very, very well written story. It's very serious and mature and not watered down for kids. The best thing about the story is that it explores more about Bruce Wayne's past and it ties nicely to the events of the present. The other great thing about the story is that it introduces a new villain and an interesting one too. The main villain is The phantasm a mysterious ghost of Christmas future looking figure that is killing old mobsters. People think that it's batman killing the mobster. The story is very much a murder mystery that unravels nicely through out the film. The plot twist that the phantasm is really Andrea may not be brilliant or that hard to figure out but still works well for the over plot. Batman meets a woman from his past named Andrea Boumont. Which gives reason for us to have some flashbacks and the best thing about them is how they tie Andrea into Bruce's decision or destiny to become batman. I love how we see a young Bruce Wayne who had dedicated his life to avenge his parents by fighting crime but he meets Andrea and begins to fall in love and how that throws a monkey wrench into his plans of fighting crimes. It's all done very well and you feel for Bruce more here then any other time. I love how they showed his inflictions, what should he do? No matter what carry on his vowel to his parents or abandon them for a chance of a normal life? The scene where Bruce Wayne's is at his parent's grave asking forgiveness in the rain and Andrea shows up and says maybe they sent me is so touching and powerful. I know it's required for Bruce to have a love interest but Andrea Boulmount is probably the best because she has much more depth then your average love interest. They do a great job at making her an mirror image of batman of what batman could've become. Every night batman walks that fine line between vengeance and justice but Andrea is out for pure vengeance and one of my favorite scenes is at the end where we see Andrea is on a cruise boat after getting her revenge and killed all the mobsters who killed her dad and a guy ask sorry, do you want to be alone? and Andrea responses I am alone. Showing even after getting her revenge it didn't make her any happier. It's also nice to see a strong female villain who actually kills. I love the 1940's like mobster aspect to this story which always works perfectly for batman. This movie is allowed to be more edgier then the series so people are killed and the main mob boss from the past, Sal Velstra smokes cigarettes which they couldn't really do in the series and I liked the idea of him being sick as an old man due to his smoking. Kevin Connerlly is once again great as the voice of batman. And I like that the story takes a different approach from other batman movies. It's not really about batman saving the city from a villain. It's a more personal fight for batman, he's being framed for murders and he's trying to save the moral center of a woman he once love. I also love when in a flashback Andrea told Bruce to forgett about her and that's the moment when Bruce knew that he had only one destiny, to be batman. And then there's the Joker, he didn't really need to be in this film but I'm glad he is because he adds a nice touch to the movie. They did a really good job at fitting him into the story and for once he's not the main villain. It's a nice twist where Joker was really minding his own business but is drawn into this story because he realizes that someone is killing off his old mob partners and he's next on the hit list. They do a good job at building mystery around how Joker fits into the mob killings and we find out that he's that young guy who acts as a bodyguard to mob boss Sal Vedlsta in the flashbacks and I like how they revealed that it was him who killed Andrea's father. I enjoyed seeing a little bit of Joker's past and how his own past has come back to haunt him. Joker is allowed to be more darker here and scarier then in the cartoon series. Joker is both funny and menacing. Mark Hammil's at his best as Joker's voice. He's on par with Nicholson and Ledger as the greatest Joker ever. I like when joker stars laughing when seeing the explosions. He should have died in this movie and if this was a stand alone he would have but I liked that they implied that Andrea did kill him. This is batman at his best! "},{"Title":"Batman Mask Of The Phantasm Review","Date":"19 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Batman's first full length animated feature film stars the voice talents of Kevin Conroy as Batman/Bruce Wayne, Dana Delany as Bruce's love interest, Andrea Beaumont, and Mark Hamill as the Joker.I first saw this movie on TV when I was a kid, and remember loving it and wanted to get it on video. So one day when I was at a movie store in the mall (which sadly isn't there anymore) my mom said we could buy one video for me to take home and I knew what I wanted, but I couldn't remember the name of it, so I just said a Batman movie with the Joker. The video that I ended up getting wasn't the one I wanted, but instead I got something even better, 2 episodes of the Batman Animated Series with the Joker on video (which I still have), even though I didn't get what I wanted, I'm grateful for getting that video because it introduced me to the animated series.Anyway back to the review. I didn't see this movie again until years later and I now appreciate this movie more now than I did then.What I love most about this movie is Kevin Conroy and Mark Hamill. To me, Kevin Conroy is Batman, yeah I know it's just his voice, but he does such an awesome job, and Mark Hamill, I mean who would have thought that Luke Skywalker could have such an awesome voice for the Joker, they are both the best voices for the animated Batman and Joker. Another thing I love is the score by Shirley Walker, it's just awesome. Lastly, I love the animation, the look of Gotham City and the character designs are awesome, I love the film noir look of the movie.I actually really don't have any complaints about this movie, it's my favorite animated Batman movie and it's also the first time we see a little bit of Batman's origin story on film, which is great. So I highly recommend this to fans of the animated series, as well as Batman and comic book fans in general, I'd give this movie a 9 out of 10, awesome animated Batman movie. "},{"Title":"There are certain advantages to having a sturdy cranium, Master Bruce.","Date":"4 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" A masked assassin is killing off Gotham mobsters and Batman is being blamed. At the same time, an old love of Bruce Wayne's has returned to town and brings back memories of Bruce's early pre-Batman days and how close he came to never becoming the crime fighter he is today. Also, the Joker figures into the plot nicely. The best Batman animated movie to date. Not surprising since this came out as the brilliant Batman The Animated Series was on television redefining awesome. If you loved that series, you will love this. It's not perfect. The identity of the Phantasm is fairly obvious despite their red herring attempts. But it captures what made the series work so well the appeal to both kids and adults by using simple storytelling devices and animation but still being intelligent and emotional enough to make it more than just mindless action or silliness. The main problem with most of the DCAU movies today is that they can't seem to strike that right balance anymore. They're either too dumb for adults to like or too hyper-violent and crass for kids to even be watching. Mostly they seem to settle on only appealing to teenage boys. But the '90s series had cross-generational appeal and this movie is a good appetizer for that main course. "}{"Title":"A great a hidden treasure . . .","Date":"27 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" It seems strange that in the 1990s, Batman on television went right where the features films went so wrong. In four films, neither Tim Burton nor Joel Schumacher ever managed to come close the core of what Batman was supposed to be about. Of the two, Burton came the closest, but his films were marred by gloomy self-indulgence and a Caped Crusader that was hard to care anything about. Schumacher, meanwhile, just made feature-length toy commercials.It all comes down to writing. The features were about action and violence while TV's Batman The Animated Series got down to the serious business of exploring what made the characters tick. The writing team of the show figured out the basic truth about The Caped Crusader, that Batman and his adversaries have never been simply pawns to move around a plot. There is always a method to their madness, some dark and haunted demons that make them do what they do. That applies, most aptly, to Batman himself whose persona is a personal prison. He's haunted by what happened as a child and burns with the urge to avenge the parents that were taken from him. The Animated Series consistently explored this haunted soul in a way that the features never did.Batman Mask of the Phantasm is the large-screen version of their vision. Released on Christmas Day in 1993, it arrived with little notice and was a box office disaster, mostly due to poor advertising. It was released to glowing critical acclaim and only found an audience when it was released on video. It remains a cult classic, a hidden treasure waiting to be discovered. For all the fuss and bother with the other features, this one gets Batman absolutely right.Batman Mask of the Phantasm actually tells two intricately written stories. The main story has Batman (voiced by Kevin Conroy) being framed for murder by a cloaked figure called The Phantasm who is killing off Gotham City's crime bosses. The other story involves Bruce Wayne's rekindling with an old love, Andrea Beaumont (voiced by Dana Delaney), whom he almost married before becoming Batman. The film periodically flashes back to show Bruce, during his college years, standing at a crossroads in his life. He is haunted by the murder of his mother and father and his soul burns to avenge their deaths. Yet, he also sees a light for his path, a method by which he can escape from his demons and into a life of marriage and children. They are conflicted. Andrea, too, has lost a parent and she is just has heartbroken as Bruce. It is a tragic love story, but it is made all the more palatable by the fact that Bruce and Andrea are presented as flesh and blood people who care deeply about one another.Written smartly by series writers Alan Burnett, Paul Dini, Martin Pasko and Michael Reaves, the story is molded very much by the character's personalities. The action scenes have more resonance because we've come to care about those involved. The animation here is crisp and beautifully drawn in an art-deco style reminiscent of Max Fleisher's Superman cartoon. The images are simplistic but not simple-minded. The colors, the shading, the light and shadow that reflect the inner turmoil of both Bruce Wayne and Batman give the character a special resonance. It's easy to get absorbed in these images just as much with scenes of Batman beating up criminals as it does a heartbreaking scene of Bruce agonizing over his decision to put on the cape and cowl for the first time. The city of Gotham is presented with more clarity and depth than it is in the live action films. Through the light and dark imagery, it becomes a real place.It is strange that such an intricately woven story would take place in an animated movie. In most cases, the love and devotion goes into creating beautiful images than into creating a story that we can care about. Batman Mask of the Phantasm is both, made by people who care about what they are putting on screen. They understand the demons that haunt Bruce Wayne and the machinations that place him in his personal prison. This is a film not to be missed.***1/2 (of four) "},{"Title":"A dark adventure of the Caped Crusader.","Date":"7 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I must say this is an intriguing film starring the Dark Knight. As the animated series at the time began draw in audiences, young and old, with its serious stories, fun music, great action scenes, and well-executed character explorations, Warner Bros. decided to cash in on its current success and produce a feature-length animated film to bring us a new perspective in the life of Bruce Wayne. Pretty much the first and only animated film released in theaters, this is Batman Mask of the Phantasm.Plot Believe it or not, there was a time when before donning the famous cowl, Bruce Wayne, billionaire orphaned son of Thomas and Martha Wayne, almost chose a normal life with his great love Andrea Beaumont. However, circumstances forced him other wise. Now, years later, a mysterious figure haunts the streets of Gotham City known simply as the Phantasm. As the vigilante begins to deliver a lethal brand of justice to several interconnected crime bosses, the Phantasm's remarkable similarity to the Batman have caused the police to suspect Bruce for these crimes. With the police hot on his trail and the past coming back to haunt him, can Batman put an end to the madness? Who is the Phantasm? And how does the Joker fit into all of this? Tune in same Bat time, same Bat channel! I've heard about this movie for years, but never got around to seeing it until now. Now that I've seen it, I must say that this is a very well-made super hero movie. The dilemmas Batman goes through and the deeper exploration of his past with Andrea are quite interesting. The violence and the dialog are actually more adult oriented than usual and that's saying a lot for a TV series kids watch. The action scenes are actually great, the stakes are raised and things just get crazier with every minute. The music is also great, extremely compelling and complementing the mood of many scenes extremely well.Kevin Conroy remains to be the best Batman ever and I applaud his continuous work in providing the voice of one of the greatest super heroes of all time. Mark Hamill as Joker is still a wonderful thing to see, his performance being fun to watch while also being rather creepy. I also love how the Clown Prince of Crime plays into the complex plot of the film. Andrea is one of the most interesting love interests I have seen in the franchise, having her own unique set of personal qualities and flaws. Finally, the Phantasm has an excellent look and spine-chilling voice that make the masked vigilante a worthy, and scary, villain.In conclusion, this is definitely one of the best batman movies I've seen and yet I feel that it seems a little underrated and that it deserves greater recognition. Mask of the Phantasm is an excellent film involving character study and epic adult dilemmas. Interesingly, the Phantasm would later make a surprise appearance in an episode of the ever-awesome series Justice League Unlimited. Batman fans will love this flick and so will newcomers, so it's definitely recommended that you check this action out. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"The Darkest movie of the Dark Knight","Date":"28 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" First of all, Batman Mask of the Phantasm based on Batman's animated series. It, more than any batman animation I've seen goes deeply into batman's/Bruce's personal life. The story, which is split almost evenly between present day and flashbacks via Bruce's memories, is incredibly well written and gives more depth to its characters. It is also a Tragic love story of batman's love life. So, If you are looking for just a cute romantic movie I cannot recommend this one. It's wonderfully animated, very violent, and very slick. Easily the best Batman films.As a true Batman fan, I highly recommend this movie for every Batman fan. "},{"Title":"Before Tim Burton and Christopher Nolan did Batman, there was, Mask of the Phantasm.","Date":"4 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Back in 1992, there was an old cartoon series based on the DC comics by the same name, Batman. It was dark and really successful. But in 1993, Warner Bros. Animation did an animated movie based on the series and despite good reviews, the film was a box-office bomb.The film was called, Batman Mask of the Phantasm. Not only it was a great adaptation of the series, but also one of the greatest animated films ever made. The animation is great because it had a nice, dark feel to the movie. The voice acting was also great. Kevin Conroy does a nice job as Batman and Mark Hamil does a great job as The Joker. The story was also good and the Phantasm was an interesting villain.The only problem I have with this movie is that there were too many flashbacks. There interesting, but they get pretty boring later on.Overall, If you're a fan of the comic book series or someone looking for a good animated film to watch, Batman Mask of the Phantasm, is worth checking out. "},{"Title":"one of the best superhero movies ever","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Never heard of this movie, well not surprised.And yes this is real. In 1992 a batman cartoon was made. It was more serious than any other children's cartoon on TV at the time. The success of this children's TV show was later made into a film in 1993 called Batman Mask of the Phantasm. A new supervillian is killing gangsters in Gotham city and everyone is thinking it is Batman. Meanwhile Batman's old love interest is back in town. A lot of the movie is told in flashbacks of Batman's affair with his love interest as well as in the flashbacks it is giving the question if batman should lead a normal life or if he should don the mask of the batman. The movie is kinda of like the animated version of batman begins, but I think it's better than Batman Begins. It has some good action scenes, possibly the best storyline of any batman movie and a great voice cast. Most of the actors returned as their roles from the show. One of which is Star wars's Mark Hamil who voiced the joker in the show as well. If you're a superhero fan (espically a batman fan) then try and find it on DVD and give it a watch. "},{"Title":"The Phantasm is Fantastic!","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Before Christopher Nolan came along and redefined Batman for a new generation, it was Batman The Animated Series which was the definitive adaptation of the Batman mythos. With its timeless anachronistic 40's feel, its well-scripted plots (many of them inspired from the Batman comics of the 70's and 80's) and its well-maintained balance between the heroic optimism and darkness of this protagonist, Batman TAS was essentially a pioneer in the field of more mature action oriented cartoons. And Mask of the Phantasm captures the best of what made this series tick.The main storyline is pretty interesting, though nothing particularly remarkable. Batman is framed for the murders of a series of mob-bosses, which were actually carried out by the titular Phantasm (not named as such in the film itself). However, the real charm of this film is in the flashback scenes which delve into Bruce's past and how he eventually ended up donning the cape and cowl. This film was the only on-screen adaptation of the mythos (until Batman Begins) to depict Bruce's transformation into the Batman, which is one of the most powerful scenes in the TAS ever. His doomed relationship with Andrea Beaumont and the role it plays in his metamorphosis into the costumed vigilante further adds depth to the character, in ways we have never seen before, as we realise exactly what Bruce had to sacrifice to live the life he has chosen. And as the story moves forward, the past and present of the Dark Knight begin to merge... Watch out especially for the subtle hints towards the Joker's background and a nice brief flashback scene which foreshadows their legendary enmity! "},{"Title":"An underrated classic!","Date":"2 September 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This film was overshadowed by it's live action counterparts by Burton and Schumacher, but this goes beyond any of them. For an on-screen adaption of a cartoon series, you'd think it'd just be eye-candy for kids. But this is true film-making, with a romance tale that rivals even the stuff of Shakespeare. The animation and art style doesn't feel like a cartoon, but more like a moving- better yet, living-painting. Just the poster for it feels operatic, and when Bruce Wayne becomes Batman, it truly feels so. The film really stays true to the comics, with an at times shocking and thought provoking origin story. The performances are pretty spot on, with Kevin Conroy delivering a true Batman, and Mark Hamill being show-stealing as the Joker despite his small screen time. It's much better than Burton's and obviously better than Schumacher's Batman films, and over all it's my 3rd favourite out of the franchise. "},{"Title":"Why didn't this film get more recognition? It's excellent!","Date":"9 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Ah, God bless the 1990's, frankly, it rocked growing up in this decade. I had The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Power Rangers, X-Men and Batman The Animated Series. I remember waking up early every Saturday morning to see the new episode of Batman, it was such a great series was different against all the other cartoons, it was extremely dark and edgy, especially for a children's cartoon. That's one of the reasons I adore Batman, he's unlike any other super hero's we know, he not only has a reason for his dark side but can kick butt naturally, sorry, had to say it. So I didn't even realize that there was a movie that was made around the series called Batman Mask of the Phantasm and I saw it on sale for five dollars and figured I'd give it a shot. One thing that confused me was how this movie was overlooked because it's such a terrific movie, the only thing I could assume is that during this time Batman Forever was also being released and this was animated so just disregarded sadly. But this is one of the best animated movies I have ever seen.During a conference of crime bosses held in a Gotham City skyscraper, gangster Chuckie Sol is killed by a mysterious cloaked figure shortly after Batman bursts in on the meeting. Batman is blamed for the death. In a flashback to Bruce's college days, we see him meet his old girlfriend Andrea in a cemetery while visiting his parents' grave. Bruce has vowed to avenge his parents' murder by dedicating his life to fighting crime. He dons a mask and black ninja-styled outfit and foils an armored car robbery, but is discouraged that the criminals do not fear him. Around the same time, he begins a romance with Andrea. Eventually, Bruce decides to quit his plan on becoming a crime-fighter and proposes marriage to Andrea. However, Andrea mysteriously leaves Gotham with her father, ending her engagement to Bruce. Believing that he has lost his only chance of having a normal life, Bruce finally dons the mask of Batman. In the present, the killer finds and kills another gangster, Buzz Bronski. Batman discovers evidence linking Beaumont with a number of organized crime figures. He discovers there may be more to the story of this masked phantom then he realizes.The whole feel of the film, if you were to just take the animation alone, this was superbly made. That's one of the reasons that the series was so well loved as well, just the whole atmosphere of the story was on track and you felt like you were in Gotham City. Even the acting was very good, this had a real old detective film feel to it, the love story between Andrea and Bruce was a perfect addition and it didn't over do their love, it was just perfect and had a good close to it. It was also great to have our beloved Joker in the mix of the story, how could we not include him? He's one of the greatest villains of all time. If you do get the chance to see Batman Mask of the Phantasm, seriously take it, this is a very overlooked film and deserves all the credit it can possibly get.8/10 "},{"Title":"Better than the Burton movies","Date":"11 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Batman Mask of the Phantasm was intended to be a straight to video release, but Warner Bros. thought it had box office potential and gave it a theatrical release. I would imagine the writers must have panicked when they got the memo, but they certainly delivered. The movie failed at the box office but it has done very well on home video, and rightly so. With the writing staff and cast of the excellent Animated Series, Batman Mask of the Phantasm became the first Batman movie where Batman was not overshadowed by the villains since the Adam West era. The Phantasm is a vigilante who systematically kills all of Gotham City's mob bosses. Witnesses mistake the Phantasm for Batman, and Batman finds himself pursued by the police, despite Commissioner Gordon's support. Batman hunts down the Phantasm to clear his name, but soon his arch-nemesis, the Joker, is hired to take out the Phantasm first! In the meantime, Bruce Wayne's ex-flame Andrea Beaumont is back in town, and this news leads to some flashbacks into Wayne's past. When they are reunited Wayne must choose between Andrea and Batman (which certainly happens a lot in superhero movies). We learn that the Phantasm has a very personal motive for killing these mob bosses, as well as a connection to the Joker, which keeps Wayne devoted to his duty for at least a little while longer. Mask of the Phantasm was really the first Batman origin story on the big screen, and in many ways it tells the story better than Begins. The flashbacks are interwoven throughout the movie but they don't feel like they are slowing the movie to a halt. We learn how Bruce Wayne began his crime fighting career and designed his costume. Alfred's reaction to the costume was perfect My God... The cast is perfect. Kevin Conroy is still the best actor to play Batman (IMO), and Mark Hamill (!) of Star Wars fame makes a surprisingly good Joker. I was shocked when I learned Hamill was the Joker. My parents didn't even believe me when I told them, they thought it must be another actor with the same name! He is a dark villain yet just right for kids and adults to enjoy. This movie proves that a Batman movie can be made where Batman and the villains really balance each other out. Batman, The Phantasm, and The Joker all have compelling stories. The dialog is a lot better than the usual superhero cartoon, and the 1940's art deco design of Gotham City is my favorite. The love story actually does not feel like a distraction, which is a refreshing change. If I had one criticism it would be that the Phantasm is a little similar to Catwoman in Batman Returns. Find this movie on DVD. It is one of those really good movies that you can find really cheap, but I hope they come out with more special features in the future. "},{"Title":"Ze best of ze Batmen","Date":"29 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This one plays out like a detective film noir. It's part murder-mystery and part love story with Batman as the ace detective. It is more violent than the animated series the art and characters are taken from, featuring actual deaths and a little bit of blood from time to time. But it's still ripe for all ages.It's really too bad that they don't make more like this. The music is an outstanding original score, replete with choirs and bombastic orchestral movements, and the voice acting is some of the best you can find in English. Considering how amazing Mark Hammill's Joker voice is, it's almost too bad he didn't get the role in the original live-action film.And of course the artwork is a higher-budget version of the cartoon show 1920s futurist German artwork combined with 1940s American noir and even science fiction. Lots of black, gray, and red.I think animation is the best medium for a story like Batman to work within. It's too bad no one has the guts to make a more adult-themed Batman movie along these lines. 'Coz this is a really decent number. "}{"Title":"Kitchen knife or stick of baloney? BALONEY!","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Western animation has so much damn potential, why isn't it being realised? Batman Mask of the Phantasm is in my opinion the best Batman flick ever made. There have been some shockers over the years, and I seem to be the only one who's not drooling over Batman Begins. Batman Begins was decent, but it's lacking something which this flick (and the series) have in stinking abundance Style. The Batman animated series is so freaking classy; I just love it. The city is done perfectly; it is GOTHam after all, not New York. I totally dig the dark, gritty scenery, and the nighttime rain showers provide a haunting atmosphere. There is something that this series/film does which is hard to explain they make Gotham believable, they make it seem real, and the flashbacks feel like history; not just character development. Little touches like the glimpses of characters in their younger lives add to this realism. I loved the scene with Bullock as a uniformed cop, and Joker as a sleazy criminal henchman; neither were overdone nor particularly over-dramatic. The development of batman was perfect too, not over the top at all. The directors/writers don't appear to feel the need to explain every little detail. Unlike a lot of blockbusters, they don't seem to be catering for the usual vegetables that need to be spoon fed. Maybe my cheese has slid off my cracker, but this seems like a intelligent filmThe reason I didn't give this 10 I took a star off because the Phantasm character was a teenie bit lame; the smoke disappearing act was pretty cheesy, along with a few other things about the character. The Phantasm was a deep character, don't get me wrong, just kinda hurts my little heart when the main antagonist turns out to be a goodie, oh well, as usual The Joker saves the day.The other star off is because of the song during the credits simply unforgivable. There could have been a bit more of the Joker! Mark Hamil and the design artists are truly talented. Anyway, awesome movie and let's hope that we take entertainment back to the drawing board and bust out a few more decent western animations. "},{"Title":"Batman is suspected of killing off Gotham's gangsters and must confront the true culprit The Phantasm","Date":"31 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie is criminally overlooked and probably represents the best American produced action animated feature ever made and definitely one of better Batman movies yet made. Bruce Tim and company know and respect the source material enough play it as it should be in epic terms. This is established from the get go with the operatic intro and the story telling takes it from there. Batman comes off like one the Greek heroes of old; struggling with the tragedy fate imposes upon him, his triumphs tempered by loss he presses on in his grim cause.Coming treacherously very close to becoming the very evil he has dedicated himself to end. Which is why the Phantasm makes for such an effective and personal villain for Batman because the Phantasm represents that very fine line, that if crossed Batman would be forever lost. All this is presented fluid animation, with some truly excellent voice acting, and an amazing score only the rather exposition laden plot detracts from the overall experience. A fine example of how the animated medium should be used as a way tell a good story, not specifically pander to a youthful audience as it so often has been in recent years. "},{"Title":"Batman the way he is meant to be!","Date":"5 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" If there is a definitive Batman movie out there...this is it! I grew up watching Batman The Animated Series and am an avid graphic novel collector. The plot of this film is by far one of the best ever submitted to the Batman mythology. Not to mention the exquisite animation and voice talents of Kevin Conroy and the great Mark Hamill. Not only is the acting in this film amazing, and the dialogue well-crafted, but the story is compelling and real. The group who made the original BTAS simply get the character and it shows in their work.To sum it all up I wish I had more hands so I could give this movie FOUR THUMBS WAY UP! It is possibly the greatest Batman film of all time, and certainly tops my list. "},{"Title":"The Best Batman Portrayel","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Batman mask of the phantasm is truly one of the best batman's films around, the darkness and extremely fascinating plot brings batman alive. The voices of joker by Mark Hamill is genius, and in my point of view a true batman film can only be perfect if it is animated, as all the best batman portrayals have been batmanAts and batman beyond return of the joker. The film has a very interesting plot, with Batman being chased by the police for a crime he didn't commit, to the flashback of batman's past, showing how he became batman - similar to batman begins, to Bruce Wayne love life, Batman Mask of the Phantasm is the perfect Batman film. "},{"Title":"A must see for Batman fans","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Its easy to understand why the animated series of Batman was highly respected. It caught the atmosphere of Batman and Bruce Wayne in a perfect way that up until now only Chirstian Bale has been able to do. I first saw this movie a while back ago and managed to get my hands on a DVD copy of it later which I saw yesterday and I am glad to say that the magic of this has still not worn off. We still have our troubled soul Bruce Wayne trying to fight off his demons in a very tragic way which makes one sympathise with him and it has more of a focus on Bruce Wayne rather than Batman which gives the viewer a much more depressing and grim depiction of him. I would urge people to check this out when ever they get a chance but treat this as a small appetiser for The Dark Knight as it kind of acts on an expansion to Batman Begins, my only complaint was that this one was too short ! I don't want to go into the plot either as I felt the shortness of the movie might ruin your experience.BATMANMASK OF THE PHANTASM - 8.8 out 10 THE DARK KNIGHT BATTLES TO SAVE GOTHAM FROM ITS DEADLIEST Enemy. "},{"Title":"Excellent and flawless.","Date":"6 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Some people might say that for an animated feature, this is pretty good. I disagree. I say that for any kind or type of movie, Batman or not, animated or not, this is awesome. I'm glad that it actually got a release in theaters before being put on DVD and VHS. Otherwise, it would not have as big a fanbase as it does. But that, could not, in any way possible, make me like it any more, or any less. The Joker is given one of the best story lines ever to be involved in, the Joker himself is wonderful, and Mark Hamill did a fine job. When I first watched this, I did not at all recognize Mark Hamill as the Joker. I still get floored, every time I watch this, at that fact. Mark Hamill is the very definition of the Crazed Clown in the world of animation. The last scene is one of the best, with Batman staring out over the water, forever lonely. "},{"Title":"Very well done","Date":"21 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I've been a fan of the Batman comic since I was a child, the idea of the tragic mere man pushing himself physically, mentally and intellectually (and with the help of his nice financial situation) as to be able to rank with Superman (and indeed even beat him on more than one occasion) always appealed to me.You can tell the creators of this movie and the associated TV series (primarily the original adventures of batman on which the movie is modeled though Batman Beyond isn't without a charm) really enjoy the story and the character of this figure, presenting his isolation, drive and even fanaticism to an accurate degree. Spectacular job, I would love to see more in the same vein, though that seems unlikely now. "},{"Title":"The Best Batman Movie there ever has been, and ever will be.","Date":"6 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Batman is a complex creature, a temperamental stew. One wrong ingredient, one mistake, and the whole thing falls apart. Adam West was great at the time, but with age has become a joke. The 1989 version was critically acclaimed for being dark and moody, but failed to have a convincing love story, and was pretty much entirely about it's villain.Batman Mask of the Phantasm fixes that. Andrea Beaumont is not only a complex character in her own right (instead of a one-note love interest) but her romance with Bruce is also convincing, powerful and something the audience wants to see.While the Joker is in it, and he does indeed steal the show. Batman's and Andrea's trials and issues don't pale in comparison. He manages to fit himself into the plot and instead of forcing Batman into simply beating up the bad guy and saving the day, he helps move along the plot and wrap up everything that's going on.The plot itself is captivating. With twists and turns that while, not entirely unpredictable, manage to create a sense of mystery and intrigue for the viewer. While the movie is told partially in flashbacks, they're necessary to reveal the motivations of the various characters.The Cast sells it brilliantly. Hamill's Joker makes you fear him, and yet laugh with him at the same time. Conroy's Batman is sympathetic and interesting to watch, as with every action he drives another nail into his proverbial coffin. Delany's Beaumont is sexy, quirky, and brainy. While Zimbalist Jr.'s Alfred provides a bit of needed comedy relief and emotional support for Bruce (I admit it, his speech to him at the end of the movie almost brings me to tears every time.) Hart Bochner rounds out the cast as the slimy and sniveling Arthur Reeves.All in all, a gallivanting triumph. Showing the tragedy of Batman alongside a tragic and captivating love story. And who knew there was going to be a joker in the deck? You think by now they'd be expecting it. "},{"Title":"Best Batman Film Ever... Flawless!","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This movie stands as one of the MOST UNDERRATED films of all time and it's a travesty to see that Batman & Robin received much more spotlight.The fact that hardly anyone even mentions this film is sad. It was a box office flop (11 million worldwide?!?!?!) and even Ebert ignored it.I won't hesitate to say that this is the BEST-WRITTEN Batman movie (yes, besting even Batman Begins). The dialog itself is witty and the story remains faithful to the dark theme of Batman An endless quest to attain redemption.What is also wonderful is that the film is very emotional and tugs at the viewer's hearts. The film also adds a new layer to Batman and that is through his romance with Andrea and their somewhat-similar pasts. But what I find truly golden here is how the film portrays Batman less as a macho crime fighter but as an agonized victim of a haunting past and dire circumstances. The film is a great contribution to the Batman legacy as a whole and is very emotional, dark and tragic. All these make perfect for a film noir, which is what Batman is! Mask of the Phantasm has further rejuvenated my love for the Batman series and Film Noir! A MUST-SEE for fans and casual viewers alike! "},{"Title":"Absolutely Breathtaking (May Contain Spoilers)","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I have seen this movie probably 100s of times and I love it. It is by far the best Batman movie ever. Even better than the live-action Tim Burton/Joel Schumacher films. It is absolutely breathtaking.Some of my favorite aspects of this movie were-Andrea's passions Bruce Wayne and the revenge for her father's death.-The Joker (Who doesn't love this clown?)-The Phantasm and the Joker's fight at the very end.-The very last scene when Andrea vanishes and is on the cruise ship.-The music of the movie (especially I Never Even Told You)-The darkness of the movie-How it doesn't restrain itself to a normal animated movie.-Basically everything else, but these were special.I recommend this movie to anybody and everybody who like the 1992 Batman Animated Series, and the fans of the live-action Tim Burton/Joel Schumacher films. "}{"Title":"The Best Batman Story.","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Mask Of The Phantasm is a far more mature Batman than any i've ever seen.The story is powerful,dark,mysterious,but most importantly realistic.This film could very well be the inspiration for Batman Begins.Mask Of The Phantasm is cocked,locked,and loaded with action,a breathtaking storyline,fantastic animation,and superb voice acting.The twists and turns of the plot is sometimes hard to follow due to a number of flashbacks so children may get very confused.To truly enjoy and appreciate this film you need to be a teenager or adult.Phantasm is a phenomenal adaptation of the character and is portrayed the way he is in the comics.This surpasses Batman and Batman Returns because the characters are much more believable,it also runs Batman Forever and Batman and Robin into the ground well....Every Bat-Fan knows why already.I close by leaving this film in very high regard and recommend it to any Batman fan. "},{"Title":"A Truly Awesome Animated Movie of Batman Well Worth Seeing","Date":"15 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This Post May Contain Spoilers  One of the best Batman movies was in animation. Right next to the live action Batman Begins, this is superb animation and a great storyline and unlike the series itself, we got a musical score soundtrack of this movie. Unlike the Fox episodes, we see Batman actually punch bad guys in this movie and we see his fist connect. The closest WB came to exploring Batman's origin is in this movie. Or we at least see Bruce Wayne in his early 20's, barely out of college, and right before he became Batman and how his first true love, Andrea Beaumont nearly steered him away from his destiny. Kevin Conroy, Mark Hammill, and the cast did a superb job with the voice overs and I love the voice of Dana Delaney. She is already beautiful and I love the sound of her voice as Andrea. I was shocked in 1996 when she would voice over Lois Lane in Superman The Animated Series. I was also surprised to discover that Abe Vigoda, (Fish from Barney Miller) was the voice of the old mob boss,Sal Valestra. We also see the Joker before he was the Joker. Taking my cue from the Tim Burton Movie, we get to see the Joker when he was Jack Napier, only briefly. My favorite Joker line is Not bad lady, you're harder to kill than a cockroach on steroids. I also enjoyed seeing more of Batman in an unmasked state several times in the movie. I saw it in the comics all the time and was glad they did it with this movie. If you've never seen Mask of the Phantasm, I highly recommend it for purchase or rental. You will see a great animated action story as well as a great love story. I look at Mask of the Phantasm as complimentary of the first 70 episodes of Batman The Animated Series. "},{"Title":"The real Batman Begins","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Batman The Animated Series was a Saturday morning cartoon series that aired on FOX Kids. I consider that particular series the best adaptation of Batman. The series did an amazing job of providing origins for many of Batman's famous villains. However, it never provided one for the title character. So, this is the team's way of creating a back story for their main character.When Bob Kane and Bill Finger created Batman back in 1939 they didn't feature an origin on the first issue. That was something they later dealt with and it wasn't even a full issue. It was just prologue for one of the stories. Bruce W. Timm and the rest of the gang remained true to that concept and don't exactly make this film into an origin tale. The origin is just back story for the actual plot. The plot is that a new vigilante has arrived into Gotham killing many mob bosses. Somehow Batman is confused for this new vigilante and he has to prove his innocence, while battling the Joker and catching up with an old girlfriend.Like the animated series this film is an amazing accomplishment. It's probably even better than Batman Begins. Too bad people don't see it because it's a cartoon.RATING 4 (****) out of (****) "},{"Title":"true batman story","Date":"26 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" By far, one of the best Batman movies ever. A true detective story that respects the characters and one of those rare cases in which a comic film respects and embellishes established comic continuity. This movie touches upon the humanity of the character of Batman. It shows that one of the greatest super heroes ever is not a single-minded revenge machine. Instead this film shows the man that is batman. He loves, he laughs, he smiles, he hurts, he grieves, he's finally depicted as being human. The action is fair and balanced, this film opted to show Batman doing some good 'ol fashioned detective work instead of driving the bat-mobile up walls or clashing with scene chewing villains. The story is a classic who-done-it? mystery, it employs the use of flashbacks, which is often a cheesy plot device but they're done right and they interlace perfectly with the story and push it forward. The plot involves the murdering of many mob bosses, and the authorities pin the murders on Batman. Batman has to evade authorities and find out who is really doing the killings. "},{"Title":"The most accurate portrayal of Batman on film, ever.","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" The film maintains the dark deco direction and style of Batman The Animated Series under the direction of Eric Radomski and Bruce W. Timm and the writing of Alan Burnett and Paul Dini (all of whom worked on TAS), and features the same voices talents as the show, including Kevin Conroy as Batman/Bruce Wayne, Efrem Zimbalist Jr as Alfred, Bob Hastings as Commissioner Gordon, Robert Constanzo as Detective Harvey Bullock, and Mark Hamill as The Joker. Basically, the movie takes all the best elements of the series, and puts it together as a longer episode. Except that if it were an episode, it never would have made it past the censors. Also, it'd be the best episode in the history of the show.As a theatrically-released movie with a 76 minute running time, Mask of the Phantasm had license to do things the Saturday afternoon cartoon show could not do. It's a darker, more mature look at Batman than the series could be, receiving a PG rating. It's no Sin City or Heavy Metal, but is more intense than usual, showing murder, blood, and allusions to sex that could never be shown on the show. Which is not to say that it's an adult film, because it's not. It's still an animated movie about a super-hero, and is still primarily for kids (albeit, older kids). It just means that Mask of the Phantasm is closer to the comic book than the series is allowed to be.In terms of story, Mask of the Phantasm is a mystery movie, as a new vigilante, who bears similarities to Batman, comes to Gotham and begins executing mob bosses. Batman must figure out who this new vigilante is to end the Phantasm's rampage, while Batman himself is being accused of the crimes. Meanwhile, a former love is back in Gotham (voiced by Dana Delany), drudging up painful memories for Bruce Wayne of the one who got away. While dealing with the Phantasm, his long-lost love, and Gotham Police, Batman also has to deal with The Joker, who is somehow involved in everything.The movie is an excellent combination of action and suspense, and until the recent release of Batman Begins, was easily the best Batman film ever (but it now must place second). Strangely, since it is a cartoon, this film has the most convincing and realistic love story in Batman movie history (although, to be fair, there's no real competition in that area, as all the other love stories in Batman movies have been rushed and unconvincing). Comic book fans will geek out over the Year One like flashbacks featuring a non-costumed young Bruce Wayne attempting to fight crime, and the appearance of the Phantasm, who, with a cape, spectre-like mask, and scythe, bears a strong resemblance to Year Two's murderous vigilante The Reaper.Personally, I absolutely loved this movie. However, it's not a movie for everyone. If you're not already a fan of Batman or Batman The Animated Series, then I don't think this movie would have much of interest for you. But if you are a fan of the series or the character, then I highly recommend you check this film out. "},{"Title":"Joker is the best part of this.","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Mark Hamill is one of the best Jokers (voices at least) of any I've seen. And I've seen and heard about all of them. That said the plot gets a little dry at one point but then gets new life when the Joker shows up. Such great antics. and I LOVE when he SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERTJoker gives the councilman smiles and he goes crazy. That's one of the best parts. All in all though this is one of the best animated films I've seen. If you are a fan of the Animated series or even a fan of the comics alone, check this out. Word of warning, it is really hard for kids to get some of the stuff. There are a lot of flashbacks. This is really more for adults or teens. "},{"Title":"The Best Batman Movie Of The Twentieth Century","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" An absolute masterpiece composed by Warner Bros. No other Batman movies can live up to its standard (except Batman Begins), and as of yet, I've never seen a better animated movie.The script is brilliant, the story is their own improvisation and succeeds to be excellent in every aspect. The voice acting, I thought, was overwhelming compared to other cartoons. Kevin Conroy is the perfect voice for Batman. Gruff and petrifying. Mark Hammill is also a brilliant Joker. This has been given less credit than it deserves, and it deserves a lot of credit.Of course, a Batman film would not be without a few twisted villains. The Joker is the main villain, but does not actually have any plans for criminality until he is confronted by one of his former victims. The climatic ending is overwhelming, with Batman and the Joker absolutely battering the living hell out of each other. It doesn't hesitate to show blood or violence, and to a higher extent, it gives the film one of its dark elements.Bruce Wayne's former fiancée, Andrea has come back to Gotham City for a vengeance on all the mobsters who were involved in the killing of her father. Batman cannot allow that, it's his City. The joker is dragged into the frame when it is found he is one of the mobsters who was involved in the murder of her father. The story contains no flaws. None, whatsoever.The film possesses everything you'd hope for. A kick-ass Batman, violence, dark elements, a sense of romance, action, a good cast and a license of its own to be creative in its own story. The worst bit is the credits, when it finishes you off with a jazz-like song. That's the only thing I can say that's bad about it.A true landmark in movie history. "},{"Title":"Should Have Been Converted Into a Live Action Movie","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Batman Mask of The Phantasm Is one of the best Animated movie in existence. The Use of character revaluations, pathetic falacy, and symbols all make this one unique film that SHOULD be made into a live action movie. The character development of batman really shows his past in great detail, with him starting out to e a hero, and from his potential marriage top Andrea Beaumont. Also, the raw emotions that are trapped within Andrea develop her character with all of the hate, and anger inside her that make her, for the lack of a better term, Go To The Darkside of crime Fighting, where Batman has almost gone several times. Finally, the look into the Jokers past as a two bit hit-man 'climbing the ropes' of the mafia syndicate really show how inhumane he is behind all of the make-up  "},{"Title":"One Of The Greatest Batman Movie's Today","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Animated or not, this is still one of the best Batman movies to this day. Great action, story, mystery and characters, this movie brings everything that makes a great Batman movie. Just like most people here say, Kevin Conroy and Mark Hamill are great at doing the voices of Batman and Joker. Whenever I think of Batman or Joker, I always think of Kevin Conroy and Mark Hamill.It's great to see the cops finally turn on Batman in this movie and finally we see the Joker get a little more deadly in this movie, unlike some of the early Batman The Animated Series episodes.I would like to reccomend this movie to anyone who loves Batman and anyone who doesn't care about Batman. In my opinion, any Batman fan or non Batman fan will love or like this movie. "},{"Title":"Dramatic Depiction of a Comic Book Legend","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This animated feature is a genuine masterpiece. Its astounding success led to the production of the world famous Batman the Animated Series. It owns an awesome story, allied with a marvelous art conception of Gotham in an Art Deco style.It is also amazing how they crossed the origin of the Dark Knight with the main plot. Add to this a wonderful Danny Elfman-based soundtrack with gothic chorals. Amazing, a must see for Batman fans! "}{"Title":"Sometimes the Past Can Come Back to Haunt You!","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS      Our story begins one night in Gotham City at the Shady Lady casino where crime boss, Chuckie Sol, was meeting with his counterfeit gang. Suddenly in burst Batman. He fought the gangsters. Sol ran away and suddenly ran into a shadowy figure with billowing cape and dark mask called The Phantasm. He had come for Sol. Sol jumped in his car and accidentally drove off the edge of the building and fell to his death. Witnesses saw Batman overlooking the wreck and blame him for it. Councilman Arthur Reeves, is confident that Batman was guilty. The following evening, Bruce Wayne threw a party at his mansion and was reminded of an old flame, Andrea Beaumont. It all began twenty years earlier when young Bruce was at the cemetary visiting his parent's grave him he met Andrea. The two begin to get friendly, but Bruce had made a vow to his parents that he would avenge their murder. Returning to the present, Buzz Bronski, an old ally to Chuckie Sol stopped at the cemetary to pay his respects when he ran afoul of the Phantasm. Bronski accidentally fell into an open grave. Phantasm pushed an angel statue on him and that was it. Batman was blamed for that murder too. Commissioner Gordon knew Batman was innocent and would have no part in his apprehension. Surly detective Harry Bullock, however, jumped at the chance.         Salvator Valestra, who was once in cahoots with Sol and Bronski, was confident that Batman would come for him next. He had a tie in with Councilman Reeves! It back dates twenty years earlier when Bruce and Andrea were courting. They go to the world's fair and Bruce takes on a deadly motorcycle gang who get the better of him. It seemed as though Bruce just wasn't striking fear into those he attacked. He also couldn't go on like that as long as Andrea was there. Andrea brought Bruce to meet her father, Carl, but that day Carl had some associates there Sol, Bronski, Valestra, and a fourth associate, Jack Napier. It seemed as though Carl was in cahoots with them; Bruce proposed to Andrea who was overjoyed but was then informed that she and her father must run after he made a phony promise to Sal Valestra that he'd pay him the money he owed so Andrea returned the ring to a distraught Bruce. Bruce also found a cave filled with bats. He'd make that his new secret hideout and even created the ultimate crime fighting costume a bat man! Valestro seeked out The Joker, his old associate, and asked him to eliminate Batman for him. The Phantasm found Sal dead. Joker had set a trap for Batman but it seemed to have failed. Batman found the Phantasm and tackled him but he got away. Suddenly, the entire Gotham City police force tried to shoot Batman, but he luckily got away and met up with Andrea who told him the whole story and how she returned home one afternoon to find her father murdered. Councilman Reeves had sold him to the mob earlier on and The Joker saw him one afternoon in the present and hit him with a nerve toxin that made him laugh himself to death.         The Phantasm seeked out the Joker at his hideout in the old Gotham City World's Fair. The Joker knew who Phantasm really was Andrea. She was out for revenge on the murder of her father so it seemed as if Bruce and Andrea had alot in common. The Joker was originally Jack Napier and he was the one who murdered Carl. Then he underwent psychosis and became the Joker, but that's another story. Anyway, The Joker tried to kill Andrea, but Batman came to her rescue. He also engaged in a showdown with the Joker. It was quite a tough battle. The Joker had rigged the place with explosives, then Andrea grabbed the Joker and vanished in a cloud of smoke. She ended up on a cruise ship. As for Batman, his name was cleared and when the Bat Signal flashed in the sky the following night, he knew he was needed.        Nice animated Batman film! It's a send-up of Batman The Animated Series! Kevin Conroy voices Batman. Mark Hamill (Luke Skywalker) voices The Joker. Dick Miller is Chuckie Sol. Abe Vigoda is Sal Valestra, Stacy Keach is Carl Beaumont and the voice of The Phantasm, Dana Delany is Andrea Beaumont and Robert Costanzo is that no-good Harry Bullock! The Joker is my favorite Batman villain so I'm glad they decided to include him in the movie. So if you're a fan of the cartoon series or enjoyed the live action Tim Burton Batman flicks, I recommend Batman Mask of the Phantasm! A must for Bat fans!- "},{"Title":"This is probably the best Batman movie ever made.","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The legacy of the Dark Knight continues through this animated masterpiece. With this being the best, most true-to-the-character adaptation of Batman for the big screen.  Animated or not, this is probably the best Batman movie ever made, it's what the live action films should be.  It's not campy like the Joel Schumacher adaptations.  This film is much darker and goes deeper into the world of Batman, the way Batman was originally envisioned.  You are automatically drawn in from the start with the epic soundtrack composed by Shirley Walker, which sets the tone perfectly for the film.  If you are a fan of Batman, this is the must have movie. "},{"Title":"Probably The Best","Date":"21 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There were five Batman movies in the late eighties and nineties. The first two Burton movies were superb. The plots were okay. The director did an excellent job. The second two movies were horrible. The plots were ridiculous and extremely immature. The director (Schumaker) is horrible! One of the five was a cartoon movie. The plot is excellent. The animation is flawless. Batman Mask of the Phantasm is dynamite.If you really want to see the real Batman, then watch Tim Burton's Batman (1989) and Batman Returns. Another great one would be Batman Mask of the Phantasm. If you see these three, then you will know the real Batman.Don't see Batman Forever and Batman & Robin. It's pure garbage. That isn't the real Batman. That's the truth. "},{"Title":"Hands down the best Batman movie, and it only rivals Spiderman as the best superhero movie.","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's very sad that this film was overlooked and ignored. Although I do find guilty pleasure in the live action Batman films, this is by far out does them all.The plot is intelligent and full of twists and turns, flawlessly combining the mob mystery with the love story it effects. All of the characters are very well developed, relatable (well the ones that intend to be), and entertaining. Even the score is awesome.The voice acting is perfect. Kevin Conroy is THE only voice who should play Batman. And Mark Hamill is the best Joker ever. period.This film stays so true to the original characters of the comic book that it is the only rival I would put against Spiderman (2002) as the best comic-to-film adaptation to date.My only complaint is that the animation in this film really isn't a step up from the TV show that spawned it's style. I LOVE the simplistic, geometric looking style that Warner Bros. gave this adaptation of Batman, I just wish a little more care was taken with it.Anybody who is remotely a fan of Batman, or the animated TV show, should see this great movie. "},{"Title":"Best Batman YET!!","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I'm hopping on the same bandwagon to say that this Batman film leaves all live-action attempts in the dust!!  You actually believe this is the same guy who gave his all into becoming a supreme athlete as well as a master detective, beyond the limited dimensions that we got from the less than fully convincing Keaton, Kilmer, and Clooney.  The movie stays true to its source material and ultimately gives us OUR BATMAN!  If WB ever makes another attempt toward a live action Batman, here's the reference, not what Burton or Schumacher gave us. "},{"Title":"Not a cartoon","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Once again. The best of all of the batman movies. Bar none. The story is much better than any of the other batman movies, and the actors are better too. The joker in MOTP is funnier, and more frightening than the joker in the first batman movie. Watch this movie and you will see that Mark is THE joker. Not Jack.Good fun. Some surprises too. I wish the DVD had more goodies.  "},{"Title":"Best superhero film ever","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  The story, the style, the music...everything makes this animated film the best superhero movie ever done. The series was a blast, but this film delivers better the goods. It's an adult and serious film, and by that I don't mean not suitable for children, but that it deals with adult themes such as responsability, wrath, love....what a good film should do. I always felt that the live action Batman films lacked many things, and this film proves it. The origin of the Batman, ala Year One, it's a joy to watch. Kudos for Bruce Timm and everyone involved!  "},{"Title":"Best of the Batmen","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Mask of the Phantasm is the best Batman movie yet.  The Adam West Batman is fun as pure camp; the 1990s Bat movies are hollow spectacles.  This animated Batman has more soul and depth than any of the live action adaptations. The animation is decent and looks like what people of the 1940s imagined their future would be.  This must be Batman as Bob Kane intended him. "},{"Title":"Excellent adaptation of Batman mythos","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Of all the adaptations of the Batman mythology produced in the past fifty years, this one is by far the best.  It fully captures the essence of the comic book characters while simultaneously showcasing the Dark Deco tone and imagery for which the entire animated series was deservingly praised.Like Tim Burton's original Batman film, this movie manages to capture the feel of twentieth-century America.  You may not be able to place it in a decade, but you can instantly identify with the the urban grittiness that provides the only possible venue in which Batman can be created.  This temporal ambiguity also cements Batman and his supporting cast as true American icons and legends, timeless in nature, yet rooted in a specific time and place.The voice casting is excellent.  The visual imagery is enthralling.  The storyline is solid, yet somewhat predictable.  However, this slight misstep is overshadowed by the strong characterization allowed to each member of the animated cast.Without doubt, this animated feature is the best presentation of the Batman legend ever. "},{"Title":"Without a doubt, the best Batman film ever made.","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is definitely the greatest Batman movie ever made, far superior to any of the live action films. Batman is presented as the serious, complicated character he is. This movie is an underappreciated work of art. I only wish it would've gotten the respect it deserved at the box office. "}{"Title":"Great characterisation","Date":"11 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I have been a batman fan for 12 years.I have been reading most batman comics for that period and I have to admit that I was disappointed with the way Batman was interpreted on the big screen.Batman is a wonderful ,dark and intriguing character and I think they could make a lot better films than Batman Forever and Batman and Robin.Many people say that Batman the Mask of the Phantasm is the best Batman film made.I have to agree with them since it is more faithful to the comic book material than the live action films.One bad thing about it is that it suggests that Bruce wouldn't become Batman if he found true love.That is not true.The comic book Bruce Wayne is obsessed with his crusade and wouldn't let anything, including his emotions, to get in the way.In recent issues Of Detective Comics he split up with his girlfriend ,Vesper because he realised that he was getting to close to her.However,despite this small mistake Mask of the Phantasm is a great film.I just hope that the upcoming Batman Year One(another film examining Batman's origin). will surpass it "},{"Title":"THE REAL DARK KNIGHT...","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I came across The Animated Series almost by accident on some early Saturday morning kids show.I was transfixed. Although Tim Burton had made a fine looking live action film he had produced,to quote I believe Stephen King,a fine looking automobile with no engine.Burton's film was entertaining it's just a shame Batman wasn't in it!When I finally saw MOTP I rejoyced at the return of The Real Dark Knight.This is what a Batman story should be(I won't bother saying what other reviewers here have already said).What's refreshing is that it appears that the makers were spared the hassle of having to appeal to the kiddie market with some cheap fast food tie-in and were just left alone to make a decent, mature film.  "},{"Title":"the true Dark Knight","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  For many Bat fans, BATMAN MASK OF THE PHANTASM is the best interpretation of the character in any form, remaining more true to its source than even the original Tim Burton film did. The animation is about the same as the animated series this was spun off from, but the voice acting by Kevin Conroy, Mark Hamill, Dana Delaney, Efrem Zimbalist Jr., Hart Bochner, and others is top-notch. The multiple flashbacks sometime get to be a little too much, but they help to give us insight into Bruce Wayne's relationship with Andrea Beaumont and how she almost prevented him from becoming Batman. A failure in the theaters, it has since developed a loyal following of fans. This is a must-see for any Batman fan. "},{"Title":"The Best Batman Film Ever. Period.","Date":"7 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I remember hearing about this movie coming out about a month before it did, then didn't hear a thing again about until I saw it sitting on a video shelf nearly a year later. Needless to say, I grabbed it on the spot and was promptly blown out of my socks. I had never seen The Animated Series before so this was my first taste to this particular iteration of The Dark Knight. All I can say is Wow. To say they nailed the essence of the characters is an understatement. Batman Mask Of The Phantasm is unquestionably the best adaptation of the Batman universe ever done in any visual medium and even surpasses the comicbook in some respects.Where to start1. The Story After watching the live action versions of Batman in recent years and then this, the differences are night and day. Whereas the live-action movies rely on guest stars and gimmicks, BMOTP relies on Story, plot, and character development to entertain, and yes, there is considerable irony that a children's cartoon is more mature in its story than movies geared to teenagers and adults. To basically sum up with a minimum of spoilers, A mysterious figure is killing off the Underworld bosses in Gotham and it's up to Batman to find out who's behind it and why. At the same time, Bruce Wayne has to deal with the Long Lost love of his life reappearing in town and the complications she brings with her. A simple, yet effective framework that suffers no distractions and allows everyone to have their moment in the sun.2. The Characters/Voices After watching this movie, I came to the conclusion that whatever they were paying Andrea Romano for casting the voices, it wasn't enough. EVERYONE is spot-on for voice casting. Kevin Conroy is exactly how Batman/Bruce Wayne would sound in your head as if you were reading a comicbook and he manages to convey emotion in his voice to make Batman a three-dimensional character. Dana Delany does a great job with Andrea Beaumont especially considering this was her 1st animation voice-over. She manages to inject humor, wit, and sadness into her character. Quite an achievment. Efram Zimbalist, Jr. (Alfred) Jim Hastings (Commisioner Gordon) and the rest of the regulars do an fantastic job in filling out the Batman Mythos, especially in their interplay with Batman. Like i said before, it's nice to see everyone get their moment. And then there's Mark Hamill as The Joker To say I was skeptical when I heard he was the voice was an understatement. To say he blew my mind afterwards is also an understatement. I have seen the movies and read the comicbook for years and I firmly believe that this is the closest to the essence of The Joker i've seen in ANY medium. The perfect balance of slapstick and pure malice in The Joker is reached in this movie and it is a testament to Hamill's and the filmmakers' skill that they do this so effectivly.3. The art and music I've heard complaints that the art was too simplistic. I argue that the minimalist nature of the art adds to the story and movie as opposed to distracts from it. It adds character and mood to the movie that wouldn't be there if a 'lighter' style were used. Shirley Walker's score only adds to the atmosphere and helps to underline the characters in every scene it's usedTo sum, it's a downright shame that this movie was hardly distributed in theaters and that it's had to rely on word-of-mouth to find an audience. This movie proves that animation can tell a serious, involving story and that Batman Mask Of The Phantasm stands up as one of the best comicbook adaptations ever done (along with 'Superman The Movie) but one of the best animated films ever made. "},{"Title":"Vengeance blackens the soul...","Date":"2 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Everything else has already been said here. This is truly the best Batman movie. It puts even Tim Burton to shame. Now I enjoyed Batman + Batman Returns and I consider them fine additions to the Batman franchise, but they didn't focus on the title character as much as they should have. Phantasm patches things up where the live action films went wrong. Here we have Batman seen as the brooding avenger that he really is and we are given better insights as to why he became what he is. His parents don't just die and he decides to be a superhero. The conflict is much deeper than that and well done here. You actually got to know Bruce Wayne, as well as the Batman. Kevin Conroy is the best Batman, bar none. Keaton was good and West was fun, but Conroy simply rocks.Besides being true to the Batman mythos, it is a great film for other reasons. The score in this movie ties with Danny Elfman's and the Batman Beyond Return of the Joker score for best score in a Batman film. The use of the choir in the movie was excellent. It was like the voices were speaking to Batman, haunting him and yet urging him on. It reminds me so much of the Crow (and that's always a good thing).The action in the movie is far from the cartoonish crap that's screwed up the last two Batflicks. We actually get the feeling that Batman may not make it out of here alive. The emotion in this movie is real and not the least bit wooden. The backstory drives at effective parallel to what's happening in the present story. Mark Hamill makes a great Joker (way better than Nicholson who took up too much screentime).There's nothing really left me to say except go see this movie. The animation may not be top notch, but the story and feeling is very much there. I can't praise it enough... "},{"Title":"The only person in this room, controlled by his parents is you.","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  After looking at all these reviews, I'm sure that what I'm about to say is pretty redundant.  I'll say it anyway.This is film is, by far, the most accurate and most brilliant adaptation of the dark knight.  No other presentation of the Bat has captured it's true essence as this one has (including the 1989 film by Tim Burton).The film starts of with Batman breaking up a  counterfeit-money plot by the mob and immediately goes right into the meat of the story.  Gangsters are getting rubbed-out left and right.  The eye-witnesses are claiming to see hooded and caped figure at these crime scenes, which makes Batman the prime suspect.  If this isn't enough, a corrupt city councilman fronts his new re-election platform for eliminate the Bat ,for these murders ,at any cost.  The timing couldn't be worse for the woman, who broke Bruces' heart ,to come back into town during all this. So Bruce has got his hands full will catching a killer, clearing his name and sorting out his feelings for his long-lost love.  This film out-does anything attempted in the tradition of Batman. 1. This film does what too may films failed or forgot to do, and that is actually focus the story on Batman.  The previous films gave too much attention on the corny and semi-campy villains.  Even the first Batman, as entertaining as it was , gave too much screen time to the Joker, and only skimmed the surface of who is Batman.  We learn more about the beginnings of Bruce Wayne, to understand his motives a little more intimately, from flash backs and events.  Kevin Conroys' voicing of Batman is so good, you'd wish he was casted in the live-action versions.2. This film keeps the situation down to earth with a simple murder mystery. No stupid large scale plots to poison people with smilax, steal the first born sons, brainwash with a stupid glow-box or freeze Gotham. This basic and non-childish premise was the basis for some potent suspense that challenged films like Die-Hard and The Fugitive The big chase between Batman and the swat-team had me on the edge of my seat chewing my nails to the bone.3. This film was not dumb it down for kids, (which the live-action films tend to do)  The story was serious and involving.  The dialogue and relationships were genuine.  Some of the more memorable scenes include this first prelude between Batman and Andrea Beaumont (Bruces' Ex) Another scene in the conversation between Bruce and Alfred.  As a matter of fact this film displays the best relationship with Bruce and Alfred.  You think you know everything about me ,don't you I diapered you bottom.  I bloody well oht to, SIR!Some viewers will criticize the animation quality of this film,  but I feel was original and appropriate for the needs of this film.  The musical score may be a little reminiscent on the old Danny Elfman themes, but since it was done by his original orcastrator, Sherley Walker, no harm, no foul.  Her score also lives up to the true Batman style.  The problems with this film, for starters, is that that it is too short.  True ,for only 77mins, it seems to utilizes it's time well, but it should have been a bit longer to tie up the loose ends left behind.  We never find out if Batman ever gets to clear his name of the murders, or even how he is cleared. The big showdown with the Phantasm left the audience a little bit cheated, but the face off with the Joker compensated.  Yes the Joker is in this film  to and he is done very well by Mark Hamill.  Not to worry, this film is not short on surprises, so I won't blow any.  And if any reviews have, shame on you!!!Some may say that the ending left them hanging, but I believe that the very end of this film captured the true spirit of what Batman is all about.To sum up, no film has ever given the fans a better or more accurate depiction of the Batman legend as superbly and masterfully as this one.  It is the finest and most under-rated film in the last 50 years "},{"Title":"Great fun for kids, adults, Batman fans, and non-fans alike!","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It's extremely difficult to do a live-action movie of a comic book character.  Comics just don't translate to live action film without appearing somewhat hokie.  Yet, long time Batman fans know that the Batman comics have produced some excellent stories, long on plot, character development, and emotional drama.  Enter Batman The Animated Series, a cartoon that succeeded in bringing the best of the comic series to television without any of the camp of the 1960's tv series.Batman Mask of the Phantasm was developed by the same group that did the animated series, and is easily the best feature-length Batman film ever.  Suitable for kids, yet with a plot that will suck in any adult, this is how Batman should be portrayed. "},{"Title":"The best BATMAN film to date.","Date":"25 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Of all the debacles that have filled theaters under the guise Batman, this is the only one really worth seeing if you want a caped Crusader true to the original sequential art form.Burton may have made a visually appealing film, but I'm sorry the film lacked the essential roots needed (as well as a good Batman).  While the animated BATMAN version stuck true to the very heart of ALL the characters in the gritty environment of Gotham city.The music is haunting, especially the opening sequence, as well as the graveyard assault scene!  Beautiful!  The grim sequence in which Bruce first dons the sinister cowl is a classic depicting the origin of one of the most successful pop culture icons in the world!  And the film-makers did it with grace and finesse--stunning.Beat that Tim and...egad..that other Joel guy. "},{"Title":"This movie is any Batman fans dream.","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie is a must see for any fan of the Batman comics.  This movie sticks closer to the comics than any other Batman film.  It also includes elements form the classic Batman Year One story line that is considered by many to be a classic Bat-tale.  If you consider yourself a Batman fan GO SEE RENT MOVIE!! "},{"Title":"The Best Batman Ever","Date":"18 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Note to the directors of all new Batman movies sit down and watch this movie over and over again so you can see how Batman is SUPPOSED to be done.This movie has it all an intriguing plot, interesting dialogue, rapid-fire action and good characterization.  It also shows you can have two costumed villains in the movie and still have the whole story center around BATMAN (take note, future directors it all goes back to a GOOD STORY that doesn't assume the audience has the intelligence and attention span of a six-year-old hopped up on sugar and caffeine.)Whenever someone asks me what my favorite Batman movie is (which doesn't happen a whole lot, I admit), this is the one I name.  To date, it has never been surpassed, which is a bit of shame when you consider the resources the live-action Batman films have.  This is a gem, folks, run right out and rent it or buy it ASAP! "}{"Title":"Not only the greatest portrayal of The Dark Knight, but one of the best films of all time.","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  There is no doubt in my mind that this film is how Batman should be.  Other feature films may come and go, but this, along with the animated series, will always be the true essence of Gothams true crusader.I simply cannot find fault with this film.  It honestly manages to appeal to both adults and children by having great fight sequences, and genuine emotion pushing through by the best voice actors I have ever heard.  Mark Hamill is incredible as the joker, and Kevin Conroy IS Batman, why he not in the live action films in beyond belief.  The rest of the cast are very, very good and Shirley Walker's excellent score really boosts the film.  We are also treated to some good CGI, so many classic sequences that I can't count (the rooftop fight/chase is amazing), a fantastic climax, and a plot that welcomes newcomers while still delivering everything the fans could hope for and more.I implore you, I beg you, see this film.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, the BEST Batman movie Ever","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This movie has the best Dolby Surround soundtrack I have ever heard!  This is the one to test your system with.  Also this movie was much more than just a cartoon.  It an award winning quality portration of Batman.  Its much better than any of the mainstreem flicks that have been dropped lately.  If you like good movies period., you will love this one ) "},{"Title":"Batman done right.","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This version of Batman is excellent, especially when compared to the 4 live action movies.  While some may just look at the animation and think its for kids, the story is actually more complex than the last 4 movies combined. The voice casting is excellent, and the mood is there.  Batman was made to be animated, in live action a man dressed as a bat looks a little foolish, in the live action movies Batman looked like he could hardly walk, let alone fight crime, here he can be portrayed as heroic and any stunt that is imaginable is possible. "},{"Title":"The formula for success in Batman movies","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I know that everyone says that this is the best Batman movie, and I agree, but the real reason is that the other movies are live-action; this movie, and the TV series, both stylistically represent the comics, which can't be done through live-action. I'd say that Warner should give up on the Batman films, and reinvent the series by making this incredible film into a series. Anyone who hasn't seen this movie should; it's the perfect representation of the perfect superhero (he who must rely completely upon his wits and skills). But where's the DVD? "},{"Title":"Burtonesque","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" A lot of people say that Mask of the Phantasm say it's better than the Burton films. What they fail to realize is that the animated series is based on Tim Burton's vision -- especially the Oscar-winning set and art design, now referred to as dark deco. That said, Mask of the Phantasm is an excellent portrayal of the Dark Knight, which implies that perhaps being Batman wasn't exactly the best choice in Bruce Wayne's life. Being Batman seems to be a trap for Bruce -- he started it and there is no way to stop -- Bruce is too noble to stop, yet realizes that being Batman is a drain on his life.It also depicts Bruce as approaching middle-aged as well -- he's not young, and he knows that his years of crusading has robbed him of his better days.The Future references are constant in the film -- keep an eye out for them. "},{"Title":"Better than the Burton or Schumacher versions","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  		While the live-action Batman movies of the late 80's and 90's seemed to get quite a bit wrong (more so in the latter two), Mask of the Phantasm gets it right -- the noir mood, the grim power of its hero, the conflict of Batman/Bruce Wayne's dual identity, all in a package that kids and adults can enjoy together.The animated Batman TV show and films represent the best translation of this great character -- SUB ZERO, featuring Batman taking on Mr. Freeze, is way, way better than the disastrous, similarly-themed BATMAN AND ROBIN. "},{"Title":"best of the batman films","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  If you like the cartoon you'll like this movie.  And I'm talking about the older Batman cartoons, not the newer dumbed-down version.  Kevin Conroy has the coolest voice on TV, and Mark Hamill gives a terrific no-holds-barred performance as the Joker.  The problem with the Batman 1-4 movie series is that they try to combine action, romance, and Batman's feelings of angst, and in the end succeed at doing none of them.  The animated movie (correctly) focuses on Batman's pain.  Because of this, it's not really a kid's movie.  Instead of choosing to animate in sort of a literal way, the show is animated in a stylized way a la Tarzan.  This is how animation should be done - if you're going to animate something it should not be because you're aiming it at kids, but rather because you can portray something in a way that's not possible with live action. The dark city and blocky animation suggest loneliness and desolation, and look at the way in which the eyes of the Joker and Batman move and squint.  I especially liked the Andrea/Batman parallel - we discover they have the same formative experience, and ultimately suffer the same ending fate.  My only gripe is that I pretty much knew who the (other) bad guy was about 1/2 way through. Still, this movie is one of my favorites.   "},{"Title":"The Best Batman Movie Ever Made","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Forget all the other Batman live-action attempts that have been portrayed on the silver screen before, this the quintessential Batman movie. I personally think that the action sequences and the plot are absolutely the best I've ever seen in an animated film, but be forewarned, this isn't your regular Disney fluff, so you might want to watch before you let the kids check it out. Pitting the bat against the Phantasm , his arch nemesis, the Joker and even Gotham's own police squad, our hero has his most challenging adventure yet, but in good comic book fashion, he takes all of them out with true style. Everyone from the directors, to the writers, right down to the voice work does an outstanding at making this the most memorable out of all the bat movies. Forget all the crap that was put on the screen before, just watch this one, and you'll see Batman the way he was meant to be seen. "},{"Title":"The ULTIMATE portrayal of the BAT!!!!!!!!","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I think that BatmanMask of the Phantasm is one of the greatest Batman movies ever made. The greatest Batman movie ever made was Batman Returns. Anyway, the movie followed the series exactly. And how about the series? Isn't that the best series ever!!! I really love the show and the movie flows right along. Kevin Conroy brings such life to the character Batman with his very impressive voice over. I think he should win something for that.The show will always be remembered. It was such a great show.  "},{"Title":"Exciting flick","Date":"23 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this on TV and enjoyed it!!  I was never an avid viewer of the animated series, but watching this was far better than the last two Batman films.  Rent this and skip B&r and B-4ever!! "}{"Title":"Best at Bat/Animated Division!!","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  It would take the WB animation department to bring the best Batman movie to the screen.  I braved sub-zero temperature to see this film and I wasn't disappointed.  The romantic relationship was handled with a great deal of maturity as was the action sequences (was that actually blood I saw on Batman's face as he ran from the police).  We actually get to see someone die from the Joker's venom, rictus grin and all.  The final battle between Batman/Phantasm/Joker is a real standout.  I even liked that final song at end (sung by Tia Carrere, no less). "},{"Title":"Best of all the Batman Movies","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  This is by far the best of all the Batman movies.  There is the only one that really captures the characters.  The film is also ground breaking for an American animation in that it doesn't assume that the audience is only kids. "},{"Title":"Why was this such a sleeper compared to the live-action farces?","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this on a free VHS lender from the public library, pan&scan, worn out. And it was really great.The first 2 batman live action movies were OK, but neither really got the true comic book feel right (though the closest was the first).  I also notice that this is the only of the dark knight movies to get two thumbs up.The only thing wrong was it was not quite as good, plotwise, as a handful of the series episodes (the older series, 1993 i think), in execution of the story, but more importantly in the animation quality.  The animation was good, but why not as good as the TV episodes?  Oh well, it was worth it. Now, WHERE is the DVD of this, warner?  "},{"Title":"Perhaps the finest portrayal of the Dark Knight on the silver screen","Date":"2 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Batman Mask of the Phantasm is a terrific adaptation of the hit Batman The Animated Series, and truly serves to show reverence to this six decades-old character.  With a tight story, good dialogue, and plenty of exciting action sequences, this film is highly enjoyable for kids and adults alike.  The sequences portraying violence and minor bloodshed can be surprising, but in no way take away from the overall family-type quality of the film.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Best of all the Batman movies!!!!!!","Date":"28 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I am proud to say that this movie is written in a way Batman should be described, I think anyways! I am not trashing Tim Burton's vision (with Michael Keaton) of it, it was cool too (but don't get me started with Joel Schumacher, ewwwwww yuck). I found that this film was a very mature and adult oriented then child. The characters in this are more defined than in the live action movies. you get to see the one true love to Bruce who almost changes his life and stops the pain in him (his vow to his parents) and get married (almost). We also see quite a battle of the Joker in this,as well as what he used to look like,at the end of the movie. I would say ,along with excellent animation, that this action-drama should get ****1/2-***** "},{"Title":"Something went wrong here?","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  I saw this film and when I did something seemed oddly out of place here. Everything is fine but for some reason I didn't enjoy the story nearly as much as the tv series. There is excellent use of CGI here. The animation is fine as well. I think I would have liked it better if it was just a Joker story. Having to share with a new villain means that the new character is going to be getting the time for the character development. It is highly enjoyable otherwise. "},{"Title":"Amazing Batman movie","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I love Batman, and just loved this movie. Like the fantastic BatmanThe Animated Series, Mask of the Phantasm is deep, intelligent, mature and complex. The film could have been longer by 20 minutes, but it is a gripping and compelling animated film with plenty to like.The animation is excellent. Sophisticated, dark and somewhat unique, I think it improves on the animation of the series slightly. The colours are bold, and the character designs are sharp and decisive. The music is wonderful too, it is quite a complex score even for Batman but it is always memorable whether it is the choruses or the rousing orchestral music.The story is what makes Mask of the Phantasm so good. It is structured similarly to those of some of the plot lines of the series but just as fresh and as compelling with a lot of great scenes particularly the wonderfully poetic opening sequence. The writing is superb, very mature and intelligent, and the pace and characters are spot on. Batman especially is a revelation, dark, brooding and charismatic. The voice acting is terrific, with Kevin Conroy actually embodying the character and Mark Hamill once again phenomenal as Joker.All in all, an amazing animated film and one of the best Batman films to date. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Best animated Batman movie ever!","Date":"22 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Batman (voiced by Kevin Conroy) has been accused of the murder of several mafia members. The former love of his life Andrea Beaumont with her father comes back to Gotham as Bruce Wayne falls for her again, however there's trouble stirring in town as an unknown and mysterious villain called The Phantasm is killing off gangster members one-by-one and The Joker (voiced by Mark Hamil) is next on his list as Batman must find this mystery killer or still be romancing his love.This is in my humble opinion the second best Batman movie next to Begins which is number one for me while Batman (1989) is number 3, this is one of the best animated movies of all time and truly captures the dark essence of the character from his DC comics roots. Bruce Timm (Executive producer, writer and director of the Batman Animated Series) has made the Dark Knight the way he was meant to be in on film but only in animated form as he crafted Bob Kane's famous comic creation into a very special animated movie. It's not just for kids but it's more for older children, teens and adults due to some dark themes, elements and some violence much like the popular animated series, Andrea is a total animated babe and really reflects what Bruce's inner-frustrations lead to once she left him originally.A wonderfully animated and brilliant animated motion picture to captivate both adults and kids alike even the most hardcore Batman fan. "},{"Title":"Decent but not all you'd want in a Batman movie","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"       BATMAN MASK OF THE PHANTASM is a prime example of a good movie gone awry. The producers of Batman The Animated Series wanted to bring their characters to the big screen, so they decided on a formula. They would 1. introduce a chilling new villain called The Phantasm, 2. have The Phantasm frame Batman for several murders, 3. delve into Batman's past, 4. get rid of Robin, 5. give Bruce Wayne a love interest, and 6. throw The Joker in for good measure. Sounds like a winner, doesn't it.      Unfortuately, the movie comes up short on several levels. First, The Phantasm. For one thing, he's never actually called by that name in the entire movie. How is the audience supposed to know who Phantasm is? Imagine someone trying to write a summary of this movie Well, it stars Batman and The Joker and some guy with a skull mask and a cleaver for a hand. Other gripes about The Phantasm include that he seems too supernatural (a few clues are dropped here and there that Phantasm is using some weird chemical to make himself disappear like a ghost, but the movie never plays this up)and that he has an awesome cleaver on his hand and NEVER, EVER uses it through the entire movie. Instead, he kills his victims by more subtle, impersonal methods. What kind of psychotic slasher is he?      Kevin Conroy, on the other hand, is excellent as the voice of Bruce Wayne/Batman. He's determined and moody, but not a freak like Keaton's Batman. He actually has some natural human qualities that the film accentuates very well.      Then you have the villains. For the most part, they're dumb, stereotypical hoods who smoke cigarettes, have exaggerated mannerisms, and are all as intelligent as a crate full of rocks. The Joker (voiced by Mark Hamill) manages to put in a stellar performance, but he certainly can't bring the devilish nuances that Jack Nicholson gave to Joker. At times, Joker talks and acts like a four-year-old with Attention Deficit Disorder, and his manic Irishman accent really gets annoying by the end of the movie. Also, he isn't as clever as we'd believe him to be and is woefully unprepared to do battle with The Phantasm. He has no henchmen, just a couple of old-fashioned robots and some buzzing helicopters that are about as frightening as a litter of newborn kittens.      Characterizations aside, the film is fun to look at and watch. Danny Elfman's score is used to good effect, as is many ideas used by Burton in the live-action films (especially the paradoxical settings that blend the 1940s with our modern era). The story is also top-notch, though it is bogged down by too many flashbacks. The finale is the best part, for it includes the unmasking of The Phantasm (who isn't quite what you'd expect him to be!).      Will kids like this movie? Well, it isn't a Burton film. There's no scenes of people being electrocuted, burned alive, tossed off cathedrals, or having their noses bitten off by drooling subhumans. Still, the story gets a little too preachy (not to mention monotonous) at times, and there are many extremely scary scenes. The Phantasm's costume is one of the scariest ever seen on a Batman character, and we get to see two victims of Joker's Smylex toxin (one dead, the other lying in a hospital bed howling like a hyena). I'd recommend this film only to older children, adolescents, and adults.      The movie isn't destined to be a classic like the Burton films, but it's quite good on its own. Even if you are not a fan of the television show, see this movie for a whole new spin on Batman.  "},{"Title":"diverting","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" At its best, Batman Mask of the Phantasm is a fun, freewheeling trip down Memory Lane, rife with the three-dimensional characterizations, film noir-style design, and a refreshingly mature storyline. At its worst (in which case, it still isn't too bad), Phantasm serves as a reminder of how Batman The Animated Series packed a better punch in 30-minute episodes that recalled the good old days of dimestore pulp. Even at an economical feature length of 77 minutes, the film's story is too basic to be so drawn-out. Still, the infusion of a new villain (the mysterious title character), a fleshing out of Batman's history, and a generous helping of Mark Hammill's Joker makes Phantasm a safe bet for fans of the show. "}{"Title":"An OK animated Bat film yet nothing special.","Date":"14 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" This animated film of Batman was well done as the voices done in the film especially Hamill's Joker and the effects were good. Yet for some reason Mask of the Phantasm just didn't capture my attention or interest like most other Batman stuff does. The tale is simply just a little multi-layered with a theme that focuses on a past flashback. The plot is also a little off the chart with Batman being accused of murders that's carried out by a sinister masked figure know as Phantasm. It's an OK mystery type for an animated film yet the biggest treat is the appearance of The Joker as Hamill's voice carries it well. Overall an OK animated film of the Bat yet nothing special. "},{"Title":"This animated Batman flick looks great, but the acting of the characters is fairly poor, however excellent the character designs are","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Batman, the costumed crime-fighter who prowls the night skies in Gotham City, soon finds there's another vigilante in town knocking off prominent mob figures. Despite the scythe-like blade for a hand, a mechanical voice and the cloud of smoke that follows the figure wherever it goes, the police and outraged officials mistake the homicidal crusader for Batman himself and demand that the city's longtime hero be brought to justice. Meanwhile, Andrea Beaumont returns to town. She is the lost love of Bruce Wayne, the billionaire playboy who is Batman's alter ego, and was an integral part of Wayne's decision ten years earlier to don the cape and cowl. Now, she is back in his life and is no less a disruption than the return of his old archenemy, The Joker, who has a stake in seeing the annihilation of this new vigilante, whoever it proves to be.Batman Mask of the Phantasm is an entertaining animated flick that comes from the same team that brought us the 1990s TV cartoon series starring Batman. Certainly the series and this film, in terms of visual artistry, is leaps and bounds ahead of any previous superhero fare on TV. You'd have to go back to the Max Fleischer Superman short subjects of the 1940s, which helped to inspire the background and character designs here, to find any comparison. The plot, characterizations and dialogue are also far superior, but that's not saying much. This film, though, holds its own next to the average action movie. In fact, being an animated cartoon helps us to accept clichés and conventions that might be more irritating in a live-action film.My biggest complaint is with the animation itself. The character designs are excellent, but the acting of the characters is fairly poor and prevents us from becoming more involved in their emotional lives than we otherwise might. The music score is good, but the pompous chorus that opens and closes the movie is yet another sign that superhero movies, since at least Tim Burton's Batman (1989), take themselves way too seriously. "},{"Title":"Batman Mask of the Phantasm","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" Not long after the new animated series of Batman started they made a movie. Batman is suspected of murdering a gangster after a mysterious dark man does it. The police are now on the lookout for Batman (Kevin Conroy). Bruce Wayne (Batman's real name) meanwhile is having flashback's of a previous love, Andrea 'Andi' (Dana Delany) that he misses. When he finds her she obviously finds out he's Batman and they get back together. Unfortunately, he also finds out that she is this mysterious dark man, The Phantasm. Also, The Joker (Star Wars' Mark Hamill) is trying to find 'Andi' to kill her before he is next. A good animated film with some good action, and it almost warmed up towards the TV series. Batman was number 84 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons. Very good! "},{"Title":"Way better than the stupid cartoon.","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Contains spoilersBatman returns to movie screens, but this time he's doing so in pen and paint form.  The feature has Bruce Wayne's alter ego being framed for grisly murders by another vigilante... this one called the Phantasm.  The Phantasm has targeted mob bosses around Gotham, and the mob has begun searching for the killer, including Batman's nemesis, the Joker, voiced brilliantly as usual by Mark Hamill.  Tying in with matters is Bruce encountering his lost love, Andrea, which causes him to reflect back on his events of his past with her, including his transformation into the guise of Batman.  This is a very good animated feature, featuring strong animation, a great soundtrack, and an excellent voice cast.  However, two of the reasons I enjoyed this film were things that the animated movie were able to get away with, things that Batman The Animated Series, or Fox to be specific, wouldn't allow1.  Characters die.  There was never any death in TAS.  Although this is also a good thing in ways, when one is discussing Batman, of all things, death is usually a common issue.  No death can be good to hide from the really little kids, but can also cause a series to become extremely unrealistic and laughable(Cough, G I Joe, cough).  Here, though, many of the mob bosses are killed by the Phantasm quite gruesomely, and the animated Joker is seen using his infamous, and quite lethal, Joker Venom effectively for the very first time.  The fights are also quite violent, unlike in the animated show, we actually get to see Batman bleed, something that surprised when I first saw the film back during its theatrical release.2.  Batman doesn't always win.  I'm sorry, but when I realized Batman The Animated Series ALWAYS had Batman come out on top and save Gotham from whatever crime boss or sadistic villain he faced, I grew out of it and stopped watching.  Here, however, he is humbled greatly.  I actually compared this to an early episode of the TV series, On Leather Wings, in which he is also framed and being chased by the police.  On the episode he avoided the cops and was able to get away from them quite easily.  Here, though, he had great difficulty trying to get away and almost wound up in police custody, even at one point being horribly wounded AND losing his mask.So this is at last the good animated version of Batman fans were looking for.  I suggest fans see this.  Don't worry, it's accessible, even if you've never seen an episode of Batman The Animated Series before in your life.  Oh, and an interesting tidbit Dana Delany, the voice of Andrea, also went on to do the voice of Lois Lane in the animated versions of Superman and Justice League. "},{"Title":"Yet another over-rated Batman movie.","Date":"4 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I personally can't believe that people say this is the greatest Batman film ever or even an under-rated classic. If you want to see a real good under rated Batman classic go watch Subzero, or Batman VS Dracula which were both better than this film.The only real reason I watch this film is for Mark Hamill's Joker, which deserved an Oscer not that pretty boy corpse Ledger.The biggest plot hole of all time is introduced in this film, Joker is assumingly killed at the end, but he shows up in the next season! HOW?! From what I can understand there was a comic book sequel to this film in which the Phantasm returned and it also explained how Joker survived. But it's not to the general public now is it? From what I know this comic is extremely hard to find.Not bad over all 6/10 "},{"Title":"Batman - Mask of the phantasm","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I liked Batman Animated series, because it showed the legend of Batman in the right way with gloomy dark environment, really great characters, interesting stories and wonderful animation. I even more like this animated movie. I saw it first when I was eleven and I was scared to death, because I was a fan of Batman cartoons back than and I was expecting a movie in the spirit of the show. But it's completely different; The mask of phantasm is depressing, very dark, violent and simply the best Batman movie ever made, in some way is even better than Tim Burtons Batman. The story shows a really depressing love noir story about Batman / Bruce Wayne and his relationship with love Andrea Beaumont. The ending of the movie is predictable, but overall it is great animated masterpiece with a little humor (Joker is fun as hell as always!) and a lot of violence.Simply the best Batman movie ever made. "},{"Title":"The Good, The Bad and The Indifferent.","Date":"15 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":"  Silly animated feature that fits in well with the equally under-achieving movie series of the time period. Based on the surprisingly popular cartoons of the early-1990s, Batman Mask of the Phantasm struggles for a story and really suffers from a lack of tone. Murders of high-powered mob bosses in Gotham City point the way to Batman of all people. However, nothing is what it seems as a phantom assassin comes out of the shadows as a crazed vigilante. Batman is suspicious and so are the evildoers (The Joker in particular). It seems that not only is there good and bad in the city, but also a character that toes the line. While all this goes on Bruce Wayne (aka Batman) starts to fall in love with a lovely redhead. The movie is a little dark and disturbing for the youngsters. More mature audiences should be able to figure out the mystery before the first act is completed. Thus we are left with another animated movie that just feels like it is stuck between Saturday morning antics and matinee-styled cinematic principles. The mix is more dull and uninteresting than cohesive and intriguing. In the end Batman Mask of the Phantasm does not do enough good things to become a very impressive film (animated or otherwise). 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Amateurish animation that does not live up to the cartoon it was based on.","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Action, Adventure","Review":" I must confess that I'm a little confused by all the positive reviews of this film. Did we watch the same movie? The show it was based on was a fresh approach to Batman and was probably one of the first times he has been portrayed well on any screen. This movie has the same voice actors and character representations from the show but it looks like the animators, writers and directors just handed this off to the interns. The pace is slow and plodding. The plot is just dull. The dialogue lifeless and acting wooden. The animation almost looks like it was drawn by the people who created the original Speed Racer in the 60s. A huge step backward. "}]