[{"Title":"One of the best films of the Nineties","Date":"18 October 1999","Score":"118 out of 135 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Having a bad day? Then check out Mike Leigh's masterpiece; the tale of Johnny, a mid twenties Mancunian drifter who heads down to London (having nicked a car) and tracks down an old girlfriend. He seduces Sophie (the excellent Katrin Cartlidge), unleashes a display of venom on his old lover, Louise (Lesley Sharp) and staggers off into the night when both women become too much for him to bear. His odyssey takes him to a world of the homeless, including an illiterate Scot (Trainspotting's Ewen Bremner) and his long suffering girlfriend (Susan Vidler) and a lonely nightwatchman (Peter Wight) guarding empty space. It's during this lengthy scene that David Thewlis proves to be one of the most versatile actors of his generation, delivering a speech of bleak complexity and pre-millennial doom that leaves most viewers reeling. Juxtaposed with Johnny is Louise's rapist Yuppie landlord (Greg Cruttwell), perhaps the weakest character in the movie. He's rich, crass and brutal, but also appears to be a sneering cartoon character, overshadowed by Johnny's hard edged intellect. Naked is the flip side of Leigh's previous movie, Life is Sweet. A bitter tale of loneliness, depression and Thatcher's wasted youth that seemed to be forgotten by most home grown film-makers in the mad rush to emulate Wall Street. Had a bad day? Then this is the equivalent of the Blues for the eyes and food for thought. Cheers Mr Leigh. "},{"Title":"Devastating","Date":"24 June 2001","Score":"139 out of 179 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  In my adult life, this is the one and only film that has ever moved me to tears with its ending.  It was like watching Michelangel applying his final daub to the Sistene Chapel, the incomprehensible achievement of a perfect artistic vision, and the attainment of a transcendent brilliance.For years, I had fantasized about becoming a writer / director, and actually put forth some appreciable effort to that end.  This film, Mike Leigh's incomparable, unprecedented masterwork, cured me of that fantasy.  He said, and did, in two hours, all that I could have hoped to achieve in an entire career, and it became gapingly obvious to me that I had no business in this medium.There is no story here, except that of the distilled essence of the hopeless pre-Millenial Western man, robbed of the promised nuclear annihilation he had always consciously feared, but subconsciously hoped for, if only to put the world out of its misery.  The naked and the lost, the wandering spectre of the sentient living dead, and the pitiful yet mercifully ignorant companions that cross his path. "},{"Title":"masterpiece","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"107 out of 135 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Don't waste your life A security guard advises the nihilistic anti hero Johnny. This film is macabre, raw, and with dialogue as sharp as anything ever witnessed on celluloid. Mike Leigh created a dark brooding magnum opus with this portrait of early 90's London. His partnership with David Thewlis, who creates a fascinating and ribald character is simply astonishing. It is a performance that explores our very humanity. This film investigates the existential angst as portrayed by the protagonist Johnny of what is to survive; the main character gradually reveals himself before us stripped of pretence and standing naked . Johnny's diatribes tinged with apocalyptic tones upon the nature of the universe and beyond are breath taking. Sex and violence under pin the narrative of this film, and with Jonny adhering to no personal boundaries he embarks upon a journey that takes the viewer upon an uneasy and ultimately rewarding journey . The film is important as it shows the true power of the cinematic medium , and as a cultural reference to the pap produced by Hollywood; exposing the neutered offerings mainstream cinema is plagued with. This film shows Mike Leigh as a master of his art, expressed by the unique performances he elicits from his cast. This work of genius will be stumbled across in years to come and be celebrated by later generations for its language, its mood, and its effect which makes us engage in our very existence. A true testament to a magnificent achievement. "},{"Title":"Razor-sharp social commentary - although too harsh for many stomachs.","Date":"6 November 2004","Score":"94 out of 114 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An unemployed - but intelligent - social misfit goes on the run to London following a back alley rape, but finds The Capital just as desperate and alienating as his native Manchester.This is one of the hardest films I have ever had to review. Topics such as urban alienation, career-choice unemployment, leeching, homelessness, drug taking and sexual violence would normally send me running for cover; but what we have here is so well constructed and so skilfully acted that it transcends it own headline topics. This is a classic case of car-wreck film making You don't praise or celebrate much, yet it is deeply fascinating and even hypnotic. People are tap dancing on the edge of a metaphorical cliff - some are there of there of their own free will.Director Mike Leigh's semi-improvisational style doesn't always work, but here it really delivers something unique. You feel that you are watching real life even though too much happens in too short a time period for that to be the case.This is a wandering odyssey film and features a central performance - by David Thewlis - that ranks along the best ever witnessed in cinema. How the Oscar people could have (totally) turned their back on a performance as a good as this puzzles; although the film and actor won prizes in Cannes and New York.This is the first film I have ever seen that takes on sexual coercion in a head on fashion. People that have put themselves in a chemical or social situation where someone has something over them. The greasy upper crust landlord (Greg Cruttwell) might seem over-the-top to many but I know a few people actually like that!(For the record his actions would be deemed illegal in real life - if you have seen the film.)What happens to the on-screen people the day after this film ends? Has anything really changed? For Johnny - our central anti-hero - it will be just another day to duck and dive, avoid all work and wind people up using his extensive back reading. "},{"Title":"Savage, Brutal, Brilliant.","Date":"2 June 2006","Score":"81 out of 95 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" There are precious few movies to which I would give a perfect rating and none so difficult to justify as Naked. Indeed, when I mention the depth of my appreciation for the film most who have seen it tend to reel in horror whilst deriding its unpleasantness...So how do I justify it? I could witter on about the brilliance of David Thewlis' performance, the excellent support cast, the devastatingly witty dialogue and Leigh's assured direction until the cows came home, but this still wouldn't totally do it. I can't say a lot about the plot because, well, there isn't a great deal of plot to speak of. So what is it? I'll tell you what it is it's the honesty of it. The brutal, searing, sickening honesty. Here is a film unafraid to hold a mirror up to the dark, venal, destructive underbelly of our society - a film that portrays relentlessly and unflinchingly a side of our character which we'd prefer to simply sweep under the carpet. It takes everything that is immoral, degenerate and depraved in modern society and smears it all over the screen in a grubby orgy of loathing. It is not simply a movie with teeth but one with rabid, venomous, acid-tipped fangs, tearing and gnashing at our pompous ideas about our own natures.There are many movies which are fantastically enjoyable and make for a sterling night out with friends and family. This is not one of them. Naked is disturbing, unpleasant, frightening and utterly bleak. It is also quite brilliant. "},{"Title":"INTENSITY","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"59 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Without a doubt, Mike Leigh's Naked is one of the most brilliant examples of filmmaking I have ever seen.David Thewlis is nothing short of genius as the aimless Johnny, a combustible combination of brilliance and depression, who's mere presence in anyone's purview contaminates and destroys with the effectiveness of Round-Up.Mesmerizing and fast-paced, there is no shortage of excellence in the smaller plots and characters Greg Cruttwell is spectacular as the pompous, nouveau-riche Jeremy, and the two female leads, Leslie Sharp and Katrin Cartlidge provide well balanced juxtaposition as two very different femmes damaged.Not for the faint of heart, Naked will test one's own philosophy, and leave you stripped bare.  "},{"Title":"Naked Owns Cinema.","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"42 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" My favourite film of all time and I don't even know why. It not only is repulsive but at the same time hysterically funny. It makes living in London a distorted pleasure as it is on my mind every day as I walk through the city that inspired such a piece. The theories that Johnny comes up with are not only salient but increasingly prophetic and it serves as a reminder to Mike Leighs brilliance that a film ORIGINALLY intended as a Post Thatcherite comment can now be seen as a highly accurate portrait of 21st century Britain. The dialogue is razor sharp and the thoughts and ideas explored may be too 'In Your Face' for some but it is a film that every adult should see. It makes you face what you are and that may make it an uncomfortable experience but the result is, for good or ill, life changing. For that, it is, to me the greatest film of all time.aonemantidalwave "},{"Title":"An existential nightmare","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"47 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not an easy watch, for two reasons first, this is an uncosmeticized view of 90's England, with little light in the dark; and second, much of the dialogue is difficult for non-Brits to follow. It's easy to spot this is a Mike Leigh film the gritty realism, working-class characters and improvisation; but it's certainly harder-hitting than the likes of 'Secrets and Lies' or 'Life is Sweet'. But I prefer it to those other films because they suffer from overstylized characterization. What made this one of the best (and most critically-acclaimed) films of the 90s was David Thewlis's bravura performance as Johnny. Johnny is the plot, really. He turns aimless wandering around nocturnal London into an artform, especially the surreal visit with the security guard. Being a fellow northerner, I can see echoes of myself in Johnny, which no doubt adds to the film's appeal for me. But I'd recommend it to any intelligent viewer, not least because of the contrast it throws up between nihilism and nothingarianism. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"46 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  If you liked Pi or The Cruise then you should check out Naked. It's an amazing exploration of a man descended into nihilism, who leaves victims of his intellectual bullying (and misogyny) everywhere. No, it's not PC. Yes, it feels so real. Sorry to gush, but I loved this film.I like American Existential Anti-Heroes. I wasn't really prepared to confront an English Existential Anti-Hero. Wow, what a different take on a similar stimulus.This film is a monument to gritty realism, without being self-conscious about it. You can taste this movie. But you never feel like it was faked or forced. The camera work and the lighting never get in the way. I usually notice such things, and here it was invisible and completely immersive. David Thewlis throws every bit of his body into this movie. Even the great closing credit scene.I would be remiss if I didn't point out the fantastic black humor, especially since some people said it wasn't funny! Sophie wails in the most sustained way I have ever seen in drama. And it's hysterical, even as you're hurting with her. The frantic Scottish kid made me rewind again and again. While I agree that the landlord character could have been over the top, his reaction to Johnny flailing on the floor made me laugh out loud. The two characters are really barely distinguishable but that one is a dandy and the other has a fondness for the gutter. As the poster-hanger beats the crap out of our anti-hero you can't help but laugh. And then you nod along as Louise tells him he had it coming in her terrific and constant deadpan (with an occasional suggestion of a smile).As our protagonist points out, in the end, all the books, and all the learning, and all the discussion, still don't help you understand the point of the cruel joke of life. Yes, it's an old dorm-room discussion that freshman are still having for the 1st time. But that doesn't make the question and the questioning any less desperate. It is human to cry out in pain, even when it's self-inflicted. The references to making a choice for self-destruction are throughout the dialogue, but not so much so that they hit you in the head.Naked is depressing and euphoric at the same time. Yes it's often awful, but how can you not cheer for someone who loves life and is trying his hardest to fully engage it? And not one character (or question) gets a pat Hollywood ending or moral -- woo-hoo!This movie is why people can call film a legitimate art form. It provokes thought, it is drama, and it is beautiful. It thrills me.Someone asked if the dialogue was improvised. According to IFC, Mike Leigh rehearsed with the cast for 11 weeks before writing the script, which then came to only 25 pages. "},{"Title":"Powerful, wearing, tough to stomach yet has to be seen","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"31 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  One of the most powerful British films of the 90s. Mike Leigh directs David Thewlis in an unrelenting, uncompromisingly cynical portrayal of self-loathing and alienation In this, Leigh's toughest, most uncompromising work for cinema, Thewlis turns in a stunningly uningratiating performance. He utterly immerses himself in the role of Johnny, an articulate, disenfranchised angry young man, who's escaped Manchester after a bit of rough outdoor sex turns into something a lot like rape. Johnny flees to London to hook up with an old girlfriend Louise (Sharp). While wandering around the city he gives free rein to his unfocused rage and indulges in some further degrading sexual encounters, notably with the dippy and compliant Sophie (Cartlidge). This is brilliant stuff, but hard to stomach. Once again Leigh proves what a big problem he has with London's bourgeoisie, particularly with his portrayal of the smooth, sexually exploitative Jeremy (Cruttwell).Leigh gives us so little to cling to here. There is barely a symphathetic character aside from security guard Brian (Wright), who dreams of escaping to Ireland. So the viewer is stuck with the edgy autodidact Johnny. It's an immensely powerful film about self-loathing and urban alienation, but, Thewlis' remarkable performanace notwithstading, staying the two hour distance is asking for a lot, even from die-hard Leigh fans. "}{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I hadn't seen any of Leigh's prior work before deciding to settle on Naked as a good starter. From what I'd gathered beforehand, I knew I could expect something that could best be described as a gritty-feeling movie. In hindsight, I don't think you can describe Naked as being a gritty-feeling movie. You end up describing gritty-feeling movies as being like Naked.That statement is pretty true &#150; Naked is as bleak and unforgiving as they come. There are no good guys or any possible chances for redemption. Whenever a glimmer of hope appears during the film, it's obliterated within mere moments. The characters don't undergo any significant changes throughout the film. The film ends in pretty much the same way it begins, probably doomed to repetition until the end of the world. If you sit down to watch this, all I can say is be prepared. Know what you're getting into.Although the unforgettable feel of the film could be attributed to its verité style (filmed on the dodgy side of London with very rough-looking film), it could be better attributed to the protagonist himself. David Thewlis gives what's probably his best performance as Johnny, a man with few strengths and countless flaws. His eloquent monologues are roughly balanced by his harsh treatment of others. Johnny has very little respect for anyone or anything and it shows as he inflicts pain (physical or emotional, it doesn't matter to him) on everybody that crosses his path.As bad as he is, however, he's oddly sympathetic in a way (especially when compared to a landlord who's as callous and sociopathic as he is, possibly more so). In a way, I could actually relate to Johnny (and not just because I have the same coat). He knows how bad he can be and acts accordingly, only because he doesn't believe in anything else or changing his ways. He just exists from day to day, just like any other human being. That's what makes Johnny so compelling &#150; he really is only human. When karma finally catches up to him late in the film, we aren't glad to see him suffer. Johnny is the best kind of character, full of nuance that will make different people love him and hate him for the same reasons.Even though Naked depends heavily on Johnny's presence, he is not the be-all and end-all of the film. The supporting characters are exceptional &#150; the stand-out roles being Johnny's ex and her flatmate. Watching them try and deal with the sudden arrival of both Johnny and (later on) the landlord is in itself one very compelling subplot. A runner-up would be the security guard on his graveyard shift who engages in a series of debates with Johnny about time, life, evolution and the inevitable Apocalypse.Needless to say, Naked was one hell of a film to watch. It makes me wonder exactly how I should rate it, if I should rate it. It's not really one of those movies where you just say Oh yeah, very good, very moving, 4 stars. You're more likely to watch it and afterwards not say anything, just think about it. Those are the exceptional films, and Naked is definitely that &#150; a dark, pessimistic insight into the mind of a human being who treads the fine line between self-destruction and utter dissatisfaction. "},{"Title":"Another rave review!","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my favourite films. I don't think that you can necessarily call it realistic. Johnny in particular seems to be one of those characters that you sometimes see in psychological dramas in film, theatre and literature who embodies too many extreme characteristics in his mode of living and his thought processes and experiences too many hyperintense situations in the short timescale of the film's action to be wholly believable. So you probably won't meet a cynical, sharply witty and intelligent and cruel f**k-up quite like that even from Manchester. But I don't think that that detracts from the film as some of the other commenters seem to feel - I don't mind a bit of staginess! David Thewlis's performance fills me with awe. His speech, his facial expressions, the way he moves and holds his body are electrifying. He is an incredibly damaged character who uses his (sometimes inhumanly) sharp wit and intelligence to cruelly torment and exploit those around him instead of trying to use his obvious gifts in a more positive way to help himself and the other human flotsam that he encounters. For all his  strength of will and powers of endurance, he is weak because he revels in his nihilism and his desire to crush other unfortunates. He could never have a genuinely open mutual compassionate relationship with another human being. But thanks to the brilliance of DT he becomes one of the most magnetic screen characters ever. I love Mike Leigh and I love David Thewlis (he always plays unusual characters but not often misanthropes - the man is a great actor). I love this movie. 'Nuff said. "},{"Title":"Macabre Reality...","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I first watched the movie on a recommendation and was hooked on Mike Leigh movies ever after. Naked does not mess around with polite small talk, No, it truly baptizes the viewer into a gritty, dirty puddle of London which leaves you feeling like taking a shower after your through.When I watched Naked as a student I had been to London only once, having now lived in the capital for over two years I have seen the dirty underbelly and appreciate the honesty of leigh's film more so now than ever. I particularly enjoyed 'The wandering Scots', and the 'Security Guard' whom are both lost, yet in very different ways.Thinking back to the time i watched it i was captivated by the dialog, and the self destructive element that hung like dynamite around our characters. This frustrated me than but now being more mature i can accept it as inevitable for these individuals. I can honestly say that there are not many movies that make one feel this way, make one reflect and feel so empty looking at Johnys life and future...I have the utmost respect for all the actors in this film. Yet, it has been a number of years since i have watched it as it is a long embarkation through the soul of human suffering...watch it for the pure genius that is Mike & David but be sure to watch it in good company that has an open mind.Enjoy  "},{"Title":"Graphic but pungent","Date":"15 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  From the first scene Naked poses the question, Can you handle this? We follow Johnny, a brilliant masochist who doesn't care about anyone, least of all himself. He trods along London philosophizing and smacking strangers with his forthright sarcasm and wit. Very much in the same vain as Irvine Welsh's Acid House, Naked is a bumpy ride down the sad road of human despair and sadness. It seems to the viewer that each character could be no worse off than he is... but the movie continues. Violent sex totally void of any decent emotion is proof of the complete lack of love of the main male roles in this movie. Sebastian, a psuedo-rich, sick and twisted (and wholly unexplained) character is a poster boy for American Psycho (BretEastonEllis) Each character touches another characters life in an unhealthy yet profound way. To watch each character decompose to their core and then run off crying is to ask yourself the question, Where am I going? Mike Leigh allows you to take every character that is laying in the gutter and screaming in rage and offer your hand with a stern caring that is truly genuine.  "},{"Title":"David Thewlis delivers a tour de force performance that will always stay with you.","Date":"10 March 2009","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Now available on DVD in the UK for the first time, it's worth revisiting Mike Leigh's 4th cinema feature, 'Naked'. Originally released in the autumn of 1993, it won the Best Director and Best Actor prizes at that year's Cannes Film Festival. If Leigh's newest film 'Happy Go Lucky' is of a sunny and optimistic disposition, then 'Naked' is a far bleaker, inhumane and unsympathetic appraisal of London life in the drab and economically depressed early 1990s. It's a film of dialogue and characters - there's no plot. 'Low Expectations' might be an alternative title. Set over a period of just three days, 'Naked' has at its heart a compelling performance by David Thewlis as Johnny, a Mancunian drifter first seen having unsavoury sex with a unsavoury woman in a Manchester back alley. He flees the scene, steals a car and drives South to London to begin an odyssey through Dick Pope's darkly photographed nighttime streets and a depressed and colourless wintry London.Johnny colludes with no one and belongs to nowhere. He evokes no sympathy but is also not unlikeable. He is always unwashed, unshaven and untidy Only 27, he is also in the process of physical degeneration. But Johnny is no uncouth yob or waster, but a firestorm of intellect driven by the Bible and the prophecies of Nostradamus. Between scrounged bites of food, this is his existence.Johnny arrives on the doorstep of the flat of his former lover Louise (Lesley Sharp) and her doped up friend Sophie (Katrin Cartlidge). Johnny and Sophie share a cigarette, a joint and then have brutal sex on the sofa. Johnny leaves the flat and wanders through the night, first encountering two homeless Scots, then Brian (Peter Wright), a lonely security guard guarding an empty office block. Together the two men wander through the building in a spellbinding set piece of that is dazzlingly delivered by Thewlis at breakneck speed as he rants about the inevitable apocalypse in 1999 and how humanity will evolve from it's present state The end of the world is nigh, BriJohnny is deeper and more talkative than anyone else. He subsequently encounters a drunken prostitute and a dim girl (Gina McKee). He is then twice beaten up once in an alley by youths and once by a fly poster. Beaten and bleeding, he returns to Louise's flat only to discover Jeremy (Greg Cutwell) has taken up residence. He is the Yuppie landlord, something in the city and an excruciating caricature. Jeremy is a habitual misogynist, first seen asking a masseur if women enjoy being raped. He also rapes Sophie, making her wear a nurse's uniform in the process.At the flat, Johnny has an epileptic fit and regresses back to his abused childhood. Louise threatens to castrate Jeremy with a knife, and has a reconciliation with Johnny. But Johnny does not hang around and is last seen limping off at great speed with £290 of Jeremy's money (which had paid for Sophie's pleasure) in his pocket.'Naked' is visually and verbally about the abuse of women and a general overview of the intellectual themes of the late 20th century. Women in the film exist mostly to be put upon, whilst Johnny may look like the lowest of the lie, he rises above the rabble with a profound sense of the bigger picture. When Louise asks where he came from, he responds with a rapid fire description of the Big Bang theory. When she asks if he's bored, he then delivers a powerful speech about the problem with people is that they're always so bored - they've had the universe, nature and the living body explained to them and they're bored with it, so what they want now is just cheap thrills and plenty of them.I kept wondering if the film were made today what would be the targets of Johnny's intellect? Celebrity culture, the war on terror, political spin, reality TV? The film is certainly over long and two episodes (the drunken prostitute and the girl in the café) could have been jettisoned without loosing anything. Thewlis, however, delivers a once in a lifetime performance that stays with the viewer long after - and I mean years after - the film has finished. "},{"Title":"It is hard to explain the feeling I get each time I watch this movie.","Date":"22 May 2004","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  After seeing this movie for the first time - I remember &#150; it was a feeling of being undressed and very sad. And yet it one of the two greatest movies I have ever seen. It tears your perspective on society apart, it shows you the highs and mostly lows of the sad broken people you see one the street everyday. In some sense we are all Johnny, the seeker who is always running away, and if you are even the least human you have felt the feelings or acted like most of the characters.The discussion between Johnny and the nightwatch(Brian), is in my humble opinion one of the greatest pieces of dialogs in a movie script. Mike Leigh has a special talent for telling the life story of a supporting character in 2-4 simple frames, like the young girl at the café(and if you rent Secrets & Lies, you will love the sequence with the former owner of Maurice's shop).David Thewlis performance as Johnny is just frightening, it should be the benchmark for acting for his generation. But it is a great display from all &#150; would love to know what Leigh does, to get that kind of performance. The ending is both logical and utterly sad, but it is true to the characters and the story. Go Rent it now&#133;  "},{"Title":"Strong stuff","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mike Leigh seems to have three types of film - the unequivocally nice, the unequivocally grim and the in-between.  Personally, my preference is for the in-between stuff (e.g. Secrets and Lies, All or Nothing).  Naked is unequivocally grim and strong stuff, but is a fine example of Leigh's work nevertheless.Leigh assembled a very strong cast for this piece, most of whom are familiar to me from the London stage David Thewlis, Lesley Sharp and the late Katrin Cartlidge all doing a good job of the leading roles, with top performers such as Peter Wight and Gina McKee playing smaller parts.We felt uncomfortable throughout this film and found the characters hugely frustrating as they consistently messed things up.  But that is so often the point with Leigh's work.This is an excellent film. "},{"Title":"Change your life","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is the best movie I have ever seen. After the second time I saw it, I knew it all. I became a spectator and  was no longer a participant in this world. I think that's what the movie is all about. Open your eyes, there's so much more. Some people get this feeling because off religion, books,... For me it was this movie. It changed my view on almost everything.VERY DEEP "},{"Title":"Thewlis rules OK","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This performance by David Thewlis should be framed in gold and shown to all aspiring actors/actresses in the known Universe. His portrait of Johnny makes it impossible to feel anything but deep sympathy and understanding for a character that is basically a total b*st*rd. An extremely clever, bright and witty one, but still a b*st*rd, fighting with all his might to keep love away, still reaching for it desperately. A movie that fills you with disgust, discomfort, misery... and the feeling of having witnessed something that is achieved only once in a lifetime.  "},{"Title":"The omelette stinks","Date":"12 November 2009","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Naked, as implied by its title, is raw, uncompromising cinema, the least comforting manifestation to date of what Mike Leigh calls his celebration of human experience; yet there are also moments of tenderness, necessary chinks of compassion spearing the murk. It is also bitingly, appallingly funny.The film was borne out of Leigh's then preoccupations with the tension between spiritual and material values, some tougher aspects of the relationship between the sexes, and above all, a profound sense of impending, apocalyptic doom. 'Pre-Millennium Tension', Tricky called it in 1996, for an album steeped in paranoia, psychic pollution and regret. Forever - what does that mean? asks his lover. It means we'll manage Tricky grimly retorts. Manage. For Naked's damaged roster of characters, churning out their faded sexual rituals or wearily braced for more verbal and physical trauma, simply 'managing' would be a desirable state to attain.As Leigh told 'Cineaste' in 1994, In so far as Naked is about England, the fabric of society is collapsing. People are insecure, there is a sense of disintegration which is, as much as anything else, a legacy of the Tories. The previous decade's boom and bust had left almost every strata of society reeling, with a great many financially or emotionally ill-equipped for the subsequent recession, the period in which the film is set. It is hardly surprising that more people were admitted into psychiatric care during the 1980s than in any previous decade; subsequently released into communities which no longer existed or didn't care about them.The Poll Tax levy, fleecing the poorest communities while propping up the richest, had also contributed to more numbers of homeless than ever. And Naked's original remit was to have focused on the street, until Leigh decided the subject was too one-dimensional. Maggie! bawls twitching Scots straggler Archie (Ewen Bremner) helplessly, in one of the film's subtler allusions. She's gone, mate mutters David Thewlis's Johnny, chief pallbearer of the post-Thatcherite malaise. Those days are over. However, Naked ought not to be taken chiefly as a state-of-the-nation polemic the film working out of a broader European tradition of dark, existential allegory. Here, the homeless are those who have been disenfranchised from family, jobs, values - and us, for we can only guess at their stories, as they stumble like medieval cripples through a heightened, Dante-esquire vision of urban London.The sole emblematic landmark to be glimpsed is the BT Tower looming high above the horizon more unreachable communication. Appropriately, for a drama exploring rootlessness and displacement, the Naked City (shot in pitiless bleach-bypass to imbue the film with a grainy, Dickensian quality) has collapsed in on itself, having entered a black hole respecting no spatial perimeters. Johnny's sleepless odyssey through the capital's cafes, empty office blocks and bedroom floors will take him from Soho to Shoreditch in minutes.Almost everybody in Naked is on the move, arriving or departing, to Andrew Dickson's driving, melancholy score. But rarely digging in, lending the film its picaresque quality - a latter-day pilgrim's progress through the Inferno. As befitting a film dealing with the end of days, mythical and Biblical references abound, from 'The Iliad' to the 'Book Of Revelation' Johnny's number of the Beast 'barcode' rant had been prompted by a pamphlet handed to the actor in the street, and its execution - an astonishing verbal juggling act in silhouette - would take around two dozen takes to perfect.With his head framed against the halo-making rays of a Roman clock, Johnny is both broken Christ and testing devil, crying out to save souls, to reach somebody - anybody - while simultaneously flagellating them for their crucifying ennui. Do you believe in God? he's asked at one juncture. Of course I believe in God, he snaps back. Faith, or lack of it, is not the issue. The question is what manner of maker has led us to this point? All performances here are exemplary, including stunning turns from the late, great Katrin Cartlidge who plays the desperate, self-medicated goth Sophie, and Lesley Sharp, Johnny's ex-girlfriend Louise and Naked's moral compass. In Johnny himself (a slice of Lydon, a shave of Lennon and a dose of Mark E Smith) director and actor would create a complex mix of the callous and compassionate, though rarely without a splenetic machine-gun wit the survivor's apparatus. Only once will a comeback desert him, when insecurity guard Brian tells him Don't waste your life. Thewlis had read the equivalent of a small bookshop to prepare for the part, and the ever-present dog-eared paperbacks in Johnny's satchel are like his theories; things to be picked up, appropriated or stolen, then put down. For the autodidact who expresses his sense of self though words, the permanent removal of those books will precipitate his breakdown.That breakdown was more or less real, Thewlis told this writer, years later. That's how I felt - raging. The origin of it is where we experimented with him going inside himself. What I come out with at that point is fairly incoherent and ambiguous, and that's based on this day we had which we used to refer to as the 'Wobbly'. When we were filming the scene it was like 'Okay let's go there now'. I went to a bit of a strange place in my head. It was worth it. Thewlis still receives plaudits for Johnny, and still receives work off the back of it. Steven Spielberg once requested an audience with him, after Spielberg, Martin Scorsese and Brian De Palma spent a night arguing about the film. I get this quite a lot he muses. People either come up to me and say 'You changed my life', 'That was me', or 'You said everything that I've ever thought'. A few religious nuts in America wrote to me saying 'Remember, God loves you.' "}{"Title":"This can be viewed dozens of times.","Date":"30 August 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mike Leigh's hands-down best movie is defined by clever, snappy dialogue, superb characterizations, and an impeccably chosen cast. It's an unusual drama, with a certain amount of comedy (the way Leigh made his movies before he became boring and repetitious). One moment there is philosophizing (nearly always initiated by Thewlis), and the next moment there's violence. It's a strange mix, but it works flawlessly. The night-time in London is a great backdrop for most of the goings-on.Naked doesn't have a plot in the traditional movie sense, but it never lets up for a second, with its constant influx of new characters, and Johnny's wonderful quick-witted utterings and thoughts. One needs a little while to get used to Johnny's thick Manchester accent, but it's worth it.I always cringe when someone pretentiously advertises a movie as a character study, but this movie is one of very few to deserve such an exalted labeling. "},{"Title":"Feed your depression!","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The naked truth about our existence, as depicted in Mike Leigh's Naked, is summed up by the main character Johnny (David Thewlis) Have you ever thought, right, that you might have already had the happiest moment in your whole f***in' existence, and all you've got to look forward to is sickness and purgatory and death.Rather depressing isn't it? But if you, like most high-profile movie reviewers, are easily impressed by simplistic nihilism, and need to feed your depression, this movie is a sumptuous feast. Yet, I admit I was somewhat impressed by the skill these actors demonstrated in taking this pointless adventure seriously. Also, I can't overlook a couple of invigorating scenes that break the dreariness.Truthfully, I think it would be impossible to SPOIL this movie, as it's famous for not having a plot, and being beyond conventional story-telling. That said, BE WARNED some of the rest might be considered a SPOILER!My favorite scene was Johnny's encounter with a laconic poster hanger and his reaction to the non-stop fatalistic rant. He pretty much summed up my feelings about the bombastard. I only regretted not being allowed to participate. By this time, I was so sick of his post-1960s cultural gibberish, all I wanted was for someone to SHUT HIM UP! "},{"Title":"Pretentious Drivel","Date":"3 June 2010","Score":"18 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I had never heard of this movie until recently, it was recommended by a friend - He is no longer a friend! Possibly one of the worst movies I have ever had the misfortune to have to endure.There is absolutely nothing redeeming at all about this over-hyped pretentious, trite drivel.I am not a big fan of Mike Leigh, but do admire David Thewlis, however, this has to be worst from both of them.A much better Leigh movie (in my opinion) is All or Nothing  Naked frankly made me squirm throughout the movie with all the gibberish pretentious / pseudo political tripe. "},{"Title":"A Genuine Fraud","Date":"5 September 2008","Score":"25 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" First I would like to mention some of my favorite films, all of which have to do with human misery Antonioni's Eclipse, Bergman's The Silence and Persona, Richardson's Mademoiselle, Anderson's This Sporting Life, Polanski's Repulsion, and some which are so morbid they are difficult for many people to handle Almodovar's Matador, McNaughton's Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer, Haneke's Funny Games, Noe's Irreversible. I know what art is when I'm looking at it, and I'm not afraid of sick characters or unsavory subjects.Naked is a pretentious, meaningless film. It is an excuse for a lot of neurotic actors to over-act (very self-consciously), and to chew up the scenery in attempts to impress us with how gritty and down and dirty they are able and willing to become while practicing their craft. The most sickening example of this is seen in the final, ridiculously protracted shot, in which we have to watch David Thewlis hobbling toward the camera with that asinine expression on his face, after so many scenes in which we've had to watch him and the other artists in this film mugging and hamming it up ad-nauseum. I wanted to scream out I am NOT impressed! Thewlis is not a great actor. His performance is that of a pathetic man who clearly didn't get enough attention as a child. "},{"Title":"We're just a crap idea..","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  'Naked' is one of those few films were you don't know precisely how to take it.  It's certainly dark and there is also a certain amount of humour. But do we define it as a story of unrequited love or one man's alienation from himself or is it something all together fundamental.  Is God simply laughing at us and is the end nigh?  There are references throughout the film to Johnny's mother and other's to Ireland there is also the hint that Johnny is dying.  But I'm afraid that I cannot explain why these things recur.Both Mike Leigh and David Thewlis are on top form and I personally believe this film to be the closet to cinematic perfection they have ever been.Thewlis brings his character to life and creates the epitome of the anti-hero, dirty, homeless, abusive and filled with existential cynicism. Someone who you know you should hate and yet you just can't and this is the way everyone else in the film seems to react to him.  The only time he is ever mistreated is when he actually approaches civility and tenderness. Thereby hammering home the notion that everyone loves a bastard.  Of course you cannot help but fall in love with his rapid-fire, caustic wit and gall but I still find it amazing that I admire him so much.  I guess it's because Johnny is free and despite all the horror which confronts him he still endures until his occasionally hinted at death seizes him.Then there is Mike Leigh's superb direction which creates a London within a London one of darkness and despair and hopes and nightmares.This film is so rich that it can't really be fully appreciated with one viewing the dialogue alone is worth paying attention to a second time and so hat's off to Leigh again for scripting it.All in all this film, from the moment it begins to the very end, is gripping and taut and the music is spectacular.  I don't think that I have ever seen another film where the same piece of music is used throughout and nothing more, thereby giving it a certain weight. But then again we cannot overlook the other players in this tale of despair. Because would it be quite as perfect without the obsessive, love-struck and annoying Sophie or the snorting, scumbag that is Sebastian? I don't think so and that's why I would recommend this film to anyone who requires depth to their entertainment and sub-texts which are so complex that even I, after so many viewings, don't fully understand.Have you ever seen a dead body?Only me own!  "},{"Title":"The Rape of a Nation","Date":"2 March 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Johnny (David Thewlis) rapes a girl in Manchester, and flees to London in order to find his old girlfriend, Louise (Lesley Sharp), a kind-hearted young woman seen as a hypocrite by some for working for the system in order not to starve and lead a decent life. Louise's roommate, Sophie (Katrin Cartlidge), seems to have more in common with Johnny, and these three poor souls will suffer some life changes as Johnny wanders around, questioning the apocalypse that should arrive in 6 years (that is, by 1999). Like Alex DeLarge (Malcolm McDowell, A Clockwork Orange) and Mark Renton (Ewan McGregor, Trainspotting) and other nihilistic anti-heroes, Johnny is a death angel in a no man's land.Mike Leigh's (a filmmaker I really admire, I often get his films confused with Ken Loach's, not that they are not distinctive - the other way around! - but both have similar styles, gritty realism and strong political content - two of the best British filmmakers of our time) films have the power to make you reflect, cry and even laugh. Naked was released 3 years before his most acclaimed work, the equally impressive (and easier to be watched, truth be told) Secrets & Lies, and is nothing short of a masterpiece. More than an existential journey of a lost soul - a man at first unlikeable and loathsome, but that reveals some bizarre charisma as you get to know him better - Naked is an important document of life in post-Thatcherism England. Thewlis, Sharp and Cartlidge deliver extraordinary, nuanced performances. Naked is definitely not for the squeamish, but if you're up for something really thought-provoking and unique, you should give it a try (had this film been so cool like Trainspotting, with an addictive pop soundtrack and MTV references, it'd been just as popular as Danny Boyle's fantastic movie). 10/10. "},{"Title":"I feel so STUPID!","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I usually consider myself a fairly intelligent person, but this film made me feel like an utter moron.  The dialogue in this movie blew me away. Honestly, after just one viewing, I didn't understand a lot of what went on. Part of this was because of the accents, what with my being a simple country gal.  David Thewlis was really great...a little scary, but incredible.  His character was so brilliant and yet so messed up. Definitely not somebody you'd want to hang out with. I found this movie's attitude toward women a bit...uh...VIOLENT.  I didn't see the point of the Sebastien bloke, either.  Did he really have to keep running around in them itty bitty underpants? Ugh.  Why didn't one of our poor helpless little heroines bash him in the head with the ever-present tea kettle?  Sheesh. Well, aside from my nitpicking, this was a rather brilliant, thought-provoking (and ultimately quite depressing) film.  I can't wait to watch it again to perhaps gain more understanding so I won't feel like such a dumbass.  "},{"Title":"I must be the only women on here who likes this film! SPOILERS FOLLOW!","Date":"23 December 2004","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Okay, every review has a brief outline on what happens and here it isJohnny (David Thewlis) flees Manchester for London, to avoid a beating from the family of a girl he has raped. There he finds an old girlfriend (Lesley Sharpe), and spends some time homeless, spending much of his time ranting at strangers, and meeting characters in plights very much like his own.That's basically it in a nutshell. Doesn't sound like much, does it? Oh you would be surprised! Johnny rants a hell of a lot but most of it is very provoking, especially when it comes to the Bible. But if you cant understand the Manchester accent or the English lingo, you're not going to enjoy this because you wont understand half of what is being said or half of what is going on!This film is not for everyone. There is no basic plot to it which is basically Mike Leigh's style and I was asking myself repeatedly Where is this story going?Despite this, it is very funny. It is mainly dark humour but Johnny shows off a mixture of sarcasm, intelligence and dark humour. In the first 10 minutes, I couldn't stop laughing at his wit (even though I don't think it was meant to be THAT funny!)However, it's also very sexually explicit. There are a lot of several rape scenes and the consensual scenes include Johnny treating his women roughly. This blurs the reality of what is rough consensual sex and rape. Johnny is a confused person and David Thewlis carried this off brilliantly! It is his best role bar non. He acts the way he does because that's the way he was brought up. Johnny is a genius and has his say for the world but form the way he was treated (probably by his mother), he's given up on life and the world and gets by being sarcastic and bitter. However, he has a good heart and seems to have feelings for one person his girlfriend, the one person who he doesn't try to mess around with (physically or mentally in the film!) Some people are confused because of Jeremy and what part he has to play. I think what Leigh was trying to do was try and make a contrast between him and Johnny. Whilst Johnny shows compassion, Jeremy has no heart at all. It does not justify Johnny's rape or rough consensual sex- it rather shows that there are nastier people in the world than Johnny. After reading reviews from IMDb.com I found that women tended to hate this film whilst men love it. I wont say that I loved it but it was a good film and a lovely controversial (and extremely thought-provoking one at that. Marks 8/10 "},{"Title":"'kin brilliant.","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  david thewlis created most of the brilliant dialogue in this masterpiece, and perhaps a good portion of the credit should go to him. although leigh's direction is spot-on, presenting a gray-blue bleak depiction of manchester and london, and a bleaker depiction of the misery of the characters, which is so beautifully poetic.morbid, depressing, uplifting, and beautiful - all at once.thewlis is a brilliant actor. "},{"Title":"Thought provoking brutality and bleakness","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Mike Leigh has given us another look at bleak characters in England and here we watch a drifter named Johnny (David Thewlis) who in the first scene of the film is having sex in an alley with some woman very brutally to the point where it makes the woman run off shouting at him so Johnny steals a car and drives to a former girlfriends home. She's at work but her roommate Sophie (Katrin Cartlidge) lets him in to wait for her. Sophie takes drugs and drinks and is a punk type that can give the double talk as fast as Johnny can. Johnny and Sophie have sex and later Louise (Lesley Sharp) gets home from work. Johnny stays for some time but then leaves. Film follows Johnny as he meets different characters like a night watchman, a waitress, a Scot with a nervous tic, a drunk woman spotted from a window and a man who pastes posters on walls. Meanwhile Louise and Sophies landlord Jeremy (Greg Crutwell) is a very cruel and brutal man who somehow convinces woman to date him and then later he brutalizes them to the point where you can call it rape. He comes to Louise's home and takes advantage of Sophie to the point where she becomes a shaking mess. He wont leave and the woman are very afraid of him. Leigh once again shows us sad characters who are trying to get through life. This is definitely one of Leigh's tougher films and he always assembles a good cast to make the sordid and downbeat material easier to view. Thewlis is just riveting as Johnnie. A very smart and fast talking man who can dazzle you with his knowledge on an assortment of topics but ultimately he abuses everyone verbally. He seems unable to answer a question clearly and at times in the film I had no idea what he was talking about. How could such a bright man have fallen through the cracks in life? He has one thing in common with Jeremy, they both brutalize woman when they have sex. Obviously they are unable to communicate tenderness and it suggests that something tragic happened to them when they were young. The title Naked is a reflection on how these characters are placed in this world. Johnnie uses his intellect and fast talking to try and get through life. Louise has a normal job and tries to convince herself that she is normal. Sophie drinks and takes drugs to keep reality away. The last shot in the film of Johnnie is a haunting image as he stumbles down the street. Some of Leigh's films are an acquired taste and I suspect this one falls into that category. This film is a little overlong but those who invest the time will view some terrific performances headed by Thewlis and a film that offers a dark look at some characters who all have their own way of dealing with the outside world.  "}{"Title":"must see - top 10 all time","Date":"30 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  There's little point describing the film, best thing is to assume that if you are broadminded and unshackled by ego driven prejudices you will enjoy it. BUT it has to be watched 2-3 times before it can be truly enjoyed. The first time it is watched it leaves you feeling a bit confused, a bit depressed and glad that you can shrug it off with its only a film. I've watched it about 10 times now over the years as I've shown it to others, just as it was shown to me by another 'fan'. The thing that makes it so good is just that its a ****ing brilliant film, its what films should be, highly entertaining, thought provoking and capturing the moment in time when it was made. I hate it when people cast there own ego driven bull***t interpretation of films, like they have some god given power to be able to see the truth that 'all' the other less intelligent fools who they graciously share 'their' planet with will just never understand, so I won't. If you lived in the UK through that era you will relate to the legacy left by our class system, whether non Brits (unless of a subversive disposition) will relate is less likely. Americans in particular who either live or in the main pretend to live the American dream may relate less as it is a bit too real and in your face in showing the other side of the 'failed' dream. Though to repeat it is still ONLY a film... Did that help? no? now you can see why I'm the kind of subversive person who would enjoy this film )PS - make sure you watch it at least a second time a few months later. "},{"Title":"Overwrought and tedious","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"17 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Just emailed a friend who's in film school about this flick. Something to avoid when making a film - characters blabbering senseless, overwrought, convoluted monologues on screen that are ultimately trite and unconvincing. If the film is an attempt at social realism, these verbal barrages are so over-the-top that they actually draw attention to the film constructed as film and effectively neutralize that intent. Is it the acting, or the script that is bad, or both?The protagonist is also highly unbelievable for social realism - ravenously consuming canonical English literature and the bible while high or hungover and able to produce such profoundly sophomoric soliloquies while intoxicated? And how is such an unattractive, unwashed and verbally noxious character able to bed most of the women he meets within minutes of encountering them? (I had to applaud when one chick finally threw him out onto the street, despite his whining and self-pitying banter).The viewer encounters pretentious references to Ancient Greek literature, Nostradamus and the Book of Revelations. The impending doom of mankind, in the form of bar codes imprinted on our foreheads or right hands in spooky biblical fashion, is presented to a character who is oh-so-cleverly exposed in his role as a guardian of empty space. This flick is over-scripted and over the top - a melodrama clumsily infused with pedestrian philosophy about the meaning of mankind, life, etc. It is trite, overwrought and tedious.There are some very fine English films available with content similar to this film. Nil by Mouth is an excellent, far more interesting excursion into the lives of individuals in a similar social milieu. Ditto for In the Warzone. And although the comparison is not even warranted, check out anything by Peter Greenaway, who far more deftly handles dialogue, wit and absurd characters and situations. "},{"Title":"Whining nonsense","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"18 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Complete rubbish.For a start, Johnny wouldn't have lasted one day back in 90's London done up as he was. That oily 70's porno-moustache would have been torn clean off his face within 12 hours.Secondly, why does Mike Leigh think ALL women are slags? Thirdly, what's with all the rape stuff? And what's with the voyeurism? Er,.....Mike? Fourthly, WTF is going on with the ending? My guess - based on his previous form Johnny hops to the nearest phonebox to drink a bottle of vodka, pleasure himself over the phone-book, beat his head bloody against the door jamb, and collapse in a pool of vomit - all the while reading the Schrodinger equation aloud in a whining northern accent.I really wish that had been the ending! And that then a steamroller - piloted by the security guard tersely singing 'Any Old Iron' in a monotone - had very slowly crushed said phonebox flat with Johnny inside, accompanied by his screams, imprecations, philosophical incantations and begging. Johnny's last words would be 'Tetley Tea Folk...Marquis de Sade...'.Seriously, just because it was 'cough, cough' a bit different, doesn't mean this film was great.Please grow up, everyone.Sigh. "},{"Title":"crackling dialog and amazing performances in unforgettable roles","Date":"6 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Johnny (David Thewlis) has rough sex and accused of rape. He drives off to escape from her family. He leaves Manchester for London where he tracks down old girlfriend Louise Clancy (Lesley Sharp) who lives with Sophie (Katrin Cartlidge) and Sandra who's away on holiday. Johnny gets crazy with Louise and walks away into the streets. He encounters Archie who keeps yelling out Maggie! and Maggie. He has a philosophical discussion with night security guard Brian. He goes over to the distraught drunk across the street. He becomes taken with Cafe Girl (Gina McKee). He gets beaten by random thugs and stumble back to the flat. The movie also follows the rich psychopathic womanizer Sebastian Hawks aka Jeremy Smart who claims to be the landlord of the girls' flat.This is Mike Leigh at his most aggressively strikingly brutal. The characters are all naked. They are bare and raw. The rapid dialog is exhilarating. David Thewlis creates an insanely memorable character. All the main characters are sharply brilliant. Even the side characters are unforgettable. Who can really forget about MAGGIE!? The security guard is one of my favorites. I also love the harp music. This is shocking and hilarious and a magnificent movie about unforgettable characters. "},{"Title":"Only the lonely, in a one off and original Leigh great","Date":"3 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Naked is something of a welcoming surprise, when I first saw it in 94', and in my opinion, was one of the best films I saw that year. The film works, mostly due to an incredible and original performance, that of David Thewlis, where the other two female leads are almost as good, especially, Cartidge, as the dependent Sophie, a heroin user, who's forced into performing some sex acts by the the conniving, malicious, and lonely pig of a landlord, Jeremy (Crustwell) though we're not sure he really is one at this point, when he makes this sudden intrusion. That's the thing about this film, every character is lonely, one such character, a night security guard, guarding what high strung and reckless 90's hero Johnny, (Thewlis) comically terms as Space which honestly is what he really he is doing. The film has an explosive and dramatic start with Johnny screwing a woman, where if it's rape, it's discernible, but with Johnny taking off quick to avoid a bashing, it must be. He arrives in Manchester and takes harborage at his ex-girlfriend's, Louise (Sharp) place. She's painfully lonely, obvious as day, where you don't have to be a rocket scientist to realize she envies the more outward and sex loving Sophie. Starting up a relationship, with Johnny, where really she's suffocating him, he goes out on a solo walk, into the night cold. Thus begins a journey where he meets a collection of people, first two homeless drug users, a pre Trainspotting face, and very un Spud like. Basically the others are unhappy, discontent loners, one woman even creeping Johnny out. Naked, I must warn you, is surprisingly, and bloody funny, from an A1 script, insightful and sharp, ala Mike Leigh, where Thewlis is lumbered with a lot, bringing a performance of reality that just paralyses you. Too Crustwell, who I only saw in another film was impressive as his character was a horrible being, but there we're reasons. After all, he informs us he's going to commit suicide when reaching the big 40. And he can get rough too. Near the end, we really see the characters for what they are, and that includes Crustwell lonely. Again being Mike Leigh, what we have is a situation set, through the motions movie, that probably would of had rehearsed improv, All 4 leads deliver solid performances, but none finer than Thewlis, where I had to see more of this guy. As this being the only other Leigh film, I've seen besides Meantime, which I really liked, this is that controversial, stand out from the rest of the directors flick, where we have a brave, daring and bloody film, one set apart from all of Leigh's others. At the end, as Johnny departs, the relentless loser, we're actually sad to see him go, in a film, every movie connisseur, should put down as a must see, but more so, a must see Thewlis performance, one which will have a lingering effect on the viewer, years after it's watch. The title reveals a lot too. "},{"Title":"Depressing, confronting, brilliant.","Date":"1 October 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This film is not an easy one to watch. It lacks action, the characters are either exhaustingly pathetic, visciously cruel or a mixture of both, the location is dismal, and its message is depressing. All in all I think it is a brilliant film.After watching 'Naked' I looked at the world in a different light, and asked it the philosophical and often cynical questions inspired by the most brilliantly played anti-hero that is Johnny. As he inserts himself into the course of various people's life, expanding his own views of the world and its inhabitants, he changes their thoughts as he changes ours. But it is in his weaker moments that we see the soul of this cruel and witty creature, as vunerable to the world as any of us, and in a way it adds a certain depth to Johnny and the film that forbids you hating it. This film sometimes brushes so close to the truth that it creates goosebumps. A fabulous script, superb acting and astounding direction, Mike Leigh's 'Naked' is a must-see. "},{"Title":"What happens if a butterfly flaps its wings in Salford?","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Naked is written and directed by Mike Leigh. It stars David Thewlis, Lesley Sharp, Katrin Cartlidge, Greg Cruttwell, Claire Skinner, Peter Wright, Ewen Bremner and Gina McKee. Music is by Andrew Dickinson and cinematography by Dick Pope.Johnny (Thewlis) is an unemployed wastrel who has to flee Manchester after indulging in his sexually violent proclivities. Heading for London to seek out an old girlfriend, Johnny encounters a number of people more hapless and lost than he is.Proles, Plebs and Potheads.Mike Leigh's brutal and raw character study remains as potent today as it was on release in post Thatcher Britain. Sometimes coined as a film for masochists or misogynists, Naked is actually for neither. For sure it isn't setting out to cheer you up, it's relentlessly restless and intense, it doesn't cut corners or operate under a banner of political convenience. Yet it does have intelligent depth to the point where the deeper you dig the more troubling Leigh's observations become. This allows Leigh and his brilliant cast to leave indelible images, to bring out themes that simply refuse to leave the conscious, where the observation of a society filled with sad, lonely and desperate people provides the discomfort of the human form stripped, well, naked.Ever seen a dead body?Only my own&#x85;Johnny is an intellectual, an intelligent man, even charming, he can chat freely on the world and man's existence in it. But he has unhealthy appetites and a knack for latching onto emotional discord. Posit this with a backdrop of dirty streets, cheap cafés and grungy flats, and there's a starkness about the narrative that scars the soul, aided considerably by Dickinson's edgy violin based score and Pope's stripped back colour photography. A concurrent character study with that of Johnny is that of Jeremy/Sebastian (Cruttwell), the definition of Yuppiedom gone wrong, the devil with a Filofax who is both cruel and predatory, he's the polar opposite of scruffy Johnny, but both represent a London that's far from the bright lights and big city so many hopeless dreamers set off in search of.A sick boy in search of Booze, Beans and a Bath.The Jeremy/Sebastian axis feels very much like satire, this also is something that makes Naked so strong, it is quite often funny. True, the humour here is clinical and comes in spiked barbs, but there are laughs to be had here, the kind that deftly dovetail with a pervading sense of bleakness, finding wit in the most unlikely of places. What is Leigh trying to say in all this? As usual he isn't offering up solutions to his questions, he demands you observe and respond, while he asks his actors to take the material and respond in kind, which they do, led by a quite extraordinary performance by Thewlis. Cannes agreed, awarding Thewlis with the Best Actor Award whilst also bestowing Leigh with the Best Director Award. Both were richly deserved.Never gratuitous, Naked is a sensitive and thoughtful film, yes it's tough to witness at times, it's meant to be, but this is a searing masterpiece that demands to be seen more than once. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Mike Leigh creates a memorable character then dissects him","Date":"20 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Naked follows a few days in the life of Johnny, a cynical but garrulous drifter who flees to the apartment shared by his ex-lover Louise and her vulnerable friend Sophie. Johnny is an unusual sort of character; he seeks out companionship and then proceeds to turn his caustic wit on the very people he is reaching out to. Given many of his actions, including multiple violent sexual encounters, it should be difficult to relate to him but he's strangely sympathetic most of the time as he seems to be a desperate man thrust into a society fueled by illusions he has never bothered to acknowledge, let alone buy into. So he constantly looks for some meaning in his life that he will never find; if he was the kind of person that could buy into an explanation for his existence he wouldn't be looking for that explanation to begin with.Naked's narrative structure consists of a series of conversations, most of which are between Johnny and the various people he encounters in his journeys around London. It plays out like a more realistic and serious version of After Hours. There's also a subplot involving Jeremy, a character that is essentially Johnny's opposite where Johnny always jokes and never laughs Jeremy never jokes and always laughs, where Johnny can't stop talking Jeremy says as little as possible, where Johnny seems to attract most of the people he meets Jeremy seems to repulse the same people, where Johnny is a penniless drifter with no place in society Jeremy is a rich businessman with myriad connections. Jeremy's purpose in the movie is two-fold first, his cold detachment stands in stark contrast to Johnny's raw humanity; second, his entrance into Johnny's life as a dramatic foil injects the film with meaningful conflict. This conflict and its resolution sets the stage for the key conversation between Johnny and Louise.In spite of the episodic nature of the plot, writer/director Mike Leigh managed to create a coherent narrative that gradually builds toward a moment of clarity that lays bare the nature of his expertly drawn protagonist. The viewer sees the naked soul of this character and it's a devastating sight. "},{"Title":"Mike Leigh Misfire Is Still Worth Watching for David Thewlis","Date":"19 November 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mike Leigh movies are never exactly laugh riots, but even with that Naked is one of the most dismal and surly films I've ever seen from him.Actually, the whole movie was a bit too one note for me, that one note being nihilistic. Leigh only diffuses his relentless tone of gloom in the film's last few moments, when it lurches unexpectedly and not entirely successfully into a kind of screwball comedy. It's a film that basically says men are brutes and pigs, and women are spineless victims -- it's not a flattering picture of either gender, and it doesn't have anything profound or even productive to say.However, and this is a big However, the film does have one huge asset to recommend it, and that is David Thewlis. He gives a fascinating and completely unique performance as Johnny, a sort of vagabond philosopher who wanders from stranger to stranger over the course of a long London night, pontificating about the meaning of existence and brutalizing just about every woman he comes across. Leigh presents London as a city full of lost souls, vulnerable to the opportunists who may come along to take advantage. One of those opportunists is the enigmatic Jeremy, a well-dressed affluent monster who glories in raping women and treating them like dogs. If Thewlis and his character is the film's strongest selling point, the character of Jeremy is its weakest. The two men exist separately for most of the movie, only to come together at the end. I'm not sure what purpose Jeremy's existence in the film serves, unless he's simply there to make Johnny look better. Certainly by the film's end, we've seen Johnny behave miserably, but we've also seen him treat his on-again-off-again girlfriend with something approaching affection, and Thewlis is so good that he's able to let us glimpse enough of Johnny's charm to make us understand why any woman would be remotely interested in him in the first place.This film reminded me of a Martin Amis novel. It has a slightly surrealistic, nightmare quality to it, and it's so caustic as to be off putting. But I would recommend it if for no other reason than to see Thewlis's remarkable performance.Grade B+ "},{"Title":"rough, nihilistic, surreal, and surprisingly unpretentious","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I suppose it is more than a bit ironic that, after watching Neil LaBute's In the Company of Men, I viewed Mike Leigh's Naked. Both films deal in liberal doses of emotional abuse and depravity, and both are inexplicably marketed as comedic romps (is that the fate of every film distributors don't know how to categorize?). Oh well. This is the type of film that leaves you flabbergasted, confused, and angry; like David Lynch sans the surrealism, Naked leaves us thoroughly disoriented. We open on a back-alley rape perpetrated by Johnny (David Thewlis), a philosophy-spouting drifter who travels from encounter to encounter (a visit to an ex-girlfriend; an evening with a night-watchman; and an afternoon with an emotionally unkempt waitress). The film is more a series of vignettes than a singular cohesive plot, and its not-quite-earthbound tone and characters are complementary to it. David Thewlis is inspired as the emotionally volatile Johnny (his great performance makes you wonder why he is usually relegated to supporting roles in Hollywood dreck), and writer-director Mike Leigh should be credited with keeping what could have very well been a pretentious art-house fart under control. Naked is certainly not for all tastes, but those looking for a slice of weirdness with a bit of brain candy to chew on will come away satisfied. "}{"Title":"This is an amazing film...","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is an amazing film...the viewer is at once fascinated and repelled by Johnny, played by David Thewliss, whose presence on the screen is as compelling as any I have seen. Johnny is like the raw human stripped of the conventionalities and pretences which make us bearable to each other. It is almost painful to witness the exposed vitality of this character. But don't read about it...watch it! "},{"Title":"Realism, or caricature?","Date":"28 March 2012","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A weird film! The good bit is David Thewlis' Existential p**s-taking discourse with everyone he comes across - the bad bit is - everything else. Also, it's way too long. The charm had worn off. Ends up being long-winded and pointless - whereas had it been shorter it would have been bitter-sweetly succinct. Johnny, is the archetypal street philosopher, though instead of being a wise vagabond - he is in fact an on the run vagrant - on the run from life, that is. Also - who the f**k is Sebastian?All of that aside though, I have a real problem with Mike Leigh's films. He tries TOO hard to come across as authentic and real - and this effort becomes so conspicuous that it clouds everything else and it's all you can see. His films aren't authentic and real - they're the opposite of that - they're overdone and contrived. Most of his stuff ends up being a bunch of middle-class loveys performing their perception of an Idyll of plucky, chirpy, working-class folk! I suspect that the only thing that saves this film from becoming that, is the intensive involvement of Thewlis in developing the script and dialogue.Basically Leigh's approach in depicting authentic realistic working class characters, ends up producing a facsimile that is strikingly recognisable to the original article - but one that exaggerates the more obvious features - to a cringe-making degree. He creates cinematic caricatures. "},{"Title":"David Thewlis IS the film.","Date":"27 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This movie was well on its way to becoming an unforgettably devastating &#145;angry young man' classic.  What a shame that it lost its balance half way through and squandered it's potential.  What makes this film worth seeing are the incredible verbal histrionics of David Thewlis.  He imbues his character with such satiric and cynically scathing wit that he leaves the audience reeling from his machine-gun like existential rants against humanity.  Many of the early scenes are funny and mesmerizing thanks to him.  The rest of the film unfortunately does not fare as well.  It is somewhere shortly after Thewlis' scene with the night watchman that the movie begins to lose its momentum, but it is the last third of the film which truly drags thanks to Director Mike Leigh's unfortunate decision to concentrate too much on the character of the deviant landlord.  This character was not only one dimensional and uninteresting but totally unnecessary.  His arrival throws the film's mood and energy way off.David Thewlis gets a 10.  The film itself rates an unfortunate 6.  "},{"Title":"A brilliant film, one of the best","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Not only is Naked excellent from an artistic point of view (great acting, witty and intelligent dialogue and script, interesting characters etc.), but it also contains philosophical ideas and arguments which are a challenge to the mind. This movie is among the best films I have ever watched. I recommend it to every person who can appreciate good film making and enjoys intellectual mind-games and debates.  "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"18 May 2013","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" An aimless, pointless, waste of time. Painfully overacted, especially by the nurse, but in general the endless speeches of David Thewlis reveal themselves to not be driving at anything in particular. The movie seems a self conscious attempt to show how much angst they can pack into a painfully slow two hours. If you can keep up with how fast Thewlis is talking you will realize that everything he says is only pseudo-intellectual trite word play. The fascination with rape and the scrawny posh psychopath are never shown to have any meaning, and there is hardly any plot to speak of. All of the female characters are an insult to women everywhere, as they fawn obsessively over a grimy tramp, and go on the occasional emotional tirade. The same melodramatic song is looped constantly. And if they were trying to send a nihilist message the millennial 'end is neigh' delusions only serve to remind us that Johnny is simply a nutter. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films of all-time.","Date":"16 December 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Another title (but with much less punch) for this movie might have been Truth. Because that's what Johnny's into peeling all the layers of make-believe & let's pretend from every aspect of life. Which is why the characters in the film as well as many of the viewers of it are so uncomfortable in his presence. Johnny is just not polite to or considerate of other people; he Thinks Too Much. He's a contemporary Raskolnikov. I've watched Naked many times & read the script while viewing (I find this useful with a lot of Mike Leigh's masterpieces). This movie is dangerous & subversive to anyone who worships the twin contemporary gods of Fashion & Success. It totally demolishes the concepts of Security & Identity, the twin anchors in today's sea of existence. "},{"Title":"my top 10 movie","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Alongside to the movie Red Violin, I would say this is my personal favorite. I first saw this in a local TV station. Rented it again somewhat 6 months later and I began to see the uniqueness of this film. Embarrassingly, the first viewing, I didn't even know that was David Thewlis. That proves how in character he was. This movie is really good, but it is not for everyone. Another actor I highly praise in this film is ewen Bremner. He doesn't play big roles, but he IS a really good actor. Overall, if you like thought provoking films and hate those main stream films, this is the one not to miss. I give this a big 8.3/10, alongside my 8.4 Red Violin.  "},{"Title":"Lots of cigarettes...","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"16 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Hummmm,I was told that this was one of the best British films ever made. Well, if that is the case, now I know why the UK is not an empire anymore.What is the point of depicting the scum of the human race, weak and stupid women, losers, a succession of rape scenes, and a lot of smoking.I guess I am stupid, unsophisticated, but I really do not understand what is the objective of these artsy-fartsy films. Is this how normal people behave? Should one care for those idiots pictured in the film? What do we learn from it? What is the message? Funny thing is that when these avant-garde directors and screen writers decide to create something innovative they resort to the cheap trick of shocking the audiences with ugly sex scenes, lowlives, losers, drug addicts and all other types of human garbage, with the hope of gaining the hearts and minds of the intellectuals and the thinking elite which seem to enjoy such drivel.I rather watch my garbage rot than watching something like that again. At least, the rotting of garbage is an useful and interesting biochemical process. On the other hand a movie like Naked is like garbage that never rots away, it stays putrid, rancid, bad-smelling and ugly for ever. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Horrible","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"20 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" After reading other user comments raving about how brilliant this film is, I realize I am in the minority for having absolutely hated it.But people seem to think that if a film contains unsympathetic characters, difficult subject matter, and an unconventional style of storytelling, then it must be a work of true genius. I couldn't agree less.My wife and I sat through about 40 minutes and she couldn't watch any more. I later went back and finished watching myself to see if it got any better, but alas, it did not. This movie is a self-important piece of garbage full of completely unlikable characters and uncomfortable situations with no emotional payoffs. Johnny is not nearly as smart as he thinks he is, and that also goes for the film itself.Don't be fooled. "},{"Title":"Hard to watch","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I thought I'd been pretty much exposed to all of Mike Leigh's style, but with this he totally surprised me. It's definitely the darkest film from him I've seen, and very hard to stomach in some of its depictions. Thewlis plays a despicable character that really left me cringing, yet when all is said and done wen when it's needed, gives him a good bit of humanity. It's an amazing performance, completely devoid of any flash or style to just deliver some gripping acting. The film's narrative is also not as plot-driven as his other films, which maybe will alienate so many of his fans. This is recommended, even if I'm not sure I liked it that much at certain times. "}{"Title":"Memorable for its characters so lifelike that you come away feeling that you know them personally","Date":"17 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mike Leigh's 1993 film NAKED is a drama on sexual relations -- how men hurt women, how some women accept that hurt out of low self-esteem and a desire to be wanted or supported. It is distinguished by its remarkably lifelike characters. Most of the film was worked out in improvisations for several months before shooting began. Leigh wanted his actors to create elaborate back stories for their characters, fully living inside of them so that when the cameras started rolling they would be completely convincing.As the film opens, Johnny (David Thewlis) has to flee Manchester after a sexual encounter with a married woman turns into rape and she threatens to set her husband after him. Stealing a car, he heads to London to crash at his ex-girlfriend Louise (Lesley Sharp), gets involved with her flatmate Sophie (Katrin Cartlidge), and spends a couple of nights homeless in London. Interspliced with this are scenes of Jeremy, a rich real estate broker whose sexual conquests serve as an upper-class counterpart to Johnny's own. Naturally the viewer is led to wonder what will happen when these two men meet.Something is wrong with Johnny, he answers anything said to him with a rambling torrent of words, a logorrhea that is a form of intellectual bullying; this deeply wounded man seems to feel the best defense against the cruelties of the world is a good offense. Only 27, Johnny is so wasted that he is taken for much older. In this, Thewlis's performance is one of the masterful screen portrayals of an eccentric or mentally ill person, like Dustin Hoffmann in RAIN MAN or Peter Sellers in BEING THERE.But all of the characters here are memorable, and my thoughts have often gone back to them in the time since I saw this film. I do have reservations about the plot, inasmuch as the last scenes of the film (which were decided only late in the filmmaking process) too suddenly change the tone and may seem anticlimactic. Nonetheless, I would recommend this film and believe it a great one in spite of its undeniable flaws. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Johnny (David Thewlis) flees Manchester for London, to avoid a beating from the family of a girl he has raped. There he finds an old girlfriend, and spends some time homeless, spending much of his time ranting at strangers, and meeting characters in plights very much like his own.What to make of this film... is Johnny an anti-hero? We follow him, making him our protagonist of sorts, but can we really stand behind him? I should think not. Yet, we listen to his ramblings about bar codes, the Bible and Nostradamus and see how he affects people. Is he insane or just misunderstood? David Thewlis is an incredible actor and he is a joy to watch even when he might not be playing the most honorable person. Great to see him perform so strongly in the days before Harry Potter. "},{"Title":"Mancunian Mahasiddha","Date":"28 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Films, at least films that are not just a pair of comfortable slippers for the night, which some nights are just what you need, but walking boots for going places, should be next to all the other things about a certain tension and attentiveness in the viewing, demanding something, otherwise we've gone on vacation but didn't leave the hotel.So I'm glad this was recommended to me, it has that tension, provided we're willing to go places. A bitter, seething young man flees Manchester after what looks like rape and crashes in London, to taunt, annoy, and try to enlighten a bunch of ordinary people he comes across. Thewlis gives us a layered self, first raging but later mellowed, crazy and secretly sane. London looks drab and lived. The camera is good enough.But what makes this film worthy is wondering a bit about how you accept this man in your life as a viewer for these two hours. Isn't the film about similar 'viewers' who have to puzzle about this?He's not easy to be around, deliberately so. He's meant to annoy us as much as the characters, we're meant to see that he has a problematic attitude regarding women, that for all his black-clad, sophisticated attraction he is a cranky and petulant kook, and yet we're as surprised as they are to find that he's not a complete jackass. That's the whole reason, it seems, of having the otherwise useless 'landlord' character in the thing, so that we can entertain the comparison with someone who's truly cruel.So write him off or listen? I think neither.I think this is pretty fascinating stuff if you can adopt a middle position. If you can see through his raging bs and halfmad rants about the apocalypse, barcodes and evilness of god, that he's neither above these people, better and wiser than them as he fancies himself, that they're not merely unthinking sheeple but people trying to carve decent, meaningful lives for themselves as best as they know.Nor, on the other hand, is he as useless as some of the comments make him to be. Yes he annoys, but his confrontational manner is the filmmaker's way of jolting bored and desperate viewers. Notice how he constantly repeats questions, throwing the light back, trying to pry truth from small talk. There's nothing to be known about him, as if he embodies a desire we all have to upturn routine. Notice too how he often hovers ghostlike next to people, most clear in the nightwatchman sequence that ends with him having sex the other secretly fantasized about.So this is what's beautiful about the film for me. If you simply admire John as rebellious and clever, or if you write him off as merely selfish and annoying, in both cases you collapse a more ambiguous, more generous view of things.Namely, that he's as far from the truth, as sad and misguided as every other character, and yet that truth, the ground of a meaningful life, is born on a questioning, curious and participatory attitude not unlike his.I'm not sure if Leigh knows this, but there's a rich history of Buddhist masters who taught with a confrontational, sometimes rude approach. A well known example '- What is buddha? Yun-men said Dried sh-t stick.' The point seems to be truly look, truly confront your self.There's no problem of evil in Buddhism, evil is a Western obsession. It arises equally from John's overthinking ego as from the dumb unthinking of the Scot boy and the mute despair of the woman in the window, in every case being the 'dukkha' or unsatisfactoriness that Buddhists speak about.Look in the film. Is he more mellow after the beating? As if these few nights of feverish wandering were a way of inviting the (just) beating he escaped from in Manchester. Nor is he truly changed after it, still the same smartass. "},{"Title":"a great film","Date":"29 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" i loved it! a great film with lots of sad music,dark satirical humour and typical of the works of Haneke there were lots of animals. i also loved the work of mike Leigh were there were lots of sad songs and piano fights. best film of 2008 by far, and definitely reflective of contemporary British culture. I must recommend! Finally, typical of the work of Leigh there were lots of beautiful camera angles and piano fights. I also loved how Leigh used elegant camera angles which ironically juxtaposed the dark reflection of inner city Britain to the peacefully put together long shots. Best of all the film acts as a great reminder of the tremendous works of Leigh. My only concern is that the use of animals may have been overdone in particular backgrounds of scenes. Criticisms? well my one criticism is that the work of Haneke is not THAT great of an influence. Overall, a great watch! "},{"Title":"Leigh's pro-Bazin; pent-up and highly strung urban drama of anger, sordid ties and madness is a bare-boned white knuckle ride well worth seeing.","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" People will say what they will over the filmmaking style Mike Leigh has of just allowing dialogue and situations to brood out of a premise, which usually sees set sorts of characters just inhabit a locale before allowing natural exchanges and scenarios to manifest out of what they would do or might say to one another given their respective relationships. I think there's a moment in his 1993 film, entitled Naked, in which we see the process; the film's fierce and feisty lead character, played by David Thewlis, mocking a disturbed and somewhat mentally challenged young man by asking what it was his missing friend's name was, something made all the more distasteful when the young man's tic is to shout their friend's name at the top of his voice as he desperately searches for them anyway. The exchange is the last of their trade-offs, Thewlis' mocking enquiry a line of dialogue seemingly spoken out of turn when his co-working actor has his back to him and is about to walk off before turning to bleat the worn reply. At once a darkly amusing way to end an extended dialogue exchange, one cannot help but feel that at the end of a designated take, the process of just spontaneously coming up with something such as the above is Leigh's method of allowing dialogue to spawn out of coming-togethers and the exchanges his characters have, of which most are naturalised back-and-forths anyway.Thewlis' character is named Johnny, a wandering; scattered; aggressive and confrontational drifter feeding off of prolonged interaction with anybody who's in and around the area and up for listening to the elongated views of a man with not only some serious issues on his mind but with some rather serious issues regarding his mind. The lead is the sort of man whom, on one occasion at least, when caught out by a security guard whilst resting on the ground to the entrance of a large enterprise's headquarters building, will tell them to stick the boot in and get on with it so I can move on. With such a pithy line comes the apparent acceptance of one's fate, that one's pain one is due to suffer anyway may as well be administered as briefly as possible so that one may shuffle off to the next engagement. When the film first reveals the man's face and offers the audience a good look at him from the front, it is when he stands on a pedestrian island cutting a street road in half in the process of turning to look at his surroundings having just got to London. Leigh has the camera glide past him in a smooth motion, as if we have just passed him on the street ourselves in the process of crossing the road; the manner in which the camera glances back at him suggests the perspective of somebody giving Johnny a second glance, glad that they've just walked passed him, this shaggy haired; bushy moustached; angry looking man.The films covers this wry, cynical individual and his intermittent interactions with an array of additionally sad, lonely and rather starved of affection sorts in and around the English capital city of London. His getting to London is a different matter altogether; the film beginning in the most unguarded of manners with a scene of crude sexual intercourse in an alleyway in Manchester between Johnny and a woman whom will eventually come to regret the experience; the stealing of a car and the hammering of it down a motorway minutes later seeing him end up at an old girlfriend's rented terrace house down south away from the strife. Here, he will find little else but the disenchantment and grounded-down living conditions which were most probably synonymous with him before. His exodus into the night begins with a long and prolonged take from the stairs of ex-girlfriend Lousie's (Sharp) house as he flits manically from room to room; the space enclosed and cramped and the sense of there being very little breathing room apparent. Johnny seems agitated and hindered for room, the film's refusal to cut building an uneasy feeling and Louise's persistent ignoring of Thewlis by watching a television tells us she isn't necessarily bothered about seeing him at all. A looming, overbearing item as to whether or not we actually feel for Johnny in any way hovers over proceedings; he is both instigator and himself a victim of violence throughout, a wandering soul not necessarily lost because he doesn't strike us as somebody with any set place to go.His presence is in stark comparison to that of Greg Cruttwell's Jeremy; a slimy, thin, wormy and ultimately pig-headed, cold blooded misogynist who's Johnny's ex-girlfriend Louise's landlord a man able to make Johnny look a rather pleasant individual. Jeremy is a sports car driving; keep-fit fanatic Lothario with a penchant for tight-fitting clothes on his numerous female accomplices and the odd session of sadism and masochism. He enjoys the aggression and confrontation in life, a woman verbally matching him during one evening out at a restaurant clearly providing him with pleasure. How Cruttwell has been as vacant from screens as he has been since is a mystery, every sarcastic smirk with additional chortle; every priggish glance from one place to another as he sized things up carries with it effectiveness in its menace and distaste. The film manages to keep Jeremy misogynistic without ever allowing he nor Johnny's actions to have the film itself become misogynistic; the women in the film more often than not humane and seemingly normal with its men anything but. It does offer a one-off re-balancing to keep it from attracting tags of misandry by having Katrin Cartlidge's Sophie loose and air-headed just in as much it renders Peter Wight's security guard Brian as more down to Earth and normalised. As for Leigh, he manages to keep the film as gripping and as immersing from start to finish; 'method' in motion or not. "},{"Title":"Worth the Admission Price","Date":"14 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Like all Mike Leigh films, this is entertaining without you really quite understanding why. At the end, I was left with a million questions. I thought it lost its way a bit in the middle. By far the best bits are at the flat. Definitely worth watching.In a nutshell A dark film where lives are turned upside down. When the credits roll you don't really know if the characters will ever get a happy ending or the justice they deserve. This film is worth watching purely on the strength of David Thewlis alone. Without him this would be a three star film for me. His lamented genius is mesmerizing to watch as he walks around philosophizing, like an anti-Jesus preaching the gospel of not looking on the bright side. "},{"Title":"Naked","Date":"29 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A volatile, yet brilliant social misfit, Johnny(David Thewlis, nothing short of amazing in a multi-faceted, complex performance)flees Manchester, after an incident with a woman on a street corner, dropping into London to visit an ex-girlfriend, Louise(Lesley Sharp, also quite good in a very subdued performance often communicating to us without saying anything at all regarding Louise's state of mind regarding Johnny). He doesn't like what he sees as Johnny often voices his displeasure with how it seems that being a nurse has brought little joy at all to Louise. Johnny makes the mistake of sleeping with Louise's pal, Sophie(Katrin Cartlidge, also brilliant). Sophie becomes so attached to Johnny, she becomes obsessive. He needs a breather so Johnny takes to the streets of London popping existential, philosophical questions to anyone, no matter who they are, he meets. Johnny's very confrontational and in-your-face which can be grating or annoying to those who wish for him to bugger off and leave them alone. Johnny can almost be a tick attaching himself to those he finds interesting. We often see Johnny reading lots of books, consuming knowledge so that he can toss out throwaway verbiage to those who might not have a single clue to what he is referring.These intellectual babblings with people on the streets who could care less for anything that comes from his mouth often get him into arguments and rejection for he can be a bit aggressive, blunt, and abusive with how he presents his theories and feelings.The film also delves into the darkside of a possible tenant named Sebastian(Greg Cruttwell), a masochist/sexual deviant who viciously attacks women who offer the possibility of sex. He's dangerous and quite scary..you don't know if he'll fly into a rage towards women or not. You just don't know because he's unpredictable and there's a fear Sebastian might harm Louise and Sophie(he does attack Sophie with rough sex..well, you might as well call it rape because she changed her mind about having sex with him after, at first, committing).All this plot is stirred in a depressing, bleak view from the very talented Mike Leigh who often shows the uncompromising realism of the grim world we live in. The tour-de-force performance(as well as the great cast)balances the despair of the film. Claire Skinner has a great role in her limited screen time as Sandra, a nurse who enjoys trips to places like Zimbabwe and has trouble communicating when order around her is disrupted(my favorite character actually..she can't finish sentences when everything around her is messy or disjointed). "},{"Title":"Rare indeed is writing this fine found on film.","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The intelligence and wit of Mike Leigh's writing in this film is unparalleled in any other film that I can recall. Combined with the brilliance of David Thewlis' performance as the lost and drifting Johnny, this film grabs one by the ears and shakes your head while screaming, take a look around you!. This depressed, pseudo-intellectual nihilistic philosopher provides the audience with an experience that is nothing short of cathartic. All in all, fantastic performances by gifted actors playing interesting roles.  This is a must see, rare find. "},{"Title":"The Yin to Scorsese's After Hours Yang, or vice versa","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Homer Lives!!! Apparently will forever, as this theme of the wandering protagonist and the series of odd adventures carried out with even odder characters is perhaps mankind's most enduring tale. At any rate, filmmakers never tire of retooling it. Director Mike Leigh selects as his Ulysses, a drifter intellect who sounds almost exactly like John Lennon, and then drops him into the bizarre underworld of London after midnight. His overnight travails constitute the meat of the film, but is sandwiched nicely between explanatory background and character revelation, as we sorta see just who this guy is, and what he's all about. Sorta. In my opinion, this film is borderline genius in almost every aspect. The acting, especially Thewlis, is near perfect, and is one of those rare movies you watch and watch just to soak in the quality of the actors efforts. I find the dialog likewise remarkable, and genuinely clever. Not contrived clever, like we get all too often. Here, it all seems real even inspired. The trouble for this film is the subject matter is harsh or rather the characters trudging through the subject matter are certified lowlifes, and I suppose hence the title. Modern enlightened man we see as still for the most part nothing more than a nature driven helpless animal. You spin the clock back another ten years, and it would need to be chopped up considerably just to earn an R rating. Its gonna rub a lot of people the wrong way, and probably cloud the overall appreciation. If your sensibilities aren't all that fragile, you would be well served in giving this a look, if only for the simple reason that quality film-making like 'Naked' is an absolute anomaly. "},{"Title":"And the Omelet Stinks","Date":"11 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" You can't make an omelet without cracking a few eggs. And humanity is just a cracked egg. And the omelet stinks, a quote from Johnny (played by David Thewlis). Where do I begin? The film's lack of plot, hypnotic score and dialog took me to an unfamiliar place. Major themes include attitudes towards work, urban decay, human relationships, biology, evolution, sexual brutality, and prophecies about the end of the world. The movie follows a drifter named Johnny as he encounters various working class people for roughly 24 hours. What makes the movie great is the witty dialog. For example when asked about how he got here Johnny replies, Well, basically, there was this little dot, right? And the dot went bang and the bang expanded. Energy formed into matter, matter cooled, matter lived, the amoeba to fish, to fish to fowl, to fowl to frog, to frog to mammal, the mammal to monkey, to monkey to man, amo amas amat, quid pro quo, memento mori, ad infinitum, sprinkle on a little bit of grated cheese and leave under the grill till Doomsday. Unfortunately it is currently unavailable on DVD in the United States. Played recently on HBO. "}{"Title":"Powerful, dangerous and brilliant","Date":"15 April 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Naked is Leigh's greatest achievement as a filmmaker and will prove very difficult to overtake.  Right from the first shot to the last image the film leaves you breathless as Thewlis's character journeys through Thatcher's Britain, his inner demons and the world around him.  Naked is an advert for British filmmaking at its very best, it is not always comfortable to watch but the power generated from the images and performances from the entire cast, make it the sort of viewing that once viewed will stay with you for a lifetime.  This is london, but not as the tourist board would have you believe!  As with all of Leigh's films there is a mix of human drama, emotion, rawness and hope.  This is a very brave film to make and Leigh does it with skill and craftsmanship of a real master.  If you get the chance you watch this film, take it.  You may not see anything like it, ever! "},{"Title":"Class Conflict","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Many people seem to miss exactly why the sexual scenes were so brutal, and the point of the Jeremy Smart/Sebastian Hawkes character -- they are both related.Johnny and Jeremy were both misogynistic characters capable of rape and physical brutality - the sexual scenes were brutal to show how cruel these two characters were, and how similar these two characters were - at least behind the bedroom door, or more generally in their relationship to women and humankind.  Johnny is the ultimate anti-hero; eventually (or perhaps immediately) you like Johnny despite his obvious problems/inhumanity. Outside of some of the greatest misanthropic one liners in movie history, there is nothing to like about Jeremy.  Johnny is lower class, Jeremy is upper class.Naked follows a theme of Marxism/socialism seen throughout Mike Leigh's work.  It is a scathing indictment of modern British life, specifically the class system. "},{"Title":"To Learn More......","Date":"13 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I simply want to recommend a fantastic book about Mike Leigh'swork that I discovered Ray Carney's The Films of Mike LeighEmbracing the World published by Cambridge University Press.Carney is the best film critic I've ever read--few footnotes, nojargon, amazing passion for the subject, and mind-bendinginsights. Check out the book. I keep it on my coffee table so that asI am working my way through Leigh's films on video I can read thechapter on each film immediately after watching it. Carney'sbeautiful descriptions of scenes and subtle insights often makeme pop the video in again to check out a scene or two or three asecond time. Like having an ideal guide through a tangled anduphill but sublime landscape. This book should be bundled withthe videos! Check out Naked, check out the book, and check outthe other Leigh films too which are in it Bleak Moments,Meantime, Abigail's Party, and all the rest. They are all wonderfulmovies and I see even more in them now that I have read thisbook. "},{"Title":"Sad, but an eye opener.","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I will start by saying that this is not the sort of film I would normally watch, but as I have loved all of Mike Leigh's films I bought the video and watched it. Unlike most of his films I had already seen, this one is not at all funny, but it wasn't meant to be, it is  still good. We can see how complicated some peoples lives are. I really do not think that Johnny was really bad. This man's life was in a complete mess and he was angry and frustrated. I felt sorry for him. Homeless people are among those I feel most sorry for. I feel people like him need help not punishment. David Thewlis's acting was excellent, forming this character must have been very hard work for everyone involved.Although I prefer his others films this one is still as good.  "},{"Title":"A powerhouse of acting","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It has been two weeks since I saw this film and it's still with me. I don't think I've seen greater acting in a single film in my life.The adjective bank is empty when I try to describe David Thewlis's tour-de-force. It's just beyond description. It's not hyperbole in my opinion to say that this is one of the greatest performances in the HISTORY of film. Not just in the 1990s, but forever.Imagine my shock when I discovered that Thewlis wasn't even bloody nominated for an Academy Award! The winner in 1993 was Tom Hanks in 'Philadelphia' (a good performance, but that's all it was compared to Thewlis -- merely GOOD).If ever you've doubted the credibility and relevancy of the Academy Awards, look no further than this film.'Naked' is a brilliant example of Mike Leigh at the height of his power to shatter you. This was just an absolutely astonishing achievement in symbolizing the disintegration of western society, the utter desolation and detachment of humanity. Some of the set pieces in this film could have come out of an apocalyptic urban landscape, and it's hardly a cinematic accident. Leigh's dark vision of human alienation is on full display here.Thewlis's Johnny is the post-modern Ulysses -- he's out to find himself, to find meaning, to find SOMETHING. It is a lovely metaphorical work by Leigh, where he underlines again the frustrating experience of being alive and being plagued with the capacity to think. The characters in this film are familiar to the readers of Camus, Kafka, Dostoyevsky and many other great literary artists (Joyce included) -- we are doomed to search for that which we can never find.This film is worth seeing if only to watch some of the greatest acting you'll ever see in your life. "},{"Title":"Scathing film mixes humor and despair ,with a tiny bit of hope","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" To say that this film is a challenge for the viewer would be putting it mildly.You have to be willing to watch at length the anti-social, mean-spirited, violent, and half insane antics of a bedraggled misfit who considers himself a deep thinker, and spends 90% of his time starting arguments with strangers, and verbally abusing everyone he comes across. There are two scenes in which he gets the crap beaten out of him, which gives frustrated viewers some satisfaction, after enduring over two hours of his nasty, nihilistic attitudinizing.That said, the character Johnny, though basically a total asshole, is not entirely unsympathetic, though he comes close. After a while, you begin to realize that he's a severely damaged human being, whose ugly behavior toward others, especially women, is a reflection of the ugliness around him. He may be mentally ill, though I don't think so. He certainly is physically ill, to the point that many viewers believe that he may very well be dying, which would make sense of some of the more extreme things he says and does.He is capable of unexpected generosity at times, such as when he essentially manages to reunite the young Scottish couple who have gotten separated in an unfamiliar city. In a more conventional movie, he would eventually be revealed to be a nice guy after all, a bad guy with a heart of gold. We get indications of abuse and neglect in his background, which have helped make him the bitter misanthrope he is, but there are occasional hints that he could have turned out a lot better. What's ambiguous is that he seems to have more or less chosen to be the obnoxious person he is, with no real effort at being a better human being. The appalling character of the creepy landlord, who is in many ways a smoother, affluent version of Johnny, is so much more despicable, that Johnny almost looks good by contrast.I think he is in the movie to indicate that even Johnny isn't totally beyond redemption, if such a vile man could exist, who's even worse.The acting by all the cast is excellent. The women are a pretty sad lot, which is a source of many complaints against this movie, but they are all quite believable. The film is full of lonely, emotionally crippled individuals, lost in a bleak modern world that offers little hope for the future. Johnny's old girlfriend and her nurse room mate are the two strongest and most positive characters in the movie, both showing compassion and a belief in trying to make the world a better place, even in a limited way, rather than give in to the despair that Johnny advocates, or the sociopathic attitudes embodied in the landlord.This is not the easiest film to watch, and is definitely not for everyone. But for those viewers who can stick with it, it is a strangely rewarding picture. It is worth seeing once, if for no other reason than the astonishing performance of David Thewlis as the main character. "},{"Title":"Brutal and Brilliant","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  `Mankind is just a component of the device by which the devil creates himself. ` Have you ever heard a bum talk like this?In the real world you'd be hard pressed to stumble upon a character as articulate and mesmerizing as Johnny (David Thewlis), the anti-hero of Mike Leigh's brilliant film, Naked.Incapable of emotional connection and bitter beyond imagining, Johnny lives a transient life and hurtles perilously forward with vicious abandon, attacking every idea and alienating everyone in his path.David Thewlis gives as intense and powerful a performance as you're likely to see on film.  And the dialogue is so scathing and brutal its effect feels like a punch.The scenes with the Scotsman (hilarious Ewen Bremner) and the night watchman (Peter Wight) are amazing and warrant multiple viewing.Katrin Cartlidge (Sophie) and Lesley Sharp (Louise) give strong performances as women who fall victim to Johnny's heartless manipulations.Johnny searches books for an explanation of the world and his purpose in it.  When Gina McKee's character befriends him and then inexplicably turns him out of her house into the chilly night his utter desperation is palpable. He says `no matter how many books you read there are some things in this world that you never ever, ever f*****g understand.' He's right of course.  He's right about a lot of things which is very, frightening indeed. "},{"Title":"Exhilaratingly Bleak (one spoiler)","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  This is probably Mike Leigh's best film, largely because of David Thewlis who gives a performance of deNiro-esque intensity (and much greater articulacy). The character's energy and charisma combined with his nihilism is like nothing else I've seen in the cinema. The man is magnetic. His casual destruction of the nightwatchman's entire philosophy is like watching a car crash in slow motion.This is also one of the great London movies, I don't think anything else brings the nightmarish bleakness of London's street life to the screen in such a vivid and truthful way. It's raw and very very scary.A word about who wrote what. Mike Leigh devises his films with the actors in a way which few of those involved seem willing to discuss in detail, however the consensus view is that the dialogue and plot are arrived at through a process of structured improvisation over a long rehearsal period. So in answer to some of the other comments, I think we can assume that a lot of the stuff Johnny says comes out of Thewlis' own head.  "},{"Title":"Dark. moody, brilliant","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Okay, you can't measure one kind of genius against another, this is not an action movie (seven samurai), this is not a love story (insert classic film title here), this IS a slap in the face.Don't know whether the dialogue is mainly improvised or not, it has that feel, but I suspect it was written by Leigh just because Thewlis is a world-class actor. Ranting in movies is never better than here.The film is nasty, dialogue, violence, sex scenes, everything is explicit, and even though it goes to extremes, this works to its favour in that the film never seems to go anywhere. Its not a fable, in fact, the only things I can list are the things it isn't, because you couldn't pin it down. The London you see here is a world away from the Union flag waving mongoloids who clog up our screens every time something happens which makes the world look at the capital. Prostitutes, thugs, psycho's, the underworld is rarely portrayed with such uncharacteristic brutality. The sex scenes are rough, and the moral seems to be something along the lines of there is no future, and the rich always f*ck the poor, literally and metaphorically.If you watch this film, you will either love it or detest it, I can understand that, it will get a reaction no matter what. I used to think I was quite open minded before I saw it, it made me realise the world is very big, and I am so small I may not matter to anyone. Whatever, it'll definitely change your perspective on life. "},{"Title":"He is the movie!","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I've seen my share of movies, and I am positive I've never seenan actor's performance like David Thewli's in this movie! He truly IS the movie! Without his superb performance, Naked would be an interesting work, with a good story, but it would never achieve true excellence. And with Jhonny, It does. Most of the dialogs are brilliant and Mike Leigh creates the perfect atmosphere. A great movie, but above all a magical performance by David Thewlis. And he got me wondering about those bar codes...  "}{"Title":"A truly great film!","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This film is so bleak. This is black humour at its best. Its filled with characters most normal people would like to forget but for years my friends and I had this film in common in the sense that we all had it in our top five favourites to date. Johnny was our hero, our role model and alter-ego, he was the man and at the time we believed in following in the same footsteps or simply relating to him. we liked how he just abandons all and ventures into the streets, a very well read character with not a care in the world anymore. Johnny truly is a genius. He picks on all sorts of characters for a clever chat but we find out that he still has a lot to learn and mostly a lot to be grateful for no matter the points he is trying to make. This film has a truly truly great great script bursting with witticism. "},{"Title":"Leigh at his worst","Date":"6 November 2010","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I usually really like Mike Leigh's films-even the bleaker ones. This I loathe. It purports to be realistic I think. It fails miserably unless I have led to sheltered a life. The sort of people portrayed here are not unintelligent but behave like the lowest of the low, they are articulate,even witty but say nothing much that rings true. Thewlis is not the actor lots of people would tell us he is-his portrayal is mannered and hammy. The rich guy is caricature and the women are stupid for the most part. People just do not talk to each other in the way they do in this movie. I find it hard to see why so many people think that it is a masterpiece of film-making. Leigh has over indulged his actors by allowing them to improvise and say pretty much nothing. I am aware that this is the way he works but the whole thing is way off beam. I just do not believe it. "},{"Title":"The Emperor has no clothes","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Naked gives viewers a diversity of characters, a string of subplots, witty banter, proletarian satire, philosophies of evolution and apocalypse, a running analogy to The Odyssey, shades of sexuality, and an overall mood of bleakness and cynicism. But when all is said and done, the movie is just too dark and hopeless to get excited about.  Fans of this film might say that I didn't get it, but I think I just got too much of the devil in the barcode commentary and bite me sex scenes.  Depressing.  Maybe the movie worked better before the planet alignment in August 1999. "},{"Title":"Rambling Man","Date":"15 October 2010","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" A dirty, homeless man depends on the kindness of others for food and shelter and sex, although he acts like he is entitled. As the protagonist, Thewlis spews philosophy and Biblical verses, rapes women, abuses alcohol and drugs, and is unbelievably arrogant for a hobo with no money. Somehow he manages to not only find a bed to sleep on every night but also a woman to cuddle up with. It is unclear why everybody accommodates this ungrateful jerk. He is meant to be charming and intellectually engaging, but comes across as an annoying whiner. Carlidge is equally annoying as a druggie. Only Sharp is likable. There is no plot here. The film is just a vehicle for Leigh's rants. "},{"Title":"A dystopian nightmare","Date":"3 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Finally watched it. Mike Leigh's Naked is one of the most thematically disturbing and haunting movies you will ever come across. It tells the story of Johnny(Thewlis), a philosophical,world-weary drifter who is always on the run from the law.After committing a rape in Manchester, he lams to London to live at his former girlfriend's residence. Thereon, he again embarks on a surreal odyssey on the London streets meeting people as queer as himself. From answering questions as deeply rooted in theology and metaphysics;spitting out doomsday prophecies as some boardroom lecture to satisfying needs as banal as a hot-water bath and some sex, Johnny does it all here, on this trip.Director Leigh extracts performances verging on the edge of perfection from the entire cast and does so with superb improvisation which is quite evident,especially, in scenes that feature Johnny. Everyone is a knockout in the acting department, but,hey;then there is David Thewlis as Johnny.He delivers a portrayal that has shades of Hamlet,Jimmy Porter,even Jesus(a very sado-masochistic and cruel one at that). I say Jesus paradoxically because in a way Johnny wants to save mankind from the ignorance of believing we are not doomed and affirming that God has manipulated us(mankind) for the sake of some cosmic warfare. It is indeed a cynical and paradoxical second coming of Christ. Thewlis gave his 'naked' body and soul to this film by devouring almost every book about religion and eschatology as a part of role-preparation. he evokes time to time disgust,pity.hatred and wonder in his hauntingly mesmerizing performance.If you are looking for plot, there isn't any. Most of the film revolves around Johnny and his adventures. Fraught with existential overtones,it is a thunderous take by Leigh on the Thatcherite England which almost convinces viewers that it is a dystopian world we are living in; that apocalypse isn't far and we need something or somebody to awaken us from this nightmare. "},{"Title":"a groups of characters collide in a the bitter reality of hyper realist London","Date":"26 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The title of Mike Leigh's film naked does not describe a physical state but a state of mentality that the characters of the film face. These people have no jobs, no relationships, no families, and barely have an existence in a hyper realistic anarchy- a dark and bitter world created by the brilliant British director mike Leigh. The film is set in a deeply depressing London. The characters we meet are so desperate and this is a desperate film. The hero is Jonnie, a 27 year old man who struggles to exist in the world he lives in. his desperation is one of the most devastating depictions of devastation I have ever seen on film. We first see him raping a woman and then stealing a car. What a brutal introduction to one of the most brutal relationships of an audience with a main character. The series of events the follow are mesmerizing. Every turn Jonnie takes, he meets a character who faces desperation much like his own. The film's plot progresses to a melting pot of desperate, psychopath and devastating characters. This film is a masterpiece. It features one of the most heartbreaking performances of all time by the brilliant actor David Thewlis. Another performance I won't ever forget was from Katrin Cartilidge playing the character of Sophie. Her existence on screen is so weak yet so strong, her fragility is fascinating. Mike Leigh creates a world so bitter and sad in order to create cinematic poetry. This film's philosophic takes on life and humanity are so bleak, bold and honest. Hearing these takes is like getting punched in the stomach. This film had such a deep effect on me. I had trouble completing my day. It is nightmarish, bold, dark, devastating and ultimately, masterful. "},{"Title":"Naked was heavily clothed.","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" While this film featured a cast of characters played excellently by the actors, it's plot was much too flat for me to fully enjoy. I absorbed both Nietzsche's theory of eternal recurrence through as explored by the film's character, Johny, as well as themes and motifs explored by the modernist writer, Samuel Beckett. Eerily enough, throughout watching this 1993 British film, I constantly had the feeling that I had already viewed this film.To end, Samuel Beckett's quote 'I can't go on, I must go on' - while being a quote that may very well be overused by my subconscious - came to mind throughout viewing this film. "},{"Title":"No purpose","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" In a drab, glacial, shabby London, Mike Leigh offers a disjointed succession of encounters you can't seem to grasp the essence of and that nothing, or almost nothing can be drawn from.As the main character, you wonder in a mass of raw ideas that for some are incredibly under-exploited, like Johnny's past and his physical and mental condition, and that for others are rather unrealistic, like the feminine behaviour in general.Paradoxically, the movie is very talkative in philosophical theories and other mystical tirades, and meaningless. Not to mention that with a duration of a little more than two hours, one can't say this movie is very digestible.What was the goal of the movie ? Which themes the director wanted to address ? What was the message he wanted to convey ? So many questions left unanswered. "},{"Title":"This film is just too great and crazy for words - just watch it yourself and see","Date":"20 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" It is hard to describe this movie but to me - watching this movie is like going on a drug induced 'trip'. I would advise you to watch alone if possible - not in a group setting - then you get more lost in the movie, i would suggest.The first thing i want to say is amazing achievement to the director/writer Mike Leigh and esp the main actor David Thewlis.These are both truly incredible and ground breaking performances and i have seen nothing as good as this before or since - in this style of film.I think a lot of this was improvised and i believe the short script was formulated during rehearsal.The opening scene is Johnny (Thewlis) 'raping'??? a woman in a dark dismal street and then fleeing from Manchester to avoid the dangerous brother of his victim.He steals a car and seeks out an old 'girlfriend' in London to escape.Johnny then goes on an brief but insane adventure/odyssey- during which time he interacts with various characters some of whom seem as odd and desperate as himself.He seems to bully and exasperate the other characters by sheer intensity of will, superior intellect and a kind of mixture of spiritual insight, frustration and lust.Johnny unscrupulously takes advantage of the kindness/vulnerability/stupidity/desperation of others and never seems to fail to find a bed (complete with accommodating woman)to sleep in. He repays the kindness of others with mental and sexual bullying - and with utter contempt. The genius of the whole thing is that he is not just a bully - he really is a victim too from himself.There are times when Johnny really gets under your skin and you actually feel like punching him to shut him up. He does kind of get his comeuppance from a group of louts - but you are sad too, when this happens.Somehow you are secretly rooting for him as well as pitying and despising him.You love and loathe this guy in equal measure is my analysis.He seems like a caged animal and actually says one memorable line to the effect saying 'I used to be a werewolf- but i am alright nooowwwwwwww......' The 'now' tailing off into the howl of a werewolf.The adjectives i would use to explain this movie and the emotions i felt watching it are - funny, crazy, bizarre, sad, pathetic, confusing, sexual, annoying, violent, twisted, nonsensical and brilliant. Often you see/feel a combination of these at the same time as you get sucked into the mayhem and genius of what you are watching.There is much violence, sex and swearing throughout so just be warned - but it is done in a surreal way that does not offend me at all, but others more sensitive may be offended.This film is a total one off and streets ahead of anything similar i have seen.Attempting this movie really could have been a disaster but the genius of Thewlis and Leigh along with good and great performances from the other actors make this an absolute must see masterpiece.Please just see it for yourself - only then will you see what i am trying to describe. "},{"Title":"Mike Leigh's cult masterwork","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Leigh has a talent for getting us to listen to, and invariably side with unsympathetic individuals. It's a rare achievement indeed to have us siding with David Thewlis' nightstalking Johnny. Johnny is a very British character inasmuch as he embodies a rueful humour, not only expecting but often engineering flashpoints with lonely, partially unhinged characters that he meets on a pinball perambulation around north London one cold, wet night. He wants companionship and company but he won't tolerate that from the others on their own terms which he defines as exclusive and selfish and with some justification.The aimless ensemble that he engages and then invariably offends with violent consequences are all fine. Lesley Sharp as former girlfriend, defensive about selling out so that she can get on is excellent, as is her nymphomaniac, druggy-narcissist flatmate, the late Katrin Cartlidge. Peter Wright is memorable as the pitiful security guard who is kept under greater scrutiny than the building which he is charged with watching; of the nasty, violent central section I am always amazed that Ewen Bremner and Susan Vidler turn out to be actors and not just a couple of insane Glaswegians that Thewlis appropriated in Camden. A coruscating, often depressing but indelible drama absolutely of its time. 8/10 "}{"Title":"it's a black comedy, emphasis on black to the point of being completely dark and hopeless - and unspeakably well crafted","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Mike Leigh must have exorcised a few many good demons while writing Naked, and perhaps some of them were expunged during the actual filming. This is a London so dark, yet with such a biting sense of humor you need a long trench-coat and a pack of cigs to get the bits, that Charles Dickens might wet his pants. Not even so much by the state of things on the streets (only a couple of times, such as with the thugs or the guy putting up posters or Scottish folks abusing one another), but just by the sense of humanity on display. This is about a character going through the motions, someone who could go off at any second, and does at certain beats, and is, in a real and frightening sense, free as a bird - a tortured and torturous as f*** fowl that prowls the streets looking for shelter or a cigarette or some bloke like a night hotel manager or some girl working at a diner to unload some of his mental baggage.Johnny is too smart to be a crazy-as-hell bum muttering to himself on the streets, and perhaps he's too smart and far beyond cynical to really function as a 9 to 5 kind of guy. Played by David Thewlis in one of those blistering go-for-broke performances that people will still be talking about in years to come, he's from Manchester but got into some trouble, stole a car, and is now in London wandering about, trying to not spend much time in his ex-girlfriend's place (Sharp) or with her fragile flat-mate (Cartlidge). He wanders about having conversations- or rather ranting with some conversation here and there due to Johnny's undoubted inquisitive nature- regarding the possible end of days, Nostradamus, Revelations, or just asking simple questions in-between, with more or less reasonable answers. Where will this lead him? He doesn't know, probably doesn't care, but we follow him anyway as if on some strange existential odyssey to nowhere in particular, except, perhaps, this guy's possible state of mind.What makes Naked even more incredible when reading about it is that at first glance one might think Leigh wrote a screenplay that was passionate and raw and uninhibited and let it all fly out through the characters, but in reality it was mostly improvised. This is something that caught me off-guard; what appears to be some careful or just simply naturalistic dialog is just that, but directed in such a way that it doesn't veer off and become TOO random. It's a touch of Cassavetes, how Leigh wants to pierce through the soul of someone through drama, but then there's also this bitterness that Leigh wants to explore, and what it means to have good (or some good) and then some not at all. He creates a delicate but proportional act of casting people who become real beings and not just faceless beings in this urban sprawl - the night-watchman, the girl working at the restaurant, the Scot played by Ewen Bremmer, the woman Johnny goes to see who is in the window across the way from a peeping tom - and making them as real and palatable as possible, and putting Johnny into a context as well.The character of Jeremy G. Smart (stone-cold amazing Cruttwell), for example, shows that Johnny is comparatively not so bad. This is someone who Leigh goes to great, maybe even excessive, lengths to show is a total horror of a being with no remorse and who rapes and acts mean and rotten with any woman he gets a chance to go with. He's like Patrick Bateman without the taste in music and slightly lessor blood-lust, but in the scope of the film is cast as a real horror-show, especially around Louise and Sophie who have no idea really why he's even there even as a landlord (for a short while I wondered just how he was supposed to be in the plot in some of his early scenes with the other woman, as intriguing and frightening as they were).But, with everything that Leigh puts into the film in terms of substance, and believe you me there's a LOT here to go through with pondering about man's state of affairs in a world where God doesn't give a s***, it's also Thewlis's show. He's in most of the movie and, from the rare moments of quiet and observation his character has to the bilious and wicked moments of wit that make him for little moments likable to the scenes where he's such an SOB, it's completely masterful work. With Johnny, Thewlis doesn't ask the audience to particularly like or dislike him, except that this guy is what he is, he'll live his life how he wants it, thinks the way he does, and doesn't try and pretend to give a simple explanation as to the why of his character being this way. Whatever hints or suggestions of a personal wounding back in Manchester take a back-seat to the present, how Johnny is in London, how he acts around people, and how he's very hard to pin-point he's one of the darkest anti-hero's in recent memory, and it's possibly Thewlis at his best.Leigh, as well, is such a good storyteller that he makes us forget about the story and to just feel for these people, in one way or another, or to just get us thinking about how they'll react next or what they might say. It's an excellent British slice of life that has got more than a few worms on fresh display, with the smallest bits of joy or happiness almost in reach until it's back to what humanity can be ugly, cruel, greedy, depressed. What fun! "},{"Title":"Like a perfectly made box.","Date":"20 March 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Although it's several years after this film's release, I have to echo the sentiments of the other 10/10 reviewers. However, there was a bit of this film that I found to be a special treat for those interested in Nihilism in film.This is the first film I've seen where Christian Nihilism was so well conveyed. I've seen bits of it in other films done well (as well as some grossly failed attempts) but this one really showed the line of reasoning (via perfectly entertaining dialog) leading and the way it manifests in the main character's life. I can't believe how skillfully Leigh was able to make these characters so utterly wretched yet still totally sympathetic (well, most of em).Naked is a bleak but delicious treat. "},{"Title":"Don't get me wrong.  I love the Iliad.","Date":"2 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" If you're wondering about possible mythological subtexts for this film, consider Morpheus & Thanatos. That really is all I want to say. I am pointing out potential major symbolism in the film, that others may not only find interesting and valuable, but may actually enjoy educating themselves as to who these figures are and rewatching the film to see how this context plays out in the course of the film, rather than having me spell it out for them. However, IMDb is now requiring a minimum of 10 lines of text to post any comment, which doesn't go very far towards encouraging concision, economy of style, or the readability of the whole page of user comments when everyone is required to blather on just to get a post in. This requirement of verbosity leaves me as confused as the speech of this film's main character, Johnny, aka Morpheus. "},{"Title":"Brilliant acting by Mr Thewlis","Date":"3 March 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I kept catching this film on cable TV without having a chance to see it from beginning to end for a long time. No matter where I began to watch it, I was riveted. David Thewlis is simply mesmerizing. Despite the existential angst and relentless nihilism, I could not turn my head away. Although Thewlis' character is completely disagreeable, one cannot help from feeling compassion for this lost soul as he stumbles through his miserable hopeless state. I also found myself laughing out loud at his clever, sometimes merciless, retorts and comments. It reminded me of The Theatre of the Absurd as per jean Paul Sartre or Eugene Ionesco. The supporting cast is superb as well. I would recommend this movie to anyone I know who is interested in depth in cinema and acting. Utterly brilliant work! "},{"Title":"staggers along like a mutt from the gutter bitter and brilliant","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  like it's protagonist, naked rambles along like a mutt from the gutter bitter and angry but with a brilliant and ironic understanding of the ways in which we are imperfectly human. the scathing dialogue, most of which spills amazingly from david thewlis's cracked, cigarette stained lips, is nothing less than amazing. all the performances are worth watching- they all bubble and burst with a naturalistic urgency that could only be blamed on the pain and imperfection of this post-modern, post-anything world. thewlis on his own is worth watching the film for, but the film, as well as being a cold piece of gritty realism is cinematic- the score and cinematography soar, lifting the characters out of the london drizzle and into our hearts and minds.   "},{"Title":"In your face preaching from an angry man!","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A drifter wanders into London and takes us on a journey through Thatcher's decaying country. Top notch performance from Thewlis who delivers those hard edge dialogue from Leigh's powerful script. Only the ending drifts on a bit too long after the message has been understood. "},{"Title":"Tour de Force","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  David Thewlis turns in one of the most remarkable performances I have ever seen, much better than the caricatures on display in other Mike Leigh films like Secrets and Lies or Life is Sweet.  Johnny is one of the great anti-heroes of British cinema.  "},{"Title":"Naked, by David Thewlis","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The good shall conquer. David Thewlis is a brillant actor, one of my favourites. Thanks to this man Naked has become the masterpiece it is, though our friend Leigh tried his balls out ruining it.I thank you David.  "},{"Title":"Aggressive Existentialism","Date":"30 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Naked provides a large dose of pop philosophy through a twisted medium.  Its lead, Johnny, is the kind of person you would feel sorry for and avoid on the street.  Yet you still listen to him and find him moving, almost hypnotic. There were times when he is making perfect sense to you, but then you realize that he is ranting about 666 and the apocalypse. His nihilistic/existential view are disconcerting to the conservative and liberal alike.Philosophical aspects aside, the mise en scene and general atmosphere is spectacular.  The coldness of Britain in what I assume is the fall or winter is perfect for what Leigh intends.  Naked is not a movie that could be shot in Southern California.  Even in the scenes of hope, there is that background feeling of the cold that sometimes even detracts from the moment.A good way to sum this up is A Clockwork Orange with as many rapes, less violence, and more philosophy.  A must see for any film buffs-cum-philosophers, or just about anyone who likes to think. "},{"Title":"The Movie that will draw into and deplete you !","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This a movie where you shouldn't expect a story that has a start , serious of conflicts, and then a end. Its no where even near to that kind. The movie says abt a rapist who runs away from the town to his Ex- girl friend's place. The one thing that wont let you take your attention off it is David Thewlis's (Johnny) performance. You just can't think of a something better than this. The second thing is Mike Leigh's dialogues.. Oh hell ! how can one write his lines like this? And the way it was delivered was in full justice to it. The story - ahh there is no story to say from the movie. There is only a Life >> Naked Life in it. With the title you can expect some movie that is filled with the all nudity , love making scenes in it.. If you do so you are completely wrong ... The movie doesn't include too much of characters in it But every character occupies a decent space in the script.. And what if I said majority of them play strangers in the movie. I have mixed feelings for this movie..I did feel hard to get out of it even. But all i can say is Its strong, real and NAKED! "}{"Title":"Mike Leigh's future legacy !","Date":"23 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Really, one of my most appreciated and thought-provoking MOVIE picture of the last 20 years ... !?The screenplay &/or textual rendition/wording is just 'beyond' appreciation ... nor superficial understating ...;The whole 'spirit' of the STORY is in the characters' loss of appreciation for their being/presence , at this time of history, ... in this factual societal awareness ... ; they are just at a loss for justifying their consciousness of, their very-short lived, presence into this TIME lapsed (sic) awareness odd presence ... !?Bluntly, or straight-forwardly put, these dialogues are some of the most challenging I have encountered since some/most of the last 20 years ... !Should you be looking for a thought-provoking, and challenging OPUS , to your better appreciated MOVIE experience, this NAKED item should do, wholesomely, totally, the works' ... ;So much fine-tuned, realistic, true-sounding, factual, ... trustful !?! "},{"Title":"Mike leigh's best flick i've ever seen","Date":"18 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" naked is one of the best flicks i've ever seen. i never forget the 1st watching,..it made me totally upside down, i didn't want to watch any other flick in a couple of weeks.( & i didn't!).. I wanted the influence to last, to engage my soul forever.the story of a God-damned wanderer who has his own philosophy of life & talks TOO MUCH (some times f**cks ur brain with the dosage of talking n talking..!) is so gripping that becomes the obsession of your mind for a while.( if not 4ever )Thewlis gives a memorable performance & Mike Leigh's deep touch of ordinary people never has been reflected better than naked.it's the kind of movie that u wanna watch n watch to revive the undeniable major effect...the most memorable dialog is near the end, when Johnny's ex-gf asks him why did he ever come to London?he answers  i come to run in the marathon!  she becomes angry & wants a direct reply..& that's where Johnny (Thewlis ) says well..i had to get out of Manchester 'cause i was gonna get a beating..& i came down here & uh...get a beating That night journey in London's low-life could last 4ever,..night after night & Johnny doesn't change it with anything, not even with money or even with considering a cripple leg.a must see. "},{"Title":"On the streets, or just side-stepping onto them?","Date":"1 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Despite this probably being Leigh's most 'marmite' film, I still like it, a lot. David Thewlis' central character, Johnny, is a scruffy petty criminal who scabs his way onto people he used to know and, the main thrust of this film, those he doesn't.A woman he's followed down from Manchester (film is set in a sort of after-hours London) after assaulting another up north, he quickly engages other well-meaning folk. His strange mixture of philosophising, vulnerability and persistence warms him to others. He doesn't intend hurting them. In his own mind he probably isn't and to them he becomes a nuisance that they then turn tables on him, pushing him out into the nomadic metropolis. Along the way, they get caught up in his meandering and searching questions and often reveal things that they probably wouldn't to anyone else. A confessional no-hoper that they know they won't (or don't want to) meet again.As Johnny picks up bruises from scraps and verbal insults from the outlandish things he says, he's like a lame dog that we see soldiering on in an advert for the RSPCA. We feel sorry for him, we hope he gets better and that someone will rescue him. We'd give him a dog biscuit and stroke him. But not a bed. There is something very human in Leigh's portrayal of this charismatic and intelligent drifter, brought up to date from all those of earlier cinematic characterisations. A perfect casting of Thewlis who simply makes it his own and so superbly too. There is violence, both physical and sexual and the real language of angry people. It is also bleakly black in some of its humour and we cannot help imagining what we'd say or do should 'Johnny' ever engage our attention for real. Run, no. Be defencive, yes. Keep an open mind, yes. That's because there's one of these that we see so often they have become city street furniture. One step from being on the streets rather than just side-stepping onto them. "},{"Title":"The screenplay","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I don't know if you are aware, but the published screenplay of this film is available,although I don't know who publishes it. As a drama teacher, I find Mike Leighs' text invaluable with ultra realism against the naturalism of much of our recent available material. I am sure that this is reflected in the many accolades that he has received. Would love to see David Thewlis joined with Christopher Eccleston in a good script. For my part, I try to introduce rookie, (apologies for the Americanism) actors into he fold by playing 'Who's Afraid Of Virginia Woolf', probably the best introduction into the art of acting available. "},{"Title":"Does it get any better than this?","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This is the closest film I have ever watched that creates such a strong sense of atmosphere that I can almost taste it. I am not fond of Secrets and Lies or the caricatured types that inhabit many other of the director's films but here there seems little to laugh at but I am transfixed. It is not without its humour. Johnny has some great one liners some of which are throwaway snatches of brilliance 'Pizza delivery man', but he spits them out venomously, contemptuously, seething at the drabness of the world around him that can't compete with his intellect. Searching for something better. A parallel place. The scene where he erupts, a ball of tension and explodes at the top of the landing is almost unbearable in its intensity. The lingering shots of the characters are ghostly and unforgettable. Gina McKee as the drab almost gray woman who asks him if he wants beans, is such a sorry damaged character yet very real. I can imagine meeting her. Leigh lifts the lid and allows us to peer into the loneliness of the human condition and it is not a comfortable place to venture. The older woman's expression when Johnny says that line to her that any woman of her age dreads, well, I challenge any actor to deliver a finer reaction. This film has a cinematic feel to it which most of Leigh's other films don't. It's a searing view of Britain. I can't really put my finger on why it should work as there is not a great plot and it's all set in a drab student type house but it blows me away every time I watch it and it gets better each time. Thewlis is beyond anything I have seen in cinema for years, really outstanding, as are all the performances. The ending is wonderful. It's a perfect film. One of the best ever. "},{"Title":"Thank you Mr. Leigh for this spiritual experience","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Wow, I love films like this. Bursting at each seam with a kind of flamboyant energy found only during long drug binges or a series of coincidental and uplifting events in someone's life. This was my first Mike Leigh experience, and it became a long lasting and still-standing marriage between myself and the director's films. I compare his style somewhat to that of Robert Altman's, only in that he can make a film like this, a wry, dark and intelligent drama, and turn right around and make a wacky, off the wall Victorian theater comedy like Topsy Turvy. The man has incredible range, I'll give him that. There is a careful visual strategy to this film, one that might go unnoticed on first viewing because of the rocket-fire dialog that might take your attention away from the setting- watch carefully during the opening scenes as background action walks over the same planned ground as later in the film. Blink and you'll miss a beautiful shot of a building with a group of doctors wheeling trays in the opposite direction of the main character. This action seems so natural, but it in fact makes for perfect compositions every single time, and therein lies Mike Leigh's genius, in his ability to control his improvised style into such a way that it all looks mathematically mapped and charted way before he cast any die. If not for that, watch this film for the spectacular exchange between Daniel Thewlis and Ewan Bremmer, and Thewlis's stunning performance in general. You'll never see Harry Potter the same way. "},{"Title":"Ego, Id, Y2K, and Wit","Date":"17 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The cover of this film literally called to me for months before I finally took the time to sit down to see this film; I wish I had jumped on the opportunity sooner. Naked is a film of superb performance, dialog, and directing, and best of all the driest of English wit and the most poignant analysis of Ego and Id.The movie starts on a long-take of a man, Johnny, raping a woman and then getting chased away by her family. The hand-held camera effect places us as spectator in a way that makes us there, and from that moment, one can't help but feel a sense of responsibility to everything that happens from then on. Never again will we return to that hand-held style, but the entire resolving of effects throughout the rest of the film follow directly from that one moment the camera didn't prevent a bad situation from occurring.Johnny the rapist, however, is not some evil guy who uses violence on women unempathetically--instead, he's quite the intellectual and still pines for his ex-girlfriend in London. He lacks control and is hot-headed, but most importantly of all, he's guilt-ridden and driven to hide it. Rather than use Johnny as a way of providing empathy for rapists, however, Mike Leigh counter-balances him with The Landlord from Hell (there's a bit of a mix-up over what his real name is, though), the horror monster from the subconscious who's realm of carnage begins with Johnny's rape and stalks throughout the streets until eventually leading up to Johnny's own presence.A movie could hardly ask to be more disturbing (I've seen more disturbing, but oftentimes for the plain shock value of it), but what entices me even more about this movie is the very reserved, underlying sense of humor. Most of it comes from the physical presences of the characters as they speak, and how the actors really thrust their intentions forward despite all the in-dialog miscommunication and theatricality.Mike Leigh's Naked is notable as well for it's pre-Y2K emphasis on millennium apocalypse, a gamut of the era that helped define some of the existential malaise either overtly or understatedly felt in many intellectuals of the time. This theme can be funny to us in the latter part of the first decade of the 2000s, but it can also reveal a lot about how our society has come to be the way it is today.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"If a sick head vomits","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This so called masterpiece is a good choice if you have too much free time and want to waste your time and energy with some inhuman's sick ideas. I can't believe the people who find the leading actor 'cool.' I think this movie is a total insult towards women. It's long and badgering dialogs, cheap score and sadistic discourse have nothing to do with cinema. Too bad I had thought it was a family drama before watching it. If you really want to watch something good on middle-class, existentialism etc. try Bergman, Haneke or someone from their class. At least they still have hope for the humanity. I just don't understand why people who don't believe in the future for humanity make films about it. If there is no future, why do you bother yourself with making films to tell it. Just go to park and lay down under the sun with the biggest secret of the history. And enjoy it. I never expected it but Leigh is a new Von Trier for me. Another big disappointment. Anyway, do not waste your time with this huge waste of 35 mm. "},{"Title":"Whimsical nonsense","Date":"17 May 2009","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" This has been held up as a classic yet remove all the reviews from your mind and that status isn't justified by what's on show.All the characters have a slightly cartoon-like quality and all exist through modes of discourse which seem far removed from real life. Being as he's the central protagonist, Johnny would be the most natural character to root for however Leigh seems a bit caught up in giving him dialogue which, while it may seem profound on a first listen, is actually just nonsense.The background music and artfully coloured shots of Thewliss show a film straining for gravitas that never comes. Instead we get a series of encounters with more cartoon characters for Thewliss to spout nonsense at.This film has a few plus points, it's certainly refreshing to see a different London from Richard Curtis's, however it also shows Leigh as falling too easily into the trap of whimsy - as Career Girls would a few years later.A much better film about London 'grifting' is Ken Loache's 'Riff Raff'. "},{"Title":"Naked (1993)","Date":"10 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" Bleak and cynical and often uproariously funny. The bleakness would be overwhelming if not undercut so frequently with the humor of Johnny's rants. Much of the credit belongs to David Thewlis, whose brilliant work is comparable to McDowell in CLOCKWORK ORANGE or DeNiro in TAXI DRIVER. His character Johnny doesn't so much straddle the line between good and evil as he does swerve back and forth over it like a drunk driver. Johnny's darker qualities are neither negated nor mitigated by his charm, but his charm is substantial, with a wonderful gift for gab, a sense of intellectual curiosity, and a sarcasm-tinged but nonetheless genuine compassion for his fellow man buried under the bile. When Thewlis is on screen, he's riveting.Lesley Sharp is also superb as his ex-girlfriend, bravely attempting to maintain an air of stoicism in the face of Johnny's misanthropy, and Katrin Cartlidge is heartbreaking, if a bit shrill.The sour note in the movie is Sebastian/Jeremy, whose absolute vileness doesn't ring true in the context of the rest of the characters, who occupy much greyer territory. Perhaps he's simply there to make Johnny look not so bad in comparison. However, his role is small enough to overlook his presence, or at least consider it as the one truly rotten part of an otherwise excellent whole. "}{"Title":"Jonny you gave away too much!","Date":"20 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Naked had the potential of really building up into to something totally out of control. Unfortunately, the momentum is lost directly after the street scene involving the scotsman looking for his girlfriend 'Maggie'. This scene is the climax (far too early) of the whole film, my heart was racing as Jonny roamed the streets. The problem is this Jonny, has a brilliant wit and cruel humour; but during the film this gives way to a rather doleful and primitive philosophizing. Jonny tries to explain too much, and in doing this he explains away the genuine vision of the film. For me, the last twenty minutes or so seem absurd. The film seems suddenly very foolish. If Jonny had stayed a chaotic spectre, and not become a philosopher, then the meeting of him and Sebastian could have been much more significant. Jonny is a monster because his father beat all the optimism and goodness out of him. Sebastian is a monster because he is rich and bored and idle, his cruelty is a decadent cruelty (like the American psycho). As a result of Jonny's philosophizing he seems a little flawed, a crucial respect factor is lost, and one feels a little disillusioned with him after he is beaten up. Thus when he is encountered by Sebastian, it feels like Sebastian is saying 'I waited the full length of the film for this?' Sebastian walks away a surprising victor because his purpose in the film remains unconsolidated, and one can't help sometimes thinking whether he accidently walked into the wrong set from another film. Their meeting feels uneventful and unimportant for the story, although it had the potential to really take a grip on the viewers perceptions of morality and the morality of the self. Who is the more dangerous? The one who is cruel because he believes in it, or the one who is cruel because he's been burned by it? It could have left us all spinning out of control. Instead, we have to wait before Jonny walks away before some sort of balance returns to the film, and by then it's all over. "},{"Title":"Can't Take This Film Seriously","Date":"13 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  It is great one moment and then slacking the next. This film only delivers in the moments that the girls are sharing/chatting.The only good thing that I can say about this film is that it offers a tiny glimpse of Leigh's later greatness with Secrets and Lies and Career Girls. Far more interesting and consistent in story. I feel guilty that I am one of the few that don't like this, but I hope that I don't have to sit through it again.....ever !! "},{"Title":"Devastating, Unnatural & Insane....","Date":"28 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" 'Naked' is one movie that I won't be able to get out of my mind for a long long time. I have watched this movie after reaching the peak maturity & understanding of various subjects, but my notion of movie making and direction was totally shattered when I came across this Mike Leigh's bleak & dark film. The role played by David Thewlis is totally shocking but his acting is purely awesome. He fled to London from Manchester in search of sex and shelter. Though his uncaring and ruthless approach towards life may looks offensive but its pretty interesting. His character is a very good observant. He believes that world is going to end in some years. But exactly what he wants from the life is not clear. He just tries to go deep inside others with petty conversation and unworthy topics. There was a kind of uniqueness in his role in this movie. But more than this, his character is beyond all doubts unacceptable & hypothetical because there is always something or at least one thing in life that you are concerned about. Or it just implies that there is nothing in this world which inspires you, take the life as it comes to you. Society may declare you insane or defeated but how does it matter? Good to see or feel this way but when it comes to reality, nothing can be more scarier than this... "},{"Title":"Is there only one way to have sex....through date rape?","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  You may think me crass, but I have just read all the other contents most men think it's great, the few women that commented thought it ludicrous.  I happen to agree that David Thewlis is brilliant, (see Total Eclispse for further confirmation) and he is the rare man who shows off his jewels for the world to see in both movies.But without the fantastic wit and the great writing, this movie would be just one more wallow in the miseries of lower-class English life (?). It would have been nice for a contrast if there had been at least one act between consenting adults that had some tenderness in it.  Jonny cares for no one, least of all himself.  Is it Samuel Beckett that does the 'theatre of the absurd'?  If so, the man guarding 'space' was a perfect representation of the emptiness of our thing-obsessed lives.  And the words about future, current and past time were intriguing.The women were pitiful, and their decision not to call the cops really didn't make sense.  I can't believe English cops would be that sadistic, leaving them in harm's way.  Don't they have restraining orders over there?  But there was also a sado-masochistic flavor to this movie as well.....even the girl with the butcher knife added to it.Thought the most important reason for re-watching this movie is to get the sometimes obscure but excellent dialogue, I mention the sexual aspects merely because noone else has.  The most gripping scene was that after DT has been beaten horribly, and he screams out to or about his father's beatings, writhing around on the floor.  If you're really down, see this movie.  It's SOOOOOO much further down than you could ever be without having a terminal disease, and so will bring you up. "},{"Title":"Bratty and not half as smart as it wants to be.","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Some smart person called this film a pretentious load of stagey, contrived codswallop, and I'm quoting that because I couldn't have thought of a better way to put it. A maddening, annoying movie with completely unsympathetic characters - whoever thinks one's got to feel sympathy for Johnny must only be able to watch movies by identifying - as I couldn't stand his incessant chattering, worse than Vincent Gallo in Buffalo 66. Furthermore, what's this nonsense about calling him philosophical? There's no continuous argument he's carrying on throughout the film, no cohesiveness to his banter; it's nothing more than baiting people and p***ing them off. That's pretty much what the whole film did, for me, and it pointed out (if nothing else) that p***ing off other characters, or the audience (throwing in some sick moments of violence against women for added edginess, or whatever), is cheap, dull, and unchallenging.   "},{"Title":"a real disappointment","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  I am a HUGE fan of mike leigh's work...I think his early television work is fantastic and Secrets and Lies is one of my favorite films....and yet.... I just wasn't interested in these characters.  Thewlis' character was obnoxious and self important...his meanderings grated on my nerves to the point when I was glad to see him get the boot only to make him shut up. Not that annoying characters are bad...Brenda Blethyn in Grown Ups for example was brilliant!  I guess for some reason I just didn't care about anyone in this film and I didn't find their antics entertaining. "},{"Title":"Brutal, disturbing, and deeply misogynist.","Date":"22 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  The consensus among intelligent people whose cinematic opinions I respect is that this is a great film. Which makes me, very much inclined to hate it, feel like a stupid, feeble n00b. I don't want to make a knee-jerk impressionistic comment like 'it is brutal, dark and nasty, therefore I hate it therefore it is a 'bad' movie.' Nothing is more unforgivable as a film reviewer than making judgments on such subjective, baseless grounds. So... I will try to qualify my gut reactions. Clearly, love it or hate it, this is a film that is uncomfortable to watch and gets under your skin - this is largely to its credit. It follows a few days in the life of Johnny, a violent, disaffected, philosophical and transient young man who flees a rape scene to his ex-girlfriend's flat in London, manipulating her and her roommate, and takes to the streets again to bully, lecture and tease a series of interesting Londoners. The dismal realism of the cold city nightscape Leigh has captured here emphasises the film's prevailing nihilistic tone. I very much appreciate a movie that eschews traditional plot, that tries instead to portray a 'slice of life.' I appreciate a movie that passes no moral judgment, delivers no retribution, features no absolutely good characters or suggests in its characters monumental change for the better in a matter of days, introduces people we find despicable and dares us to sympathies with them anyhow. Naked is very much anti-Hollywood, and ordinarily that puts a film well on its way to my list of favorites. But that in itself is not quite enough. The thing is this. To classify Johnny as a 'complex anti-hero' is inadequate and misguided at best. Call me a raving bitter feminist if you must, but I cannot find it in me to sympathies on any level with a character who is essentially a rapist. The film is deeply misogynistic, presenting all women as victims always and all men as rapists at worst and voyeurs at best. It is difficult to criticise the film on this level because it sounds like I'm demanding a healthy dose of morality or an indomitable heroine be injected into the story. It sounds like I'm saying no movie about sexual violence and victims ought to be taken seriously. But this stark portrayal of outwardly sexually confident women who are easily broken and outwardly philosophical men who are easily turned to violent sadism is irredeemably anti-women and doesn't do much for the image of men, either. Johnny is undeniably a complex, intriguing character, and Thewlis delivers what I would without hesitation hold up against the finest performances of all time. His long philosophical rants bring out what humanity is in him, showing him for the desperate human being searching for truth he really is rather than some erudite philosopher. The dialogue is sometimes fantastic but sometimes rather reminds me of conversations I had in the college dorm at 3 am on a Tuesday night - oh, we found ourselves tremendously clever at the time, but it's really just so much self-obsessed existential blather. All at once, I found myself delighting in Johnny's wit and laughing out loud at what struck me as 'babble babble babble, you with me?'All things considered, it is a good film, a very bleak and philosophical look at human frailty and violence, and interesting for its improvised feel. Not for everybody, but highly recommended for any fan of Thewlis', independent film-making and existentialist philosophy. But I think it's a film you respect more than like.  "},{"Title":"Unpleasant claptrap","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" The first film of Mike Leigh's I saw was High Hopes, which I liked because it was (1) new (to me) and (2) funny. But with each successive work, the spuriousness of his dramaturgical effects at their worst becomes more obvious, and never more so than in this film, which is (1) old, (2) serious, and (3) gruelingly unpleasant. As is well known, he builds his scripts from his actors' improvisations. But since those don't make for drama, only bits of drama or near-drama, he has to attach them together with playwriting tricks, which amount to actor's tricks--claptrap. His favorite one, which occurs somewhere in nearly all his movies and TV plays, is the extended monologue in which the character begins cheerily, then unravels before our eyes. (In his first TV play, Abigail's Party, this was extended for two hours.) The principal device used in this film is the extended monologue in which the character rails at someone who just sits numbly and takes it--and the audience has to, as well. This film is basically a play in two acts set in a grubby flat and consisting largely of slagging by a nasty, ugly creep who's always either bullying or being bullied or both at once. There is a central interlude in which the film actually becomes cinematic for a while, and to facilitate which it trumps up highly improbable reasons for the creep to leave the flat and return later. The same could be said of the events that usher him in and out of the story. In the play he's one thing; in the interlude he's another a man who has chosen--if we're to believe him--to stay homeless as a social statement. Now that would have been an interesting character to make a movie about. But in the play proper he's no such thing, he's not homeless, he's a parasite who makes his home with whoever his current host body happens to be. Eventually he passes on to a new host body; and why? and why do any of them let him take over? Because otherwise the play couldn't happen. The second act works in another disagreeable character, on another incredible pretext--because otherwise the climax wouldn't happen--and he promises to give the creep a run for his money, but he doesn't, in dramatic terms, nobody does until the very end, or we couldn't suffer the ordeal we're meant to. But why should we? The dramatic devices being used on us work--that's why they've seen such long service--but as used here they're torture devices. Torturing an audience isn't the same as giving them a meaningful dramatic experience. "},{"Title":"Full of whingeing and fury, signifying nothing","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  A pretentious load of stagey, contrived codswallop from the Whingeing Pom school of filmmaking. Full of meaningless designer angst for the chattering classes.  David Thewlis's character moves through an unlikely succession of cardboard cutout ciphers written in as unbelievable sounding boards for his tedious psychobabble. Ironically this film is lauded for its realism. What a joke! "},{"Title":"disturbing, brilliantly acted but flawed.","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Firstly, David Thewlis is a brilliant actor, as confirmed by this film. He has managed to make an entirely unlikeable character interesting and somewhat sympathetic. This film had interesting diatribes about the state of the world. The scene with the nightwatchman was absolutely enthralling. It was, however, very difficult to watch. I found it particularly difficult as a woman. All of the female characters were characterized as victims. There was a disturbing mysoginism in how they were treated. It was a brilliant film in its own way but still flawed. "}{"Title":"One of the worst films ever.","Date":"6 August 2005","Score":"11 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":" I started watching this film, and at first couldn't finish it. I was already having a really bad day, and this film made it SO much worse. Basically the story is Johnny is a misfit who rapes a girl. That sickened me, but what was worse was the fact that the producer (Mike Leigh) decided Johnny should be the star of the show. So as if having a rapist as the star of a show isn't bad enough (and therefore implying rape is O.K. in certain circumstances, when in actual fact it of course never is), Mike Leigh decides to add a second rapists just for the fun of it. I was so angry at this movie and its director. Please do NOT watch this film, especially if you have experienced any kind of sexual violence. "},{"Title":"Deeply misogynist, tedious and pointless garbage","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama","Review":"  Naked is a wretched, tedious and astoundingly sick movie which is proclaimed by many as a masterpiece. It's hard to see why. Mike Leigh remains one of the most overrated directors ever. Although one has to admire his continual sticking to his guns and insistence on making the type of films he wants to make his way, his films, which aim for a kind of low key realism ,are handicapped by Leigh's condescending attitude to his 'working class' characters and his insistence on the most mannered kind of acting. At least most of his work, such as Life Is Sweet, does have it's enjoyable and sometimes funny moments. Naked does not even have have that to recommend it. Far from being his masterpiece, it's his worst, a boring exercise in misery and misogyny.It is the film's sexual politics which are most reprehensible. The 'hero', Johnny, likes to have sex with women in a way which blurs the line between rape and rough consensual sex, yet we are never given any indication as to why. When the film offers another rapist who is an out-and-out villain, are we supposed to feel that Johnny is not that bad after all. Worse than this, all the women are presented as being annoying are we suppose to think that they are in a way asking for it?,and one brief bit when one of them is summoned upstairs to be raped and, turning to the camera ,shrugs her shoulder's, is truly horrid- is this supposed to be funny? This film is far more offensive than such much maligned 'exploitation' films such as I Spit On Your Grave, partially because Leigh thinks in some misguided way that he is making art, partially because he is trying to be funny, and partially because he thinks he is portraying real life.David Thewlis gives a committed performance as Johnny, but Leigh makes no attempt to help us understand him. Instead, he has him spout some of the most meaningless, pretentious dialogue you will ever here, the sort that probably makes sense when you're drunk at 2 AM in the morning, but is really just gibberish. Leigh's staggering incompetence as a director reaches it's peak when the camera moves away as Johnny is about to be beaten up, we are allowed to see him abuse women but are not given the satisfaction of seeing him receive some rough justice. As usual ,but more here than ever before, all the characters are less 'real' people than caricatures for the Mike Leigh cartoon gallery who just exist to be mocked. What was his point in making this film, considering it has no actual entertainment value whatsoever? Maybe he is expressing his anger at modern Britain, or human nature, or something. What is most scary is that such garbage is widely praised.  "}]