[{"Title":"Enigmatic Scorcher and FASCINATING!","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"29 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Jeremy Irons and John Lone (who plays the character, Song Liling) should both have gotten academy awards for their performance in this incredibly enigmatic and captivating scorcher of a movie. This is a completely new twist on on the classic opera and may even be more of a believable story because it is so creatively wicked. It has a sexual tension that holds throughout the whole movie and is entirely played out in the mind and sensuously mesmerizing at the same time.It's an emotionally tortuous journey that Jeremy Irons makes in the name of love (?), and more likely addicted passion. John Lone's performance is exceptional as one who is just as driven and hooked psychologically in his own way as what it is in him that drives him to fulfill Jeremy's ecstasy and descent into irretrievable madness. Definitely one of the best movies ever! I hope this makes it to DVD sometime soon as it surely deserves to be seen again and again. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg Takes on a Classic Opera Espionage Twister","Date":"19 October 2007","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Jeremy Irons plays the lead role as French diplomat, Phillipe Bouriscot, who falls in love with an absolutely seductive Chinese woman opera singer (John Lone). As Irons pursues the diva he's attracted to, she toys with his foreign ignorance of the cultural differences between their Western & Eastern societies.In a sense, she keeps the diplomat at a distance for 18 years while their affair continues by becoming his teacher of cultural difference. The romantic & erotic chemistry between the diplomat & opera singer is a very famous true story written by David Henry Hwang--Madame Butterfly. There have been numerous stage & screen renditions of the story.I like this (1994) version best because David Cronenberg is undoubtedly the finest director to deal with the most important topic in the story gender bending. M. Butterfly is the Canadian Cronenberg's first Hollywood funded debut. The surprise plot of the sorted true love story is one of espionage. An adults only film, it is one of intrigue, sizzling romance, twists & turns, deception & betrayal. "},{"Title":"A flawed but fascinating film.","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"21 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Of all the David Cronenberg movies I have seen 'M. Butterfly' is my least favourite, but that's certainly not to say that it is entirely worthless. Despite some flaws and a few dead spots it is still quite a fascinating film. One of the oddest things about this movie is that despite its general feeling of unbelievability it is based on a true story. Cronenberg adds to this by deliberately casting the rather butch John Lone, rather than a more obviously androgynous actor (ala 'The Crying Game', a movie this is often compared to). This makes the story more confronting and less comfortable, and also one assumes, closer to the actual facts of the case. Jeremy Irons, who was robbed of an Oscar in Cronenberg's previous 'Dead Ringers', is outstanding as usual, Lone (still mainly known for 'The Last Emperor') isn't as good, but still fine, and the supporting cast includes a nice turn from Brit veteran Ian Richardson ('Dark City'). Most Cronenberg fans will probably find this a bit difficult to get into, as the material isn't exactly typical of the director, but it's much better than its bad press makes out. I expected to hate it, and I didn't.  "},{"Title":"beautiful, moving, compelling","Date":"22 February 1999","Score":"15 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  This is David Cronenburg's best, based on a true story as bizarre and compelling as his other bizarre and compelling stories. John Lone is wondrous and Jeremy Irons is his usual cold, repressed upper class self. Perfect casting for a provocative director filming a moving story of love and loss.  "},{"Title":"a great work","Date":"27 February 2006","Score":"20 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" this film is compelling and haunting...have seen it only once, but its message of passion burned itself upon my memory for all time. that is my definition of a great film. would love to own a copy on DVD. I always look for it at stores but never have found even a VHS version. I have also been searching for a copy of Damage also starring Jeremy Irons...haven't found that one either. Why are the most artistic films, the ones that really have something to say, the last to make it to the after-market release of the film?? I have noticed that Jeremy Irons tends to portray emotionally crippled characters...it certainly works for him in this film! "},{"Title":"Stranger Than Fiction","Date":"3 February 1999","Score":"22 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  M Butterfly is a remarkably compelling film, even though the premise has been spoiled.  I think it is David Cronenberg's best film overall.  Dealing with the same issues as in Farewell, My Concubine, such as the state of Chinese theater during the revolution, M Butterfly is easier to understand and more involving.  Farewell, My Concubine made me want to not care about the history involved because it was just too much to think about at one time, not being previously aware of it.  However, M Butterfly explains the setting in a way that has no minimum education requirement.  Foremost though, the characters created by Jeremy Irons and John Lone are intricate, conveying their deep commitments to their country and to their own heart, in Song and Rene's cases respectively.  However, being familiar with the opera is an advantage to understanding a few complications in the plot.  Plus, the ending is daring and dramatic.  In real life, however, the person who the character Rene is based on is still alive and I saw an interview with him on ABCNews and just knowing that this man actually thought that he had gotten this other man pregnant makes the movie even more intriguing.  This movie does not really delve into how that could have been, physically or psychologically, but it does make subtle inferences.  Just the knowledge that the premise is not merely incredulous movie fantasy is enough reason for inquiring minds to give this beautiful film a try.  "},{"Title":"M. BUTTERFLY A Unique Love Affair and Political Intrigue","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" M. BUTTERFLY continues to rank among the more important cinematic adaptations of a brilliant play - this one by the playwright David Henry Hwang. Having the pleasure to see two productions of the play - New York and Los Angeles - and viewing the film (1993) in the theater and on DVD brings an immense amount of satisfaction of just how fine this work is and continues to satisfy. The fact that David Henry Hwang wrote the screenplay suggests how true to the original the film is and how much of an impact it makes on the viewerM. BUTTERFLY is based on a true story that stunned the world. During the Cultural Revolution in China in the mid-1960s, a French diplomat René Gallimard (a brilliant portrayal by Jeremy Irons) falls in love with a Chinese opera singer Song Liling (John Lone) - women were never allowed to sing in the Beijing Opera so the fact that Song is a man is credible. Song Liling touches him with a love as vivid, as seductive--and as elusive--as a butterfly. The love affair is so fragile and respectful that René does not suspect that Song is a man in disguise. René Is an important diplomat with the French Embassy, married to Jeanne (Barbara Sukowa), and is responsible for maintaining the high standards of diplomacy. Song Liling has been placed in the position of an undercover agent to gather secrets from the Embassy about the American plans in Vietnam. As René is promoted he demands to see his M. Butterfly without her clothes, an Song's only protection about her gender identity is to reveal that she is pregnant with René's child and must leave to be with her family until the child is born. As the Cultural Revolution heightens the French Embassy is to be diminished and it is discovered that René has been in a liaison with with a Chinese spy and is sent back to France to be imprisoned. When he is put on trial Song appears in Paris to be placed on the witness stand and since years have passed since their last meeting, Song attempts to offer herself once again to be René's Butterfly. Whether or not René's passion was a flight of fancy, it sparked the most vigorous emotions of his life. Only in real life could love become so unreal. And only in such a dramatic tour de force do we learn how a fantasy can become a man's mistress--as well as his jailer. In a desperately touching final scene we see the imprisoned René perform the final act from the opera that has accompanied this film - Puccini's MADAMA BUTTERFLY.The story is at once compelling, explosive and slyly humorous, 'a work of unrivaled brilliance, illuminating the conflict between men and women, the differences between East and West, racial stereotypes--and the shadows we cast around our most cherished illusions.' The musical score by Howard Shore integrates arias and choruses from Puccini's opera with music from Chinese opera and his own sensuously beautiful original musical score. David Cronenberg directs with the tight amount of surreal disbelief the piece needs, but it is the brilliant acting of Jeremy Irons and John Lone that illuminate this film. It is a masterwork. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"Sometimes love knows no gender","Date":"24 May 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Or, conversely, love doesn't know the gender it loves.Jeremy Irons and John Lone star in M. Butterfly, based on the hit play by David Henry Hwang. In the mid-'60s, while the cultural revolution is going on in China, French Vice Consul Phillipe Bouriscot (Irons) falls in love with a singer, Song (John Lone), who performs with the Bejing opera. He believes Song to be a woman. And, like the story of Madame Butterfly, there is love, there is betrayal, and there is humiliation.As unbelievable as this story might be, it's based on a true one. The film doesn't go into how this fantasy was actually executed physically, but in point of fact, in real life, the character played by Irons believed he had gotten Song pregnant. Odd but true.David Cronenberg does an excellent job with this dark, mysterious film, and the actors are terrific, each character hooked on this fantasy in his own way. The end of the film is haunting.Well worth seeing. "},{"Title":"good movie ,with some small flaws","Date":"29 March 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" It's a good movie ,in my opinion as a Chinese girl,though there are some obvious ridiculous errors.I have not seen any intro about this film before my watching,neither a poster.I found it because I like the opera of Butterfly and I mistook it as the adaption of the famous opera.At the beginning of the movie,I was so confused that when Gallimard fell in love with Song-because,it's very apparent that the actress of Song was a male guy!And,from a Chinese view,John Lone was too stocky to play the role of a eastern girl.-If a Chinese girl was like that in appearance ,she will be the butt of others.However,anyway,John Lone was so great an actor.His appearance has no similarity with a girl,but his manners, expressions,and tone are very very similar to a Asian felmale.Can't believe it.About the story of the film,I have little to think.Anyway,it's a novel that a child how to make and ruin a colorful bubble.All of us have to experience some destroyings of good dreams.The story was only one of them .Many of us think we found the one of ideal,but it turns to be a joke in the end.It's life.The great value of the movie ,I think ,is that it showed what a big gap between the different group of people exists in this world.Over several centuries,western people were imagining the scence of the mysterious ancient east,including the people there.However,...it's hard for a west to penetrate the east...I think.There are too much imposed on an east person,including man ,and woman. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" A French diplomat named Rene Gallimard is living and working in the China at the time of the Vietnam war. He goes to see the famous Chinese opera Madam Butterfly and instantly falls in love with the woman playing the lead roll. They start an Affair but the woman Song Liling is so modest that she won't let Rene see her naked. The affair is short lived when the Butterfly as he calls her and their new born baby are taken away by the Communists, and Rene is sent back to France and his wife Divorces him. Several years later Song shows up again and tricks him into stealing government documents so as she says they can get their child back. Than some of the weirdest things ever filmed takes place, but the weirdest part is that it is all true, or mostly true some of it we will never know for sure. The performances are wonderful particularly by Jeremy Irons as Rene. He plays him perfectly. But the real best part of the film is David Cronenbergs direction which is some of the best ever. A wonderful movie, "}{"Title":"Cronenberg's Cultcooking form the East.","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Plot (may contain spoilers) René Gallimard (Jeremy Irons),is a diplomat working for the French Embassy in Beijing 1964. When he goes to a performance of Puccini's Madame Butterfly performed by the outspoken and exotic singer Song Liling (John Lone), (who is actually a man masquerading as a woman) he is the witness of himself falling in love with her. Gallimard pursues an affair with Liling, never recognizing that he is being duped. However, the deception goes even deeper, for Liling is working for the Communist government and using the relationship with Gallimard to procure important French intelligence.Review I will start my comment with the performance of both lead actors. It is my opinion that both Jeremy Irons, and John Lone have underrated for both their parts. Irons is doing his best and gives a performances worthy up to the one he gave in Lolita or Dead Ringers As for John Lone, I would say beside his role in The Last Emperor this is one of his outstanding performances. Both gentleman don't overdo it on the drama force, but also don't act flat when it comes to it.Cronenberg did a good directing job, thinking about appearance, but also the content and acting, I figure he delivers a very good picture. Also being his first project outside Canada, he does well on foreign ground delivering us images that stroke the eye.The only thing that makes this movie not perfect is the script Whang made. Not bad writing or dialogs, just the way things go through the whole story, the so called red wire doesn't really fit the spot. a little minus which gives the movie a 8/10 "},{"Title":"Cronenberg's Masterpiece","Date":"4 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I've been searching for this film for a while. Having seen Videodrome, The Fly and Naked Lunch, I knew that Cronenberg was capable of making compelling, disturbing, horrific pieces which resonated in a dark, menacing way; staying with you via their visceral imagery and twisted ambiance. Having seen Dead Ringers, Spider and A Dangerous Method, I knew that Cronenberg also had another side to his work. A more restrained, mature, refined yet no less affecting style which, at its best, achieved a great level of tension without the visceral gore of his aforementioned works. What I hadn't seen was M Butterfly. The almost unmentioned work which takes Cronenberg's more mature approach to filmmaking and fulfils his promise by giving him a jewel in what is an extremely impressive crown. I greatly enjoyed the movies I mentioned in the previous paragraph but even the best ones I felt were lacking something for me to be able to say they were a masterpiece. Perhaps they felt a little convoluted, gratuitously gory, or perhaps at times distant and even lifeless in some of his later works. But M Butterfly is none of these things; well some may say its plot is convoluted but, strangely enough, it's heavily based on a true story, or rather it's based on a novel which is based on a true story.What M Butterfly has, which many of Cronenberg's other films lack, to varying degrees, is relatability and empathy. Pure, unadulterated empathy. It presents its characters not as good or bad; it's not interested in judging or condemning; it is a film which desires to take you deep into the world of an enchanted and tortured man Rene Gallimard. It wishes to show you his most intimate passions and desires, his triumph, his awakening, his desperation and his suffering. It wishes to explore his self- realisation, his moments of greatest happiness and it wishes to show us his ultimate tragedy.This is a film which echoes with symbolism. Its structure is tight, its performances, by the two leads, are heartbreakingly sublime. It is influenced by opera, by Hitchcockian psychological, twisted romance, think Vertigo. Its story opens and unfolds like a delicate rose which eventually must wilt and die. This is poetry, this is humanism. This is the most accomplished and meaningful work I've seen in a long time.If you are even slightly tempted to investigate this then know that, despite its lack of recognition and a number of poor reviews, this film had the power to tantalise and haunt, in equal measure, at least one audience member. I was taken on a journey which I intimately understood only too profoundly. Perhaps it will mean something significant to you too. "},{"Title":"Great Acting of The Actors Making This Movie Very Memorable","Date":"25 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I highly praise this movie. I am not a big fan of Jeremy Irons and John Lone because I did not know John Lone's films a lot and even though he acted in famous films but the guy seemed only to be a supporting actor however this movie proves me wrong of my earlier opinion about him. The way he was acting as a traditional Chinese lady is amazing not only from his way of talking, moves, even walks its all bringing the best of his character.For Jeremy Irons's romance movies usually he would act in a more stereotype of a romantic person who fall head over heels toward someone then did something big that he would regret later on. Yet even though his character here was falling head over heel with a foreigner whom different from his race and his society but his acting is truly wavering and amazingly romantic yet very frustratingly convincing of his stupidity in the name of love at the same time. For the plot it's based from a true event of a French accountant worked in French embassy in China at that time and he fell with a male opera singer, the relationship lasted almost 20 years. Without truly loving someone that kind of relationship wouldn't last that long either man/woman or man/man or woman/woman. Still even though this movie only showed the relationship of the couple spanned from 1964-1968 and the pride of being lied and no forgiveness given reflecting the real events happened in a real life. In the movie after Jeremy Iron's character as Renee killed himself he became a butterfly while John Lone's character as Song Liling was being returned to China, different with real events whereas Bernard Boursicot as the inspiration of Renee still lives after his suicide attempt and Shi Pei Pu as the inspiration of Song Liling was not sent to China instead stayed in France until he died at 2009, they both didn't really contact each other even though Shi said that he loves Bernard until he died and Bernard never really forgiving him. A tragic love story based on lies.I'm addicting to this movie because of the main actor's portraying the characters very excellent and the dialogs used very intriguing yet smart unlike today's movies. Watch it if you want to see the best acting out of the 2 actors and a beautiful cinematography by David Cronenbergh and David Henry Hwang. "},{"Title":"Revenge, Love and Betrayal in all their Majesty","Date":"20 December 2014","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" David Cronenburg brings this Eastern tale of love and betrayal from stage to screen in a 1993 film adaptation. Basic gist, a diplomat (Irons) is obsessed with the local opera in 1940s China, and falls head over heels for a lead singer (Lone), believing him to be a woman due to ignorance of the gender roles in Chinese theatre. However, this 'Butterfly' uses this to squeeze French Government secrets out of the hopeless diplomat for the 'Reds'.Perhaps a little condensed from its original form, and not as visceral as Cronenburg's more famous works, 'M. Butterfly' still provides a well-produced and emotional tale of love, belief & deception. The key driving force of the film is really our two leads, with Irons being predictably solid as the typical middle class man of the era, though Lone is easily the bigger revelation. He is able to play both genders rather convincingly, and if I held up a picture of him to you without telling you who it is, you'd swear it was a woman. It's a combination of great make-up work and Lone's rather underrated skill to fully embrace the mannerisms of his role (see my praise of his work on 'Iceman' for more), playing up the submissive and ethereal qualities often tied to Oriental women, that make this performance so effective.Everything else is par for the course Cronenburg is a slick director and keeps the film trundling along at a good pace, the production values are lovely and give you the full scope of a changing China, and Howard Shore's score is suitably moving yet also enigmatic and does incorporate Puccini's 'Madam Butterfly' in at points, mainly towards the end. However, it's the script itself that does fall a little short it's paced a little too quickly, and some scenes feel really condensed and choppy just to accommodate a film runtime, especially with regards to the relationship between our two leads, as well as the bigger changes in China. It some times feel a little to quick, and doesn't quite have the emotional punch it wants to. It's not bad, just a little deflated.Despite that, I was pleasantly surprised by what is one of Cronenburg's lesser known titles, and it's worth checking out as a curio and for some great performances. "},{"Title":"Heartwrenching, heartbreaking, mesmerizing","Date":"4 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie today on DVD and was mesmerized. Jeremy Irons portrayal of a man lost in love tore me apart. While the narrative seem incredulous so as to be a fairy tale, I found out on the internet that its based on a true story and events similar to what was depicted did happen. It makes the tale even more tragic. The cinematography of the movie is dark, still - reflective of the forbidden love between the French diplomat and the Chinese opera singer. The screenplay is fabulous. There is love in the time of war, espionage, politics and change happening constantly. The writers focus less on the events and more on the characters - lacing the actors' every action with meaning and symbolism. Politics are there to define the era and changing times, but no sides are taken. The dialog is intelligent with sentences about daily life that would normally feel stilted in real life. But Jeremey Irons and John Lone do full justice to the strange material - not only injecting believability in the script but transporting us all to the house of the tortured opera singer where love and sin become intertwined. I do not understand why the movie and its actors and director did not get any nominations let alone an Oscar. Towards the end the movie does face some merciless editing which creates unanswered questions - probably to contain the length. However the last scene is so poignant, it left me heartbroken.I have not seen a more powerful portrayal of forbidden love and loss in a long time. "},{"Title":"Are you my butterfly?","Date":"24 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I remember when M. Butterfly was released in Brazil, back in 1993. I was just 13 years old then, but already loved Cronenberg films. The Crying Game had come out a year earlier, to much critical acclaim and financial success. M. Butterfly was thematically similar, but slightly better than Neil Jordan's movie. What it unfortunately wasn't is as financially successful. I must say that what kept audiences away wasn't Cronenberg's fault, but maybe a wrong perception of the picture. The film relied heavily on the twist. In this particular case, on the fact that Irons' butterfly was, in fact, a man, which should be this big secret, to be revealed at the last half hour. It was a lost cause, a twist the heads at Warner Bros. couldn't back up one would simply need to take a look at the poster and find the John Lone name right next to Jeremy Irons, to guess where this story is heading. The thing is, butterfly's sexuality wasn't important to this story, as much as people tend to think so. We know that in the real case the film was based on, the Rene Gallimard person was a bisexual man, which is very telling. My take is, there was a part of him, throughout all those years, that knew that his butterfly was a man. He chose to live the illusion, to blind himself from the truth, and it was perfect while it lasted. A moment that underlines this assumption is when John Lone enters the courtroom. The look Irons gives to him, he isn't surprised or devastated. He gives a knowing smile. Once the fantasy slips away with the woman's costume, it's over for Rene and Song Liling. I believe that M. Butterfly should not be taken as a movie with a twist, because there is none, the truth is right at our faces the whole time, but as a gripping, highly magnetic character study, a look into obsession, and a well-made period piece, a window of sorts to a part of the history of China we didn't really fully know. Dead Ringers remains the defining moment in David Cronenberg's career, but M. Butterfly is a great one, nonetheless, and highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Everyone are blind when they are in love","Date":"7 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I don't know why this movie didn't get more attention than it's supposed to. I like the two main actors both, who I think had a wonderful performance in this movie( although I keep wondering whether it will be another masterpiece if Leslie Zhang took Chung long's position in this movie.) For those who love this story itself, you will definitely agree how this movie perfectly described a story which tells  only in real life could love become so unreal. Also this is a good movie to watch if you are interested in the type of movie which entangle east and west, love and betrayal, passion and illusion... "},{"Title":"fascinating idea of self-delusion but no tension","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" It's 1964 Beijing. Married French diplomat Rene Gallimard (Jeremy Irons) is new to the city. He falls for Chinese opera singer Song Liling (John Lone) as she performs Madam Butterfly. He starts an affair and pass secret information to her for 20 years. Eventually he's tried for treason as he is forced to confront his illusion or willful self-delusion.The idea is fascinating but unlike the 'The Crying Game', the reveal is no shock at all. John Lone never convinces me in the slightest. There is a constant reference to racial differences which could partly explain Rene's self-denial. The more fascinating part is how delusional Rene is truly. I'm not sure Cronenberg is able to crystallize the central idea of the movie. The movie moves fairly slowly. There isn't a reveal for me and the movie has no tension. "},{"Title":"Full Metal Jackets","Date":"4 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Only a man knows how a woman should act. - Song Liling DavidCroneberg's M. Butterfly stars Jeremy Irons as Rene Gallimard, a French diplomat who falls in love with Song Liling, a Chinese spy and opera performer. Rene may or may not be gay and may or may not know that Song, who also may or may not be gay, is a man rather than a woman. Song stars in Madame Butterfly, an opera about illusory love. Within the opera, Song plays a woman. Outside the opera, Song deliberately acts feminine - whereby femininity is understood as a series of calculated signs rather than anything intrinsic - in order to get close to Rene. Once he realises that Song is male, Rene morphs into a woman. Rene's name conjures up philosopher Rene Descartes' mind/body schism. The film's title echoes another of Cronenberg's metamorphosis movies, The Fly.Descartes formulated a now famous dualist speculation of the mind in his Meditations on First Philosophy. This is where he presented what would become the mind-body problem, the idea that the body and mind, or flesh and spirit, exist as distinct substances. Descartes reasoned that one's thoughts, guided by reason and rationality, identify them as a person, and that one exists only so long as one's thoughts exist. Bodies, in contrast, are merely an extended, mechanical composition governed by the physical laws of nature. For Descartes, the mind could and should not be understood in the same terms as the body.Today Cartesian dualism has either been refuted or completely redefined, though what is known as the hard problem (of the mind, body and consciousness) remains unsolved. Lines of thought tend to run either toward monism or dualism, both of which have subsets like interactionism, parallelism, occasionalism, materialism, behaviourism, functionalism, or epiphenomenalism, the latter stating that the brain simply causes mental events as a neurological by-product, and that mental events cannot cause behaviour. Some of these branches suggest that there is no mind, others posit that the mind is controlled by nature and has no or limited free will. Today discussions are drifting toward a form of Quantum mysticism.Regardless, for Cronenberg the body is an amalgamation of both feminine and masculine qualities, the mind does not exist as traditionally thought and identities are engineered, synthesised and collapsible. Unlike Descartes, existence for Cronenberg requires both a mental configuration and a biological configuration; a multiplicity of self-identification in which identity and identity formation are cyclical, fluid and variable. Where Descartes attempts to arrive at a solid, stable point, Cronenberg posits identity as evolving without any preordained certainty, shows the importance of the outside in defining the Self, and distrusts the notion that we can arrive at any certainty, fixedness, or place beyond change. In a sense, the Rene character parodies Descartes. What he is is not quite in his hands.Descartes also formulated a Separation Thesis, in which the body is essentially shown to have less value than the mind. This has given rise to a certain aversion to the body, and a bevy of tales in which man neurotically attempts to transcend his icky, primitive flesh. This, of course, echoes Cronenberg's body horror movies. In Cronenberg's The Fly, for example, Seth Brundle's mind develops an aversion &#x96; a battle which the intellect always loses as it surrenders to madness - to a wild, unresponsive, conspiratorial, rebellious body which dares confront the autonomy of the mind. Rather than the mind triumphing over matter, Brundle is consumed by flesh and becomes a bundle of human, animal and machine by the film's end, having been unable to achieve a comfortable synthesis of intellect, emotion and technology. But while The Fly shows the mind overpowered by flesh, Brundle's perceived loss of autonomy generating a sort of grotesque, monstrous form of self hate, Butterfly's hero explicitly desires his transformation. Rene's disconnect between Mind/Gender (I am a woman!) and Body/Sex (But I'm male!) results in Rene actively desiring a transformed body to live in, rather than the Existenz-like simulation he created to sustain his prior delusions. End result it is multiplicity (consciousness, body, inside, outside, nervous system, DNA, flesh etc) which results in causation, the mind does not exist as a single entity, and the psyche and the soma are combinations of the shared experiences arising from innumerable interactions.Metamorphoses occur in other Cronenberg flicks, most of which show how a revulsion toward corporeality pushes men toward technology. Technology then becomes the physical expression, the dream, of the body as it writes its desires on social life. Much of this echoes the filmography of Kubrick; think man's transcendental journey in 2001, in which mankind forever points to but never reaches a technologically sleek monolith, attaining instead fleshy corporeality, and the mind/body splits of Full Metal Jacket, in which both the military and a dissenting marine rigidly attempt to manufacture gender roles and demarcations between head and body. Both directors show how accepted social binaries are but symptoms of Western culture and how first person phenomenal experience outside discursive contexts is but a liberal humanist delusion of self (liberal humanism proposes that the subject is the free, unconstrained author of meaning and action, the origin of history etc).Incidentally, M. Butterfly - oft dubbed the ultimate postmodern, post-structuralist play - was originally a stage-play by David Hwang. Hwang's play, like Full Metal Jacket (itself a cocoonish, butterflyish title), was about how empires construct identity (West/masculine, Other/East/feminine), about Patriarchy as the basis for imperial conquest, colonial discourse, and hierarchical definitions of geopolitics, ethnicity, gender, and race. In the play, binaries are shattered as Rene's role as spectator/audience/masculine/west is reversed by the duplicitous Song. It is then Rene who becomes the Butterfly (effeminate/object/fcked), duped by love. Cronenberg's film is less interested in these broader issues.6/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"'' My audience miss the white devil in the midst'' M.Butterfly","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" The first time i saw M.Butterfly i thought it is not a typical Cronenberg's movie. The second time, i saw i feel like it's definitely a Cronenberg movie, not about the body deformations but about the emotional deformations. Especially the scene which was shot in the police van, was one of the most disturbing scenes i have ever seen. It is such a good movie about love and obsession. There are not enough words to describe the performance of Jeremy Irons and John Lone. It is a MUST SEE!! not just for Cronenberg fans but also for every people who appreciate a good movie. Just take a deep breath before you watch it and be sure that you can handle it. "}{"Title":"SPOILER intriguing, exploratory and unpretentious  film","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I am a Cronenberg fan, so my review is influenced by previous films directed by him that I have seen and enjoyed.I think that first and foremost this film is an exploration of desire and the idea that love may be inextricably bound up with illusion. I got the sense that the main character (sorry, I am HORRIBLE with remembering character names!) willfully permitted himself to be deceived. This sounds self-contradictory, but it seems that the game was only up when Butterfly revealed himself--not because he didn't already know the truth, but because the charade was impossible to maintain when both men were aware of each others knowledge. I found this psychological aspect of the story very engaging. I also enjoyed the way that the story unfolded and was turned on its head (i.e. the final outcome, where the protagonist transforms into Butterfly). The metaphor of transformation runs deep in this film, and Cronenberg seems seriously interested in man's desire to transform into other than what he is--fleshy, mortal, fragile organism that he is! In some ways I think that it is impossible to really pinpoint and explicate the ideas and themes that drive a director to create. Nevertheless, one can see that Cronenberg's investigations are never pretentious or intellectual (though the intellectuals are all over him), and they always penetrated deep into the heart of the matter. Thus, his films are thoroughly enjoyable for one who wants something more meaty, and without the pretense. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Shocking","Date":"1 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" In 1960s China, French diplomat Rene Gallimard (Jeremy Irons) falls in love with an opera singer, Song Liling (J. Lone) -- but Song is not at all who Gallimard thinks.I liked when Song Liling said, It's one of your favorite fantasies, isn't it? The submissive Oriental woman and the cruel white man. She put the story of Madame Butterfly in its place, and then in the much larger context of the Vietnam war that was about to erupt. I do not wish to make any political remarks, but this film was layered very well -- the Madam Butterfly aspect had at least three parallels.Jeremy Irons is excellent, and it is nice to see him reuniting with Cronenberg. This does not have the science of Cronenberg, the flesh aspect, but as he says in a feature on the DVD, he leans towards odd communities as a filmmaker. And truly, there are some odd people here... is Song in love with Gallimard or just playing him? What is her secret? I loved the multiple twists and how smoothly they were revealed.Roger Ebert sees the big twist as obvious from the start, but I think this might be because he cheated. I have to agree with him on this comment, though Irons bases his performance on the understanding that erotic impulses are always completely humorless to those who hold them, even though they might seem hilarious to the observer. That, and Irons naturally has a very humorless persona -- even when he jokes, he is all too serious.I never saw the original play or read it, so I cannot make any educated comparisons to source material. But the film is great, and while not one of Cronenberg's better known films, still a must-see. Just so weird in a non-weird way. "},{"Title":"A music, not a story","Date":"25 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This is a more richly woven Naked Lunch to my mind, a study on the efforts to discern truth from the makings of fantasy. In terms of Japanese film, it is what Mizoguchi was trying to posit in his later films about cultivated images obscuring a tortured heart, and which fueled at the time a second idyll with Oriental culture.The first was the time when Madame Butterfly was written, with Japanese perspectives for the first time pouring across Europe.The film is patterned around this, the Madame Butterfly opera about a geisha falling madly in love with a Westerner who is unworthy of that love, and the violent repercussions on both ends of a growing obsession. And real life mirrored from this with sexuality inversed, the events of an actual case that may be the weirdest in world espionage. Both are layered here, fiction and life. On one hand it is about the Westerner's efforts, recast here as a French diplomat in 60's Beijing, at first condescending, cynical but gradually admiring, to capture the heart of a strange exotic world. That world seduces him with the face of a Chinese opera singer, herself a Butterfly performing the opera when we first see her, exuding all those things the idealized image of the Orient is meant to ancient mystery, scented allure, covert eroticism.(of course we know that the Madame Butterfly opera was based on a story in turn based on recollections of the writer's wife from her visit in Japan. It is a purely Methodist dream of the Orient, itself a prosthetic hybrid, an illusion. There was never any inside truth in the adopted images, any truly Oriental heart to be captured)From her end, we learn that she is manipulating that image from inside, presenting what he wishes to see to gain actual knowledge of Western machinations.But of course, this being patterned after an opera, it is about the music, not the story. So all the lachrymose love stuff makes sense, that may seem overt and heavyhanded at first glance. The flowery visuals, arranged in decorative beauty. The complete artifice of a stagebound China, that only furthers the connection with a staged reality. The project was originally meant for Peter Weir, no doubt he would have envisioned a better density for this world, a more enveloping alienation from the encounter; but the material suits Cronenberg's prosthetic worldview just fine. More than fine. The idea is that everything groomed to look beautitul should be revealed deceptive, illusionary. So he creates a natural copy of everything that should have rung true and lived, based on the idea that as an audience we are as open and eager to be seduced by images as the protagonist is.It works just subtly enough to throw us for a loop as just another Oscar bait about love and political intrigue. It is not, with all the emotional outpour that we experience as the film perversed as the instruments of a cruel deception. With victims us who genuinely believed in it.Of course what the man thinks he has learned from her was all lies, all because he failed to see truly; this is recast as a political comment with him feeding estimations about the Vietnam war to his superiors, all wrong. And a second political comment, again as pertaining to a Western dream; young leftist students rioting back in France in the name of Mao and the Cultural Revolution. We know how that panned out, what suffering was concealed in the idealized image broadcast abroad.It ends with a purely operatic transformation that is Cronenberg's turf, set up on a stage before an audience. Full circle with another Butterfly performing a role, but this one funneling broken soul into the thing. Everything is questioned, identity, contact, even sex. The result elicits a shock that is real, it's quite wonderful to watch.Overall it is near masterful stuff for me, about the power of images to seduce and break. I could see something like this come from Peter Greenaway, with the whole thing in quotation marks. But Cronenberg was daft or smart enough, I can't tell which, to make the maudlin and wooden stuff so unassuming it works deeper than Greenaway would allow. So it's not really a conventional love story but only dealt with in those terms. The opera that he's watching around him. So a man falling in love with an idealized depiction of beauty, itself a cinematic essence, but that we have to deal with as viewers on our own. Do we open up to it only to be hurt when he is? Do we keep our distance and admire aesthetically? "},{"Title":"Cronenberg's work idiosyncratic but beautiful & intriguing. I do not PAN as others,,.","Date":"28 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" During the Cultural Revolution in China in the mid-1960s, a French diplomat falls in love with a singer in the Beijing Opera. Interwoven with allusions to the Puccini opera Madama Butterfly, a story of love and betrayal unfolds 6.7 rating on IMDb 3700 people rating. I have been watching the movies of David Cronenberg--considered a cold emotionless director ( Some what true but I basically disagree) He has made some of the most emotionally devastating films I've ever seen, from the romantic tragedy of The Fly to the human wreckage of Crash & Spider & the heartbreaking Dead Ringers. He has an ability to touch the emotions & still be intellectual which makes him stand out among contemporary directors. Similar to David Lynch he is particularly good on the subject of one person's desperate need for something or someone & their yearning for requited love, meaning, redemption or some other kind of closure. Covering almost twenty years in the life of a tawdry French diplomat (Jeremy Irons), the story of M. Butterfly seems to depict the lengths to which people will maintain their delusions to stay happy. After seeing a lead performer (John Lone) in Puccini's Madame Butterfly, the diplomat falls in love with the star singer. Though the object of his love is cross-dressing actor, the diplomat seems oblivious to the truth and begins an affair of some chasteness for years in China. When the Communist Cultural Revolution separates the would-be lovers, the actress Song is sent off to prison and the diplomat is recalled to France. When they re-connect years later at Song's urging, the Irons character may be the victim of a spy plot to gain sensitive information for the Communist government and Song may be the key manipulator. The issue for the lovers is how much each knows about the other&#x97;and how much each keeps secret from the other (if anything). Film is Cronenberg's least-known & most underrated work, far superior to his great cult hit- Scanners. However the film is not as successful as the Broadway play--the film is never truly convincing. The film moves away from the play's stylistic elements, then works better as a fascinatingly cold-blooded assessment of love. Intense as Gallimard's longing is, it emerges more & more clearly as a product of his imagination as the story moves on. Inspired by the true story of a French diplomat in China during the 1960s who conducted an 18-year affair with a native man he always thought was a woman & who was later convicted of espionage, Film worked onstage because the plot device worked due to the distance created by the theatrical setting so the audience could accept the rather far-fetched premise. Cinematography is breath taking in China & other parts of Asia. The film is idiosyncratic as Mr. Cronenberg's work always is. However I do not PAN this film like all the other reviewers in fact though the film is slow I enjoyed this film. (You can also enjoy if you suspend your beliefs for 2 hours) "},{"Title":"Wasted potential","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Even directors as acclaimed as David Cronenberg have to have some duds in their filmography. Enter M. Butterfly, the odd and empty story of a French civil servant agent who falls in love with an opera singer while working in Beijing. It is set during the cultural revolution of 1960's China as tensions rise due to uncontrollable issues. But the real problems stem from the relationship between Rene Gallimard and his lover, Song Liling, which takes an unforeseen turn when you least expect it.This is just one of those films that is flat, dull, unconvincing, and just downright bland. So little happens for the first half of the film and what does happen is an uninteresting and unengaging romance that unfolds at an awkward pace with no real emotion or motivation behind it. This is a story that demands a lot of passion and emotion behind it in order to be truly compelling. The film falls flat here and never managed to keep my interest. The story here isn't terrible. It is based on a true story and that always adds a different element of intrigue, but the execution of this story is very poor. It could have been incredible, but I simply found nothing interesting here, at least for the first half.After a while I asked myself just why Cronenberg directed a sappy foreign country romance like this. Then a very specific and completely unexpected element was introduced and I quickly found myself saying, Aha. That's why Cronenberg directed this. The conclusion of this film is sudden and unfolds too quickly to have any real emotional force behind it. By this point in the film my interest in these characters and events had flat lined so I was only appalled and irritated by the direction this film had gone. There isn't a much easier way to put it other than it is simply not good and not fun.It was quite the disappointment to see a lot of potential go to waste. I started out disliking this film and by the end I didn't like it any more than I had before, but I wanted it to be so much better and I longed for it to be more emotionally engaging in order to achieve the full affect which this story has the potential to do. But it just simply fell flat. It is evident that Cronenberg put some effort into this film but just missed the mark and managed to produce a dull and painfully uninteresting story out of something that could have been extremely intriguing. M. Butterfly is something different, but not really worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Cronenberg, Hwang and Irons miss some opportunities.","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"12 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Jeremy Irons has specialised for many years in playing characters who build up a world of their own, and then have the world fall to pieces around them; who destroy themselves internally.  This is the key characteristic for his parts in Damage, Cronenberg's Dead Ringers, Lolita (of course) and M. Butterfly.  In this movie, however, it slightly misses the true impact of such events Irons has exhibited so well in those other parts, mainly because the final revelation actually doesn't happen until after Gallimard's world has already collapsed, with Butterfly's arrest (by the Red Guard, as an artist and thus a criminal) and his own recall to Paris.  But he doesn't find out the truth about his Butterfly until the court case, where Irons is unable to react - he has to react without reacting, so to speak, and he just sits there looking as if he'd just bitten into a thistle.  Were I to write the screenplay, I would have changed some of the order of events.  It is not important to the movie that Gallimard learn of the true nature of his lover in the court room, so I would have that revelation earlier, thus completing the cycle of destruction we have seen in his life, and also avoiding that impossible ride in the police van near the end of the film.  (First of all, it is impossible that two co-defendants in an espionage case would be transported together, secondly it is impossible that they be alone without a guard in the back, and thirdly it is quite impossible that the guards in the front of the van would not have noticed that one of the prisoners has taken off all his clothes!)  Certain other elements also detracted from the movie.  It does not do an avowedly art house film any good to Hollywood-ise things up by having Chinese people talk to Chinese people in heavily accented English.And in the end, what was achieved?  This case, as is pointed out in the film, was a national joke in France.  Presumably Hwang didn't give the case the comedy treatment because he saw something deeper, something to learn about human nature.  But in fact we learn very little about human nature that wasn't already obvious - the idea of subsuming one's whole being to an image of perfection; the inability to love the creator of an image if one has loved the image and discovered it to be nothing. All this is too obvious. Some merit might have been retrieved if it could be shown that Gallimard was intentionally deceiving himself, but that is clearly not the case.An ordinary movie from David Cronenberg transpires to be almost too ordinary. "},{"Title":"A Sad Disappointment","Date":"20 December 2009","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" David Cronenberg is not a shrinking violet of a filmmaker. From gross out effects to inner darkness of mind and body, he's one of few masters of the surreal to capture the beasties that crawl out from the deepest recesses of human experience. Unfortunately in 1993's M Butterfly, his attempt to play things straight leaves the film distant and lackluster.Based on a play of the same name, the film explores the real life relationship between a Beijing opera star posing as a woman (John Lone), and the French consulate officer (Jeremy Irons) that loves her for 20 years without discovering that she's actually a man. Irons and Lone provide solid performances, with a surprising level of chemistry. Lone especially deserves credit for his nuanced performance that plays with ambiguity, occupying the gray areas of gender with ease. While it's hard to believe that anyone could be so dense in regards to their lover's gender, the fact that it's a true story removes the fault from the film.The film is beautifully shot, showcasing the elaborate staging of Chinese opera and the exotic splendor of a 1960's China caught between the old and the modern. Within these performances and strong backdrop, Cronenberg asks many important questions about gender, race, art, and love, but they never quite feel sincere. He's distant here, just as the Asian Song Liling is from her white lover Gallimard. It gives the film a Kubrick-esquire feeling that may work on a grander scale, but feels forced and cold in such an intimate tale focused on love and obsession, especially from a director usually so skilled in addressing inexpressible emotional themes on screen. "},{"Title":"movie wise ... hhhmmmm","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"9 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  M.Butterfly was originally written for theater and I was quite intriqued when I saw the movie advertisment, I wanted to know how the story was going to be conveyed because I had a role in a production of M. Butterfly, which had been a memorable and an ego-boosting event (As I was only 15). I do not find that the characters were ambiguous, they were clear as night and day both in theater and in the movie.My prefernce goes to the theater production. And i disagree that M.butterfly is a story of love and loss, it was about a man who dreamed of the perfect woman and when that perfect woman came he was enchanted, he knew the truth all along but refuses to face up to it because he did not want to ruin HIS perception of HIS butterfly (him as the strong dominant western man and the woman he loves as the delicate oriental lotus blossom) "},{"Title":"Life is cruel","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"11 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Well, I watched the movie time ago. But it really shocked me.The most atypical Cronenberg movie, but with the same obsessionating theme of body methamorphosis returning. It's one of the most tragic stories I ever saw in a movie.With a perfect Jeremy Irons in the role of the crazy desperate and betrayed lover. Interesting how he believes to be the father of the child...little experience? If it's true that is based on a real story, hope this detail is just an add of the movie! Anyway, if u like tragedy, even if u hate Cronenberg(I actually love his movies), have to watch this one! "},{"Title":"Deeply disappointing if you know the play - intriguing if you don't","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" There is a problem with adapting brilliantly cinematic stage work to the actual cinema - even if the adapter is the talented original playwright. Works conceived for highly stylized stage production where the viewer's imagination is an active participant lose much of their impact - and occasionally essential content when the literal settings are laid out for the viewer. This is partly because helpful subtext and motivation are frequently removed in the more obvious medium, and occasionally the writer actually even removes important subplots feeling them less essential with the viewer distracted by all the real world visuals on the big or small screen.This was even more true in the superior film of Michael Frayne's COPENHAGEN where the original staging gave the viewer a second layer of meaning with the actors acting out the chaos theories which were the underpinnings of the play - giving the audience an essential understanding of the physics the movie's historically accurate sets couldn't - but in losing the vast sweep of the red ramp circling the stage in M. BUTTERFLY's story of espionage, illusion and self deception, we lost the ability to instantly segue from one location and time to another carrying the subtleties of each to the other and actually understand Mssr. Gallimard's obsession and frustration after it is exposed. Moving the final confrontation between the leads from Gallimard's acknowledged imagination to the literal back of a police wagon removes any believability, impact or magic.Even worse, the casting of the two leads seriously undercuts the author's efforts by giving us *not* a plodding diplomat who might conceivably not consider himself a sexual catch (John Lithgow in the original) but a prissy Jeremy Irons as Gallimard (wonderful actor in other roles) more in BRIDESHEAD REVISITED mode from 12 years earlier, where we question his very heterosexuality from the beginning.Whether it is John Lone's fault as Song or director David Cronenberg's in his filming of the character, but ALL surprise in the role is removed (tellingly, in every stage production the role is billed only using the first INITIAL of the actor playing it). Imagine THE CRYING GAME with the crucial second role played by Harvey Fierstein. As wonderful an actor as Fierstein is, NO surprise or even believable illusion in the context of that story. Hwang kept the structure of his story but eliminated the illusion which made it believable and the surprise which justified the structure.All that said, if you DON'T know the story and the first telling, the elaborate settings and supporting cast (occasionally distorting in themselves with the casting of brilliant scene-stealers like Ian Richardson as the Ambassador) give an interesting visual picture of China just at the cusp of Mao's late-life destructive Cultural Revolution from a ground level perspective - the literal aspects of which were an essential plot point but more subtly finessed on stage.Curiously, SHOWING the reality of the revolution and re-education camps makes the credibility of the Paris portion of the story almost non-existent, and the one area there the tools of FILM making could have improved the story, showing how Song and Gallimard were exposed, is ignored entirely.M. BUTTERFLY isn't the first film which didn't understand or support the genre of its source (think Stephen King's THE DEAD ZONE which tried to make a horror-thriller out of a sci-fi mystery), and it won't be the last. If you liked the flawed but stately beauty of Rob Marshall's MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA, there's much to enjoy in Cronenberg's slow moving film of M. BUTTERFLY, just don't go looking for the Tony Award winning play. If there's an upside to the film's commercial failure and almost total disappearance after the initial 1994 VHS release, perhaps it's the hope that another filmmaker will have a crack at the great underlying property. "}{"Title":"Good Performances In A Movie That Fails To Grab Hold","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" In general, the movies of David Cronenberg haven't tended to appeal to me. M. Butterfly was better than some of his work I've come across but it still disappointed me. I will give credit though to Jeremy Irons, who put on a fabulous performance in the lead role of Rene Gallimard, a French diplomat in Beijing, China in the mid-1960's who becomes entranced by an actress named Song Liling, who he meets at the Beijing Opera. Song was also played quite brilliantly by John Lone (you have to watch the movie to understand that bit of casting) and the chemistry and sexual tension that Irons and Lone managed to create was excellent.Having said that, the movie itself I did not find especially captivating. The first two-thirds of the movie or so are essentially a rather ho-hum quasi-espionage story, as Gallimard begins to reveal secrets about U.S. plans for Vietnam to Song, who in turn passes them on to the Chinese authorities. This led to what I thought was a pretty tame depiction of the Cultural Revolution. The last third of the movie then switches (rather abruptly, I thought) to France, where Gallimard is tried, and Song (now obviously a man) testifies at the trial. I was uncertain throughout what Song's real feelings for Gallimard were, although their encounter in the back of the prison vehicle seems to indicate that the feelings were sincere. It all led up to a very bizarre (appropriate for Cronenberg) ending, in which Gallimard performs the story for fellow prison inmates, dressed as a woman.I found this a very difficult movie to rate, but a weak (in my opinion) story really drags a movie down, good performances notwithstanding. I'd say 4/10 "},{"Title":"M. Butterfly sputters","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  On paper, this movie looks like it would be good, however it never gels. The secret of Butterfly is no secret to anyone except Irons' character. There are huge holes in the story and I never felt connected or got a good understanding of any character.  Though Irons, a top rate actor in my opinion, does as good a job as possible, it isn't enough to make this at all involving. For Cronenberg, who also directed Irons in the magnificent, Dead Ringers, this is a low point in his career.  Irons, on the other hand, went on to do Die Hard 3.  "},{"Title":"Spectacularly dreadful","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This film was awful in ways that I have never experienced before. The photography is so cheesy, the sets are totally unconvincing, direction and performances are empty, it deals with big events in an amateur theatrical way, the script is boring, the storytelling is dire, the music is incessantly irritating, the Great Wall of China becomes a joke, the only believable location is Paris, because it's the only real location! The whole thing is creepy, an when the 'twist' is revealed it just gets creepier. There are even some good actors in the cast, so hat's off to David Cronenberg for the worst film I ever endured. I hate to think I suffered in vain, please don't watch this film! "},{"Title":"Who was the object of desire?","Date":"24 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" A beautiful cold film. Subtle exploration of masks and desire, confrontation between two strange worlds, anatomy of love and silence like its nimbus, cruel poetry and form of past exorcism.It is tale of failure. Image of a plague and an oriental answer to the sense of existence.The art of Jeremy Irons is fascinating for the profound science to discover every detail of his character. The music is skin of ineffable miracle and form of charming trawl.Definition of crime and punishment, pledge for the ambiguity of images and deep temptations, cruel lesson about the lost of certitudes and construction of death's essence.A French diplomat in Communist China. An Opera show and the fall in belt of another reality, out of time and social status, out of responsibility and limits.The final part is only a splendid question Who was the object of desire? The singer? His world? Atmosphere? The lies? The illusions? The lost happiness? Or the necessity of disaster after a golden hour. "},{"Title":"Okay","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Having read the play, I felt that the movie was incredibly lacking. None of the complicated themes of the play really came through. And I don't think it was possible, since the play is so... unusual. Not just in the story and themes, but also in style. "},{"Title":"Where's Jaye Davidson when we need him?","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" Miscast, misguided screen-adaptation of the hit Broadway play about Caucasian French Intelligence Official in 1960s China who becomes obsessed with a mysterious Chinese opera singer. Jeremy Irons would seem to be a good choice for the lead, but his character is a moody, unconvincing jumble and Irons' performance turns into a series of faint little twitches. John Lone appears to be a most confident and intriguing screen actor, but he is not 'drag' material. A subplot about a pregnancy is confounding, making the Frenchman look like an immature dupe, and for what purpose? (that story thread is dropped almost as quickly as it is brought up). The movie is artificially handsome, with a pretty (if familiar) background score and overripe Chinese decor. If the intention was to create a deliberately artificial scenario to match a distinctly unlikely story, the results might be called a success, since nothing quite rings true in M. Butterfly. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Skilled Acting; Very Weak Screenplay","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" This is half a movie. The acting, the sets, the costumes--they are all superb, colorful and compelling. The trouble is, that when it's all over, I found myself thinking, Well? So what? It's a very distasteful, unpleasant, and rather cruel story, with dialogue that is dotted with sarcastic wisecracks, and no particular theme lends the story any sort of framework or structure that justifies the emotional investment we're supposed to make in the longing of the protagonist.Among the other comments, I've come across some assurances that the stage play was far superior; I have my doubts about that, since I cannot think of very much that would redeem the story.And so, if you're a fan of Jeremy Irons (as I am), and love seeing him even in a script that leaves you feeling as if you feasted on potato chips and gumdrops, then indulge yourself. Otherwise, you've got better things to do with your time.Still, it gets a 5 out of 10 for very fine costumes and sets, especially in the scenes filmed in China--and one of those stars is for Richardson as the ambassador, who was an oh-good-he's-back secondary character who leavened the lump considerably. "},{"Title":"Movie's embarassing.  The story isn't.","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  SPOILERS!!!This might be a great story reading out of a book, but the movie is poorly done.  Now I know Jeremy Irons loves to do such movies, but I wonder if he knew it was gonna turn into a disaster?  Bad casting for John Lone.  And I love John Lone (not emotionally since I'm a guy... lets say really like) mostly from his work in The Last Emperor.  And awesome epic (directors cut) The gag is up for the audience folks who know how John talks.  I didn't even need to know John was in it to close my eyes and figure that out.  So it was excrutiating for me to watch this.  Unlike The Crying Game where many people didn't know it was a girl.  (Hell I was fooled big time.  Though she was kinda cute on the soundtrack case.  At the time I hadn't watched the movie.  Boy George's song was really good and was totally clueless.)  But in this movie she's obviously a guy.As much as our movie teacher wanted us to think it was a good movie.  I don't believe so.  (Course it's his opinion as is mine)  Just admit it...John Lone can't cut it as a guy.  At least this movie came before Lolita... so Irons had some redemption.  I tend to watch controversial movies since I feel it's my first amendment right to do so.  (I refuse to watch Eyes Wide Shut until the real version is released.  I dislike what ABC did to Diamonds Are Forever.  By digitally adding underwear to this woman simply because her panties were too shear. o_O)This movie is also rushed.  There is no transition from the first half to the second half.  As if they had two short shows and mashed them together.  This movie is not believable.  You can't tell 20 years had past.  Some movies at least try.  (In the name of the father.  Heck the transition between Breakfast CLub and St. Elmos Fire shows an age difference just within a few years.  I really don't appreciate it when they rush a movie.  (The remake of The Avengers is the worst I think)So I really can't recommend this to the guys.  For some reason I see, the women like this more than the guys... so I can't speak for the females.  But guys....  if you ignored my spoilers warning.  Stay the hell away!!!!4/10Quality 4/10 Entertainment 2/10 Replayable ???? "},{"Title":"I played in this film","Date":"17 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":" I played in this film as a dummy in Budapest. It was one of my biggest experiences. I haven't even laugh so much since then. We were fighting against police student-squads and shouting unknown Chinese expressions, playing that we are an angry crowd of Parisian students from 1968. Some of us heard that the students whose hair gets wet will become a double salary. This was the point when everybody got crazy and tried to get closer to the water-cannon instead of runaway. Many students brought water in hidden bottles and watered his/her hair. If I watch the film step-by-step I can recognize myself running behind Jeremy Irons. It was great! "},{"Title":"Puccini meets The Crying Game...","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  Having never seen the play on which this movie was based, I was eager to see the film.  The play had gotten some pretty good reviews. However, upon seeing the movie, I was very disappointed.  I can't understand how the play won a Tony, unless it was much better than this film adaptation.It's the story of a man who loves a woman who is really a man.  Sound familiar?  Of course, the man is so infatuated with the Puccini opera MADAME Butterfly that he doesn't recognize that the object of his affections is actually a MISTER Butterfly (hence the title of the movie). Not exactly subtle.  I understand Hwang has a message to make, but must he make it using the time-honored racial stereotype of the effeminate Asian male?  As a Filipino-American himself, you would think Hwang would know better.There are some good things about the film.  It is beautifully shot.  John Lone(The Last Emperor) and Jeremy Irons(Reversal of Fortune) are two excellent actors who do their best with the material.  But overall, I was let down.  I give it a '3'. "}{"Title":"Iron's playing the crying game at his own risk.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Romance","Review":"  At first sight,M.Butterfly seems like an anomaly in Cronenberg's production.Apparently it's not a horror and fantasy film.It would rather be some lost fifties or sixties melodramas,the likes of sayonara or Suzie Wong.But futher acquaintance demonstrates thatwe do not deal with a realist movie.IT's really a cronenbergesque work,as weird ,as frightening as dead ringers  or the fly.The world that the director depicts is a complete studio creation with extravagant settingswhat can we say about the French police van (where anything can happen!!),the French jail ,and the May 68 events?About this two-bit China where everybody speaks English,even the Chinese between them?René Gallimard ,for a French ,it sounds like an editor's name ,but Jeremy Irons does not seem French ,to the slightest extent.Neither does the ambassador and the whole staff.But all this is voluntarythe story is as unbelievable as the other Cronenberg's creations,so the treatment is thoroughly appropriate.Content and form walk hand in hand.However,I 'm compelled to deflate all this a bitthe unexpected twist,so to speak,-check the title- recalls that of Neil Jordan's movie(1992) which I mention in the title of my comment,and recalls is an euphemism!Hats off,nevertheless ,to Jeremy Irons,for the extraordinary final,and to John Lone,who reiterates Jaye Davidson's feat,even if Neil Jordan's work is ,IMHO,much better than Cronenberg's extravaganza. "}]