[{"Title":" A VERY HEART WARMING FILM ABOUT GOOD LIVING!!","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Kathy Bates(Frances Lacey)also Misery'90), performed outstanding acting skills as a wonderful mother who just plain loved her children more than herself and was able to warm the hearts of many people she encountered, especially, Soo-Tek-Oho who owned a broken down shack and a few acres of land, which turned out to be a great Mansion for her children Edward Furlong(Shayne Lacey),Three Blind Mice  Clarissa Lassig(Lynn Lacey) and a few more children.  This film will warm your heart and soul and will definitely make you shed a tear or two.  We need more picture of this caliber, which is a true story and down to earth and REAL!! "},{"Title":"I lived it!","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"12 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I know a lot of folks talked about this movie being so heartwrenching, and at time a tear jerker, but this movie is as close to my childhood as I can imagine. We weren't quite as poor, but I really grew up in a half-finished house and we were pretty tight on money. We never finished our house, but my mom sent three kids to damn good colleges and private schools while supporting us on a teacher's salary.And Kathy Bates nailed it just right. I think that this movie portrays a lot of things about people who are struggling to get by, and it does it in a way that is very evenly balanced. I mean, her character is mostly sympathetic, but she shuts people out too. She's proud to a fault. She wants so much to do it all on her own, that she doesn't seem to realize just how much help she needs. That sense that she is all alone in it; that's how we felt. I'm sure that's how my parents felt. I liked how she found friends who knew how to handle her pride and still help her. I loved this movie but it is hard for me to watch! I never got nails for Christmas, though!I think the bit about the disclaimer that this is all fiction is just the standard CYA language the lawyers put in at the end of every movie. There's lots of novels that are fiction that are true.  "},{"Title":"A few Words","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"13 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I would like to say that today was the second time I have seen this movie on Television AND I LOVE IT!!! This movie is very exact with the times 60's and very heart felt... I was overwhelmed at times with emotion... So, If you are a women watching this movie for the first time be prepared to Cry, Laugh, & sometimes flintch...The Mother is a very prideful person that has a lot of hopes and dreams and that sometimes get's in the way of her children's lives... This is also a story of Courage, Hope, And family Values... I recommend this movie to anyone who has ever thought they could not make it on there own raising children.HAVE A GREAT DAY!  "},{"Title":"Better than I expected","Date":"21 February 2000","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  My wife is usually the only one in my family that will watch this type of movie.  We call it a mother's movie.  But she got me at a weak moment and I watched it and I liked it a lot.   I think that it was certainly Kathy Bates and Soon-Tek-Oh that kept it going.   At the beginning the narrator states that it is a true story.    I watched it with the thought that this was something that actually did happen.    At the end of the credits it says that the above story is ficticious etc. with that usual speel.   Now I don't know what to believe.  Was it real or just made up.   I wish I could find out the truth. "},{"Title":"Good plot and believable story line.","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  Kathy Bates and Edward Furlong were great.  The story flowed and at times was a tear jerker.  One couldn't help but root for the family and their drive to have a home called their own.  One mother's desire to hold her family together at all costs.  Not an Oscar winner, but a real down to earth humanistic story all can relate to.  A MUST SEE. "},{"Title":"gripping story of the ups and (mostly) downs of real life","Date":"18 April 2000","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The narrator of this story is supposedly the 13 year old, oldest son of the family the film is about, and he starts out by saying it's all true. Kathy Bates plays Mrs. Lacey, the mother to 5 children, the widow of an Irish Catholic SOB, as she repeatedly refers to him. They're poor, and on a lurch, pack up and leave their dumpy apartment in L.A. for who knows where.  They end up in Idaho, working for a Japanese man who's also a widow, making a home out of a shack on his land. You see (feel) the struggles of a parent, a mother, and not only that, but a single parent and mother of 5 children who has practically no money. You see the relationships between siblings and between the children and their mother.  You see the resourcefulness and hard work ethic of the mother, sometimes taken too far, to the detriment of her own children (shunning the priest's attempts at helping out with free clothes or food or Christmas presents). You see the struggles of the oldest boy, a 13 year old son, taking on responsibility as the man of the house, yet also being told to go get his father's belt for whippings from his mother. The mother finds work in a bowling alley, and you see her struggles with dating the bowling pro who works there. Every penny meant so much to them, that when their house is burning down, the oldest daughter risks her life to run inside and find the money jar, and cries on her mother when she has to tell her she couldn't find it. One of the sons discovers a junk yard on the way home on the schoolbus and ends up making many visits, scavenging various items for the house, pulling it all the way home on a make-shift wagon. As someone else already commented, the Christmas morning scene is poignant, as is the ending of the film. The ending was just another beginning, I would think, for this family. "},{"Title":"Kleenex time!","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  The first reviewer took the words right out of my mind.  This movie was so good, I had to watch it twice to see what I missed.  So many movies out there that deal with nonsense.  This one touches your heart.  I'll admit I didn't want to see the movie because of Kathy Bates but this movie changed my opinion about her.  I was disappointed that the movie had an open-ending but was satisfied that they family was going to be alright.  One thing though... The narrator's voice and Edward Furlong's does not resemble one another.  I have changed my own rating system..... Out of 10 stars, I give A Home of Our Own 6 1/2.  Get the box of Kleenex! "},{"Title":"As Close to Home as it Gets","Date":"9 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie was as close to home as it gets. We were not as poor as the Lacey's, but some of our Christmas's were skimpy. I particularly thought the casting was good and the plot line was very believable. When my grandparents first got indoor plumbing, the whole family gathered at their house to celebrate. No more long cold trips during winter! I imagine that most people who watched this movie was critiquing the character development and other mundane points, but anyone who has been lacking the common necessities was looking at this in a far different light. At first I thought more interaction with between Murray and the junkyard owner would have helped, then I realized that this was about Frances and her struggle to provide for her children. Some of the kids characters were never developed but it didn't matter. They were shown to be suffering during the bad times and enjoying the good times. I want to watch it again to see what I missed. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Films I've Seen in a Very Long Time","Date":"30 April 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" As usual, Kathy Bates is outstanding in her performance.There aren't many movies that get to me emotionally, but this one sure did. I found myself identifying with more than one character As a single mother, it wasn't hard at all to relate to Frances' struggles. As a former willful but loving teenager, I sympathized a lot with Shane, too.I felt myself sharing the family's joys, struggles and disappointments, and learned a few things along the way. Sometimes it's true that pride goeth before a fall.A very believable plot and great acting throughout, this is a must-see movie. "},{"Title":"Single mom faces obstacles to establish permanent home for her family","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  An excellent performance by the entire cast.  Kathy Bates as a single mother facing the many odds that seem to conspire to prevent her from making a home for her family.  Especially memorable was the Christmas morning scene.   "}{"Title":"A great family movie.  A must see for everyone!!!!!","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Wonderful!!!! This movie has lots of heart. One of the best movies I have ever seen. I don't understand the other person's comment. He must not know too much about love and determination. This movie shows about the love and caring of a single woman and her kids trying to find a home of their own. It shows how working together can bring a family close, even if they don't have a lot. And, how people come together in a crisis. Love, this movie. I highly recommend it. I live in Idaho, and it is beautiful!! I think this is one of Kathy Bates best movies. Her strength and determination for her family to overcome all the obstacles in this movie to make a home so that all of them can live is tremendous. Please rent this movie. It is a must see for the entire family. "},{"Title":"Apparently  true story?","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The New Yorker magazine--we can trust them, can't we?!--reviewed this movie as the true story written by Duncan, who is the screenwriter--you can read the review at the New Yorker site. Anyone who sees it will want to believe that it is true. Regardless, for any Kathy Bates fan,this is a must-see. The dry wit and honesty of the 60's dialogue is simultaneously nostalgic and refreshing. For anyone from a large family in the early 60s, scenes will bring back memories that will delight and disgust--like mixing vats of egg salad in the Miracle Whip jar. Kathy Bates shines as always, but every actor in this holds their own--even the children. Watch it--you'll love it. "},{"Title":"Leaving L.A.","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" A Home of our Own is a film that shows the struggle of a poor woman with six children who has had it with her life in Los Angeles. When she loses her menial job, she decides to pack it and move on. We saw this film when it first came out, but watched it again when it showed on cable the other night. The film was directed by Tony Bill.The best thing going for the movie is Kathy Bates. As the determined and strong Frances Lacey, she does amazing work. Ms. Bates, one of our best character actresses, is a joy in the film. One thing that comes clear is her love for her children and her determination to get ahead. By relocating in a remote area of Idaho, her gamble pays off. Not only is she able to succeed in getting her own home, thanks to the kind Japanese man who owns the land, but she gives the children a positive lesson on how to be somebody and to struggle for what they want. Edward Furlong, as Shayne, also makes a great contribution to the film.Watch it because the heart warming story. "},{"Title":"wonderful film I just saw!","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" I just saw this film by accident on television and could not stop watching, like reading a great book. It follows no formula and I could not stop watching to see what would happen next. I do want to say one thing about the first person who reviewed the film and generally said positive things about it except that the narration of the film by the boy did not match up with his voice in the film. How did you miss that the reason for this is, when he is narrating the movie it is a memory and he is now an adult man and not the young teenager we see in the film, which is his memory. So of course two different actors would portray the role, one on camera as teenager and another as an adult man looking back on his life who narrated the film. "},{"Title":"When you're really really poor, everything you see is something you can't have. ","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This is a heart wrenching tale about a single mom trying her best to provide for her family. Kathy Bates is outstanding in her portrayal of a hard scrabble mom, down on her luck, who tries to start over and provide a home for her kids. I can't say enough about her performance.This family goes through some really difficult times, so this isn't necessarily a feel good movie, although there are some inspiring moments. Just when you think things can't get any worse for this family, it does. My heart just broke.I think this movie does a great job if it causes us to take better notice of those around us who are in need - and do what we can to help them. It becomes difficult, if you run into a women like portrayed here, that is too proud to accept handouts. But this movie is also inspiring in that it is a great example of the determination of the human spirit and what someone can do in this country if they make up their mind to be somebody and provide a better life for their children. "},{"Title":"Sweet Tear Jerker, touches on all emotiones ...","Date":"21 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" First, I'm a sucker for true stories. This one is about a family with 5 children so that draws me in even more. The acting was superb, Kathy Bates hits the nail on the head with her performance as the mother. If you are a mother you will be drawn to her character. She may do things differently than you do, but you will admire her for what she does. Another memorable character is Mr. Moon. He too does a stellar job of portraying the neighbor. It is a 'real' movie as far as I'm concerned. You will want to have a tissue handy because some scenes really grab you. If you enjoy true movies like I do, this is one to watch. I watched it with a couple of my teenage kids and they did not LOVE it like I did but they said it was 'good.' "},{"Title":"Very real and heartfelt.","Date":"28 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" The thing that I liked about this movie was that Francis Lacey was such a strong woman. She had six children and had to look out for them all by herself. When she decided that she could no longer live in the city, she just takes off and drives away. Her and her six children end up in a house with no walls but with love and a team commitment, the walls are built. There is some really great parts with conflict between Francis and her son, Shayne. It's about a family in poverty who doesn't need money to be happy and maybe that's why it was so great. They all stuck together through such rough times, even when there were some sorry Christmas gifts. This movie really touched my heart and I think that it's a great Christmas movie. "},{"Title":"Kathy Bates is the best female actress in the world!!!","Date":"24 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This woman keeps churning awesome movie after awesome movie. It's just so unbelievable. In this movie she plays Frances Lacey. A mother of 6. After being fired from a job in a chips factory. She decides to take her family out of her broken down studio apartment, and move them to a better home. I'm not going to spoil anymore to you because this movie teaches you about patience better than any cliché you can find in a cookie at your local Chinese restaurant. Everybody in this movie was absolutely amazing. Edward Furlong(who you might know from Terminator 2) plays her eldest son and he plays a trouble teenager better than most around this era of film making. It's so sad knowing his peak is far behind him. Indeed a very underrated actor. So overall i give this movie a 10/10. I don't usually give a 10 out unless something is done spot on. And this was it. There wasn't a dull moment here, everything connected beautifully and was so real that i got lost in the characters story. "},{"Title":"A must see!","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie is really one of the best movies I've ever seen. It is highly underrated and needs a higher rating on here. Kathy Bates does really well as a single mother raising six kids. Her emotions and acts are extremely realistic even if they are not likable. I usually don not like family orientated movies, but this one was great. Everything about it is so well done, and if makes you feel and think about what really goes on the world, and what life is really about. A must see if you are fan of movies period. I don't know how anyone could dislike this movie. I rate it 8/10. Rated PG for some mild language and violence in a family drama "},{"Title":"Touching","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Movies about real live people, especially that have worked so hard to overcome and endure are heartwarming. I am grateful to see that there is good in the world and everyone is not self-absorbed. Sometimes people are faced with trials they have no control over. Keeping positive and looking to the future usually ends in better results than sulking and complaining. No one wishes for hard luck to fall on others. We need to remember that if we currently are prosperous, we should consider those in need. It may turn out that they can help us in the future. This is a great movie that reminds us of what it means to be human and charitable. "}{"Title":"Bates is a tower of strength, but film plays like a Waltons throwback...","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":" Kathy Bates is likably feisty portraying a widow with six kids who struggles to give her family a decent life in 1962 Idaho. Well-intentioned family film is hurt overall by a corny narration, episodic story structure and plot contrivances. The performances, however, are quite strong, particularly by Edward Furlong as the eldest of Bates' children. Tony Bill directed with compassion (he's a sentimentalist at heart) but many of his big scenes go from gritty to gooey in record time. Not very memorable, and not a great showcase for Kathy Bates' versatility as an actress, but still a decent film that will probably play better on television than it did in theaters. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Best Comedy of the Year","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  I remember when i first saw a glimps of this movie on cable, and i hunted it down until i saw it all, and let me tell you this movie is great, i couldnt stop laughing from begining to end, the christmas scene is classic, the look on those faces were pricless so priceless i was on the floor in stitches, i reccomend this movie to any who wants a good laugh. "},{"Title":"A Commode of Our Own!!- This Movie is a GREAT Comedy!","Date":"12 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama","Review":"  If you get the comedy of John Water's movies, Little House on the Prairie, Match Game, and like Helen Keller Jokes...Then you MUST add this movie to your collection!!! When I am feeling down I sometimes watch this movie and it is so uplifting because the characters and story in this film are oh so miserable. I agree, the Christmas morning scene had me rolling on the floor as well!! I like it especially when they finally get a toilet!! All the child actor's need to be cast in future John Waters' films. (Edward Furlong already starred in his movie, Pecker and I will bet anything that John discovered him NOT from T2, but from this film. I think John Waters and I have exactly the same mind...Twisted as all hell!)  "}]