[{"Title":"The greatest representation of life in Chile at that time!","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"33 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the story Esteban, a man who gain land and fortune through hard work. He only wishes for a loving family that have what he did not when he was a child. His conservative ways adds to that struggle and creates conflict with his family. This conflict grows when one of his low-class workers falls in love with his daughter. The military coup of 1973 to bring communism down in Chile is shown. This film represents what it is to live in Chile. I have never seen any film that tells the culture and the people of the southern South-America better. Most people makes the mistake to think that people in Chile and Argentina are not white. The whole cast represents EXACTLY what chileans look like and the difference between the higher and lower class. You can learn a lot from this film. This movie is 110% recommended. It may have some differences with the book but it is respectful to it. Excellent camera and direction work at a spectacular location.  "},{"Title":"Spectacular interpretations","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"23 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everybody always told me this movie was good, but I never remembered to rent it. So when I bought a DVD, this one was given to me and I could watch it. And I was overwhelmed. Every single actor or actress never did better than they did in this movie. Jeremy Irons was almost perfect (I just think that there should be a little more Spanian accent there); Glenn Close seems to fit any character she's into and make it look real, in this case, painfully real; and what can I say about Meryl Streep? How can she look as angelical as this? The sweetness and calmness she spreads are just incredible, I can't see anyone else in this character. However, I believe Wynona Rider and Antonio Banderas' love could be more developed, both are terrific actors and deserved to have more chances to show it so, but they surely didn't disappoint us when they are on screen. A very beautiful, melancholic movie, with performances you'll never forget. "},{"Title":"I never expected the tears . . .","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I never expected the tears. I never expected the emotion. I was swept away by the epic story and came crashing to earth when the troops took over. All this despite the fact that I do and did know who Isabelle Allende is and I was aware of the history of coups in S. America. I loved the people with the notable and chilly brilliant exception from Jeremy Irons (Can we ever really love his incredible characters?)Another underrated movie that seeks much and delivers well although at times with a bit too much telegraphing (the bathing scene with the young Blanca for example.)It was a three hankie movie in the end, A great three hankie movie.metro_alma@earthlink.net  "},{"Title":"Bad directing, good theme and characters","Date":"28 March 1999","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've never been a fan of Bille August, and this film has only furthered my opinion of his work.  I found the directing, as well as the editing, choppy and incoherent.   Mr. August tried too hard to be mystical and discreet in his telling of the tale--to the point of being annoyingly aloof and superficial.The take-home message is, however, refreshing in its complexity and layers. The events all seem to come full circle and continue through the generations of the family, as Clara verbalized in her diaries, the relationships between events.  Lende's message was that evil begets evil, and nothing good came from malice.  Such is sadly noted upon reflection that many misfortunes stemmed from poor judgment, and unacknowledged or unrectified wrongdoings in the past.I thought the characters Farula and Esteban were the best-written and the best-acted, by far.  Glenn Close exuded every bit of the torn and love-deprived spinster sister, her very gaze a window to her harsh and barren life.  Jeremy Irons' portrayal of the dark and contradictory Esteban was brazen yet vulnerable, between his political persona and love for his wife. "},{"Title":"Engaging Tale of Forgiveness","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is based on the novel of the same title by Isabel Allende.   It tells the story of the Trueba family over a span of 50 years.    Jeremy Irons plays the passionate yet harsh patriarch of the family. He   is a man of contradictions-in public and with his family, he is proper.   Behind closed doors, he has many secrets-affairs, brothels, and a   bastard son whom he utterly neglects. Time and fate make him confront   these demons and he ultimately learns the blessing of forgiveness.    Meryl Streep plays his psychically touched wife like an angel-she is so   ethereal she seems of the spirit world. Glenn Close plays her   love-starved sister-in-law;she conveys her desperation so adeptly.   Meryl Streep treats her as a real sister and showers sisterly affection   on this poor creature.    It is a spellbinding tale and one that has relevance to all families. "},{"Title":"Excellent cast, photography, music, but........","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I just do not get very inspired in this treatment of Isabel Allende's novel. The worst thing is that I cannot even identify exactly what it is that does not succeed in really drawing me into the story. Evidently the film is well made, beautiful filming, and the cast is really extraordinary, with some magnificent interpretations. The make-up department did excellent work on the aging process of the players.  This is the second time I have seen this film, but the story's continuity did not get me really sympathising with and feeling for the characters. There is something missing however, no way can either Meryl Streep or Jeremy Irons, among the other leading actors, be blamed for this. There is something abstract here which I cannot explain. It may be arguable that this film is better than `Missing' (1982) (qv), however `Missing' pulled me much more into the story.Certainly, in no way should you pass up this film if you get a chance to see it there are very good interpretations, at times even wondrous, combining with very intelligent photography and Hans Zimmer doing some of his best work.  "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie with Streep, Irons, Banderas, Close, Ryder.","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I only began to watch this movie because it was on Encore network, and I usually like movies with Streep and/or Irons. It kept me interested the whole 2 hours.The movie covers 3 generations and about 60 years. It is set in South America. The father (Irons) achieves his wealth, social, and political status through hard work. He is a difficult man, and when his young daughter (Winona Ryder) befriends a young peasant boy, she is sent to school away. The mother (Streep) seems to have some connection with the supernatural.Eventually a progressive party wins the election, and the old conservative party gets the military to oust the new government. Civil war almost breaks out, people are mistreated, and old relationships must be re-examined.A good study in character and family relationships, moves a bit slow at times, but represents leisure story-telling. A good movie, I give it 7 of 10. I believe it was loosely based on some historical events. "},{"Title":"epic romantic saga","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this film has spirit, hope and courage.  a love story spanning three generations, dealing with mystic experiences, cruel ambition and selfless devotion.  wonderfully moving performances by entire cast.  irons plays a powerful fool who's lost his humanity, but not his desire to love.  streep is wonderful as a woman who is a bridge between life and spirit.  close is moving as a woman who denied her own desires tending first her mother, then her brother.  rider blossoms with courage and passion for banderas who is fine as revolutionist.  do not attempt to watch this film--feel it, experience it, open your heart to it's romantic and passionate tale. allow it charm you and take you back to timeless story telling of hope and disappointment and cruel injustice and forgiveness.  it's clear that this piece is a collective gift of love from all involved to all whom are willing to be transported to romance, to spiritual connections, to love strong enough to reach beyond death.  "},{"Title":"It kept me glued to my seat","Date":"18 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before all, I'd like to point out that I have not read the book, so there was no chance I'd be disappointed in that aspect. The major flaw I spotted was historical detail, with several cars, trains, clothes, etc. I think don´t belong at that time.***Possible spoiler*****The technical aspect of the film is ok, nothing to brag about. But the acting, I think, was terrific. I don't have no experience in acting, still I can't believe how people can consider this terrible! Maybe they've only  seen two movies (ever), and the other one must have been very good indeed!I specially liked Jeremy Irons, and really understood his character, someone who crawled up the social ladder with very hard work, then fights against those who would take his life's work from him, only he gets so involved in this fight, he doesn't realize reason is no longer at his side, and he ends up a beaten, disappointed man. Irons made this so believable, I sympathized with the character despite his brutality.After Jeremy Irons, Winona Ryder is also wonderful as a romantic young women, who is drawn into the revolutionary ideals by her boyfriend (Banderas, he had an under-developed part, I think), and Glenn Close was also very good. Meryl Streep had an average performance, it was not bad, just not up to the standards of the other actors. Watch out for Miguel Guilherme, a fine Portuguese actor, between so many stars.In contrast to today's movies, here only the interpretations, only people matter, but at the same time, it is not a pretensious film, too worried trying to be intellectual. The best proof I really liked it, I'm writing a review 7 years later.  "},{"Title":"great book, pretty good movie","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The book was fabulous and remains one of my favorites.  The movie, for some reason reminded me of The Thorn Birds--I guess because I felt so much was left out, and it would have been better as a mini-series.The book evokes a much more magical, mythical, and Spirit-ual feeling that reflects the special flavor of life in South America, especially with Clara having green hair, and more powers in the book. A lot of that feeling is left out of the movie.However, the movie mostly makes up for this lack in the extremely vivid presentation of the characters' emotions.   "}{"Title":"a great injustice to Allende's novel","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" We all know a movie never does complete justice to the book, but this is exceptional. Important characters were cut out, Blanca and Alba were essentially mushed into the same character, most of the subplots and major elements of the main plot were eliminated. Clara's clairvoyance was extremely downplayed, making her seem like a much more shallow character than the one I got to know in the book. In the book we learn more about her powers and the important effects she had on so many people, which in turn was a key element in the life of the family. In the movie she was no more than some special lady. The relationship between Esteban and Pedro Tercero (Tercero-third-, by the way, is the son and thus comes after Segundo-second-) and its connections to that between Esteban and his grandson from Pancha García (not son, who he also did recognize) is chopped in half and its importance downplayed.One of the most fundamental things about the book that the film is all but stripped of this is called The House of the Spirits. Where is the house? The story of 3-4 generations of a family is supposed to revolve around the big house on the corner, a line stated so many times in the novel. The house in fundamental to the story, but the movie unjustly relegates it to a mere backdrop.If I hadn't read the book before, I would have never guessed that such a sappy, shallow movie could be based on such a rich and entertaining novel. "},{"Title":"Pointless film.","Date":"9 April 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The House Of The Spirits would be be for the 18 crowd. I found this movie to be a tedious and rather pointless movie. To me, I saw little purpose in this movie. There are many actors and actresses which I love to see are in this movie. Stars such as Meryl Streep, Glenn Close, Winona Ryder, Vanessa Redgrave and Antonio Banderas are in this flick. The House Of Spirits is a long movie. I believe that 20 minutes could have been edited out. Yes, The House of the Spirits movie does give one insight as to how people in Chile live. I was disappointed to have so many of my favorite stars in a pointless film. This is definitely a movie to have on TV and play cards to or have another activity going on. If you don't have anything else to do but relax, watch it. I give The House Of the Spirits three thumbs up. "},{"Title":"The most disappointing film adaptation since Bonfire of the Vanities","Date":"19 April 2005","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Isabel Allende's magical, lyrical novel about three generations of an aristocratic South American family was vandalized. The lumbering oaf of a movie that resulted--largely due to a magnificent cast of Anglo actors completely unable to carry off the evasive Latin mellifluousness of Allende's characters, and a plodding Scandinavian directorial hand--was so uncomfortable in its own skin that I returned to the theater a second time to make certain I had not missed something vital that might change my opinion. To my disappointment, I had not missed a thing. None among Meryl Streep, Jeremy Irons, Glenn Close and Vanessa Redgrave could wiggle free of the trap set for them by director Bille August. All of them looked perfectly stiff and resigned, as if, by putting forth as little effort as possible, they expected to fade unnoticed into lovely period sets. (Yes, the film was art directed within an inch of its life.) Curious that the production designer was permitted the gaffe of placing KFC products prominently in a scene that occurs circa 1970--years before KFC came into being. Back then, it was known by its original name Kentucky Fried Chicken. Even pardoning that, what on earth is Kentucky Fried Chicken doing in a military dictatorship in South America in 1970? American fast food chains did not hit South America until the early 1980s. The House of the Spirits should have been the motion picture event of 1993. Because it was so club-footed and slavishly faithful to its vague idea of what the novel represented, Miramax had to market it as an art film. As a result, it was neither event nor art. And for that, Isabel Allende should have pressed charges for rape. "},{"Title":"Missed opportunity","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The book on which this movie was based is a wonderful, engaging story of the Trueba family, with a typical South American ambiance, in a way similar to the stories of another great author, Gabriel Garcia Marquez. The House of the spirits has all the ingredients for a entertaining, gripping and compelling motion picture. The movie however didn't quite live up to my expectations.What really bothered me was that the chronology of the movie didn't match the book. Clara for example lives through the revolution, while in the book she passes long before the civil war. The most annoying 'error' is that in the movie the storyline of Alba has been replaced by Blanca. I can't understand why it wouldn't have been possible to be true to the book in this feature. Maybe the director thought it necessary for Winona Ryder to play a larger role.Furthermore, there were little wonderful elements of the book which might have been added to the movie, without much trouble. A single shot of Barabas, Clara's dog, when she marries Esteban. The time when Esteban breaks almost every bone in his body, because of an earthquake. This would have added even more depth to the character, one of Jeremy Iron's finest acting jobs. I also thought it was a shame that the twins Clara also gave birth to, Jaime and Nicolas, were not included in the script. But because there story lines would have added substantially to the length of the picture and therefore would have made it too long for a regular movie, I understand why they are left out. That might also be the reason why Alba plays just a minor role, because her life is quite intertwined with that of her uncles.To conclude, movies based on a novel rarely give a satisfying image and for people who haven't read the book it will probably be quite entertaining. If you have read the book, however, it is hard to accept the choices made in the script and you end up feeling disappointed with the result. "},{"Title":"The House of the Spirits - a mediocre film","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie included very good performances by a variety of actors, and demonstrated accurately the political aspects of the novel. I particularly liked the scene where Esteban kicks Ferula out of his house; I thought it was accurately and poignantly portrayed. What I found to be most disappointing, however, was the fact that, at the beginning of the film, it states quite clearly the year. While this could well be accurate, as it is easy from the later events to pinpoint the year of their occurrence, I think that Allende very deliberately never included years and rarely included ages of characters, and if she did the latter, it was only when the characters were children. "},{"Title":"A compelling & intriguing drama","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The House of the Spirits is a gripping tale of family intrigue, South American politics and super-natural powers. Meryl Streep, Glenn Close and Jeremy Irons bring Isabel Allende's novel to life with all its passion and suspense. This, in my view, is one of the best films of the 1990s. Jeremy Irons as Esteban Trueba ages and mellows very believably, while Meryl Streep in the role of Clara maintains her gentle, loving warmth throughout her relatively short life. Winona Ryder and Antonio Banderas make a handsome couple struggling for family acceptance in a racist culture. Glenn Close, as Esteban's sister, gives a very moving performance. The countryside of Portugal is a reasonable substitute for a non-tropical Latin American country. Settings of Clara's home and Esteban's ranch are effective and the period US cars add nicely to the post-war atmosphere. "},{"Title":"Best story-telling film ever made. Well done.","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have never watched a film that can do the story-telling completely. This is the one. Every scene, every character are moving the plot forward. Each act, each line are moving the characterization deeper. Each prop, each FX scenes deal with a deeper arena of the souls of the characters. I mean this is a good film, and I watched it many times, and I am just amazed how the director tells his basic story. "},{"Title":"It feels like it didn't all fit on the screen","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I liked the movie, first of all because it told an interesting story, but the story as told in the movie felt like it was condensed from a much-longer story. Since the book is over 400 pages, that makes sense. It spans a time period from the 1920s to the 1970s, in a fictional South American country, also a lot to fit into the time available. I think it would have been much better as a six-hour mini-series than it turned out as a 140-minute movie.Even though it's rushed, the story doesn't skip so much that it gets confusing. What is told is told fairly well. One fault is that Clara's supernatural powers appear inconsistently; either they should have appeared more evenly through the course of the movie, or they should have been left out. Two more faults (which could be spoilers) Esteban's eventual return to goodness happens somewhat too suddenly, and Ferula's curse seems to wear off, even though the tone of the story suggests that it should endure forever.The acting is excellent. Glenn Close, as the tormented spinster Ferula, is outstanding. Jeremy Irons, as the brutal self-made rich man, is also excellent. Meryl Streep, as the main character Clara, is great, although she's often even better than she was in this movie. There were many well-performed smaller roles too. The biggest fault is that the movie seemed to lack a dialect coach; each actor seemed to speak in a different sort of accent. "},{"Title":"The movie brings us the story","Date":"17 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Brilliant adaptation of the novel that made famous the relatives of Chilean President Salvador Allende killed. In the environment of a large estate that arises from the ruins, becoming a force to abuse and exploitation of outrage, a luxury estate for the benefit of the upstart Esteban Trueba and his undeserved family, the brilliant Danish director Bille August recreates, in micro, which at the time would be the process leading to the greatest infamy of his story to the hardened Chilean nation, and whose main character would Augusto Pinochet (Stephen similarities with it are inevitable recall, as an example, that image of the senator with dark glasses that makes him the wink to the general to begin making the palace).Bille August attends an exceptional cast in the Jeremy protruding Irons, whose character changes from arrogance and extreme cruelty, the hard lesson that life always brings us to almost force us to change. In Esteban fully applies the law of resonance, with great wisdom, Solomon describes in these wordsThe things that freckles are the same punishment that will serve you. Unforgettable Glenn Close playing splint, the tainted sister of Stephen, whose sin, driven by loneliness, spiritual and platonic love was the wife of his cruel snowy brother. Meryl Streep also brilliant, a woman whose name came to him like a glove Clara. With telekinetic powers, cognitive and mediumistic, this hardened woman, loyal to his blunt, conservative husband, is an indicator of character and self-control that we wish for ourselves and for all human beings. Every character is a portrait of virtuosity (as Blanca worthy rebel leader Pedro Segundo unhappy ...) or a portrait of humiliation, like Stephen Jr., the bastard child of Senator, who serves as an instrument for the return of the boomerang. The film moves the bowels, we recreated some facts that should not ever be repeated, but that absurdly still happen (Colombia is a sad example) and another reminder that, against all, life is wonderful because there are always people like Isabel Allende and immortalize just Bille August. "},{"Title":"Unfaithful to the marvelous novel","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not only poorly scripted and directed but is simply distasteful. A beautiful novel is terribly misrepresented in this film. Many changes have been made to the storyline, presumably to streamline the timeframe. But what results is simply confusing. The acting can't possibly overcome the script which removes the characters' motives for their behavior. Plus, the conversion to English does not work when everyone refers to the patriarch EsTEban as ESteban. Horrible. Please please please read the gorgeous novel, in Spanish if possible. DON'T SEE THIS FILM. It will ruin for you what could be a wonderful experience. "}{"Title":"very disappointing","Date":"1 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm glad I rented this movie for one reason its shortcomings made me want to read Allende's book and get the full story. Pros the movie is beautiful, the period is depicted well and consistently (to the best of my knowledge), and Meryl and Glenn do good jobs.Cons This is the worst acting job I've ever seen from Jeremy Irons--I kept wondering if something was wrong with his mouth. (And I hate the terribly English way he says Transito.) Winona Ryder does nothing believable except look young and idealistic. Most of the other performances are OK, but so few things hang together in the character arcs and the relationship development that I was frustrated and angry well before the end. I'm very curious now whether this movie is typical of Bille August's work. I may have to drop another couple of bucks to rent Smilla's Sense of Snow. "},{"Title":"Too short, perhaps?","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I thought the plot of the film was rushed.  It attempted to fit into less than 2 hours what the novel does in several hundred pages.  As a result, the viewer is left with a complete yet shallow story.  This is one of those rare cases where the movie should have been much longer. A longer film would have allowed more of the details to be filled in.  To put it simply, the film is a kind of Cliff Notes version of the novel. Nevertheless, it does tell an interesting story and the acting is very good (Glen Close in particular). "},{"Title":"Too many commonplaces","Date":"18 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The house of the spirits is quite awful. I live in South America, in a country that suffered a military dictatorship just like the one the movie tries to describe, and even though everyone knows movies may be far far away from reality, this particular movie treats viewers as both ignorant and stupid. Things are not so simple and linear as appears here, and of course political process are much more complicated and interesting that the plot in The house.... If you can't show that complexity on screen is better not making a movie at all. There are a lot of examples of how can politics be seriously taken in cinema, without so many commonplaces. In some parts I felt that Carmen Miranda may appear within parrots and palm trees. When you talk about certain things you must be not only careful but respectful to your public's intelligence. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece summarizing the recent history of third world countries","Date":"6 January 1999","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Although the story is fictional, it draws from the reality of not only the history of latin american countries but all the third world. This is the true, pure and raw recent history of these countries summarized concisely in this novel / film.  The offbeat supranatural stuff, lightens up the intensity of historical events presented in this movie.  After all the supranatural stuff is a part of the culture in the third world. Although is not critically acclaimed (probably because of the supranatural stuff), This is an excellent movie, with a great story and great acting.  "},{"Title":"a waste of time","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was a silly movie - the mother had to be at least 10 years younger than the father, and yet they had her age so much quicker and die first ??The main character was a horrible man - and yet the mother says to the daughter, about the father, 'it isn't malice'... What !? He is nothing but malicious. The character was never shown to do one good thing.There is no romanticism here... masochism maybe... He was a horrible man and I could see no reason why Clara would have loved him.There was no point to this movie, unless it is to encourage women to punish themselves by loving evil men.Watching this was a big waste of my time. "},{"Title":"Interesting adaptation of Isabel Allende's fascinating best seller","Date":"19 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film is an interesting adaptation of Isabel Allende's best seller by the same name. An interesting story, beautiful landscapes, well developed drama and characters delivered by a great cast. Jeremy Irons excels as Esteban Truebas, the tough and contradictory landowner, and Merryl Streep is a wonderful Clara, light, breezy, spiritual, as the character in the novel. Excellent performance of Glenn Close as well as the sacrificed spinster who cares for her mother while her brother is busy trying to achieve his ambitions. Barely good but certainly not outstanding is Antonio Banderas as Pedro, with excessive hard handsome macho revolutionary looks at times. Less fortunate acting by Wynona Ryder, who spoils the character with her overly adolescent posture. The film compacts three generations into two, understandably for the development of characters in a movie. A couple of failed aspects, however. First, the complex Chilean political situation at the time is simplified almost to a family affair, something the book does not pretend to do. The malice of the military establishment seems random, devoid of planning and intelligence, but whoever knows the Chilean history (and his ferocious but cunning leader) is aware it wasn't at all like that. And second, the most important miss in the movie lack of humor. Precisely the brilliant achievement of Isabel Allende's novel is telling a highly dramatic story with a delightful and ironic humor throughout. Yet the movie moves from one drama into another, with just a few moments of respite (therefore becoming heavy and at times hard to swallow), and has practically no humor other than a few scenes at the beginning. A pity, because with such a story and the excellent delivery by the cast it could have been a truly great film. "},{"Title":"The political dimension  has aged tremendously","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It was a great film when it came out. The acting is still absolutely astonishing and admirable and yet there is something that is missing twenty-two years later. The film is so centered on the main character, Esteban Trueba, and his family, or rather his personal history in Chile, his economic fight to raise himself by his own effort over his lot, to become one of the most economically powerful, and later one of the most politically powerful men that we do not really capture the country itself. What is shown of the working class movement is just really anecdotal. Too close to the tragedy in 1993 the film does not show Allende's party, which was not the Communist Party of Chile, using Lenin and Stalin as direct political references. Their approach was tremendously sectarian and that explains this, and vice versa. They only won the election with slightly more than one third of the votes which was not enough and the enthusiasm of the beginning wore out rather fast. The film is silent about the real conspiracy with the support of the USA and with the deranged support of the Conservatives who did not even understood what they were doing, at least that's what the film shows though I am sure it was not that simple these politicians supported the putsch and for a long time then Pinochet himself. The film is silent on the length of his reign, on the difficulty the country faced later on when he was to be removed, etc. It is nearly a miracle that some democratic order could be re-established in this country. It is true 1993 was too close the distance was not enough to be able to really get into some detail about the contradictory situation the victory of El Pueblo Unido brought into Chile with Allende first and then Pinochet.The film is silent too on the fact the US embassy was not the refuge for escaping revolutionaries because the USA were on Pinochet's side all along. Canada was the only viable option indeed. So twenty-two years after the film and forty-two years after the putsch the film is rather nothing but a denunciation of harsh working conditions for the working class, of military arrogance and violence when service men meddle with politics, the full inhumanity of the politicians who accepted the adventure of a military coup, and the purely family-oriented empathy of Esteban Trueba at the end of the film. The fact that Blanca was questioned during her detention by her half brother was sentimentalese and such a connection between the torturer and the tortured person was a fair guarantee that the questioning would fail because on the torturer's side there was a desire for revenge, hence the use of pure violence for the sake of violence, and on the side of the tortured person, Blanca, there was a strong feeling of resistance, hatred, desire to fail that intruder, that out of wedlock competitor, challenger, dominator. There should never be any relation of that sort between the two sides of a questioning session of that type, i.e. under duress.So the only thing we have at the end is that decision of Blanca's to wash away any desire of revenge or vengeance, but we know that in 1993 that could not be true and even today it sounds very difficult. We have very few examples of that nature and South Africa does not really qualify because in that case the dictatorial power (the apartheid government) just passed that power to their opposition whose leader they liberated from prison on the occasion. For that feeling to be believable you need distance and a tremendous political change that can bring reconciliation. But the real objective was and still is justice in such cases.The film then has strong scenes and moments but altogether it has become too sentimental and politically superficial to be believable.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"impressive","Date":"3 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" it is the right word for describe the epic story, the beautiful acting, the inspired adaptation . and for the high care for details who defines each scene. story of family and choices, crisis and principles, it is a large social portrait. the traces of drama are translated in powerful images. the music, the costumes, the atmosphere - parts of a great show about the fight against history. a film about sacrifices and about need of the other. cold, strange, sentimental, cruel in few scenes. but convincing at whole. one of rare works for the emotion of viewer because it has the gift to remember dramas who escapes from history book . short - real impressive. "},{"Title":"Can a vile human being truly atone?","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In a carbon copy of the type of role that Vincent Price and George Sanders would have played in the 1940's, Oscar Winner Jeremy Irons gives a rather harsh performance as a true villain whom you want to see be killed off rather than the other characters in this who do die early on. He rapes a young woman living on his property (simply grabbing her as he gallops by on his horse) with no apparent motive or remorse, mistreats his sister (Glenn Close) and beats his wife (Meryl Streep) when she points out truths about him that prove he's a hypocrite after accusing their daughter (Winona Ryder) of being sexually loose.Ghostly visits of the dead return to remind him of the curse they placed upon him in life, rebels take over his regime while allowing him to keep his riches (rendering him powerless to truly enjoy them), and he's almost on the verge of being totally alone when God comes along to give him one more chance to atone. If you've ever longed to see the wonderful Meryl Streep and Glenn Close work together, this is it, and their characters share a closeness that can't be matched within Streep and Irons' marriage. But for Irons, the two sisters-in-law are living too Glenn Close for Comfort as underlying lesbian overtones indicate an affection Irons won't allow.He's not really capable of love, and his physical needs seem to be minus passion and any amount of tenderness. At least in The Color Purple, a similar film where atonement came for a villain, you did see a lot more humanity in that character (played by Danny Glover) than you do with Irons here. I totally despised him even more than his sinister Klaus Von Bulow in Reversal of Fortune and longed to see him get his just reward long before the film was over.This covers four generations of two cursed families. It also covers a lot of history, and it seems to be a story probably better told as a mini-series rather than a 2 1/2 hour movie. Like the overlong Dances With Wolves, I was ready to give up on this long before it was over, sensing that every time a plot was resolved it was ending, but it switched gears to move onto another storyline. By the time the film reaches the political intrigue where Ryder is violated in prison, I had to remind myself that it only had another half hour to go and just hang in there.Wasted in pointless supporting roles (actually nothing more than cameos) are Vanessa Redgrave and Armin-Mulher Stahl, and Antonio Banderas's character is never truly fleshed out to make much of an impact. While impressively filmed, there was too much psychological ugliness to make the beauty strike my eye. Sometimes an all star epic like this where the structure and presence of too many A-list stars make the pie too filling. Even if it is both the follow-up for Irons and Streep, Irons and Close, and the chance to see the two greatest divas of the past 30 years together that will remain in my cinematic eye, this one is a depressing indication that when two powerhouse actors want to work together, they should make sure that all the ingredients are there to make the project completely work. "},{"Title":"Trueba Family Values","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For whatever The House Of The Spirits draws in criticism, it has one overriding virtue. Among the many things that Americans are deficient in knowledge about is South America. This film and the book by Isabel Allende give us an insight into Chile and their society. Not something that in news, literature, or cinema that we deal with all the time.Unlike many South American countries Chile had a long democratic tradition until the coup that toppled President Allende in 1973. As a society it was not a series of military dictatorships as other countries. It was also a prosperous country. But one where prosperity was reserved for a few.This film is the story of the rags to riches rise of Ernesto Trueba as played by Jeremy Irons. He does it like so many in America do, he marries it and in this case it's Meryl Streep, a woman who has psychic powers which she has contained since childhood lest she be regarded as a freak. Irons marries her and they have a daughter that grows up to be Winona Ryder.Irons is our central character and like many who rise from poverty even in this country they want to make sure that even the hint of it never touches their person or their families. He's one nasty Padrone and makes sure everyone knows he's not one of them any more. And like a medieval lord he takes his pleasures wherever while always maintaining a respectable married front. One of those 'pleasures' gives him a nasty surprise in the end.And of course he doesn't want daughter Ryder mixing with any of the peasant kids. When she has an affair with Antonio Banderas who has been radicalized it's not something that Irons can abide.The period of Chilean history takes us from the 30s right through the right wing coup against Allende and its aftermath with Pinochet military dictatorship. Irons becomes a Chilean Senator of their Conservative party. But while his party approves of the coup Irons survives to learn that old maxim about being careful what you wish for. He finds being a Senator carries very little wait among the members of the Pinochet junta.Meryl Streep turns in a fine performance as his wife and her talents for clairvoyance and levitation seem kind of superfluous to the main story. This film clearly belongs to Jeremy Irons.The House Of The Spirits is a well constructed film with some moving performances and is recommended highly for those who want some insights into Chilean history and culture. "}{"Title":"Excellent movie for the serious film-goer","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film was a bomb, losing millions of dollars. And I'm not surprised. It's a very serious film which would be likely to attract a very specific and small audience. Thank goodness films like this occasionally get made.I know it sounds as if I just contradicted myself, but just because it was a bomb, didn't mean that it's not a fine film. And the strength of this film are the performances. The strongest of the performances is by Glenn Close, who plays the lead male's sister who has lesbian inclinations. She's been treated unfairly her whole life and suffers for most of it. A strong, strong performance. Next is Meryl Streep. Just about as good as always as the psychic wife of the male lead.Then we come to Jeremy Irons. Hmmmmm. I have mixed feelings here. Irons' character here is so despicable that you know he will get his comeuppance before the movie ends. Is it wise to be that obvious? To play it that hard? I think not. So I'll reserve judgment here simply because, typically, Irons is a wonderful actor.In supporting roles, the most notable are those of Winona Ryder as the daughter and Antonio Banderas as her poor lover. Both do great jobs. I enjoyed seeing Vanessa Redgrave and Armin Mueller-Stahl as the parents of Streep, but they didn't get enough screen time.Now as to the script. It's good...perhaps a tad slow in a few places. But character development is rather thorough. The story is of a relatively poor young man who falls in love, but works to strike gold in order to marry a relatively rich girl. He does, but she dies. So, eventually he marries her sister (Streep), who doesn't talk...by her own choice. She does talk with him, however, and for a while they have a happy life. But he is a bitter shell of a man who has become a patrone who treats pretty much everyone harshly, always insisting he is boss. You know, as I mentioned earlier, that he will get his comeuppance, but it's cleverly done here in a way that combines personal tragedy with the history of so many South American countries.Although it's never made clear in the film, the country depicted is Chile. A special note should be made of the makeup used to age the main characters. It's done very well here...a much better job than in a lot of films.I recommend this film IF you like serious movies. Otherwise, it may bore you. I found it rather compelling. "},{"Title":"quite captivating","Date":"14 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" 2013 - and I have never even heard of this movie !!!! What a surprise ! The Book must have been fantastic because the movie is such a journey through the lives of this Chilean family. Jeromy Irons is extremely good, Wynona Ryder plays her part well, Meryl Streep as always is excellent and to think she was only 50 at the time, she plays an excellent Matriarc, Antonia Banderas's part is limited perhaps Melanie Griffiths didn't want him too close to Wynona ???????? I thought the had great on screen appeal as a couple. all in all it is a movie I will recommend to others - simply can't believe I had not heard of it before now. If this is a true interpretation of the era in Chile, I am so glad I live in Australia. "},{"Title":"Full of great performances","Date":"26 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I have always been a fan of Jeremy Irons and I am yet to find anybody who is not one of Meryl Streep.. They particularly excel if the roles are of serious tone and have a touch of melancholy.. the characters they play in this movie, are exactly that.. The stand out performance in the movie is that of Glenn Close , who has made the character come alive.. Winona Ryder looking stunning and could have been given more screen-time along with Antonio Banderas, both being versatile actors..The story moves though three generation in just above two hours and you feel it.. "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"15 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had the pleasure of catching this movie on Netflix after almost 13+ years. I was only 14 the last time my cousin, sister and I had sat together one warm summer afternoon and watched this on HBO. After that I didn't remember the name of the movie, just knew enough to know that Meryl Streep was in it. The movie made a mark on my childhood, I was deeply engrossed by the mystical capabilities on Streep. Her poignance and courage in the movie paved the way for much of the artsy feeling I enjoyed. Years later I still love the movie, frankly because it brought back memories of my childhood and I got a chance to relive it all. "},{"Title":"compelling","Date":"20 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" the house of the Spirits based on Isabelle Allende's novel is done with style and conviction. OK, most of the actors don't bother with accents, this is usually a pet peeve of mine, but if you're willing to overlook that, a big if I know, you'll be rewarded with a intriguing, compelling film.the story of the Trueba family spans generations. At the forefront is Esteban, played by Jeremy Irons, though poor he aspires to marry the daughter of a aristocratic South American family. But she dies, nonplussed he makes his fortune, venting his sexual frustration of a poor peasant girl, and marries the mystical Flora, played by Meryl Streep. Their daughter Blanca is raised in luxury be loves the poor farm worker Pedro, played by a young Antonio Banderas. his bastard son, played by Vincent Gallo, tries to cause trouble and Esteban does all the wrong things. Political and family upheavals ensue and Flora leaves him taking Blanca away. But in his old age and with his family in jeopardy Esteban finally realizes nothing is stronger than love.The aging of the characters in the film is very well done, seldom have I seen so convincing a performance as Jeremy Irons here. Streep is well cast, after all Flora is something of a witch. Winona Ryder plays Blanca well, esp with the suffering she endures at Esteban Junior's hands. Glenn Close is Esteban's virginal and repressed sister Ferula and she is very, very good in her scenes.The film doesn't pull many punches, there is violence and nudity, but only when called for and the film is never gratuitous. The music by Hans Zimmer is ethereal and haunting. The mystical aspect and esp the message that sins have a price is well-handled. Ultimately its a very uplifting film.I'm surprised at how brutal the critics were to this film, just another example of how wrong they can be. I always heard this was awful and yet found myself engrossed and never, ever bored despite is two hours plus running time. There are heavy themes here, but they are handled with subtlety and grace. I thought all the actors did a good job. The house of the spirits may not be great, but its very good and worth watching. Note, some viewers expressed problems with one scene that has Blanca, as a girl, and Pedro playing by the water. Huh, what was wrong with two children playing? Watch this with your heart and you'll like it. "},{"Title":"The book is much better than the film.","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie shares little with the book of the same title. The overall story is similar, however; many of the key characters are missing. As a result, many of the major occurrences of the story don't even happen to the right characters, naturally you end up with a confusing story especially if you've already read the book. Overall, this is a good stand-alone movie, but if you want a great story about romance, power, and betrayal, read the book! "},{"Title":"Beautiful movie--almost as good as the book!","Date":"25 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  House of the Spirits chronicles generations of a Spanish family destroyed by tragic events.  I read the book for an AP English class and then watched the movie and found many disturbing changes.  The book, of course, is the better of the two due to the fact that Allende's characters are beautifully wrought.  Read the book--don't watch the movie.   "},{"Title":"Rare Movie","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I first watched this movie at a theater in Cairo, Egypt around October or November 1996. Although released in 1993, it is still relevant to this day, which is only possible because it indeed is a rare masterpiece. For those who have not gone through the perils of evil politics and foreign intervention in their countries, it might be difficult for them to grasp the many meanings this movie delivers. They simply cannot relate unless they try to put themselves in the place of the movie's characters and what they were going through.There aren't enough words that can describe the pain a person can feel when his and his countrymen's freedom and personal liberties are taken away as a result of the unjust foreign policy of a another country and in the case of this movie, with the collaboration of some of his own arrogant countrymen.The story, The House of the Spirits, written by Isabelle Allende, who is a relative of the democratically elected President of Chile Salvador Allende who was deposed of - with foreign intervention - by the country's powerful General Augusto Pinochet, covers the turmoil Chile went through during that period of time - before the coup and after (without actually mentioning the real names of the players - instead she uses fictitious names). With the exception of only a few fairy-tale like scenes involving talented veteran actress Meryl Streep's telepathic supernatural character (and a few unnecessary love scenes), the movie was extremely well executed. Rarely does a movie combine such a solid team of actors and actresses as did this movie, Jeremey Irons, Winona Ryder, Antonio Banderas, Meryl Streep, Maria Alonso, Sarita Choudhury, Glenn Close, Joaquín Martínez, Grace Gummer, Armin Mueller-Stahl, Vincent Gallo, Miriam Colon and Hannah Taylor Gordon combined together did a great job telling this rarely told story genre. It's a must see for everyone wishing to enjoy excellent acting, a real story, and for those interested in politics, democracy and the transformation to complete military authoritarianism (far from boring as these topics might appear to some, the movie is very exciting), definitely a must see. It will hopefully demonstrate to you the horrendous effects of a foreign policy that doesn't place justice and fairness at the forefront of its priorities. I hope you enjoy it. ) "},{"Title":"I love you with all your demons","Date":"25 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is a very strange movie that is hard to be categorized .. A tale about almost everything 1- True love, and how it can turn over the whole game, how it can change souls, save lives and redeem some people.2- Poverty, oppression and politics .. how most of the time events get so related without us noticing or taking the time to look closer.3- Fate, with all the themes you can imagine, taking place in one movie .. I bet even if you're young, you will feel old by the end of this powerful movie ..4- What really matters in life, the kind of imprint you will want to leave someday, sometimes it's not about being tough or seemingly strong, but rather about knowing love and being gentle ..5- I've never been afraid of death itself, as I have from an unlived life. However, the line said by Clara, You must not wish for death, that's not important, death will come no matter is one of the most powerful I've ever heard in my life, and a scene anyone should watch if they ever get hurt enough to want their life to end ..6- And most importantly, it has taught me a lot about unconditional love .. You'll see an oppressor -who has raped a girl and denied a child, almost killed the only man his daughter has ever loved and got rid of his lonely sad sister- loved by a woman that's as beautiful as an angel .. Because that's unconditional love most of us have no knowledge of, because we have a compromised understanding of common sense, because you love someone as they are with all the demons inside and because, if you look too carefully, you'll know that none of us are angels or demons. We're grey. And we can find ourselves in places we've never dreamt we would put ourselves in, or wake up to find ourselves diverted a lot from the path we've originally chosen.This is a very powerful movie that's highly entertaining and deep, and its depth is measured by how much you can get out of it. Regards to all the makers of this beautiful movie which should be one of the top movies ever, especially the amazingly graceful Meryl Streep. Thank you. "},{"Title":"An In-Depth Look At the Book, and Why This Adaptation Fails","Date":"24 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The first time I saw THE HOUSE OF THE SPIRITS, I had a similar reaction to what most critics seemed to have. I felt the movie was bad, but couldn't say why exactly. It's hard to find fault in a movie with such an esteemed cast, such great sets and cinematography, etc. I knew it was based on a famous novel, so I figured the problem must have been in the adaptation.Upon reading the novel and then going back to the film, I realized something interesting the film starts out as a faithful adaptation before losing its way, but the biggest issue is the tone.The novel's style of magical realism is, right from the start, difficult to adapt to film. There's green hair, there's magic remedies, and there's a very darkly humorous tone. The film on the other hand is very bleak and brooding, with only some slight supernatural element, which is kind of shrugged off. Roger Ebert, who always has a perfect way of articulating the best criticism, worded it best Magic realism, which informs so many South American stories, is treated here as a slightly embarrassing social gaffe, like passing wind. Clara's gifts are not made integral to the story; the filmmakers see them more as ornamentation. For example, in the book, Severo and Nivea die in a car accident and Clara keeps her mother's decapitated head in the basement. Years later, when Clara dies, Esteban tells his servants Well, we might as well bury my mother-in-law's head now. Moments like that are missing, and instead we just have a scene of Severo and Nivea in a random car accident in the film, and are then never mentioned again. Why even bother having the car accident at all? And why waste Vanessa Redgrave in such a small role? Now this leads into another issue the most infamous criticism of this film is that it stars a bunch of gringos (Jeremy Irons, Meryl Streep, Glenn Close, and Winona Ryder) as Chilean characters. At first glance, you might think this is a shallow thing to criticize actors play characters of different ethnic backgrounds all the time, nor is there any one way that a Chilean person should look. But I think this criticism is actually a misdiagnosis of a bigger problem. The problem isn't that these actors are all Anglo; it's the fact that they play their characters in a very Anglicized way for an Anglo audience. They mispronounce names like Tres Marias (Trays Muh-ree-ahs) and Esteban (Estuh-baan) and say them all as if these names are foreign to them. Irons, who is British, sounds American while Close, who is American, sounds British. Winona Ryder's character is presented as an all-American girl. There's even a scene towards the end, while Blanca is being tortured and Alba waits for her at home, where Alba is eating out a Kentucky Fried Chicken box in the 1970's! (KFC didn't start opening stores in Chile until 1992. Yes, I actually looked it up out of curiosity). Now you might say Who cares if they show a KFC box? That's nitpicking. It might not seem important, but on a subtextual level, it's significant. The filmmakers are trying to dilute the Hispanism of the story and create the mindset that this could easily be happening in the US. All of this adds a feeling of displacement to the movie. Because it loses its Chilean and Latino identity, the politics lose their context. What is the coup at the end all about? Why does it happen? What happened to the workers at Tres Marias? Why was Pedro III an enemy of the military's?When you take this story, remove its Hispanic context and magic realism, what you're left with is just a domestic drama, which is less interesting than its book counterpart when it is simplified. The adaptation's biggest change is the removal of an entire generation and combining Blanca and Alba into one character. This completely changes the third act and it now makes no sense for Esteban to help Pedro III escape. In the book, Esteban joins forces with Miguel as they both care about saving Alba. In the film's version, joining forces with Pedro III will in no way have any affect on saving Blanca. The impact of Esteban's relationship with Alba is also lost as she is reduced to only a small child in the film and not given much character. In the book, Esteban has affairs with multiple women at Tres Marias and fathers many children, which everyone is aware of. In the film, he just randomly commits violent rape one day in a very abrupt scene, and then completely forgets about it until a son shows up one day. Because of the removal of an entire generation, Esteban III in the book is Esteban II in the film, and his character is given the Hollywood archetypes of a perverse and disturbed villain rather than as the symbol of lineage of violence he was in the book. In addition to this you have the removal of Blanca's brothers from the book and a climax that doesn't play very dramatically, and the resulting story is very fractured and loses the epic 3-generation sweep of the novel.I am left wondering if any film could have been made of this book, which has so many characters and spans many different episodes. Regardless, this film, and its serious tone, do not suit the book at all, and just leaves audiences wondering what the story they just saw was all about. "}{"Title":"Read it, for it tell quite enough.","Date":"19 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  At first I didn't didn't like it that much, although I did. They didn't include the third Trueba generation, the love between Blanca and Pedro wans't well explained and some actors were too different from what I had imagined.Later I realized that, had the movie been more loyal to the book, it would have been like five hours long, and would be kind of tedious. Now I like it very much, because my favourite characters are there as I portraited them. Clara really looks like an Angel in live, and her introduction to the story at the beggining of the film was fantastic, loyal and short. Glenn Close is Ferula. I pictured her just like that, only not in mourning throughout the whole thing. Esteban is find enough. I never really liked his character, and, although I was interested in him, I hated him a lot, more specially when he hit Clara. As in the book, the very last part is the most exciting one, and it has real history too there.The movie is really good, specially considering that it was a gringo film based upon a latin american book. Its amazing how many famous stars are there, don't you think so? "},{"Title":"Disappointing Epic","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I found out there was a movie that had both my favorite actresses Meryl Streep and Wynona Ryder, I went through the roof!But I had a hard fall after watching this lame movie and I still have the bruise.First of all the character that Jeremy Irons (an actor I still admire even after this disappointment)plays was just awful. He treated his family like crap, especially his sister, played by Glenn Close. I could not get close or sympathize with any of the characters and I'm no prude, but the sex scenes were really unnecessary or they could have been toned down. Wynona and Antonio's characters could have been developed a lot more and their romance could have been much more passionate. And what was with Meryl's character and her mystical powers? Why didn't they go into this more? This film had a lot of dead ends and the bottom line is that this is a really lousy movie and there was a lot of wasted talent here. "},{"Title":"A Great Movie!","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I found this movie enchanting. Movies that are based on novels can't ever capture all that the actual book has to give, but for a movie, it was very good. JEREMY IRONS performance as the rich, dominant, jealous head of the household who goes into congress in hopes of stopping his unwanted son-in-law (ANTONIO BANDERAS) and his people from governing themselves. The movie also was very romantic. The chemistry between BANDERAS AND WINONA RYDER was incredible. The forbidden love of a rich upper class daughter of a congressman and the poor son of one of the workers. This movie is a tremendous catch for those who are interested in romance movies full of suspense.  "},{"Title":"They missed the point","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Can such an ambient production have failed its primary goal, which was to correctly adapt Allende's novel? Obviously yes. Bille August managed to make a superficial, shallow film where basic elements of South American mentality are presented simply as side events, resulting in total incoherency. I can't believe there was a whole production team that could not understand the book! There is of course technical quality in this film and I think the actors did their best with what they had in their hands, but something is missing. And this something was the most important part. "},{"Title":"One of Glenn's best","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yes, the book is better.  MUCH better.  But Glenn Close's work as Ferula is amazing.  She's a brilliant actress, and this is some of her best work. Unfortunately, the scope of the novel would never easily fit into a two or three-hour film.  I wish that Masterpiece Theatre had received the chance to do one of their six-hour treatments; it might have been more successful. "},{"Title":"Great novel, but the movie sucks","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I read the novel some years ago and I liked it a lot. when I saw the movie I couldn't believe it... They changed everything I liked about the novel, even the plot. I wonder what did Isabel Allende (author) say about the movie, but I think it sucks!!! "},{"Title":"One of the most powerful movies I've seen...","Date":"11 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is an incredible piece of work. It explores every nook and cranny of the human mind, focusing on the characters relationships with the people around them. Stellar performances all around. This one had me weeping for about half an hour straight. Spend some real time with this one. "},{"Title":"Classic !!!","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Meryl Streep and Jeremy Irons have played it to the galleries. But the surprise indeed was Winona Ryder. She proved that she can act. She looked thin and beautiful.Spanning 3 generations, the story carries a lot of inner meaning on life, karma and death. The camera work has been excellent and not only showcases the backdrop of early 19th century, but also the depth of each character.This is the story of a possessive man who craves for love and demands it from his wife. It is also a story of a man who looks down on the workers on his farm and demands respect. It is a story of a father who tries to sabotage the love of his daughter. And as he grows richer and richer, he becomes lonelier. Beautifully portrayed by Jeremy Irons, he has played the role of Esteban to perfection. Meryl Streep is indeed one of the finest actress to grace this generation. Her role as a clairvoyant is superb. The dialogs that she renders carries such a lot of inner meaning.This movie deserves a 7.5 "},{"Title":"this movie is amazing!","Date":"22 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this movie, and it is incredible.  I read the book first in school, and I loved it.  Later, I saw the movie, and it is incredible.I highly recommend it, and everyone should see it if they haven't already.It took me a while to realize that Winona Ryder played Blanca.The photography is incredible, the plot is amazing, and the story is really interesting.  Isabel Allende paints a marvelous picture of life in Latin America before the Second World War.I also really liked the costumes. "},{"Title":"Not as bad, but not good either","Date":"29 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not as bad as you may think, but neither as good asit should have been. I love the book but a lot was lost during itstranslation to the big screen. I'm sure the director's intentions weregood but something seems perennially phony and misplaced inthis film. And I'm not referring to the actors' physique. By the way,what is all this ridiculous criticism to Jeremy Irons, Meryl Streep,Glenn Close and Winona Ryder about not looking Chileanenough? Maybe they are not close to the preconceived idea ofmany people of how Latin-American people should look like, andwhile a vast part of the population in this part of the world is moreAmerindian looking, there are also lots of people with thisCaucasian appearance, I can assure you. Specially Mr. Ironscould pass for an Argentinian or Chilean gentleman anytime. In any case, I think the director messed up the final execution ofthe story; something just doesn't seem right. "}{"Title":"WELL MEANING, PONDEROUS AND ULTIMATELY DULL","Date":"7 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There's enough star power in THE HOUSE OF SPIRITS to create another galaxy, yet the final product is pretty debatable. The film and its messages are very noble, and I think perhaps most would agree with them. (Liberal Democracy good, violent fascist regime bad; open-mindedness good, racism bad, etc). Unfortunately, we're battered from head to toe with these, and as much subtlety is used as I've described them. Ultimately, we are left watching very noble people without any flaws squaring off with nasty cretins who have no redeeming qualities. It radiates with all the suspense of a badly orchestrated pro wrestling match.Jeremy Irons plays the patron, a man of many contradictions. Meryl Streep as his gifted bride and Glenn Close, as her sister in law. When the camera stays with these folks, the movie tends to move, and is quite enjoyable. Unfortunately, THE HOUSE OF SPIRITS engages with simply way too many subplots, and characters pop up and out of the picture like shooting gallery targets. We don't get to know them, hence we don't get to care for them. The result is boredom. If Bille August, the director and screenwriter (from Isabel Allende's book) had either lengthened the film or snipped a few characters, this film might have worked completely. As it stands, it was a nice try, with nice messages, and a bonecrushing yawnfest.Not recommended.      "},{"Title":"Epic family adventure - deeply moving!","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the few movies I watched twice in the theatre. I really love this movie for its atmosphere and its telling of the life of tragic hero Esteban Trueba. He makes so many mistakes but gets a chance for redemption. Isn't this a rather consoling thought?When I watched it for the first time, I thought that after the won election, the movie would be over - I didn't know the book. So boy was I wrong when the dramatic climax was still to come! I was literally swept away by the sheer power of the last half hour of the film.Many people here utterly dislike this movie. I cannot understand that one single bit. Maybe those who read the book first are - as often with screen adaptations of novels - simply disappointed that so many things have remained untold, unseen, unexplained. But as a movie telling a touching story - the story of a family, the rise and fall of a man, the deep compassion of a woman, the strength of love and the insanity of hate (and conservatism) - this movie is simply splendid! Furthermore, the soundtrack is incredibly good and the cast is wonderful as well - especially Winona Ryder and Jeremy Irons.So definitely one of those films that cinema was invented for! "},{"Title":"This is my favorite movie","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Maybe it's because I saw the movie before reading the book, but I really love this movie. I've seen it many many times and will be watching it many times more. It's a compelling story, that's interesting from the beginning to the end. It has everything action, romance etc. "},{"Title":"Yawwwwn!","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Of course the head of the household dynasty is conservative and controlling. Of course his wife is his only humanizing influence on him. Of course his daughter falls in love with the one man who threatens him most. Of course he catches the man and whips him. Of course this whole family is almost completely torn apart by this patron's single-minded authoritarianism. Of course his wife has psychic powers... uh, wait! What? So what's the point of the hocus pocus? Of course! It is so that the movie (and book I assume) can have spirituality. As if we need that.I was never once interested in any of the cardboard characters who were moved around like chess pieces in this movie in order to further the long-winded plot. "},{"Title":"Superbly shot and directed, thematically flawed.","Date":"18 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" According the BBC's documentary The Other 9/11 (a film looking back at the coup in Chile in 1973), half the nation, half the people, supported Pinochet, or rather were opposed to Allende's massive nationalization of private property, and against the government providing a larger group of social services at the expense of private industry.With that in mind, it means that the other half supported Allende. The nation was split down the middle.So what does that have to do with this film? This film shows a Chilean Hacienda owner brutalizing women, and forcing himself on others to get what he wants. And then, towards the end of the film, he has a change of heart.Huh.The problem here is that the conservative right wing, of which Jeremy Irons' character is a part, are shown as sexually repressed or twisted individuals. Whereas the free and family loving faction (predominantly women) are shown as normal and, on that note, having a kind of divinity which helps them overcome the repressions of a fathers right-leaning home dictatorship. Jeremy Irons, Meryl Streep, Antonio Banderas, Glenn Close and other contemporary actors form an all star cast for what really is an exceptionally well put together film.The problem comes down to the fact that it is factually flawed to push an agenda, as are a lot of films of this ilk. Like I said in my opening, half the people actually did support Pinochet and his coup. That's not to excuse the abuses of the Chilean military, but it should give people pause to wonder why there was such a split in Chilean society. This is never addressed.What is shown is Jeremy Irons' character being what the director believes is an archetypal successful businessman. Well, I suppose if that were true, then the founder of American Airlines, ABC, Microsoft, Intel, Del Monte Foods, Goodyear Tires, Lurssen Yachts (and a host of private firms world wide) were all sexually repressed rapists who impregnated women so they could give birth to pedophilia rapists. Further, that said businessmen frequented prostitutes to satiate sexual desires.For anyone who owns a business, has gone into business for themselves, or who has worked into a management position, ask yourself, how true is that of you? How about your competition? Was Steve Jobs or Bill Gates molded from such DNA?Answer; no.To the director; if you're going to make a film about a familie's personal history regarding the Chilean coup of 1973 (which I remember), then make that film. Don't push some political agenda to share your skewed version of how you think things should be. Make the film of how things were.A finely crafted film. It looks good, it moves well in the story department, it does get pretty hokey with the spirituality (borderline laughable), but otherwise it's an okay piece of cinema.But, as a pro-business American who is hawkish on international politics, I think this thing is movie's theme is poor at best. Tragically flawed and an outright lie and shame upon the director at worst. "},{"Title":"Wooden","Date":"31 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This should have been retitled The House of the Wooden Spirits. It bears no resemblance to the wonderful spirit of the book, mainly because of the utterly hopeless performance of Jeremy Irons. He is stiff, speaks as if he has marbles in his mouth, and throughout the film plays only one role - look at me the gruff, tough self made man - but in a totally unconvincing and forced way. He has never been a good actor, but in this film he under-excels himself. And talk about a house with absolutely no spirit! Hopefully the location manager never got another job! One curious thing was that from Blanca's birth until I got bored with the film (ie when she leaves school), which in the film should have been about 17-18 years, nothing grew on the property. The grass didn't grow, no shrubs grew, and no trees. Isn't that curious to say the least or is it just one more example of Hollywood treating us as dumb a**es? "},{"Title":"good movie - but....","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Could not understand why Jeremy Irons felt it necessary to exhibit a most disconcerting accent, spoken through clenched teeth,and from the back of his throat. In fact it rather spoiled the film for me, and distracted from what was probably a fine performance by him (very irritating). No other actor or actress seemed to have such a pronounced accent and whilst I have always rated Jeremy Irons as a fine actor, I would not class this film as being one of his best. The film however has whetted my appetite, as have some of the other comments made re this film, which I have found very interesting,and intend to now read the book. "},{"Title":"Made me want to read the books despite the movie's obvious flaws","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The photography of this bid-budget production is surprisingly bad. Colors are muddy and brownish and the photography has very 80ish look to it. Direction and editing are often quite uninspired and TV-movie like, too. *And* at first the movie only seems to want to torture its viewers with lurid images of sex and violence. Hans Zimmer's score is also a typically simple and bland work of this overrated, untalented composer.But if you are willing to watch the movie further you are rewarded with a very moving family story, a sort of European version of Edna Ferber's family epos Giant. While at first you wonder why Clara married this idiotic man, even his character gets more depth and more background one can judge him by. Clara delivers the movie's spiritual lesson, a great and moving statement set against the terrible happenings in her country. Her daughter, whose lover is a young Antonio Banderas at the beginning of his international career, understands that lesson and ultimately tries to live by it. The way the plot was constructed with the ending mirroring the beginning was great. The actors all do a great job, too. I was wondering Who is the actress playing Blanca? all the time, but of course, it was a really young Winona Ryder!All in all, this movie really made me want to read the book. "},{"Title":"too much heavy for a film","Date":"19 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Not as moving as the great novel by Allende. Of course, when commenting this as a movie, one has to take into consideration the limits of cinema compared to a novel. But one easily gets the feeling that the events of the saga come one after another as if they were 'ready-made', but not as logical and inevitable consequences of the narrative. Probably, the story is too much heavy for cinema despite the fact that August drop a whole lot of (interesting) events frome the original story. The casting is ok. But nothing special; no one does any exceptional job. But this is an enchanting work. "},{"Title":"Terrible!","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have nothing against Meryl Streep, Jeremy Irons or Glenn Close, I think they are excellent actors but why cast them when their characters are CHILEAN?!  Overall, the movie is an insult to the wonderful book by Isabel Allende. Watch at your own risk. "}{"Title":"Quite possible the most beautiful 'worst' film of the 90's","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Having read the wonderful book by Isabel Allende I looked forward to viewing this film.  I was put off by the cast list however.  Jeremy Irons as Esteban?  That actor is more anglo than the Queen of England.  It would appear that this was a movie of great intent.  The scenery and costumes are magnificent and a great deal of historical detail is evident.  It would almost make it worth watching if it weren't for the cast.  Why would a story centered in South America about native South Americans have actors so obviously white?  It was almost as painful to watch the aforesaid Mr. Irons with his dental apparatus clicking and clacking through the film as it probably was for him to wear it.  And why? It was an unnecessary affectation.  Vanessa Redgrave was completely wasted as her role was very short with just a few lines of dialogue. However her character did provide some comic relief, (however unintentionally) in a very strange plot point. Meryl Streep is good but did not portray the incandescence of her character as written.  Winona Ryder was a presence in the role but she is always pleasurable to look at in any film however badly written.  Antonio Banderas provided the only authentic Hispanic presence and he did a commendable job, however, as with other characters his screen time was inadequate. It is a very long story but the director chose to linger on some of the more obscure and unnecessary subplots in order to tell it.  This compressed the main plot and created confusion with the overall story.  I am not familiar with this director.  In fact I had never heard the name before, (or since for that matter).  I believe the reason for the unknown quality is the fact that a great deal of money was spent on this film, it is obvious from the look of it, but it was unpopular when it was initially released and will not be a remembered classic.  It's almost tragic as the story is still a beautiful one and deserved to be brought to the screen competently. "},{"Title":"An Inspiring Film","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The House of the Spirits is an incredibly well filmed film. Having seen it five years ago, I thought it was OK, but having just re-watched it last night, I thought it was amazing. From the start, the film pulls you in and leaves you sitting forward all the way till the end credits. The acting from Jeremy Irons was almost as good as his acting in Damage (which was great). The story flows by very smoothly, and the music was suitable.A great film to watch. "},{"Title":"Average costume drama","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  While not terrible, House of Spirits fails to deliver the emotional impact this genre depends upon.  Although I am not familiar with the book, this movie feels very Americanized.  Jeremy Irons is Esteban, the central character, and the movie does a great job showing Iron's transformation from a young romantic to a cynical old man.As good as Irons is, the other cast members seem under used.  Banderas stands out as one of the few Hispanic characters, but his role as a young revolutionary is underdeveloped.  Usually great, Rider, seems miscast as the politically and sexually rebellious daughter.  This may appeal to fans of the novel, but it left me cold. "},{"Title":"Eh.","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I just rented this movie. I wanted to see what they had done with the novel I just had to read for school (which was wonderful, by the way). I kept trying to look at it as a plain old movie and not of something completely condensing the book, and I found that I just couldn't. If I were to look at it as just a movie, I'd say that it was pretty boring. I don't know what it was, but Meryl Streep and Winona Ryder didn't seem to fit in their parts. Granted, they're both great actresses, but I think I was picturing them completely differently in my mind when reading the novel. All in all, it wasn't an awful film, but it could have been much better. 5 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the book, but it gets close.","Date":"30 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps the best Isabel Allende's book, House of the Spirits describes an alternative chilean history, this one full of magic, a mystic veil, plus some kind of omnipresent sadness. This movie gathers a great cast, plus a great art direction, with a script that cannot contain all this book's quality. It's unusual for a nearly unknown country like Chile to get so well represented as it is by this movie, whose perhaps only sin is to aim too high, and because of that left the illiterate public a little upset, mostly because they understood very little. "},{"Title":"not the worst movie ever","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The House of the Spirits may not be the BEST movie ever by these talented actors (Close, Streep, Irons, Ryder), but it isn't the worst movie ever. I think it was a quite decent adaptation of Allende's novel.  And I would definitely recommend it to any Ryder fans.   "},{"Title":"Rich Imagery and story","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I never heard of the book, nor care to read it, but the movie I will probably see many times.This film is unforgettable with perhaps the richest imagery I have ever seen in a movie. It was as if I was looking at paintings many times, which I think was the idea.Terrific movie, story, actors, and cinematography. Full of profound emotions from every angle.  Although I am not particularly fond of romance movies, I loved this and was deeply moved by Winona Ryder's plea to her father toward the end.Mr. Irons deserved an award for his performance and Close was never better. "},{"Title":"A film that makes it to the top at once","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  All this talk about this being a bad movie is nonsense. As a matter of fact this is the best movie I've ever seen. It's an excellent story and the actors in the movie are some of the best. I would not give criticism to any of the actors. That movie is the best and it will always stay that way. "},{"Title":"A well acted but over-ambitious film","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The film was based on a good storyline, well-acted but over- ambitious in trying to cover too wide a time span.  The cast of well-known and established actors and actresses did as could be expected and gave the film a high profile. I think they were wasted.  For example the minor part played by Antonia Banderous  did little for the actor or the film.Although I have not read the book I suspect the film was a poor adaption. Not enough was made of the so-called powers of the main character played by Meryl Streep. The film lost its way  but although I saw it on television it was worth the time spent watching it. My message to film makers adapting from books is to add value to the story through visual interpretation rather than detract through poor character representation.  Overall not a bad film "},{"Title":"One of the best movies ever made!!!","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think it's one of the greatest movies which are ever made, and I've seen many... The book is better, but it's still a very good movie! "}{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"8 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think it is not bad, on the other hand, quite good. Although it shows the wrong conditions (snowing) and something unlikely to happen, it shows the social instabilty which is the most impressive factor in this movie. The screenplay is not good enough. Actors also. Jeremy is the best one in this movie. Meryl does not get the chance to play brilliantly like her performances in Sophie's Choice. "},{"Title":"annoying sound","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The direction struck me as poor man's Ingemar Bergman. The inaudible dialogue was annoying. The somber stoicism that all characters except Banderas' showed made me think they were drugged. I think the director ruined it for me. "},{"Title":"very good movie","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think that a good movie has to be judges not for the chronological sequence of events but fot the feelings that we get out of it. In this sense, this is one of the best I've ever seen. Great actors/actresses (exceptional Glenn Close), great story. I found  that it is even better than the book "},{"Title":"Big disappointment","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I regret that I've seen this movie. Can't believe that the creator of Best Intentions and Pelle the Conqueror could make such a bleak and boring film. What a waste! "},{"Title":"A show-case cast, a rich story, but only a mediocre film","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" To capture the rich complexity and the intensity of a novel by Isabel Allende is not an easy task; however, it is one that Bille August attempts to do with the film version of Allende's The House of Spirits. Jam-packed with a stunning cast, including Meryl Streep, Glenn Close, and Winona Ryder, the film covers a span of around 70 years, giving us a glimpse of the different aspects of the family's life that shapes who they become as the film progresses. Although the acting is well done and the storyline enticing, I sometimes felt lost between the large jumps in time, as well as the various side stories that were only surfaced upon, such as that with the other son. I feel that in order to truly capture the complexity of Allende's novel, the film would have to be long enough to delve into each character and their respective stories with much more detail. "},{"Title":"perfection!!!!the cast, the story, everything....","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" well, i said it all in the summary, i simpley adore the movie and the cast...i would give each actor an Oscar...great, great movie...i'm 25 now and i watched it 4 times in different periods and i always think i won't cry and i always do, about 2 or 3 times...;) meryl s. was absolutely brilliant, jeremy irons also..just brilliant...i wish the movie received more awards... i really don't know anybody who watched it and didn't loved it... also, glenn close was fantastic... the story was beautiful and sad at the same time... i loved the fact that despite everything clara and esteban loved each other so much, and how blanca was close to her parents... "},{"Title":"The greatest representation of life in Chile at that time!","Date":"24 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film very well represents what it is to live in Chile. I have NEVER seen any film that tells the culture and the people of the southern South-America better. This is the story Esteban, a man who gain land and fortune through hard work. He only wishes for a loving family that have what he did not when he was a child. His conservative ways adds to that struggle and creates conflict with his family. This conflict grows when one of his low-class workers falls in love with his daughter. The military coup of 1973 to bring communism down in Chile is shown. This movie is 110% recommended. It is very respectful to the book and it does an excellent directive and camera work at a spectacular location. Amazing actors, a beautiful experience, a must see!!  "},{"Title":"There are no spirits in this house!","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a good example of how to ruin a book in 109 minutes.  Except for the names of the characters the movie bears very little resemblance to the book.  A book full of strong Latino characters and they are represent, for the most part, by non-Latinos.  There is no character development in the movie and we have no reason to love or hate the characters.  And to delete a complete generation is inexcusable.  Isabel Allende has written a powerful book and the book is what should be read! "},{"Title":"Just Awful","Date":"2 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I did not read the book because I do not read women's books. But I looked at this film only because of the stellar cast, but OMG what a mess! This film is an unmitigated disaster virtually from the very first moment. For one thing I could not figure out who was narrating and right away I was confused. Then Jeremy Irons shows up and he's supposed to be twenty but he looks his actual age of 45 or so and that was even more confusing. As the film progressed I realized that Streep was too old for her role and Close was too young. And there were scenes that were completely unnecessary and absolutely disgusting which I will not describe here. Finally, I bailed, mumbling to myself how could so much talent be so completely wasted in this utter tripe! "},{"Title":"Warning! Book ruined by movie.","Date":"12 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The movie The House of the Spirits is an adaptation of the novel of the same name by Isabel Allende. Be warned, however; this movie has virtually nothing to do with the text of the novel. The events have been hacked and slashed completely out of order, some characters have been removed completely, generations are switched around, and other important details are altered. (Our English class read the book then watched the film, and WE were confused. Imagine what would happen to people who have never read the book.)Another major issue Why are the Truebas all white??? The book is set in Chile, so the least the casting director could have done is cast its movie adaptation with all Hispanic actors. It would have made it far more realistic, and then there would be one less distraction in this movie of chaos. So if you're toying with the idea of watching this film, do yourself a favour and read the book instead. The book is a beautiful, rich work of art; the movie, on the other hand, isn't worth the celluloid it was filmed on.  "}{"Title":"liked it because bad guys win","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First this movie is a biased interpretation of the history of Chile (based on a book by Isadora Allende---yes related to the communist president who was assassinated).The Allende government like all far left governments quickly shut down the productive economy impoverishing everyone in the process (it had nothing to do with a plot by United Fruit or the evil market economies as suggested in the movie).The movie---I am finally getting there--is lavishly filmed and entertaining I got some amusement by seeing the bad guys win. The novel has some more entertaining subplots like the one involving the aristocratic Frenchman who marries the daughter in the book.Look all in all it is entertaining has wonderful actors and if you love Chile you will enjoy it--just ignore the pounding political correctness. "},{"Title":"Bad, Bad, Bad","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I managed to sneak away one night and go to the movie theater to see this one, thinking I was in for a treat.  Boy, was I wrong.  Considering the talent involved, this has to be one of the worst movies I've ever seen. Everyone in it was miscast, and I find it incredible to read on this site that there are people out there who actually liked it. "},{"Title":"THE WORST FILM OF ALL TIME!!!!!!","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Forget Plan 9, this is the ultimate fiasco, a costume drama, ineptly directed, scripted, acted, etc. This film is based on Isabel Allende's not-so-much-better novel. I hate Meryl Streep and Antonio Banderas (in non-Spanish films), and the other actors, including Winona, my favourite actress and Jeremy Irons try hard to get over such a terrible script. Plenty of mistakes (like, for example, since when does it snow in Xmas in Chile?) and very cruel, with tons of that evil named magic realism, this stands out as the worst movie of all time. It totally sucks!!! "}]