[{"Title":"See it once for the suspense, and again for the acting.","Date":"11 October 1999","Score":"46 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  MALICE is one of those movies that you simply MUST see more than once to believe.  The first time through, MALICE is a great psychological thriller, with twists and turns through a plot that contains rape, murder, life-and-death trauma, and a fight to the death...all within the first 45 minutes.  The second time through, though, provides a look at all the things you might have missed the first time around...and a chance to savor an outstanding performance from perhaps the most underrated actor in Hollywood, Alec Baldwin.Bill Pullman plays Andy Safien, an associate dean at a small New England college outside of Boston that's currently under siege by a serial rapist who claims his latest victim as the film opens.  Nicole Kidman plays his wife Tracy, a volunteer in the pediatrics ward of St. Agnes Hospital. They're renovating a Victorian house and need $14,000 for the plumbing. Enter Alec Baldwin as Dr. Jed Hill, a former high school classmate of Andy's, who's brand new in town and needs a place to stay.  Andy needs the money, Jed needs a room, so the two hook up and soon Jed is sleeping upstairs in the Safiens' home...usually not alone, and his sexual escapades are grating on Tracy's nerves.  The rapes continue, Andy is fingered as a suspect, and in the midst of it all, Tracy collapses with a ruptured ovarian cyst.  Jed operates to save her life (after a night of drinking and wild partying), but renders her unable to bear children...leading to a malpractice suit from Tracy and an incredible soliloquy on surgeons with a God complex from Jed during the deposition.But once the first half of the film is over, things really start to roll. Without revealing the rest of the plot, suffice it to say that as Andy, Tracy, and Jed all try to start their lives over again, their fates become inextricably entangled.The movie is worth seeing once as a thriller.  But the second time around, Baldwin's mesmerizing performance is what stands out.  Jed is charismatic, seductive, and as charming as a cobra as he weaves his spell over the Safiens.  Baldwin's ability to jump from utterly charming to incredibly chilling in the blink of an eye is on full display here; it is truly the performance of a lifetime.See it once for the suspense, and again for the acting.  "},{"Title":"Very underrated.","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"39 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I gotta admit that at first glance, I thought this movie would be exactly what it appeared to be on the surface- boring. But with its dense plot, which is seriously full of twists and turns, this movie is a winner. Don't expect anything on the lines of the end of The Usual Suspects, but this movie provides many shocking moments. The end product could not be achieved without a slow build, but still this movie is one of the best suspense movies out there. I'm a big Bill Pulman fan and Nicole Kidman is always a treat to look at. In closing, you really should consider checking this one out, especially if you think the person you love isn't who they appear to be. "},{"Title":"Brilliant writing makes for an excellent film","Date":"8 February 2003","Score":"35 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the greatest mysteries of the past decade. It is, no question, the kind of movie that Hitchcock would be making today. Yes, there are flaws in some of the details, but nothing too major. The plot is still brilliant, the pacing perfect, and the characters lively. Especially Alec Baldwin who give the movie its spark, playing an egocentric doctor with a god complex. The best thing about this movie is the way that it unleashes a mystery, little by little, and lets it unfold into something tremendous. Intelligence is all over this script. Everything is done for a reason and great writing here, (by the screenwriter who wrote A Few Good Men), makes for a terrific movie.  "},{"Title":"Terrific acting and great cast! ***SPOILERS***","Date":"2 December 2001","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Have seen this film several times and am hooked.  Even though I know the outcome, who cares.  It's worth it just to see these fine actors do their thing as they do best.  Alec Baldwin, who never ceases to amaze me in his work, is splendid as the doctor/villain and what a smoothie he is.  His God complex speech is one of the highlights.  Then there's the delicious Nicole Kidman, as the demon wife of a mild schoolteacher, who goes for the icing on the cake by knocking off anyone that gets in her way.  What makes her performance stand out to me is that, as wild and evil as she can be, there's also a vulnerability in her portrayal.  You actually care what happens to her, even though you know she deserves to get caught.  This is the worst kind of a villain.  One that you hope won't get caught.  I loved the scene in the bar where she confronts her husband with smiles and flirting only to realize it won't work.  The change of expression and attitude was delightful.  Thanks, Nicole.  And Bill Pullman, being given a sort of wimpish character to play, brings it way up to the same level as the stronger characters with his performance.  He does an outstanding job in this flick.  I've not seen his work before, but will surely look for more roles in the future.  Playing smaller roles are Bebe Neuwirth as a cop who helps our professor solve the case, and Gwyneth Paltrow, in one of her earlier roles playing a bimbo student under Pullman's tutelege who unfortunately becomes a victim of a serial rapist.  George C. Scott appears, quite briefly, as a sort of chief surgeon defending Baldwin's reputation in the medical profession, Peter Gallagher that handsome devil appears as Kidman's lawyer in two scenes and that incredible Anne Bancroft in one scene, but she almost steals the picture with her alcoholic card tricks.  Annie's the best! Director Harold Becker does a good job with his stellar cast, but sometimes the film is too dark.  At least on television it comes off hard to see.  But I loved  the scene when Nicole is waiting in her car for Pullman to leave so she can move in on the little boy next door in the window.  The lighting coming from behind her gave her curley red hair a kind of glow.  Terrific shot.  This is a story by Aaron Gorkin and written for the screen by Jonas McCord.  They say it's a copy of another story, however, I don't know about that.  I enjoyed this one, but my hat's off to the performers.  They brought this one up to the high place of good ensemble acting.  "},{"Title":"Slick, Supsensful, Mystery Thriller!","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Malice is a very gripping mysterious thriller! The opening scene's haunting music will stay with you forever and draw you into a roller coaster ride of suspense, drama, and deceit.The film revolves around a couple who's lives become interwoven by a mysterious and arrogant surgeon who manipulates and cons his way into their lives with little surprises around every turn. Harold Becker's directing is superb in setting the mood and pacing of the film. There are dramatic moments and secrets in the story that will keep you captivated until the very end. Watch for outstanding performances by Alec Baldwin, Nicole Kidman, and Bill Pullman, as well as a powerful supporting role by Ann Bancroft.Malice is very difficult to review without giving away parts of the movie, so I will not go into great detail. It's the uncertainties in the movie that make it one to remember. See it, you will not be disappointed! The background musical score is one of the most memorable that I have heard in any movie. Malice is a tale of arrogance, power, mystery, and deception, that must be seen and will be long remembered after the final credits roll.This is a very fine film that does not get the credit that it deserves! "},{"Title":"An intriguing thriller.","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is an intriguing thriller with enough twists and turns to make you dizzy.  It's hard to describe the plot and it's better that way.  Bill Pullman and Nicole Kidman give great performances.  Alec Baldwin is one of the most underrated actors in Hollywood and deserved great praise for his astonishing portrayal here. "},{"Title":"I'm really surprised at all of the low opinions of Malice","Date":"2 February 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I really liked this when it came out. I didn't think that it was predictable at all like a lot of filks have commented. I mean some things were obviously, but that's fairly true on most things these days.Especially TV (but that's another topic). Spoilers belowI admit that the rapist story line was a bit odd but I think it was well done in that it lead you in one direction when the real story went another. I thought it was a good way to twist it a little. And remember, that is how Andy finds out that he couldn't have fathered the baby, if he hadn't had to provide a sample to the police, he wouldn't have known that and probably would not have kept probing into what Nicole was up to.Another thing that I think people dismiss is the great acting by several cast members. Remember the scene when Baldwin had just moved into the house and he had the girl upstairs?There is one shot where Nicole looks up there and has this look of anger on her face that suggests she peeved at more than the noise. I didn't catch it the first time but on later viewing I did. Nicole and Baldwin had been plotting this long before he moved in.I digress, though, but the movie is full of little gems like that which I think makes it good.Others have mentioned the scene where Andy goes to see the mother. That is a great scene and the setting and scenery are great too. The rain, the cramped, dingy apartment; gives you the feeling that old lady never leaves there.I could go on, but I think I've said enough;if you haven't seen this, check it out. "},{"Title":"Full-bodied and satisfying nastiness","Date":"25 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Take a surgeon with a God complex, a perfect young wife who loves kids, add a sincere doofus of a husband and you will have Malice, an intricate insurance-murder mystery that leaves a satisfyingly full-bodied, nasty taste in your mouth. Andy Safian (Bill Pullman) is a decent, sincere dean at a picture-perfect small college in a picture-perfect New England town. His wife, Tracy (Nicole Kidman), volunteers at a children's center five days a week. They've just bought an old, rundown Victorian house they plan to remodel and fill with kids of their own. In to town comes Dr. Jed Hill (Alec Baldwin), the hospital's new surgeon and a hot shot cutter. Andy and Jed meet the same day and Jed winds up renting Andy's and Tracy's third floor room. Jed needs a place to stay temporarily and Andy and Tracy can use the extra income for remodeling expenses. And then Tracy starts to have abdominal pains. One night she's rushed to the hospital, where Jed operates after getting Andy's permission. Jed removes an ovary he says was cancerous. It turns out Tracy had been pregnant and the ovary was healthy. A medical hearing is held. The result is that Tracy is awarded $20 million, but she is so angry with Andy that she leaves him. Ah, but there's more. To say what would ruin a good mystery. Let's just say that there are a lot of twists and that things very often aren't what they seem. There is some really unpleasant manipulation going on, plus a degree of sexual ruthlessness that would make a fine entry into Krafft-Ebing's Psychopathia Sexualis. The most serious drawback to the movie is a major red herring involving a serial criminal that goes nowhere. The purpose seems only to give Andy a reason to spend the last half of the movie with a seriously bruised face. There also is a semi-red herring involving a doctor in another town that, for the life of me, I couldn't figure out. I think it was most likely a plot point that became a loose string the director figured the audience would forget about. The movie features fine performances by all. Pullman's decent guy persona drives the second half of the movie. Two one-off cameos by George C. Scott as a respected surgeon and Anne Bancroft as...well, you'll need to see the movie...are both important to the plot. Bebe Neuwirth as police detective Dana Harris, a friend of Andy's, nearly steals every scene she's in. She uses an accent that reminds me of Maerose Prizzi, but even so she radiates no- nonsense common sense and a real concern for Andy. Nicole Kidman is what the movie is all about. She gives a performance that is subtle and forceful. Amazingly, 16 years after she made this movie her forehead still has no trace of a wrinkle. Alec Baldwin has spent the latter half of his movie career specializing in unlikable egoists. Here he's interesting and at least a little likable. And does his character, Dr. Jed Hill, really have a God complex? Here's what Dr. Hill has to say for himself I have an M.D. from Harvard. I am board certified in cardio- thoratic medicine and trauma surgery. I have been awarded citations from seven different medical boards in New England, and I am never, ever sick at sea. So I ask you When someone goes into that chapel and they fall on their knees and they pray to God that their wife doesn't miscarry or that their daughter doesn't bleed to death or that their mother doesn't suffer acute neural trauma from post-operative shock, who do you think they're praying to? Now, go ahead and read your Bible, and you go to your church...and, with any luck, you might win the annual raffle. But if you're looking for God, he was in operating room number two on November 17, and he doesn't like to be second guessed. You ask me if I have a God complex. Let me tell you something I am God. On balance, Malice is a nifty piece of complex nastiness. "},{"Title":"some nice twists and intensity in this one","Date":"24 August 2007","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" this is one very good movie.it's got suspense,a twisting plot,great intensity,and a good story.it may not be wholly original,but it think it works,thanks to its three main actors,Alec Baldwin(The Good Shepherd)Nicole Kidman(The Interpreter)and Bill Pullman.But Kidman really surprised me with the intensity she brought to her role.i'm generally not a fan,but she is effective in this movie.the supporting performances are also good.i also like the fact that the movie isn't completely predictable,like happens in so many movies.the movie is also very well paced.there are no lagging spots to slow things down to the point of boredom.anyway,i really enjoyed it. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Ain't no wonderland","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is pretty dark. In the very literal sense, as in, the lighting can hardly be described as being overpowering, and figuratively, since it's not exactly a Disney-fied fairy tale. It may require, if not necessarily multiple viewings, then at least attention paid. The plot is well-written, and takes some serious turns. It should throw most viewers for a loop, and it manages to retain a level of believability that not all recent twist-flicks can boast. The cinematography and editing are of high quality throughout, with no exceptions. The acting is spot-on almost invariably, everyone turns in a solid performance... Kidman, Baldwin, Pullman, Scott, Bancroft, not a disappointment to be found among them. The supporting players, as well. The writing leaves rather little(if not nothing) to be desired, and remains excellent for the duration. The pacing is appropriate. The three attempts at doing a proper accent are appreciated, and this is by no means the only film to lack in that department. There is a bit of sex in this, if not that much nudity, considering. There is a moderate amount of language, and it can be fairly harsh. The DVD holds cast biographies(yes, *yippie*) as well as a trailer, which I would not suggest you watch before the movie itself, as it could give stuff away. I recommend this to any fans of the people involved in making it, as well as the genres of crime, thriller, and/or mystery. 7/10 "}{"Title":"A Great Thriller with Many Twists","Date":"21 December 2014","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In Massachusetts, there is a rapist attacking young women and Detective Dana (Bebe Neuwirth) is investigating the cases. The college professor Andy Safian (Bill Pullman) and his former student and presently school teacher Tracy (Nicole Kidman) are happily married and are trying to have a baby. When the last victim of the rapist that studies at Andy's college is sent to the Saint Agnes Hospital, the surgeon Dr. Jed Hill (Alec Baldwin) saves her life. Andy recognizes Jed that had studied with him and they become close to each other. Soon Andy invites Jed to rent a room in his house to help him in the expenses despite Tracy's protest. When Tracy has a miscarriage, Jed takes the decision of removing her ovary with the support of Andy to save her life without waiting for the results from the laboratory. Soon he leans that Tracy's ovary was healthy and she decides to sue the hospital in US$ 20 million, using her friend, the lawyer Dennis Riley (Peter Gallagher). Tracy leaves Andy and accuses Jed of God Complex. When another student of Andy's college is murdered by the rapist, Andy becomes a suspect and has to donate sperm to prove his innocence. When Detective Dana shows Andy the laboratory result that clears him, he finds that he is sterile. Now Andy decides to investigate his wife deeper and finds hidden secrets about her. Malice is a great thriller from the 90's, with a plot with many twists. Alec Baldwin has a magnificent performance in the role of an ambitious doctor with God Complex. The twists lead the viewer to different directions and the truth about Tracy is totally unpredictable. Last but not the least, it is great to see the young cast with Alec Baldwin, Nicole Kidman, Bill Pullman, Peter Gallagher and Gwyneth Paltrow working with the veterans George C. Scott and Anne Bancroft. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Malícia (Malice) "},{"Title":"Malicious Twists But Sadly Contrived Plot","Date":"23 December 2008","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Becker's 'Malice' is a little bit of a mixed bag. First of all, there are two stories that hardly have anything to do with each other, one being about a serial killer raping and murdering collegegirls and another about a married couple and a doctor. Sorkin is a gifted writer as is evident in his work for TV but somehow the plot of 'Malice' is a bit contrived, messy and the screenplay lacks depth. The story would have been far more effective if the characters were better developed. There are plenty of twists and suspense but the surprise turns are a little out of place and it is hard to understand the motivation behind the characters' actions. For instance, why would Kidman's character allow herself to get so severely ill and risk her own life in the hands of someone else? Yet, 'Malice' is an entertaining thriller. The plot might be confusing at times but the performances are good, the dialogues are solid and it is technically well executed. The soundtrack flows well and some of the visuals are brilliant. Nicole Kidman is wonderful in spite of a poorly written character. Bill Pullman is great as the naive, passive, boring, pushover husband. Alec Baldwin, who plays Andy's counterpart is equally good. The supporting cast includes talented names life Anne Bancroft, Peter Gallagher, Gwyneth Paltrow and Bebe Neuarth but their screen time is limited. Bancroft stands out followed by Neuwarth and Gallagher. Overall, 'Malice' is a good enough fun watch if one is looking for something with a little but of suspense, clever dialogue and good acting but there's not much else to look forward to. "},{"Title":"Jed,Andy,Tracy and the jack of clubs.","Date":"26 January 2005","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The first thing to bear in mind is that there are (like in Hitchcock's family plot,there the comparison ends)TWO distinct plots  -The threesome Baldwin/Pullman/Kidman and the ominous plans of some of them.-And then a serial killer who hangs about the campus ,in the college where Andy works.There's a very thin ,very thin connection between the two stories,and it's a question of ...well I will not write a spoiler.The screenplay is far-fetched,but has enough unexpected twists to sustain the interest till the very end (yes,even the very last sequence contains a revelation) But the real meat lies in one sequence.A bewildered Andy pays a visit to an old alcoholic shrew ,played by Mrs Bancroft.Had she had a more important part,she 'd have stolen the show hands down.Every minute of this sequence is a lesson young actresses should pay attention to.Dig the way she delivers the line welcome to the club.Malice is fun to watch,after a hard day's labor.Not much food for thought,but entertaining throughout "},{"Title":"The God Complex and the Scammy Scamersons.","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Malice is directed by Harold Becker and co-written by Aaron Sorkin and Scott Frank from a story by Jonas McCord. It stars Alec Baldwin, Nicole Kidman, Bill Pullman, Peter Gallagher, Bebe Neuwirth and Josef Sommer. Music is by Jerry Goldsmith and cinematography by Gordon Willis.Andy (Pullman) and Tracy Safian (Kidman) take in a respectable Dr. Jed Hill (Baldwin) as a lodger thinking he ticks all the ace lodger boxes. However, he turns out to be far from ace and after having to perform emergency surgery on Tracy, the Safian's world gets turned upside down...Malice is an old fashioned thriller, it has flaws and major implausibilities, but if taken on its own popcorn thriller terms it rounds out as a good night's entertainment. There's considerable thriller talent involved in the production, with Becker (Sea of Love), Frank (Dead Again), Sorkin (A Few Good Men), Kidman (Dead Calm) and Baldwin (The Hunt for Red October) all having been party to producing some quality genre offerings. It's loaded with betrayals and shifty shenanigans, and when the surprises come they are genuinely smart and worth the wait. But why the makers decided to tag in a pointless serial killer sub-plot is anyone's guess since it has no bearing on the otherwise well thought out story. Cast are on form, with Baldwin revelling in oily egomania and Pullman classical in gullible's travels mode.You will wish it had a more thundering climax, even if it is actually a touch clever, and credibility is often stretched to breaking point, but Malice operates out of the upper echelons of 1990s thrillers and still remains entertaining today. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Glossy, insubstantial","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  *SPOILERS*This has a great cast -- what with Alec Baldwin, Kidman, George C. Scott, Pullman, Gwyneth Paltrow with a glorious mane of blonde hair in a role smaller than her tresses -- and they turn in good performances.  But it's hard to overcome such an unbelievable script.  I won't go on about the plot which is full of twists and turns except to say that it doesn't bear scrutiny.  A hard-charging thoracic surgeon with a Harvard degree, board certified in two specialties, dripping with awards, worshipped by staff and patients, a future that looks like the sun peeking over the desert horizon in Lawrence of Arabia, meets an old high school chum who is leading the sensible life as an associate dean and, upon invitation, decides to rent the upper floor of the dean's Victorian fixer-upper.  Unbelievable to begin with.  Even with the sensuous Nicole Kidman thrown in as the dean's wife. Some of the female students are being offed by a serial rapist/murderer and some time is devoted to this problem but it has nothing to do with the story.  He turns out to have a typical serial rapist's face, resembling one of those mutated rutabagas that in its warped development seems to have acquired some human features.  He's disposed of quickly.  I have no idea what he's doing in this flick.There is, as it turns out, a conspiracy involving Baldwin and Kidman, a very well-disguised conspiracy, and one almost impossible to pull off, except in a screenplay where a character can say something like, I was leading a double life, without having to explain how he could do it.Then we're asked to believe that Kidman voluntarily befouls her own ovaries and submits to an operation in which they are removed, ostensibly by mistake (but actually by design) by Baldwin as part of the plot.  The goal is to set up a situation in which Baldwin seems to have made a mistaken diagnosis, resulting in the removal of both ovaries, although the movie makes the decision seem plausible enough, done necessarily on the spur of the moment.  The ultimate plan is for Kidman to sue Baldwin until his clock is cleaned and then they both go to the seashore and live together.  Baldwin is properly crucified.  The insurance company pays his fine.  You know how much the fine is?  Seventeen million dollars.  Repeat seventeen million dollars.  That's a sum a surgeon like Baldwin could rake in with a dozen or so routine operations.  But he allows himself to be disgraced and humiliated -- he'll never be bankable again.  For a few lousy shekels.Anyway, the money is delivered to Kidman.  She feigns hatred towards Baldwin and her husband.  He cut me open, she tells Pullman, and you gave him your permission.  (He doesn't ask the obvious question  What you you rather be, a childless wife -- or dead?)  And off she goes to what seems to me to be a rather ominous house perched over a wine-dark sea.  Speaking of dark, Gordon Willis was the photographer.  He's done absolutely superlative work -- as in The Godfather, all those burnished tones.  Here, too many of the scenes are just excessively dark.  Of course shadows are useful for providing hiding places for serial rapists and other trash, but -- well, why is the OPERATING ROOM dark?   Not that the director doesn't use standard typical shock techniques involving impenetrably dark backgrounds.  You've seen them used dozens of times before.Kidman is even greedier than the more pragmatic Baldwin.  She really IS greedy.  She has an offensive habit of shooting people who disagree with her when she proposes another murder.  She holds a pistol on Baldwin, scowling and telling him not to come any closer.  So what does he do?  Exactly what any cretin would do in such a situation.  He walks slowly towards her, his hand outstretched, coaxing her, Give me the gun, Traci.  Come on.  Give it to me.  (She lets him have it.)  And this guy is supposed to be a Harvard man.There's also a kid who lives next door, seems to be peeking in their bedroom window, playing a plaintive tune on an electronic keyboard.  The name of the song is Plot Device.But the acting is pretty good, I must say.  Baldwin is always kind of neat, whether playing a good guy or a bad guy.  He was great as the movie star with a penchant for teen-age girls, in State and Main.  His last line in that movie was a killer, Well, it beats working.  Kidman is as succulent as ever, even though here she isn't at all glamorized.  The part doesn't demand much of her, and it requires a certain neuronal tweaking to believe that she could play the languidly stoned sex pot in Eyes Wide Shut.  She has good range.  Bill Pullman is successful in a kind of relaxed, rather wimpy role -- a nice steady gyroscopic presence compared to the hairy chested Baldwin.  In other films he's done menace rather well too.I kind of enjoyed it the first time I saw this movie.  The second time around my mind began to wander and I found myself thinking about Dr. Liebenthaler or whoever it was, Kidman's fictional doctor in Boston.  Evidently the film was shot in and around Northampton, Mass.  I wonder why they set it in Westerly, a cute little town on Long Island Sound in southern Rhode Island.   "},{"Title":"I Liked Malice ***","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Alec Baldwin, Nicole Kidman and Bill Pullman provide the right chemistry in Malice.Problem with this film is that there are two themes brought to the screen. While they are tied together, a third theme is not adequately explained as the film ends.Nevertheless, we have a good story about a serial killer killing young college co-eds, while at the same time Baldwin and Kidman plot against her husband (Pullman) who it appears is the jerk of the year.When Pullman finds out that he has been duped, he wants to be cut in on the $20 million dollars that Kidman has won with the aid of Baldwin, her lover.Bebe Neuwirth plays a detective caught up in both situations. She says her lines like a truck driver from Brooklyn or the Bronx.The late Anne Bancroft shines as Kidman's alcoholic mother. To say that she knows her daughter is to put it mildly. George C. Scott does well in a brief appearance as a witness for the surgeon Baldwin.A good thriller with wonderful plot twists. "},{"Title":"Better Once Than Never.","Date":"11 September 2003","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Malice is a movie for a subtle change in the mood. An attractive, delving, slow plot is enough to render you time for a bathroom break in between and a couple errands around your TV room but still keep you interested. The ending twist is what's bound to raise your eyebrow, maybe a twitch, but it will. Aaron Sorkin and Jonas McCord bring about their ability to utilize free time into this script, though it's not epic or anything, but they got you by a finger. Performances aren't anywhere close to laudable but their appearances, especially Nicole Kidman, are enchanting enough. Do remember to send your kids off around before Kidman & Pullman's bed scene. One aspect that nettled me was poor dialogues, weren't as good as they were needed in a thriller like this, and maybe a tad more enthusiasm from director Harold Becker would have gone a long way.Check out the synopsis section for a better view on the film. Overall I'd give it 6 out of 10 for a good one time watch. You wouldn't be compelled to buy the DVD or anything, but maybe watch it again on one of the TV channels if sighted. There were some scenes that disable you to watch it with your kids, but who wants to watch a thriller starring Alec Baldwin with kids, right? So go on, it's okay, grab your husband/wife, get a bowl of chips or popcorn and click play at around 10pm. It'll make your night, maybe right after 10 minutes or so into the film. "},{"Title":"A blatant rip-off!","Date":"10 July 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a pretty good movie, I'll admit that. I like Nicole Kidman, and Alec Baldwin is really just superb in a role like this. The only problem I have with this movie is that it is a complete rip-off of a TV-movie made in 1990 called The Operation, starring Lisa Hartman and Joe Penny in the Kidman and Baldwin roles respectively. Typically, the move from low-budget TV-movie to Hollywood blockbuster has brought the expected revisions and 'beefing up' of the script. Everything added was extraneous and served no real purpose. The Operation was actually a far better movie than this one, even if it was done on a movie-of-the-week budget. Watch it, and I think you'll agree. "},{"Title":"An entertaining thriller despite minor flaws","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This thriller is an entertaining film with complicated twists, character traits and plot angles that are more confusing than they need to be. Alec Baldwin, Nicole Kidman and Bill Pullman are the headliners and this strange triangle is the background for the story. Some of the scenes are contrived and red herrings abound but somehow the film manages to pull its many threads together and weave into an entertaining movie. Baldwin and Kidman, it turns out, are more than just passing friends, and Pullman is right on in a familiar role as a clueless good guy. George C. Scott and Anne Bancroft have nice cameo appearances. The picture has a nice New England ambiance and a nice music score by Jerry Goldsmith. "},{"Title":"Just OK","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I was so disappointed because I was hoping this movie was all gonna be about a murder mystery involving the two murdered college girls. Once they catch the janitor (killer) half way throughout the movie - its sort of disappointing - because I thought Jed would be the killer - but then they had to bring all that Nicole Kidman is the villain stuff, and it sorta ruined it. It was almost like there was two different plots to the movie and the first didn't really seem to be a big deal. I did like the end though - acting was good too (great cast). If you want to watch a good thriller, you probably won't be happy with this, but there was plenty of suspense. "}{"Title":"I Bet You Can't Watch Just Once.","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  A young couple (Bill Pullman and Nicole Kidman) is renovating an old mansion just outside of Boston, but money is tight. They decide to rent a room to a surgeon (Alec Baldwin) who is new in town. Baldwin is a lady's man as he has many one-night stands that start to bother the couple. However, Baldwin ends up having to operate on Kidman after she passes out and it is learned she had an ovarian cyst that could have been life-threatening. Baldwin's operation means that Kidman will never be able to have children and a malpractice suit follows. Pullman becomes the suspect in a host of rape cases around town and before all is said and done there will be more side-stories and several well-calculated twists and turns that will keep the audience interested. Malice is one of those films that does indeed struggle at several key moments, but it is a film that is worth getting through at least once. Of course if you make it through the first time you may want to watch again. Smart and well-made overall. George C. Scott is perfect in a fevered cameo appearance. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Unnerving. 7 of 10.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Another movie that depicts the pure brilliance of Nicole Kidman. Her multifaceted portrayal steals the show. But on with the action.Some spoilers.This is probably the first time ever that a serial killer is used only to further the main plot, which turns out to be something else entirely. The story starts out easy enough a happy couple, Tracy and Andy, live in a nice little town, where he's a college dean and she is a kindergarten teacher. She adores children and is being treated with oestrogen to increase the chances of getting pregnant. He loves her and dotes on her. So far, so good. Then one day he meets an old school friend, who in the mean time has become a very successful surgeon. Since Jed is new in town, he is offered hospitality by his old friend. Of course, we guess immediately that there's something fishy about him. Inevitably, one day disaster strikes Tracy is rushed to emergency room because of severe abdominal pain. Jed finds he has to remove her ovaries, thus also terminating a first trimester pregnancy.Later it turns out that Jed made an error in judgment; one of Tracy's ovaries could have been saved. She receives an important amount money out of her malpractice suit, but what good does it do if she can never have children? She is bitter, her relationship to Andy takes irrepairable damage and she leaves him. Jed obviously has to move out. End of story?Far from it. Since there is no such thing as a perfect crime, details that do not easily fall into place nag at Andy. Helped along by a rather surprising revelation courtesy of the local police, he follows the voice of his doubts and finds out more than he probably ever wanted to know.The final twist is both cute (for its implausibility) and chilling, since it shows just how far people are willing to go in order to obtain, and keep, what they regard as happiness.   "},{"Title":"A smart psychological thriller with interesting plot twists.","Date":"30 June 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Malice features three of the finest actors in business - Alec Baldwin, Bill Pullman and Nicole Kidman in a brilliantly crafted complex mystery with smart direction and great screen writing. The plot twists are quite clever and they alter the pace and flavor of the story in a fruitful manner. There are indeed some unnecessary subplots present just in order to bring out those twists, but where isn't? I partly agree with a previous commenter who thinks Hitchcock would attempt for such a story if he had lived to this day.Among the actors, Alec Baldwin shines bright as the rather eccentric and egotistic doctor. He was quite helped by the screenplay to show off his talents. Bill Pullman also had some of his best moments in this film, especially in the last confrontation with Kidman's character Tracy in the restaurant. Kidman, on the other hand, is a little dull for her role, which is extremely challenging according to the film's plot. There's also Bebe Newirth with a fake accent and an early Gwyneth Paltrow in minor roles.The script is exceptionally good. There are plenty of memorable quotes and quite less cheeky dialogues. The monologue of Alec Baldwin towards Peter Gallagher about his 'god complex' is priceless, however unrealistic it may seem. Same can be said about the last Pullman-Kidman meeting. It's actually quite refreshing to see a thriller with such smart dialogues. Aaron Sorkin's next works are therefore highly anticipated. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest 'film noir' thrillers of all time...","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Contains spoilers!!!'Malice' is an extremely twisted film, a cinema-product of the highest class. Excellent script by Aaron Sorkin and Jonas McCord from the very beginning makes you think that the film is about the maniac - serial rapist. But on the background of quiet life of campus town in New England  chilling events happen. Events that tie together a successful surgeon (Alec Baldwin), a college dean (Bill Pullman) and his gorgeous wife Tracy (Nicole Kidman). In this unpredictable film plot twists more than 10 times, sometimes creating a kind of maze with no way out. Strongly recommended as a classic of genre (unfortunately it didn't get any awards at least for magnificent acting). Everything is spectacular in this film. Hitchcock-like strong directing by Harold Becker, brilliant performances, amazing Jerry Goldsmith mesmerizing score, low-key, dark cinematography (by Gordon Willis). You'll be especially amazed by the ending.  "},{"Title":"Odd","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Odd suspense thriller about smooth, suave doctor Baldwin moving in with Pullman and Kidman and the various strange things that start happening after he moves in. Weird to say the least, you have to give it a couple of viewings before you truly understand it and maybe appreciate it. It does kind of make you long for the days when Alec Baldwin was smooth as opposed to now, where he's kind of bloated and coasts on playing this repulsive lug characters like in The Cat in the Hat and Along Came Polly.Bill Pullman does a decent job of playing the film's wrongly viewed protagonist character, and Nicole Kidman, in an early role, makes the most of her role as Bill's girlfriend.Another reason to rent this one, of course, is the fact that it featured one of Nicole's first love scenes, and you do see a good bit of her, and you can't help being impressed with what you see. Hard to believe she was only 26 when she took off that flannel shirt.  "},{"Title":"Gotta see it once","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Yeah, it's rated a seven, but the first time you see it, definitely a ten. Very interesting twist in the plot, and a terrific scene about Alec Baldwin's God complex.  See it to understand. "},{"Title":"Very surprising well written/acted thriller","Date":"8 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" At the beginning I thought this was going to be one of those thrillers that are worth watching just for kill time, but in terms of cinema don't bring anything really; however, as the movie advanced I really enjoyed all the twists that it had, even with side plots and situations that really make you doubt who's the bad guy, and maybe by the end makes you wonder what did that have to do with the principal plot line? And maybe the answer is none, just to confuse you more, and it's done in a very elegant way, not like those kind of thrillers that throw a bunch of situations just to confuses the viewer and end up ruining the whole picture, but not this one. In conclusion, a very good thriller, obviously not a masterpiece, but in therms o plot and acting (specially by Kidman and Baldwin), it really holds up to thrilled that you won't forget. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful and thought disturbing","Date":"18 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This movie was one of the first I saw on big screen as a teenager. It was a pretty strong experience. Nicole Kidman plays a woman with angelic appearance but the heart and the nature of a demon. It is a film about sin and manipulation. Bill Pullman is once again playing the typical good guy and with his looks he just can't get avoid getting type-casted as such. Alec Baldwin is his counterpart, the maverick surgeon who has a god complex and is secretly sleeping with his friend Pullman's wife.The movie opens as a rather straightforward drama about a married couple, Andy (Pullman) and Tracy (Kidman), who are happy together but childless. Both are well liked and respected in their community but nobody knows what lies beneath. Andy bumps into his high school friend, the surgeon Jed (Baldwin), who is short on money. Andy offers him to live in his house and rent the room at the third floor. One night, Tracy experiences strong pains in her abdomen and is taken to the hospital where an intoxicated Jed performs an emergency surgery on her. The worried Andy is told by his friend Jed that he found a fetus inside his wife, but that it was aborted due to a cyst that lay on her ovary. Andy is initially glad to hear of his wife being pregnant but then decides to consent to the removal of her other ovary as well. However, his wife is angry over him consenting to such a thing since it means she can never have children and leaves him. Tracy also sues Jed after finding out he had been drinking prior to the surgery. But soon thereafter, Andy learns that he is sterile and therefore could not have impregnated his wife. He starts searching for the true father of the unborn child and soon a disturbing truth is revealed, along with a lot more that lies under it all.The story is well crafted and very suspenseful. The revelation of the child's father's identity and the motives behind Kidman's lawsuit and the divorce from her husband are truly surprising and pretty disturbing as well. All three main actors do a fine job and even though I have a feeling Pullman didn't get enough publicity for his role here (he is missing from the poster), his role is the most satisfactory as well as challenging. The wronged husband seeking revenge is a typical motif in such Gothic film-noirs but seldom has there been made a film with such a strong and suspenseful story. I give it a 7 and a half. "},{"Title":"Just plain GOOD","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I keep coming back to this film, not only because it's very well made; but because it's *satisfying* - a straight-down-the-line Hitchcockian thriller with lots of twists and turns and tons of atmosphere. And excellent performances by all involved. Why it only has a 6.3 rating I don't know; this is definitely in my Top 50 movies, and possibly higher (it's been a while since I made a list).I don't think I'm giving away too much by saying that part of the satisfaction of this film is in the way the baddies - and they ARE bad - get their come-uppance (but I've added a spoiler just in case) It's leisurely done, and they get to see it coming before it happens and have time to squirm. I wish more movies that want to tell a moral tale had the craft to do it as well as this one does; and the scene in the hotel bar near the end is memorable.I've never been a huge Nicole Kidman fan, but she is REALLY good in this; and Alec Baldwin backs her up superbly. But for me, the standout is Bill Pullman, cast as the James Stewart character - the decent, bewildered victim - almost always the hardest of roles to pull off properly.His mouse that turns will have you cheering in your couches. "},{"Title":"Baldwin at his best!!","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Very rare in a movie can a character be so likable like Dr. Jed then be hated. First seen your watching a brilliant doctor save a life in surgery. Then make friends with his victim. First time I watched this movie I was blown away how the writer plays with your emotions by turning like to hate. I would of fell for it if I was that character.Alex wasn't the only one that turned like into hate. Nicole Kidman was amazing at being a loving wife and even more amazing being a murderous greedy wench. This is a story I will never forget.Very rarely can a movie make you want more and more without letting you stop watching. Hopefully one day there is a remake of this overseen brilliant story. I just hope the casting is as good "}{"Title":"Still amazed at the low rating","Date":"22 June 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I watch Malice about once a year and always come and look at IMDb at some point while viewing. I'm continually amazed that this great suspense flick is not rated at least an 8. Excellent performances by Nicole Kidman, Anne Bancroft (albeit a very small role for her), even Alec Baldwin, whom I generally do not care for. Bill Pullman even pulls off his role perfectly as the mild mannered college prof. The only role I thought was not very strong was Bebe Neuwirth, who could not quite manage the accent. Malice is a first rate thriller all the way through. Tight script with just the right amount of build up of each of the characters and twists and surprises that I never saw coming. Even a very tiny role for a young Gwyneth Paltrow. Excellent supporting performances by George C. Scott and Peter Gallagher! Their roles were not very large but each gave a first rate performance that added strength to the film. Malice is best watched alone on a dark and stormy night. But I would not watch it with a fairly new significant other, it will leave you wondering..... "},{"Title":"A Superbly Acted Film!","Date":"19 May 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Harold Becker Directed 'Malice' is A Superbly Acted Film! The Performances make this otherwise routine thriller, a must see!'Malice' Synopsis A tale about a happily married couple who would like to have children. Tracy teaches infants, Andy's a college professor. Things are never the same after she is taken to hospital and operated upon by Jed, a know all doctor.'Malice' demanded a better Screenplay. No, the narrative isn't bad at all, its certainly watchable & potentially packaged, but there are some flaws. The pace could've been faster. The suspense wasn't as shocking as expected. Yet in all fairness, the Screenplay does indulge the viewer. Harold Becker's Direction is atmospheric.The Performances in 'Malice' are its True Merits. Alec Baldwin is outstanding as the manipulative doctor. Nicole Kidman is electrifying in a nicely written part. Bill Pullman is terrific as the central protagonist. These 3 Performances are truly compelling!On the whole, Watch 'Malice' for the performances! "},{"Title":"lots of plot holes, but harmless entertainment","Date":"6 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Malice is one of those films you might catch on TV late at night when there's nothing else on and you give it a try. It's a fairly ludicrous film, but entertaining nonetheless. The storyline concerns an elaborate scam perpetrated by Nicole Kidman's character on her husband, played by Bill Pullman. The scam involves a ruse with her surgeon, Alec Baldwin, whereby she is rushed into emergency surgery, apparently with life-threatening issues in her reproductive organs. Baldwin quickly puts pressure on Pullman to give the go-ahead to remove her ovaries and, in the heat of the moment, Pullman seemingly has no choice. Kidman then pretends to be devastated that she can never have children and disappears, only reappearing to push for a $20m settlement from Baldwin's hospital. Baldwin seals the deal by revealing a God-complex and arrogance of such breathtaking proportions that the big payday to Kidman seems inevitable. Turns out, the two of them were in cahoots and plan to split the cash...but Pullman uncovers the truth! Kidman turns on Baldwin and shoots him dead when he suggests paying off Pullman, before she falls prey to a sting set up by Pullman and his cop friend. There was also a side story concerning a rapist, but it didn't make a great deal of sense. This was totally ridiculous and far-fetched, but had its moments. Not one worth buying on DVD, though... "},{"Title":"Good movie...but NOT Great!","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is a good movie, with unusual twists actually TOO many, for my liking!. Good roles for Baldwin and Kidman, Pullman is a panty-waist teacher and is OK but to me, he seems he comes across roles like that in MANY his movies...zzzzzzzzzzz! Appearances by old pros Bancroft good performance and Scott not noteworthy seem to be 'there' to just add their names to the promotable aspect of the film at release time, in my opinion! And I don't think their performances are as 'great' as others have written here. Dialogue, while spotty, is OK. If you must watch, do watch Baldwin and Kidman ~ they're the best in this flick. 6 out of 10 overall...and I'm tough on most movies! "},{"Title":"See it before someone tells you the secret! Or.....","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ...see this first! The Operation (1990) (TV)  (From the IMDB listing)Duplicity reigns supreme as a doctor (Joe Penny) in a messy, emotional divorce from his wife (Kathleen Quinlan) who is also his partner in a medical clinic is suddenly slapped with a $7 million malpractice suit by a patient (Lisa Hartman).Except for Bill Pullman being the Hartman character's husband instead of Quinlan as the Dr.'s wife the stories were identical! Kind of spoiled the suspense when I realized it. Was this originally from a book? How did Sorkin, McCord and Frank get writing credit for this, anyway? "},{"Title":"Malice is an excellent thriller for the cerebral...","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Unlike my counterpart, I felt that Malice was neither long nor tangential. The sub-plot adds to the suspense by providing elements that diversify and complement the main plot.  The main plot alone would not be too dry to carry the movie, but it certainly would run like a documentary.  Who can argue that the trials Andy Safian is put through are extraneous when we almost literally feel his weariness grow as he is thrusted along by curiosity, deceit, and intrigue?  Moreover, how could one not almost smell the single-malt as Anne Bancroft dazzled and hypnotized as the mama Kennsinger, or as Jed Hill very logically arrived at the proclamation of his godliness. Indeed, this is one of those fine gems, so sparkling, so beautiful, that has suffered the all-to-common fate of being lost amongst the drivel Hollywood so carelessly thrusts upon the discerning movie-goer. Go see it, and tell me if it ain't so!  "},{"Title":"Suspend your disbelief...","Date":"4 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Some things in this movie are a bit unbelievable, which is the reason I only gave it a 7.  However, it is entertaining and worth the rental.  Alec Baldwin is perfect as the narcissistic, pretentious jerk.  Look for Gwenyth Paltrow in one of her first film appearances. "},{"Title":"Interesting","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Though this is my type of movie and I liked it very much, I would have liked it a lot better had I not seen a TV movie called The Operation which was very nearly the identical plot.  As soon as I became suspicious that this was indeed the same plot, the party was over as far as any suspense, twist, surprise ending or anything else.  Too bad because I would have enjoyed seeing it fresh. I actually took the trouble to check the writing credits and was surprised that they weren't the same. To be honest, I don't understand how the studio/writers got away with using a story that was so similar.  Oh, well.  If you haven't seen The Operation which pre-dated this by a good six years, it's a fun movie.  "},{"Title":"Memorable","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I have a good time during the first time I watched Malice (about 10 years ago!) and I still remember the fun I watched it, because I think it's a memorable thriller. Coincidentally, I found a copy of Malice in an extra cheap sale. So I gladly watched it again and once again I enduring a good time over it.Malice actually has a standard formula, a melodramatic tale about money-love-greed-crime issue. If you thriller-movie goers, I think you could guess the twist of the movie. But Harold Becker is a capable director and he proves he could make such a good thriller. His blend those common material with passion plus strong performances from his cast, Alec Baldwin, Bill Pullman, and especially the gorgeous Nicole Kidman in her early carrier.Despite the plain plot, but the solid cast and good directing make it as a memorable thriller. Malice is successfully jolting our emotion and stick us into our seat. I think I even could watch it over and over again without feels bore. I easily put it in the same shelf as Cape Fear, Single White Female, Silence of the Lambs, Double Jeopardy and The Hands That Rock The Cradle as my favorite thriller. Highly Recommended!8/10  "},{"Title":"Average","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Bill Pullman, who should be billed first, gives a great performance with average roles played by Alec Baldwin and Nicole Kidman. The story line was very well thought out and well.It's worth seeing because of the story. "}{"Title":"The BEST under-rated film of the 1990's","Date":"13 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I LOVE this movie!If you ask me, this is the role Alec Baldwin was born to play.  The God-complex scene alone is reason enough to see this movie.  Wonderful performance by Bill Pullman, plus great appearances by George C. Scott and Anne Bancroft.  I was glued to the screen the first time I saw it, and enjoyed every minute of it each of the ten times I have seen it since.  I went into the film knowing nothing about it, or the plot twists, which may be why I enjoyed it so much -- nothing had been ruined for me.  So stop reading these reviews that spoil the surprises and go see the movie. "},{"Title":"Great! Awesome!","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Since I saw Malice at the movies in 1994 the first time, I love it each time I watch it. Unfortunately there are not enough really good movies, like this one. It is still one of my absolute favorites. Alfred Hitchcock is back! "},{"Title":"One of the Best","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of my all-time favorite movies.  I watch it over and over again. It is such a psychological thriller that I can't even explain it to friends who haven't seen it.  Alec is a genius in this movie.  His G-d soliloquy is one of my favorite movies scenes ever.  This is a must see in my opinion.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant In Its Exhibition","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A tale about a happily married couple who would like to have children. Tracy teaches art, Andy's a college dean. Things are never the same after she is taken to a hospital and operated upon by Jed, a know all doctor.Roger Ebert called the film one of the busiest movies I've ever seen, a film jampacked with characters and incidents and blind alleys and red herrings. Many critics mention the red herrings and this has led to the film being critically downplayed, getting mixed reviews. In fact, this was a large part of what I enjoyed -- finding out every so often that things I thought were important really made no difference.The best thing about films like this is that they make you (or at least me) want to watch them again to see what was missed. Surely knowing some outcomes will make the second viewing all the more interesting. "},{"Title":"A good thriller/mystery","Date":"9 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" 1993's malice is a very well-made thriller/mystery film starring Nicole Kidman Alec Baldwin and Bill Pullman. This movie has excellent chemistry between the actors, great dialogue along with a great plot that is entangled with many twists and turns. Nicole Kidman did a fantastic job in this movie as Tracy, her character was so wonderfully written, and she really executed the character well. As for Alec Baldwin and his acting, as always, his acting in Malice was superb, very entertaining and a truly flawless performance as Dr. Hill. Bill Pullman did pretty good in his role, not quite as well played as Nicole and Alec, but Still played pretty well. The plot really impressed me, I found myself being shocked, and constantly surprised by thing after thing. If you want an entertaining thriller starring A-list actors with an awesome plot, then check out Malice (1993). 7/10 "},{"Title":"Malice Doesn't Live Here Any more.","Date":"5 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" After a fellow IMDb'er recently told me that she is a fan of the Erotic-Thriller Basic Instic,I decided to go on the IMDb List and Recomandation board,to ask if there were any other Erotic- Thriller's,that a fan of Basic Instinct would enjoy.Checking the very kind lists of recs that I received from the board,I was surprised to find out that one of her fav actress's (Nicole Kidman) had made an Erotic-Thriller.Taking a look at the info of the movie,whilst also taking part in a poll that was being held on the IMDb Classic Film board for the best titles of 1993,I was disappointed to find out that Malice had come out in 1993,due to there not being enough time for me to get hold of the movie before the poll closed.A week laterWith having stayed pretty quiet about my disappointment over not being able to watch Malice for the poll,I was completely caught by surprise,when a very kind IMDb'er gave me the great offer of being able to borrow the title,which led to me excitingly getting ready to come face to face with Malice for the first time.The plotRushing to the local hospital after being told that one of his students has been found brutally raped and left for dead,college professor Andy Safian talks to the hospital's leading doctorDr Jed Hill.To Andy's relief,Jed tells Hill,that although the patient was very close to dying,he has thankfully been able to save her.Joining her husband at the hospital,Andy introduces his wife Tracy Kennsinger to Jed Hill,who Andy praises for saving the life of one of his students.Strugling to think of a way that he can fully say thank you to Hill,Safian decides to ignore the objection's raised by Tracy,and offers Jed to become a tenet (for free) of the top floor in the new house that Andy and Tracy have recently brought.Astonished by Safian's display of kindness,Hill accepts the offer,and tells Andy that he will do everything he can to help the couple with the pregnancy problems the Safian has recently told Jed that he and his wife are suffering from.A few days laterPlaying some darts and sharing a round of drinks with his work mates,Jed suddenly gets a call from the hospital,who tell Hill that he needs to come in right away,so that he can perform an emergency operation on a patient who has just been brought in to the hospital.Arriving at the hospital,Jed is horrified to discover that the dying patient is in fact Tracy Kennsinger,who is suffering from a raptured ovaries,due to a cyst.Taking X-Ray's shortly before operating to remove the ovaries,Hill discovers that Tracy is in fact 5 weeks pregnant&#x85;View on the filmAvoiding the easy option of turning the movie into a simple skin show, (with the only main showing of flesh in the film being a naked,possibly body doubled,Nicole Kidman) director Harold Becker instead takes the film into a slivering Neo-Noir direction.For the first 30 minutes of the movie,Becker and cinematography Gordon Willis use Autumn colours to create a strong feeling of a varnish being added to the cheerful lives of Andy and Tracy.As Any and Tracy start to develop a friendship with Jed Hill,Becker rips the varnish off shred by shred,to reveal,that underneath the shiny appearance,lays wood that is covered by decaying greed and betrayal.Whilst Scott Frank and Aaron Sorkin's (with future Sorkin regular Joshua Malina also featuring in a small role) screenplay does feature a serial killer, (played by future Jigsaw Tobin Bell) who seems to have been chucked in just because the writer's seemed to suspect that the movie was lacking a needless serial killer angle,Frank and Sorkin smartly decide to use the first half an hour of the film to build up the relationships between the character's,so that they can then delightfully spend the rest of this Neo-Noir's time revealing the dark betrayal's lurking beneath,with Sorkin showing an early ear for whip-smart dialogue,as Sorkin gives Jed Hill cracking lines,that makes the character sound like a walking mega manic.Entering the film in blistering form,Alec Baldwin gives a delightfully scenery cheering performance as Dr.Jed Hill,thanks to Baldwin delivering the terrific dialogue with an irresistible relish,and Baldwin also showing Jed slowly change,from a mild-mannered,good hearted doctor,into something much more sinister.Along with Baldwin,Bill Pullman gives the film some real folk-like charm,as the very out of his comfort zone Andy,whilst Anne Bancroft gives a great,deranged,Miss Havisham style performance,and Nicole Kidman gives a strong,icy Femme Fatle dame performance,which unleashes the full malicious darkness contained within this varnished Neo-Noir. "},{"Title":"Off-Beat & Very Twisted","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Malice is a tremendously enjoyable psychological thriller with an off-beat story which is full of surprises, suspense and unpredictable characters. Murder, deception and betrayal figure prominently and frequent plot twists make it extremely gripping right from the start. The action is perfectly paced, the dialogue is sharp and Gordon Willis' impressive cinematography contributes strongly to the atmosphere of the piece.In a small town in Massachusetts, a young married couple who long to have children spend their spare time and a great deal of their money on renovating their Victorian house. In the day, Tracy Safian (Nicole Kidman) works in the children's ward of the local hospital and her husband Andy (Bill Pullman) is an associate dean at the town's college. Andy's job has become more difficult recently due to the activities of a serial rapist and killer who has been targeting the college students and this has led to Andy being critical of Detective Dana Harris (Bebe Neuwirth) for not making quicker progress in hunting down the culprit.Dr Jed Hill (Alec Baldwin) is a surgeon with a big reputation who's new to the town and immediately impresses his colleagues by saving the life of one of the rape victims. Andy recognises Jed as an old schoolmate and offers him temporary accommodation at his home until the doctor can find a suitable property of his own. This appears to be a good arrangement for both men and Andy looks forward to the extra income helping to fund his on-going renovation work. Tracy doesn't really take to Jed and soon becomes unhappy about his presence in her home, especially when he proves to be an extremely noisy tenant who regularly brings different women back to his room.After another of Andy's students is killed and he finds the body, Detective Harris suspects him of being involved and he's asked to provide a sperm sample. Tracy is suddenly taken ill with severe abdominal pains and is rushed to hospital where she's immediately operated on by Jed who has to remove one of her ovaries. Due to a problem also being identified with the second ovary, Jed speaks to Andy and explains that unless the second ovary is removed, it's possible that Tracy will die. In view of the circumstances, the heartbroken Andy gives his consent, the operation is completed and Tracy makes a full recovery.Tracy reacts angrily to what's happened and decides to sue Jed and then leaves Andy because he gave his permission for the operation to go ahead. Her action against Jed is successful and a settlement of $20,000,000 is agreed in her favour.Andy is cleared of any suspicion of involvement in the rapes but when he tells Detective Harris that it had been discovered during the operation that Tracy was pregnant, she informs him that he couldn't have been the father because his sperm sample confirmed that he was sterile. Obviously shocked by this information, he then embarks on an investigation that uncovers a whole series of shocking revelations.Malice has a strong cast and the quality of the acting is particularly good. The cameos featuring Anne Bancroft and George C Scott stand out but the best performance comes from Alec Baldwin as the extremely conceited surgeon who drinks and womanises too much and suffers from a God complex. He has the power to be both charming and threatening and really brings his colourful character to life. Bill Pullman does a good job as the hapless husband who discovers how little he knows about his wife and Nicole Kidman does well in a role that requires her to show different and sometimes contrasting aspects of her complicated character.Malice is totally unpredictable, full of outrageous developments and often puzzling and amusing at the same time. As a source of pure entertainment, it's great. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Game !","Date":"18 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Andy Safian is a small town college dean, and his wife Tracey is a school teacher. They desperately want children, and we get the impression they have been trying for some time. Enter Jed Hill, new Doctor at the local hospital, who meets and befriends Andy. So much so that Andy offers him the opportunity to rent a room at his home until he can get settled. Jed accepts, and Andy and Tracey become his landlords. Andy is distracted as he is dealing with the fact that someone is raping and murdering young girls from his college. The Police are all over the case, and even Andy himself is not above suspicion, and he is doing all he can to protect his young students. Against this backdrop, Jed is out letting off steam one night, and is drunk in a local bar when his emergency beeper goes. Jed rushes into the hospital to find Tracey, his landlord and his best friend's wife on the operating table. Andy arrives within minutes and Jed has to speak to him and tell him he can save Tracey, but must remove her ovaries, as they are necrotic. Andy of course tells Jed to save Tracey's life, which Jed does. However, when Tracey wakes from under the anaesthetic and finds she cannot ever bear children the movie really gets going. Tracey sues Jed and the Hospital. Jed, it seems, when forced to make a judgement call, got it wrong and removed a healthy ovary. Andy is left alone, with Tracey too traumatised to speak to him, and in hiding while her lawyer gets in to the business of suing the hospital, ending Jed's medical career and getting her compensation for the loss of her ovaries. Andy is desperate to contact her, but doesn't know where to find her. Jed has resigned himself to moving out of the Safian home, and is quietly drinking himself to oblivion in a rented hotel room. Out of sheer desperation to see and talk to Tracey, Andy muscles his way into her lawyers office, and demands to see her. Her lawyer turns him down flat, on instructions from Tracey. Clearly she does not want Andy in her life at all at this point. Then, a small scrap of seemingly innocuous information is let slip by the lawyer he has worked for Tracey before, when he did some work that involved Tracey's mother. This is news to Andy, who had always believed that Tracey's parents were long dead. In desperation, Andy tracks down Tracey's mother. The film steps up another gear at this point, and is well worth the effort of watching it. There are no weak spots in this cast, Pullman, Kidman and Baldwin are note perfect, but there is great support from such luminaries as George C Scott and the absolutely wonderful Anne Bancroft, who steals her one, pivotal, critical scene effortlessly. But that's not the end of it, there's also the fine Peter Gallagher, the lovely Bebe Neuwirth (who makes a great cop by the way), and in lesser roles, there's Tobin Bell (who became SAW, and shows his scary credentials here too) and finally a bit part for Gwyneth Paltrow as a surly student. The remainder of the film is full of surprises, and when the curtain is finally pulled back and the magician revealed, you have to marvel at the depth, scope and ambition of the plot. The movie easily bears multiple viewings, as you will undoubtedly spot things the second and even third times that failed to register on the first viewing. A clever, dark and intricate movie, with all the stars on top form. A last word about Alec Baldwin. His acting is out of the top drawer in this movie, and that is not meant to detract from the performances of Pullman and Kidman, who are also very very good. I guarantee you that you will watch the scene where Andy (Pullman)tracks down Tracey's mother (Bancroft) again and again. It is an absolute delight. "},{"Title":"First-rate thriller","Date":"27 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I am a mystery/thriller fan and Malice is the kind of first-rate thriller that rarely comes along any more. One that truly challenges the expectations of the audience and involves red herrings and misdirection.Set in an upper scale New England college town, Malice focuses on happily married college dean Bill Pullman and wife Nicole Kidman. The town is reeling from a series of serial murders by an unknown killer and Kidman is more than a bit perturbed when Pullman decides to rent their upstairs room out to school buddy and egocentric surgeon Alec Baldwin.If you think that you know where Malice is going from that synopsis, then think again. There are several plots at work in Malice and the one that we think will be the main focus becomes a rather neat little red herring. The film is cleverly written, adeptly acted and Harold Becker (of Sea of Love fame) provides tight direction. It is a joy to re-watch the film to see how adroitly the filmmakers and writers use our expectations against us.The film also keeps us guessing. It provides us with a set of characters who seem to fit neatly into the thriller genre and then sets about to confound us. For instance, Kidman's character seems destined from the opening moments to be the quintessential damsel in distress. The cuddly, well-meaning heroine whose world is invaded by an untrustworthy and unwanted boarder, who may be far more malevolent than even she believes. However, the film turns that assumption on its head and allows the actress to run the gamut from A to Z. And she does so admirably - this is arguably one of her best and most underrated performances.Pullman is quite appealing as the ostensibly nice guy dean. Baldwin nails his role as the swaggering surgeon with a major God complex. His mid-film meltdown under a cross-examination is really quite marvelous to watch, as is Kidman's droll comeback to his posturing. Bebe Neuwirth also scores a memorable turn as a local cop investigating the deaths. Gwyneth Paltrow has a brief part as an irresponsible student. Plus we get well-delineated cameos by George C. Scott, as Baldwin's former mentor, and Anne Bancroft, hamming it up in a surprise role.The film has genuine thrills, but it also keeps the audience consistently guessing as to who is doing what to whom and who is responsible for what. There are double-dealings and double-crosses, but all of them seem completely credible, and the film is also refreshingly free of gory violence.If the film has any real flaws it is merely an over-reliance on melodrama in the latter fourth. Additionally it seems unlikely that the mastermind behind the main plot would fall for such a suspicious snare as gets laid out in the climax. However, these seem relatively minor quibbles for a film that so astutely knows how to manipulate viewers and confound their initial impressions. "},{"Title":"malice , what a great piece !!!!!!!!!!","Date":"9 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Malice is wonderful drama thriller. it was made in the early 1990s with great actors like Alec Baldwin and Nicolde Kidman who by that time was just being recognized by the Hollywood critics due to her potentials and amazing ability to adopt to different scripts . the film is about a twisted law suit between Kidman and Baldwin which turns out to be a roller coaster ride of lies and massive turn of events . when the film starts you think it is going to be another clichéd version of crime dramas where girls get murdered and no one can fine out who is doing it till the end . on the contrary , these crimes were just a distraction in order to support the element of surprise. the director would mislead you in the mini details of the story and then he would put all the cards on the table which would regain the trust of the viewer after they were trying to put the pieces together . that is how a great director should be . misleading at times. and respectful to the viewer's vision which was clear in this one . Baldwin and Pullman did a great job . Kidman again proved to be a strong character in all her movies and always up for a challenge .the ending was unforgettable and the plot was so twisted it kept you guessing . i consider this film to be another gem that is put in the same category of The hand that rocks the cradle , Misery , Fatal attraction, Basic instinct, and other classic drama thrillers that changed the history of cinema and raised the bar high which made directors think twice before doing such projects . i highly recommend watching this one and you may ignore all the reviews that came out rating this film as clichéd and forgettable . it is far from that . you would really enjoy it and think of adding it to your video library .tarek s. "}{"Title":"Generic thriller, watchable but not that great","Date":"31 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" At a certain point in Malace, I kind of lost faith in the movie. It starts off as one thing and then becomes another by cheating with the plot in a obvious attempt to pull the wool over our eyes. At the beginning, and for a short but involving while, Malice looks like a psycho killer film. then it turns into a rather generic film noir, with all the stereotypes the high heels, the black mail, the bad girl, and a spectacular fall from a high place in slow motion. The plot gets progressively hard to believe and Nicole Kidman is given more than her acting ability can handle, which becomes a burden on the movieDuring the earlier portion of the movie (the better portion) Malice demonstrates on two or even three occasions that Director Harold Becker is more than capable of making his product not just a thriller but a scary movie, the kind that makes the audience jump, but suspense seems to be of little interest in the end. Malice entertains only on a superficial level. At times it can draw you towards the edge of your seat, but more often it has you sitting back, tired from watching genre clichés play out. What starts off good slowly degrades into a b-movie, a one in a million enterprise which may prove useful only if it is the only movie on the box late at night. It is certainly not unwatchable, it just not all that good. "},{"Title":"Welcome to the Game!","Date":"29 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I, unlike some of the other reviewers on this site, find this movie very enjoyable upon repeated viewings. Actually, I like it better each time I revisit this unpretentious con game flick that is full of droll, usually mordant wit, good plot and sub-plot development, crisp and cogent dialog and, of course, solid acting which propels the story line to a thoroughly plausible yet entertaining level. The child-like, yet eerie, recurring theme sound track adds its own distinctive flavors to the goings-on. The skill sets of our three stars (Kidman, Pullman and Baldwin) are already evident, but the additions of the likes of Anne Bancroft and Bebe Neuwirth, even in their limited time allotments, add much spice, subtle and not so subtle, to the cinematic mixture. This is not to minimize the efforts of the other supporting cast members whose character renderings are more than ample. Even the foreshadowed dummy at the Police station has a pivotal role in the film! Bill Pullman's character's metamorphosis from a meek, mild-mannered professorial type to a set-up mark then to a worldly-wise player is done with smooth transitions. He is no longer the Ivy League patsy that he was early on. As Anne Bancroft (the mom) tells him at the end of his visit to her Welcome to the game! And, by the way, welcome to a really enjoyable game story. "},{"Title":"Keeps You Involved","Date":"13 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Good performances by Baldwin and Kidman keep you going. One of those films where, in retrospect, it seems kind of dumb. The ending contained some over the top sequences that tarnished the film. When Kidman and Pullman struggle and fall twenty feet from a stairway balcony and don't get hurt, you wonder Are they cats? Real people would have died or suffered broken backs. It's inexusible that Pullman and Kidman, as a respectable married couple, would knowingly have sex without curtains in the bedroom in front of a 12 year old boy who never stops staring. He's a college dean and I hardly think he'd risk his reputation and job. The young couple relax patiently in bed while their boarder, Baldwin, has extremely loud sex accompanied by a cranked up stereo. Why would a 30 something doctor do something so childish? When it's revealed that the boy was blind, you wonder why a blind boy would sit motionless staring out a window for hours when he cannot see. Like I said, dumb. "},{"Title":"worth it just  to see Anne Bancroft play a great role","Date":"14 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I loved Anne Bancroft in this.She's good in anythingbut she was wonderfully wicked in this. A deliciously smart and nasty boozy mommy. I miss her as an actress and as a great human being. Nobody's quite like Anne Bancroft. She will be missed by people like me who love her. She's like the spider with the fly with she's talking with Kidman's hubby who just doesn't get the situation. Bancroft brings enormous power to this character. She's got to be one of the most extraordinary women actresses of our time. She's right up there with Streep and other greats. "},{"Title":"Give this movie what it deserves  - One of the Best movies of all time !!!","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" First of all Harold Becker did a wonderful job directing and at least got some recognition for this film. Aaron Sorkin and Jonas McCord wrote some amazing material in this movie. How many actors in this movie have won Oscars?If you can't answer it see it again.Alec Baldwin should have won an Oscar for this and other roles. This is his best performance to date and one of the best in the history of cinema. His deposition scene is a study of how to steal a scene.The only one better in this scene is George C. Scott , just watch his eyebrows, facial expressions, gestures -- far better acting than in Patton and he got an Oscar for Patton and not even a nomination for this short amazing role?Peter Gallagher does an excellent job in this scene also. Everyone knew Nicole was going to be good after Dead Calm but this is the best role she has ever played by far -- sweet,sexy,deceptive, vile on the turn of a dime like only she could make believable. The most outstanding performance amongst these excellent performances in movies is Anne Bancroft who won an Oscar previously but should have got at least nominated for this film. Watch twice her scene to appreciate her gestures, timing, expressions, as Mrs. Kennsinger -- she made you entranced by the reality of her character in a few short lines. Bill Pullman is a very likable actor who is good in his role as a naive husband. Just so everyone does not think I blindly adore every actors performance in this film. Bill is a very solid actor but against some of these amazing scene stealing performances he did not stand out as much as he could with his character. Gwyneth Paltrow, and Beb Neuwirth also contribute to the quality of this amazing,and one of the earlier ensemble cast movies that is not recognized for the outstanding quality throughout of the cast.Malice is one of the most underrated movies of all time. Rent, Download, review Malice several times to appreciate the writing, the actors craft and then re-rate it highly as it deserves. Please send to the websites of those involved in the movie (director,writers, actors, etc.) your compliments as they all mention how valuable working with each other on this movie was to them but do not mention the name of the movie because it was so underrated. Please do a little bit to help set the world straight(theme in the movie) and do something positive to help this movie ultimately get rewarded as it deserves. Remember the line Did I get what I deserved?Thank you "},{"Title":"Wicked and Shocking!","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A wicked movie in every sense of the word. You can see it was setup as a B-Movie but they added the A-list cast and while Bebe Neuwirth seems little awkward at times, each of them did a wonderful job. This may be Alec Baldwin's best work. The movie saw almost zero publicity, but is a great thriller the first time around, and is reasonably rewatcheable.Those that see plot holes are the ones going Oh! when they see it multiple times. So much is there to explain but they are fairly subtle.There are some great moments during this movie like when Alec's character rants on during George C. Scott's scene. It's well worth seeing and it may shock some viewers with the plot. There is no nudity except a rear shot of a woman and her bare belly during a sex scene. Nothing racy. "},{"Title":"Malice in Forethought","Date":"18 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** What takes a lot away from the movie Malice punch is that it's actually two stories in one that have really nothing to do with each other.Were at first made to believe that the film is about a serial killer on the loose on this small New England collage campus murdering and raping young female students. It's then when were introduced to the new doctor in town handsome arrogant and all full of himself Jed Hill, Alec Baldwin, that the film changes course into an illicit affair between Doc. Hill and the assistant dean of the collage Andy Safian's, Bill Pullman, sexy wife Tracy, Nicole Kidman.The serial killer angle is quickly eliminated with the killer collage handyman Earl Leemus, Tobin Bell,discovered and apprehended, after a life and death struggle, by Andy which in all respects should have ended the film. It's then that the real or core story comes to light in regards to Dr. Hill and Tracy and the almost unbelievable plan that the two concocted in fleecing the towns general hospital of $20,000,000.00 in a malpractice suite.Faking pregnancy Tracy keeps that from her husband Andy who's in fact, but doesn't know it, sterile. All this has Tracy end up in the local hospital with a case of an inflamed ovary due to massive doses of fertility drugs that she's been taking. Operated on by Dr. Hill Tracy has both her ovaries removed by the insistent Dr. Hill, against his fellow doctors advice, where one of them is later diagnosed to be healthy and fully functional.It's then that the devious plan devised between Dr. Hill & Tracy starts to unfold with Dr. Hill purposely making a complete fool of himself at a meeting at the hospital's lawyers office. It was there that it was to be determine by both sides, the hospital and the patience, if the removal of Tracy's second and healthy ovary, under the urgency of saving Tracy's life, was absolutely necessary. Dr. Hill claiming to be God himself insists, against his lawyers and the hospitals strong advice, that he and only he in fact blotched the operation leaving Tracy unable to conceive and thus opening the door for a multi-million malpractice suit against the hospital where Dr. Hill was employed.As all this is going on Andy realizing that Tracy was cheating behind his back goes to see her lawyer Dennis Riley, Peter Gallagher, feeling that he's the person whom she's been having an affair with. It turns out that Tracy has been holding back a lot more then her being pregnant by Andy in what Riley, after convincing Andy that he's not the other man, tells him. This leads to Andy then tracking down Tracy's mother, whom she told him died twelve years ago, Mrs. Kennsinger (Anne Bancroft). Andy with the help of a bottle of expensive malt scotch liquor gets Mrs. Kennsiner to open up and reveal the truth about her deceitful and gold digging daughter; A truth that shocks Andy back to reality from the fantasy world that he's been living while married to Tracy.Despite an excellent cast that includes both George C. Scott as Dr. Kessler, Jed Hill's professor at Harvard Medical School,and Babe Neuwirth as the local police detective Dana Harris, assigned to the collage serial murder case, the movie Malice just doesn't hold water and fall apart well before it's totally ridicules and unconvincing ending. What was really off the wall in the film was the very strange relationship between Dr. Hill and Tracy as well as Tracy herself.Why would a bright and very attuned young man like Dr. Hill get involved with an unstable and possibly schizophrenic Tracy Safian? Dr. Hill with his vast knowledge of medical matters should have realized that****SPOILERS*****Tracy would unravel as soon as things start getting hot for the two of them. As Andy started to put, with his knowledge of their underhanded money scheme, the screws on both Tracy and Dr. Hill it was Tracy that predictably cracked and that in effect lead to both her and the doctor turning on each other. Hill at least was willing to give in to Andy and split the take, the $20,000,000.00 malpractice suit that Tracy got, with him. It was Tracy's greed and stupidity that lead her to not only get caught in trying to finagle the money out of the hospital coffers but also end up with a both murder and, of a young man that she thought can implicated both her and Hill, attempted murder rap pinned against her. "},{"Title":"Deliciously Malicious","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" This is still very watchable, even a generation later.Not watchable for the camera perspective or dynamics, these are quite bland. This is a study of lighting and perceiving a noir world, figurative and literal. The obvious borrowing for this is Presumed Innocent, and Gordon Willis put his strong imprint on both of these projects. We can immerse ourselves in the sumptuous shadows, get nice and cozy. Kasdan's Body Heat also comes to mind.The plot excess is required because of what WE expect from a noir world. Characters mean nothing, only the mechanics of fate, the architecture. The evil doctor admits that, were he not a physician, he'd be a building. There is much appreciation of the 'God Complex' soliloquy, and rightly so; Baldwin knows how to elicit the writer's perspective -- who else would have God's relation to the story? His method is exact, forceful, charming, all at once.Points off for the stagy/TV camera inertia, but points added for the trueness to the modern noir idiom. "},{"Title":"Distasteful, often ridiculous, but what a cast!","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Misbegotten, over-heated thriller about the new surgeon at a New England hospital who is invited to board with an old high school acquaintance and his wife, which soon leads to a series of crosses and double-crosses. Slickly-made assemblage of red herrings, plot-holes and clichés. An entire sub-plot about a serial rapist turns out to be fatuous padding, and some of the plot-twists are surprisingly tasteless for such a classy, big-budget thriller. Terrific actors Alec Baldwin, Nicole Kidman and Bill Pullman (and Gwyneth Paltrow in a small part) manage to make the preliminaries gripping, but once the story threads start tying themselves into knots, there isn't much this cast can do except struggle. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Overlooked","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  It's a shame this film is overlooked by many. Granted, certain elements of the plot strain credibility yet the story is still possible if not probable. The acting is strong however. Bill Pullman as the sympathetic everyman, Nicole Kidman as his wife with a secret past, and especially Alec Baldwin as the alpha male all shine. The supporting cast which features George C. Scott, Vanessa Redgrave, and a young Gwenyth Paltrow is also strong. All in all, a more than worthwhile thriller, 7/10. "}{"Title":"A great dark thriller","Date":"30 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  MALICE has a lot on its mind; as a result,the viewer is told several interesting stories. This film is moody,with shadows both within andwithout. The script is probably the best part,and the cast does agreat job with it,particularly Alec Baldwin,whose God complexsoliloquy is probably the highlight of the film. Nicole Kidman andBill Pullman are also great; however,it's Anne Bancroft who walks away with the movie. Gwyneth Paltrow also makes an appearance. MALICE is full of rich,dark colors that enhance the mood. "},{"Title":"Good Suspensefilled movie","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  The previews wooed me, the front cover intrigued me, and the movie thrilled me. Great performances by all three of the main characters including the lady cop. I really was intrigued because the previews  left you hanging as to the plot of the story and thats good PR selling technique because I had no idea what the movie was about and it made me more interested. This was a break through performance for Kidman to me because she showed versatility. She was also very convincing. By the way, I think she is doing fantastic without Tom. And Baldwin did very good as the handsome, egotistical,and oh-so deceptive/doctor with the God Complex. The scene stealer of the whole film was I am God. Doesn't get any better than that. "},{"Title":"Good Suspenseful Story","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  There are several nice twists in this well acted suspense story of a professor's (Pullman) wife (Kidman) having an affair with an obnoxious, egotistical doctor. (Baldwin)Pullman doesn't know of the affair at first and is happy with Kidman's pregnancy and then the twists come in to play.Altho most viewers may find this predictable it is still very well acted by all and a good appearance is made by Frazier's wife Neuworth.If you don't expect too much you will have a pleasant time watching this. "},{"Title":"Ingredients are there, but it just doesn't taste right!","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Weird one this! Watching it for the second time, I was determined to enjoy and understand it, as last time I watched it I was rather too interested in my own personal plot development with the girl sitting next to me!However this film still doesn't quite add up. As my summary suggests, not all things can be described as a sum of their parts, and despite good performances from the two leads (I am not counting Bill Pullman here!), the film cannot grab the attention like it should. The 'secret' at the end seemed a little too mundane to deserve a tagline, and even without a blonde beauty sitting next to me, my attention was distracted.Give it a go - if I'm just an unattentive viewer then please tell me - I'll start on sitcoms! "},{"Title":"Kinda silly","Date":"14 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has some great moments, but some of them are stupid and illogical.  If you can suspend disbelief for the duration, you might enjoy the movie.  A fantastic cameo by Bancroft helps immensely.  See Kidman act like herslef at the end. "},{"Title":"A straight-to-video twister with a big name cast","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Andy is a school teacher and his partner Tracy volunteers to work with kids at the local hospital.  Together they are forming a dream life together.  When ace doctor Jed Hill moves back into town, Andy offers to let him rent their upstairs room.  Despite the difficulty this presents with noise etc it works out OK and Jed is able to advise a little on Tracey's abdominal pains.  Andy has bigger problems however with a rapist terrorising his students.  Things get worse when he is implicated in the crimes and Tracey goes into hospital and has an ovary removed.  When it is found that the ovary was healthy Tracey sues Jed and the hospital for $20million and separates from Andy.  However is everything what it seems?I hadn't seen this film before.  Al I remember about it was that it did good business at the time and that it got quite a lot of press for being twisty.  Watching it now I must say that I'm surprised that it did as well as it did.  In my opinion this has more in common with the bottom shelf thrillers in your video shop than a Hollywood blockbuster.  The plot is twisty but just too self-consciously so.  Because you've seen it done hundreds of time before in bad videos, you know what to expect and little is a surprise.  It doesn't help that half the film is a big red herring that is forgotten just as soon as it's set the other half of the plot in motion.It has energy but it is false energy driven by daffy twists and turns.  The main reason this did well was the cast involved.  Pullman is good in a pretty straight role.  Kidman is pretty strong with a typical character but Baldwin seems to have the most fun with a ballsy character &#150; the `I am god' moment being my favourite.  Support includes Scott, Bancroft, Paltrow and Gallagher so it does look deep but really they are window dressing on an uninteresting film.Overall I expected more given the reputation this film has, but, apart from the cast, this is pretty run of the mill stuff for anyone who watches `direct to video' thrillers.  I'll admit that the big red herring did send me in the wrong direction &#150; but to base half your film on something you don't use seemed a pretty cheap trick to me.  Overall worth a watch once if you're into this type of film but don't expect this to come anywhere near the reputation it has somehow garnered. "},{"Title":"Not Nice","Date":"30 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Harold Becker directed this suspense thriller that stars Bill Pullman & Nicole Kidman as Andy & Tracy, a seemingly happily married couple who would desperately like to have children. Alec Baldwin plays a new doctor in town named Jed whom Andy used to know. After Tracy suffers a botched operation at the hands of Jed, his life falls apart, although it gets worse with both a serial killer loose on a college campus(with him as suspect!) and his growing suspicion of his wife, which proves more than justified... Good cast and direction, but script is too convoluted and far-fetched to be believed, piling too much on poor Andy, who is the undeserved victim of a most malicious plot. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock...Lite *Possible Spoiler*","Date":"16 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" It's not a bad movie, only marginal. Better than today's movies, but still...it feels dated. I like the performances of the leads. But it gets frustratingly mean spirited as it gets to the end. Overall, it's a nostalgic watch very reminiscent of Hitchcock, but falls short when the people we want to suffer, don't. And there are inexplicable moments that draw out the story, such as the riddle- ladened drunken mother. There is NO reason she couldn't just come out and confess about her daughter.Also, they throw in an attorney to misguide you. There are plenty of moments where you do want to just shake the lead character's shoulder and tell him to leave. Or that the payoff to the comeuppance of the antagonist was to reveal an a-ha! moment. This seems forced.It's a good watch on a slow night. "},{"Title":"great, but a few flaws","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" You have four really great actors, a very intricate plot complete with twists and turns to the very end. And you even have an unknown (at the time) Gwyneth Paltrow to boot. Malice was probably one of my favorite films in the 1990's, and still is today.Alec Baldwin is fabulous playing the egocentric doctor, Jed Hill. His character is completely vapid in every way. He even calls himself God. Bill Pullman is the perfect choice for everyman, Andy Safian. His character is not exceptional in any way, except in his consistency. Pullman pulls it off like he always does, with subtlety. Bebe Neuwirth is great as the detective, and probably the only one who can hold up a perfect New England accent. She's tough, honest, and determined to get her culprit. But, the real gem in this movie is Nicole Kidman. I won't give away anything here. But in short, watching her character switch gears several times is amazing. How she wasn't considered for an Oscar for this film is an insult. Oh, and for a last treat, check out Anne Bancroft's cameo as Nicole's mother. She steals the scene and plays her part to perfection.So....the flaws. For someone whose character is as meticulous to detail as Nicole's is, she makes two major mistakes that seem rather novice. The subplot, involving the serial rapist, takes up too much of the film. While it is needed, to establish times when Andy needed to be elsewhere, it really served no other purpose.Those might be a little nit-picky. But I digress. Other than those two things, I found this to be a top notch mystery that people will enjoy. And the best part is that at least twice you will find yourself thinking you know what is going to happen. And twice, you will be wrong.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Flat, ordinary thriller","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Flat, ordinary thriller about a conniving woman who deceives all those she supposedly loves in order to boost her bank account. Nicole Kidman plays the deceptive Tracey, married to the doting Andy (Bill Pullman). When an old school friend of Andy's named Jed Hill (Alec Baldwin) turns up as the resident surgeon, trouble is not far behind him.Script fails in that it does not carefully develop the promising premise into an effective, tantalising thriller, and the severe lack of character motivation, background and development leaves the whole show reaching. None of the cast are able to generate interest in their shallow characters, especially Bill Pullman, whose own inexplicably curious Andy is impossible to believe.Poor director Harold Becker is left trying to resurrect an impossibly dead project, and is unable to make entertainment from any of it. By the time the 'secret' of the plot is revealed, you just won't care.At least the cinematography has Massachusetts looking good. Also stars George C. Scott, Peter Gallagher and Josef Sommer.Sunday, February 25, 1996 - T.V. "}{"Title":"this should be  comedy","Date":"25 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I saw this movie a few years back on the BBC i sat thru it. How? i don't know,this is way up there in the so bad it'Good  charts Kidman ,Baldwin,and Pullman must cringe when they see it now.I think Woody Allen would have worked wonders with the outlandish plot, and Baldwin's part could have been played with gusto by Leslie Nelson.it was on again tonight i tried to watch it again but life's too short. the few minutes i watched was for the lovely Nicole she was so hot around 93, has Baldwin ever made a good movie? Pullman played his stock in trade nice but dim character the F-word coming out of his mouth when the lady from frasier miscast ed as a detective accuses him of murder sounds so wrong. stay well away. "},{"Title":"A good film !","Date":"27 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" That's a really good film. I enjoyed it! Performances from almost all actors are awesome, especially from Alec Baldwin. I think its a must-see film. Good plot - no doubt. The whole story is interesting. I would recommend the film to anybody who likes conspiracy theories and a bit of thriller. Nicole Kidman is good, but the most important seems to be the performances from Baldwin and Bancroft. It is absolutely interesting that the film keeps a secret. You will not find what this secret is until the end. A real conspiracy! The story is sophisticated and not boring at all. On the contrary, the film contains thriving parts of well-structured dialogues as well as a continue which keeps interest of the watcher, until the end. "},{"Title":"Aren't we all God in some way or other?","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" In October, 1993, when my grandfather took me to see Cool Runnings, my parents and grandmother went to see Malice. When I saw Malice many years later, I was quite surprised at what they had seen while I had watched something as silly as Cool Runnings (which I will say, was a pretty funny movie). It portrays a three-way relationship between a professor (Bill Pullman), his wife (Nicole Kidman), and her gynecologist (Alec Baldwin). Following a botched medical procedure, we find out that none of these individuals is really what they seem. I don't know how much I can tell you without giving away the whole movie, but I can tell you this. Probably the most famous scene is Alec Baldwin's God speech, but equally effective is Anne Bancroft's few minutes on screen. Her speech there helps us understand just how much we don't know about various characters.Anyway, it's one of those movies that sets you up and holds you...and then catches you when you least expect it. You may never think the same way about anything after watching this movie. Also starring Bebe Neuwirth, Josef Sommer, Tobin Bell and a very young Gwyneth Paltrow. "},{"Title":"film noir","Date":"7 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" When I refer to Malice as a film noir I am not likening it to such masterpieces as Sunset Boulevard, Double Indemnity or The Maltese Falcon, nor am I comparing director Becker to Alfred Hitchcock, Stanley Kubrick, Stanley Kramer or Luis Bunuel. I am merely registering a protest against the darkness that pervades this movie from start to finish, to the extent that most of the time you simply cannot make out what is going on. I can understand darkness in night scenes but this movie was dark even in broad daylight, for what reason I am at loss to understand. As it is, however, it wouldn't have made much difference if director Becker had filmed it in total darkness. "},{"Title":"nice","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I did really like this movie! The story was very good, though the serial rapist had NOTHING to do with the rest of the story! Very weird. Nicole looked good as ever though, love it when she plays the evil thing.. There was a little mistake in it, though. When Tracy and Jed are fighting about giving the money to Andy or not, she says that she'll have the money in a few days. That same evening she calls Andy (after killing Jed) to say she has the money. That's quite impossible, she plays a very smart woman in this movie, she wouldn't make mistakes like that, you think? It was very cool that the kid next door appeared to be blind, by the way.Yes, I really did like this one! "},{"Title":"So implausible as to be stupid...","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is suspenseful enough, but the plot is so drastically implausible as to be absolutely idiotic at points.  Even when we figure out what is going on, a very forced ending is used to make you suspect character motives even though this ending could never happen in real life.  This movie suffers from so many flaws it's not practical to list them here.  The real highlight is a massive red herring added just to supply one tiny plot point.  And, the personal relationships in this movie don't make any sense at all.  Even if you buy the grand con approach to everything, it still does not work.  Don't waste the excessively long period of time this movie will steal from your life.One good point to this movie  for those of you tired of hearing about the vastly overrated Nicole Kidman, you get a bit of revenge here (and lots of shots of her naked bottom as well, guess she realizes her only good points all too well).   "},{"Title":"Cheating the customer","Date":"28 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" To me Malice was a big disappointment. While I don't really find fault with the actors or the directing, the screenplay really stinks. I don't mind a storyline that runs in jumps, is unexpectedly shifting from one issue to another or characters who aren't what they seem to be, but it all should have a justification and some credibility. In this movie most of it just came across as a bad excuse because the writers didn't come up with a better idea. Malice has a big budget thrust and can't help being pretentious. That makes me angry, and as a viewer I feel cheated.Some reviewers dare compare Malice with a Hitchcock picture. Every Hitchcock picture I have seen explores at least one of the main characters, their specific situation, trying to explain why these characters act and behave the way they do. Hitchcock pictures, for all their horror and shock value, are morally sound. I should like to call them honest. In Malice, some gruesome events and additional characters are just thrown in for good measure or out of embarrassment. The main characters come through as greedy, shallow and basically soulless creatures. In the context of this movie I find this somehow dishonest.One of my three stars goes to Bill Pullman. Before, I knew him only from movies where he appeared in slick successful macho type roles. Here he plays a mild schoolteacher and shows that his range is much wider than I had previously thought. Two stars go to Anne Bancroft whose short performance up to a point atoned for the movie's lack in script integrity. I found it a pleasure just to watch her shuffle those cards. "},{"Title":"plot element overload with little satisfaction","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Andy Safian (Bill Pullman) is the Associate Dean at a local college. A serial rapist attacks a student and the new hot-shot brash doctor Jed Hill (Alec Baldwin) saves her life. Andy realizes that Jed is a popular former high school classmate. Andy's wife Tracy (Nicole Kidman) is a children school teacher and his former student. Andy rents out their third floor to Jed but he's a bad tenant. Andy finds the dead body of student Paula Bell (Gwyneth Paltrow) and detective Dana Harris (Bebe Neuwirth) sees him as a suspect despite being his friend. Tracy suffers a rupture of an ovarian cyst. A drunk Jed operates and mistakenly takes out both ovaries as well as causing a miscarriage. Tracy blames Andy for allowing it to happen as she sues Jed.The movie is overloaded with red herring, blind twist and subplots where a serial killer actually dead ends to nothing but a random guy. At some point, I wonder what this movie is really about. It has so much plot that it sinks under its own weight. It may hurt Aaron Sorkin physically but he needed to simplify the story. Alec Baldwin is chewing up the dialog and is a full-on arrogant douche. In a simple story about Jed, that would be a powerful scene. However it becomes just another big writing scene in a movie full of wild writing. "},{"Title":"Pretty Good Story With Inconsistent Acting","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Malice features a good, if somewhat bizarre storyline, somewhat detracted from by what I thought were inconsistent performances from the lead actors. It can be a bit tough to follow at times because of the changes in focus. The movie starts with concerns about a rapist on the loose attacking college girls, progresses through a tragedy around the inability of the Safiens (Bill Pullman and Nicole Kidman) to have children, and finally ends up being about an insurance scam with tragic results.Of the lead actors, Alec Baldwin (as Dr. Jed Hill) offered probably the best performance of the movie, but I didn't think it as one of the stronger performances I've seen him in. Pullman and Kidman were basically OK, although I thought Kidman did very well (surprisingly well, in fact) in the last half hour or so, playing a bad girl role - which I'm not used to seeing her in. Hopelessly miscast, in my view, was Bebe Neuwirth as a police detective on the trail of the rapist.The twists and turns in the plot made this entertaining, if a bit head-spinning, and while the performances weren't stellar, they didn't really mar the movie. Still, I thought the whole thing was just a bit too hard to keep track of. I like a good mystery, but this head-spinning stuff, trying to keep up with the various curve balls that kept being thrown at me, came to be a bit much. An OK movie, but no better than that. 5/10 "},{"Title":"A few divergent themes...but not bad","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The theme has been done before. This was written by Aaron Sorkin (West Wing) and is well directed. It was filmed on the campus of Smith College; beautiful architecture and set design. The theme with Alec Baldwin works. As an arrogant surgeon, he fits the bill perfectly. Nicole Kidman as his sometime accomplice is at first mysterious, then becomes a harpy.Bill Pullman as her beleaguered husband, is good but a bit too dominated by the rest of the cast. The sub-plot, with a serial killer/rapist on the loose at a new England College, just seems extraneous. The Kidman/Baldwin/Pullman deception would have been good enough.Also, there is an unnecessary role with Bebe Neuwirth as a detective. Awful accent. Anyone who has ever been to Boston will laugh at the exaggeration she uses to sound like she is a Bostonian. This sub-plot nearly ruins the film, but if you ignore it, the movie is okay, if not a bit contrived. 6/10. "}{"Title":"Mixed feelings","Date":"10 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" MALICE tells the tale of a young small town couple struggling to make ends meet, and their life-changing run-in with an old school chum who is now a big time surgeon with a god complex. Leads Bill Pullman, Nicole Kidman and Alec Baldwin are all fine, and the movie has several twists and turns to keep one alert and awake. But it's all been done before, and the film begins to feel awkward and dated long before the somewhat predictable finale. Kidman is truly the sole reason for watching this. She is edgy and scary, and bites off her dialogue like a terrier ripping into flesh. She is a past master of playing bitchy and neurotic females. "},{"Title":"Ridiculous writing and Plot","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Acting was fine. I will cut to the chase...characters played by Nicole Kidman and Alec Baldwin devise a plot to create a malpractice suit. She romances the Bill Pullman character, they set up housekeeping and go through life, they do not appear to be newlyweds. Alec Baldwin arrives on the scene, playing a brilliant surgeon with great income potential, he then purposely screws up an easily life threatening operation on Kidman's character so that he may ruin his career and split a totally unknown settlement with her. Bill Pullman character tracks them down and apparently puts a hypodermic needle on a bed in the doctor's house. The doctor immediately knows that their plot has been uncovered by Bill Pullman and he knows everything. If you can swallow these two (they are my favorites) whoppers and still like this movie, you are mad! "},{"Title":"A lot of implausible twists","Date":"21 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" *** spoilers! ***Am I the only one who guessed the setup already at the scene in the hospital, where Tracy says I have spoken to my lawyer this morning. How did she even know at the time that the doc had taken out a healthy organ, when actually the hospital was trying to cover it up at the time. At the latest in the meeting between the lawyers when Jed delivers his I am God speech, I was sure where this was heading. There are so many implausible twists in the story, I could go on forever. And what was that serial killer story for? Only for Andy to discover he couldn't have children?? How cleverly devised .... Don't waste your time on this one. "},{"Title":"Malice Didn't  Convince Me","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" I watched MALICE on TV with my wife. I hesitated to buy it on DVD and fortunately I waited until this has been shown on cable. The story begins very promisingly but then loses the point moving between an assassin or intriguing love affair movie. I was asking what has this to do with that problem and so on, you know. I think the director wanted to create a gripping, thrilling and dramatic movie but he didn't succeed completely. It is very difficult to mix all in a well packed thriller. Here he could have cut some elements giving it a clear and unpredictable touch. The performances of Bill Pullman, Nicole Kidman and Alec Baldwyn therefore were great and saved this movie from a complete disaster. I would give it an average rate of 6/10. "},{"Title":"Great Cast + Bad Direction = Typical Thriller w/ a not so shocking Twist!","Date":"1 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  Malice is a mildly entertaining thriller that will surely loose interest on a second viewing. Bill Pullman gives us a wonderful performance as the innocent husband is this story of betrayal. He's just perfect for the role. Great casting decision and wonderful acting by Pullman that although strangely absent from the poster steals the show.Alec Baldwin is also very convincing in his role. With his charisma he holds the first part of the movie together. Unfortunately the script ruins his character towards the end which is a shame. Then there's a young Nicole Kidman wish less acting lessons. Not in the same league as Baldwin and Pullman she still doesn't disappoint although fairly weak.Finally Anne Bancroft. Fantastic job on her only scene making it the best in the movie. The story however is a little too unrealistic and at times very predictable even the supposedly shocking secret. There's a sub-plot that fails miserably with no reason to exist and the ending is too Hollywood for my taste.The direction and the photography are both awful. The movie is too dark and at times I have to say badly shot. Amazingly bad. However for the fans of the genre or the cast there's still a lot to enjoy.The movie has some charm, good acting and keeps your interest.Its fun. But once you know what is going on its a little disappointing. "},{"Title":"A malicious trick on the audience","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  These days, there just aren't many leading roles left for such venerable but aging talents like George C. Scott and Anne Bancroft, so these Oscar winning performers must content themselves with small but important parts in major motion pictures.  Either that or ply their trade on television or in B flicks. The latter option may have been better for Scott and Bancroft than their roles in Malice, a thriller that starts off as one movie and ends up being something completely different.  Unfortunately, that is not as good as it sounds.  Malice is less surprising than it is dishonest.The place is a New England college where dean Andy Safian (Bill Pullman) and wife Tracy (Nicole Kidman) struggle to make ends meet although they appear, to this viewer anyway, to be living in something approaching splendor.  A young female student is found murdered on campus, and, of course, one is led to believe that Malice will concern itself with the hunt for her killer. The chief suspect would seem to be Dr. Jed Hill (Alec Baldwin), a brilliant surgeon who establishes a rapport with the dean because, although they socialized in different circles, they attended the same high-school.  Hill soon becomes a boarder in the dean's home, much to the annoyance of Tracy who finds the surgeon to be an arrogant, womanizing prima donna, one whose sexual escapades in his upstairs bedroom interferes with her sleep.  When Tracy's chronic abdominal pains require emergency surgery, it is Dr. Hill who operates and makes a judgment call with the approval of her husband, that leads to a different story involving a malpractice suit.  In the meantime, the second murder victim is discovered on the campus grounds.  As one wonders exactly which story Malice is concerned with, the killer is apprehended, and since the movie is not yet half over, the viewer realizes he has been set up by the screenwriters with a subplot that is merely a red herring.  It is the malpractice suit that Malice dwells upon, and the serial killer episode is merely some kind of misguided and misleading attempt to duplicate the shock of Janet Leigh's early disappearance from Hitchcock's Psycho.There is suspense in Malice, but by planting that serial killer in the script, the writers create that suspense by cheating, fooling the audience into believing what is patently false rather than smoothly blending the surprises into the story.  The art direction and cinematography are the highlights of this half-baked Hitchcock style thriller, and Jerry Goldsmith's haunting score commands notice.  As for the performances, neither Baldwin nor Kidman manage to hide the seams in their portrayals. Kidman, with her baby face and haystack of Orphan Annie curls is especially miscast here.  Pullman, in the unrewarding role of a bland college dean, is good, managing to be bland without being dull.  Scott and Bancroft are completely wasted. "},{"Title":"Simply pathetic","Date":"10 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" The first plot of the serial killer rapist was unnecessary. It did not do anything to further the plot or explicate on the character of Bill Pullman. The movie is simply too long. There is no reason to keep the flick going for as long as it does. All that the murder rapist plot imparts to Pullman's character is that he becomes angry when he is questioned. The time given to it is not necessary because the only consequence of that particular plot line is that it requires that he give sperm to the police for testing. This obviously could have been done much more succinctly. A mere doctor's test for impotency or a donation to a sperm bank could have provided the same result. Also, I do not believe that the final line of the movie regarding blended scotches (Nicole Kidman's mother's comment) has anything to do with the relevance of the movie. To give a marginal character the final word is particularly discourteous to what this movie could have had. The premise is not bad. The conglomeration of the plots, characters, and events is disjointed and mostly non-descriptive regarding anything that deserves recording. "},{"Title":"Implausible - contrived - strained my credulity.","Date":"3 September 2007","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" A potboiler - Nocole is a boiling sexpot who may be a reincarnation of Bessie Denker (THE BAD SEED). Her criminal achievements go back a few years. And, as we all know, bad girls tend to stay bad. Maybe the good doctor grew weary of being God and decided to put a little more spice and vinegar into his life.The good doctor, God or no God, was not adept at financial planning. He agreed to sacrifice his burgeoning medical career and all the trimmings for his cut of the malpractice insurance settlement, minus hefty legal fees, etc. He must have had some hot tips on hedge funds or some foolproof Ponzi scheme. And the Lissome Nicole might be tempted to pull a fast one and stiff him. Her defense could have been God made her do it. In the sex scene in the buff in the house on the bluff, the alluring Nicole and the good doctor get right down to it, fast. She fixes her lascivious gaze on the good doctor. In response, he sticks his tongue out as his eyes glaze over. Overacting, anyone? Suddenly, Nicole skins off her sweatshirt in an amazingly quick move, faster than Shane could draw his sixgun. Her expression changed to that of a deer in the headlights. Curious, I re-watched that scene at slow speed; this revealed that she needed to shave her armpits and was obviously trying to conceal her inattention to good grooming. Maybe I am missing some cinematic metaphor of great depth here. Francois Truffaut or Ingmar Bergman wouldn't have given a rip.The film is incredibly contrived. It's hard to believe that Nicole and the good doctor gin up up the insurance fraud scheme in such a short time. Finally, it's too bad that Nicole's still attractive Mother and Lawyer Peter Gallagher weren't factored into a lively foursome. Now, that would really have been contrived. "},{"Title":"similar to a tv movie 3 yrs prior...","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  incredibly similar to a tv movie released 3 yrs prior......known originally as bodily harm later as the operation  --  released ~3 yrs prior to malice....hmm...very interesting...which came first?  tv productions *are* usually shorter....but this seems quite a gap.as for malice the 'serial rapist' storyline is totally superfluous -- just filler and detracts from the main story.  Otherwise, pretty good flick "},{"Title":"Funny","Date":"21 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":" Some scenes in this movie were filmed in the town where I was living at the time of its release. I went to see it with some friends at a packed theater opening night. It may be that we were the only ones in on the joke, but we seriously could not stop laughing. The whole thing seemed like such a caricature of a Hitchcock film, with all sorts of other film clichés mixed in, that we were convinced it was intentionally funny. Unfortunately, the people seated near us were probably horrified by our uncontrollable laughter.The character monologues are a good example. The old lady with the single-malts scene had us on the floor. All this drama and tension riding on what she had to say, but she neither said anything, nor was there any reason you might care. And the God Complex speech. Tears were streaming down my eyes I was laughing so hard. Again, the huge gap between the forced tension and the complete vacuum of the meandering storyline. Pure comedy genius, if that's what these filmmakers were trying to do.And this is why I give it a 5. It's pretty clear that this wasn't intended to be a comedy. If it were, it would get a 9. If it hadn't crossed the so bad it's funny threshold, it would have gotten a 1. "}{"Title":"A very creepy movie!!!","Date":"6 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is about a college dean and his wife. They are played by Bill Pullman(Lake Placid) and Nicole Kidman(eyes wide shut) . One day the dean meets a old friend at the hospital, He is played by alec baldwin. From that encounter on, no one is who they appear to be. The movie is very creepy and just to show that appearances can be different than they appear!!Overall, a very creepy movie that can give you nightmares!!! "},{"Title":"dark depressing thriller-not impressed.","Date":"23 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Mystery, Thriller","Review":"  I confess to not having watched this in its entirety. I managed to get most of it though and was not impressed. Psychological thrillers are one of my favorite genres of movies but this was so darn depressing with none of the suspense needed to take the doom and gloom atmosphere away. Nicole Kidman is great (as always) but I  have liked her better in other roles and the whole dark icky plot just didn't play well with me. 4 out of 10.  "}]