[{"Title":"Ludicrous psychological thriller with a good score and a few good moments","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There's a big laugh in the middle of this contrived psychological thriller. I won't give it away, because it's easily the best moment in the film. It's the scene in a bar with Don Johnson, and it sketches in his character more brilliantly than anything before or after. You'll know it when you see it.Well, if you see it. If the script had displayed that kind of wit throughout, this movie would be a must-see. As it is, there is too little that makes it memorable and too much that makes it hard to suspend disbelief.Rebecca De Mornay plays a flashy criminal defense attorney who does her job with spectacular cunning &#x96; even for the most unsavory defendants. But her newest client (Don Johnson) is not just unsavory. He could be dangerous enough to kill her.The first thing you'll notice is Howard Shore's excellent score during the title sequence. It's silky and sinister and immediately draws you in (despite the tacky-looking computer graphic that accompanies it). Next, the film looks really good. Sidney Lumet &#x96; who also gave us Twelve Angry Men, The Verdict and many other terrific movies &#x96; knows how to direct a good courtroom thriller. And what a courtroom. The photographer, Andrzej Bartkowiak, makes the most of this spacious green-marble set.An early scene is promising. Don Johnson glides into De Mornay's office and asks her to take his case, brazenly confessing that he's a womanizer and a gigolo &#x96; yet innocent of throwing his wife out of a skyscraper window. She refuses at first, but Johnson's boyish egotism is too hypnotically fascinating.But later, both actors falter. De Mornay makes several bad choices in her performance, playing too many scenes like a frightened rabbit. Johnson has a scene in his apartment, where he makes a sandwich with a long kitchen knife that he winds up waving in De Mornay's face. His character loses control, but so does the actor. Johnson looks and sounds ridiculous.But the main problem is the script from schlock-horror director Larry Cohen. First, there's Jack Warden's character, a father figure to De Mornay, who comes off as purely functional. He's there to do things De Mornay's character cannot, and we don't give a damn about him, not even when he winds up in danger.Second, De Mornay ends up framing her own client, an enormously risky endeavor that could easily destroy her career and even send her to prison. Why? Presumably to protect herself and other women from Johnson. But the movie fails to convince us she has no saner options.Third, there's the woman who becomes a last-minute witness for the defense. I won't give away too much, but her motivation for doing what she does is totally inscrutable.Lastly, there's the gruesome climax. It plays ludicrously, though De Mornay is allowed one last, good moment. Her hysteria at the peak of her ordeal is touchingly real. Otherwise, the whole thing feels forced and phony.So does the movie. "},{"Title":"Naughty Jennifer","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Not sure where the title comes from, but the film wasn't too bad. The plot had more holes than Augusta National, and the logic leaves a little to be desired, but it was watchable, I'm not a Johnson fan, but apart from Gere I can't imagine anyone else who would have fitted the role better, and he did a great job. Films need great characters, and I thought David Greenhill was a believable character. The Jennifer Haines character has to put up with knowing that her client, in her opinion, is evil and guilty, but she is expected to get him off. The film goes off in a totally different direction to what I expected, so this had to be a plus, (for me anyhow). Jack Warden has always been a great character actor, and didn't let me down. Don't expect a great thriller, and you'll probably enjoy it. De Morney looked a bit like Hillary Clinton. "},{"Title":"Don Johnson a revelation","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Every few years you see a performance by an actor in something that really impresses you, where you want to watch the whole thing again just to watch him/her, where the person is so fascinating as a character, so extraordinarily in that role, that the performance just BECOMES the experience. That was true in this movie with Don Johnson - on one level alone, he was more believable as a fabulously wealthy man who'd been wildly successful on all levels throughout his life - than anyone I've ever seen.Think of say, the great performances of say, Steve McQueen in Thomas Crown Affair, any actor who's played James Bond, any of the wonderful character actors playing wealthy men in movies like My Man Godfrey, The Philadelphia Story, Holiday, The Awful Truth, Meet John Doe, Fifth Avenue Girl, Bachelor Mother, You Can't Take it With You -- and Don Johnson is yet more believable. Nothing's ever gone wrong for this man - and he relies on it, and he's very very smart, and very very charming, and he knows all of that - and yet somehow he IS charming nonetheless -- And you suspect from the first moment, there is something bad there. I remember thinking when I saw Lisa Eichhorn in 1979 in Yanks, that I had seen someone who really and truly seemed that character - Don Johnson seems this character and it's a great and effortless performance and you should see it. (And if you weren't a fan of his television series, don't worry - neither was I - I never really paid attention to him - and wham, I'm now a fan!).This guy has gotten to be a superb actor. "},{"Title":"Stalking and talking ..........","Date":"21 March 2010","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Stalking and talking seems to be what Guilty as Sin is all about. Don Johnson does the stalking of his lawyer, Rebecca De Mornay, and everyone in the film talks and talks. Unfortunately, the womanizing Johnson, comes across as an almost unreal villain. He assaults Stephen Lang, yet no police are ever involved. He produces a surprise witness, who's motivation for giving him an alibi for his wife's murder borders on ridiculous. The only redeeming factor about Don Johnson is that his character is so despicable, you have to hang around for the ending, simply to see him get what's due. Don't blink however because the end when it finally does come is both swift and a real stretch of reality. Watchable, but not much more. - MERK "},{"Title":"lacks a certain something.","Date":"16 November 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" SPOILERS Through!!I love thrillers so I was able to watch Guilty as Sin and moderately enjoy it while at the same time understanding that it just wasn't a very good movie. The film lacked a certain something, it's hard to say what that is but I guess it's just not as suspenseful as it should be. Many thrillers or movies that get lumped in as thrillers are preposterous when you really think about them(think Double Jepardy, 'The Net and Final Analysis to name just a few). I enjoyed throughly the above mentioned movies and would see any of them again-with Guilty as sin there was just an edge missing.The whole thing was supposed to be a cat and mouse game, a battle of wills between don Johnson and Rebecca De Mornay's character's but it wasn't that fascinating-maybe because neither character was to exciting so how could their relationship really matter to us?The thing that surprised me was De Mornay's character-I loved her in The hand that rocks the cradle, I thought she was chilling!- but here it just doesn't work-and Don Johnson was so evil at the end with that smirk-but the whole thing goes from psychological thriller to slasher movie-not that it was great to begin with but the central theme though the movie-actually themes-as 1 other IMDb reviewer noted were involving-murder and sex-did Johnson do it and would De Mornay have an affair with him-these are nice cheesy thriller themes but the movie just doesn't pull it off-it's at the most only moderately engaging and at the worst slightly dull. "},{"Title":"GRIPPING THRILLER","Date":"5 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Rebecca de Mornay and Don Johnson made a great double act for this gripping thriller.As usual Rebecca de Mornay put everything she had into her role as Jennifer Haines and she did a grand job avoiding the stereotypical lawyer role. Don Johnson also performed well in one of his best roles. I enjoyed Johnson in Miami Vice and Nash Bridges and I was pleasantly surprised when he convincingly portrayed a cool and calculated psycho.The story itself is gripping throughout and Johnson really is scary in his role as David Greenhill. One moment he is all sane and has the audience feeling sorry for him;the next moment he is a total psycho.I strongly recommend this underrated little gem. "},{"Title":"Slow but suspenseful","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Johnson plays a womaniser accused of murdering his rich wife. DeMornay is the hot shot lawyer defending him. After a while DeMornay regrets having taken him on, gets convinced of his guilt and is afraid he may have some designs for her.Slow but interesting thriller from Lumet. Film creates a kind of cat and mouse game between the two leads that's well written and fairly suspenseful. Rebecca DeMornay is tolerable in the lead, never quite convincing as the tough no nonsense lawyer. Much more effective when she's all broken down and vulnerable. Don Johnson however excels in his part, playing a slimy bad guy (who's, by the way, totally obsessed with himself) to a tee. Pity Johnson didn't establish himself as a major player in Hollywood.Guilty as Sin is a bit slow but it's got a good story and some genuine suspense. You could do a lot worse. "},{"Title":"A Film Of Two Halves , Both Of Them Crap","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  !!!! POSSIBLE MILD SPOILER !!!!!As I watched the first half of GUILTY AS SIN I couldn`t believe it was made in 1993 because it played like a JAGGED EDGE / Joe Eszterhas clone from the mid 80s . It starts with a murder and it`s left for the audience to muse  Is he guilty or innocent and will he go to bed with his attorney ?  , but halfway through the film shows its early 90s credentials by turning into a  Lawyer gets manipulated and stalked by her client  type film which ends in a ridiculous manner , and GUILTY AS SIN has an even more ridiculous ending in this respect .This is a very poor thriller but the most unforgivable thing about it is that it was directed by Sidney Lumet the same man who brought us the all time classic court room drama 12 ANGRY MEN  "},{"Title":"A Great Little Film!","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film last night, and was surprised by it. I was very well written, directed and acted, yet no had put any comments about it on here, and it only scored a 5.6 user rating.Well, I'd just like to say that I thoroughly enjoyed it. It was a clever tense thriller, that wasn't a million miles away from Fatal Attraction with the roles reversed.The two leading roles were brilliant (Don Jonson genuinely scary). In short, it was certainly a tense thriller that I'd recommend people to see, if only once.It isn't the best film ever (it came from the writer of Maniac Cop 2 & 3) but it was neatly handled (it WAS directed by Sidney Lumet!).Check it out.  "},{"Title":"Original and slickly done, but the pieces just don't fall into place as they should","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If it could be called anything, 'Guilty as Sin' is a missed opportunity, and that's putting it lightly. It could have been a great thriller, but something went wrong in the process, and the result is a mess, a failed vision abandoned halfway through. All of the blame lies in the obvious lack of interest on the part of the filmmakers. Sidney Lumet has directed THE best film of the 80s in 'Running on Empty', and one of the better 70s pics in 'Dog Day Afternoon', so the problem isn't a lack of talent. It's just that the makers of this movie were lazy, making it because they needed money, a job to be done as quick and painlessly as possible.Because of this everything falls apart. Adding complications, DeMornay is seriously miscast. Though no one is doubting her ample acting skills, she looks misplaced here and just isn't all that good. Don Johnson on the other hand, is perfect for his role, though he may not be as good of an actor as DeMornay is.'Guilty as Sin' is nothing more than a tedious, connect-the-dots thriller that wastes the talents of everyone involved. It isn't impossible to watch, it's just that it's not very good.4/10 "}{"Title":"Lumet  delivers again, thanks to a sinister star sinning role","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" What makes Guilty Of Sin so much fun, lies in it's title. We wanna believe the bad guy, Johnson, who we believe is pretty much guilty from the start, the movie's title, a strong inference, so you really can't call it a thriller. Johnson has always been an underestimated or underrated actor in my opinion, who never grade of A list, but has given so many good performances. Only here as a sexy, slimy, smarmy, narcissistic, son of a bitch who is as the title refers, he's exceptionally good, while De Mornay, defending him, isn't too bad. She falls for him, of course, despite the fact she's already involved. She soon realizes, this is her downfall, and by now he's pretty much soon he's got her, making her shake and cringe. Soon people around her are getting hurt, and the game becomes more violent. I've never enjoyed watching Don Johnson more, than in this, it's cool finale making you wanna jump up and clap. Despite the movie being a tad dry, with a kind of slow moving story, the latter really doesn't affect the film, thanks to bad guy Johnson and all the effectively tense and truly scary moments he delivers, in his performance, where sinning never looked better. "},{"Title":"Help!  Rich Woman In Jeopardy!","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Usually, before the woman in jeopardy discovers that her client or her handyman or gardener is guilty of murder, she has to fall in love and have an affair with him. The examples are too numerous to list but Jagged Edge can serve. In this case, Rebecca De Mornay is a lawyer at a high-end Chicago firm. She's hired by the narcissistic Don Johnson to defend him when he's accused of tossing his wealthy wife out a fourteen-story window.The odd thing -- almost the ONLY unpredictable feature of the movie -- is that she is wary of him from the beginning. She accepts the retainer, gets him out on bail, and defends him in court, with the assistance of the usual flawed investigator. Sometimes the assistant is a drunk -- Robert Loggia or Morgan Freeman -- and sometimes just well meaning but old and a little out of it. Here, it's Jack Warden, who played a similar role in Verdict, a much better film.This is one hoary suspense device after another. A hand may reach in from off screen at a particularly spooky moment and shock the heroine. It soon becomes clear that Don Johnson is a homicidal maniac and we get scene after scene of people alone at night in deserted urban spaces like empty offices, dark hotel corridors, and those horrible multi-level parking lots with lots of shadows and distant blue neon.I don't know how Sidney Lumet -- a fine director -- could wrap his mind around a story like this. I don't know how he could have coped with it except by dozing off in his director's chair. The plot seems to have been ground out by a computer. Any questions about it could have been answered by a Magic Eight Ball.The art director certainly knew what he wanted. The settings are all sterile and the walls festooned with tasteful paintings. There's never any doubt that we're in greenback territory, although most of the supporting players speak with Canadian accents. There is nothing shabby about the settings, nor should there be.Jack Warden is his reliable self. And Rebecca De Mornay, thoroughly glamorized, has rarely looked so attractive. I thought she was more appealing as the raggedy, freckled, rosy-cheeked stowaway in Runaway Train, but that's my perversion. She turns in a decent, textured performance too. The same can't be said for Don Johnson. Part of it must be the role as written, slimy and repulsive. But part is also Don Johnson, who has never convinced me that he's a good actor, though he's often cast as some masculine type who carries a cloud of pheromones around with him wherever he goes.This is strictly routine suspense, but if that's what you're looking for, the film delivers it. "},{"Title":"A Very Underrated Courtroom thriller that deserves more attention","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have seen this movie numerous times and it has become one of my favourites.Rebecca DeMornay gives a convincing portrayal of slick Chicago Lawyer Jennifer Haines, who is looking to feel her oats as she puts it by taking on the toughest cases she can find. Enter the completely psychotic David Greenhill played extremely smoothly and surprisingly convincingly by Don Johnson.He is a compulsive womaniser and has lived off of women most of his life. He is cold calculating but also incredibly charming and attractive to women. He is accused of throwing his wife from an 18 storey window and makes a good case for his own innocence. DeMornay though initially reluctant eventually decides to take on his case and here begins a nerve shredding game of Cat and Mouse that will ultimately end badly for one of them.I really enjoyed the photography and the top drawer performances from the two leads, in particular Don Johnson who totally surprised me in his ability to portray a truly psychotic individual.Stephen Lang's role as DeMornay's boyfriend is small and ultimately inconsequential in the film, Jack Warden's part is also fairly small but he does okay as an investigative aide to DeMornay. Ultimately though your eyes will be firmly glued on the two leads, to see how this plays out.The ending although a little unbelievable does not detract much from the film which for me is worth 7/10 "},{"Title":"Right about what I expected Good but not great.","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  BEWARE!  SPOILERS HEREIN!Sidney Lumet, director of Guilty as Sin is no stranger to tense thrillers.  In his repertoire are classics like Network, Dog Day Afternoon, Murder on the Orient Express, Serpico, and 12 Angry Men.  (For fun I have to add that he also did the The Wiz!) And its writer, Larry Cohen, well, he did write QThe Winged Serpent.  Hm...I thought Guilty as Sin was fairly interesting.  Primarily because I'm a die-hard Miami Vice fan, I've been meaning to see this for awhile.  And, basically, it was exactly what I'd expected.  Don Johnson is actually pretty good.  Though not without weak spots, his role as David Greenhill is fun to watch.  He's devilishly cute and he knows it.  I speak, naturally, of both Greenhill and Johnson.  And, in truth, Don's not a bad actor.  There's one terribly rewind-able scene where (while making a sandwich) he loses it and goes off on his lawyer.  It's great!  He's funny, chilling, pitiful, and scary all within one scene.  The tiny (easy to miss) touch that just about did me in was this second-long blank look that he gets in his eyes as he's talking to Haines.  It's just a tiny look away into nothing but it works!  For just one terrifying moment, the coy composure is dropped and we see the killer beneath.  Dead-eyed and inexplicable (like Jaws or Kathy Bates' Annie Wilkes).  And, of course, it's just nice to finally hear Johnson utter that favorite word of killer's the world over, F***.  Even if it's just because, like all TV stars who get a chance on the big screen, he can.Unfortunately, DeMornay doesn't give us much.  She's too hard looking to pass as pretty and isn't that great an actress. For obvious reasons, this isn't a problem in The Hand That Rocks the Cradle but since her role in Guilty as Sin is primarily to look scared while Don does his thing, she doesn't quite pull it off.  Furthermore, after the half-way point, the movie kind of winds down.  Other than some shrewd evidence-planting by Haines there really isn't much to see here.  Don Johnson's demise is mildly interesting but not quite climactic.In summation, Guilty as Sin, despite some highpoints, was, well...OKAY.  "},{"Title":"One of the most villainous of villains.","Date":"25 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Don Johnson really gets to show his stuff impressively playing accused wife murderer David Greenhill. He is vicious, manipulative, conniving and as such, would make a terrific TROLLing poster on the message boards. He is totally without morality, truthfulness or empathy. He is a psychopath BUT he is man-pretty and charming and the women he cons just love him.Rebecca DeMornay is the lawyer who gets conned and then legally forced into defending this indefensible person. The always interesting Jack Warden is her friend private detective Moe. All of the actors are good at their jobs despite a few major plot holes. The story itself is pretty labyrinthine but it can be followed. The ending is satisfying even though unbelievable.The best part is watching the workings of a truly psychopathic mind at work. It may leave you shaken if you know there really are such people out there ! "},{"Title":"Its just sinful","Date":"17 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I distinctly remember going to see this in the cinema with a group of friends. I did not want to watch this as I knew it had got bad reviews but they won the vote so I had to go with them.I also remember leaving the cinema after it ended almost in tears having realised that Sidney Lumet was reduced to directing this garbage. If I had a mobile phone in those days I would had probably called the Samaritans in the middle of the film.Rebecca De Mornay plays a hot shot, win at all costs criminal defence lawyer who likes to win even for the most unlikeable and presumably guilty clients.Don Johnson is the latest slimy client who wants her to defend him for killing his rich wife. Johnson is a ladies man with an unsavoury past and De Mornay doubts him and may have put herself in danger.The film is rubbish. Lumet must have gone to Las Vegas and lost big in the casinos or a family member was ill and he needed to pay huge medical bills and therefore he needed money very badly. This is one of the best directors not to have won a Directing Oscar and you can never get over the realisation that a great talent is behind this film.This movie is badly written, badly acted, badly made. Its actually tortuous viewing. "},{"Title":"looks like a TV-movie","Date":"7 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Looks like a TV-movie. Slow. Drab. Then becomes quite violent and is clearly not in TV-movie land anymore. Rebecca could have done much more with this. And the director should have avoided that boring feel that pervades the movie especially at the beginning. And that cheap way of starting the opening sequence, hell, what were they thinking? A computerized dummy tumbling down that takes forever sort of sums up the essence of the whole thing.By 1993 standards, very weak. Must be meant as an old-style thriller, but fails to deliver on its potential. Don's line re why he didn't use gloves, it would have felt like f*cking her with a rubber is the climax of the movie, and stabs at the wasted opportunity, as this could clearly have been truly suspenseful if they maintained such high evil standards. Instead of just low evil standards. "},{"Title":"oh to sleep a chance to dream","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie no good, grammar defies it. I mean it's not terrible, but it sucks to watch this movie. I feel like Rebecca DeMornay has been shamefully misused by the film industry, most women in film have been shamefully misused, but with Rebecca DeMornay in her eyes you can see that she knows it, she knows she got screwed. OK movie tries to be steamy erotic thriller but never actually commits- movie tries to be suspenseful but instead is only slow and jerky. No one is offensive with their acting, the directing is passable, cinematography is quality work as is editing, professional grade production value, story sucks is all, story is crap. A lifeless bloodless narrative that fails primarily for lack of characters- oh its got characters, but they are nothing people who feel nothing and go nowhere and never ask why. Needs more tittie and a car chase? "},{"Title":"doesn't quite hang together","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a movie with good bones (written by Larry Cohen and directed by Sidney Lumet) that for some reason doesn't quite make it.Rebecca DeMornay plays Jennifer Haines, an attorney who notices a man (Don Johnson) while tying up another case. He's staring her down, so she recognizes him again when he makes the newspaper for allegedly killing his wife and then walks into her office after being told she can't see him. His name is David Edgar Greenhill, and he wants Haines to defend her. She doesn't want to, but the court assigns her to the case over her objection. There's something about this guy that's creepy and makes her uneasy.She's right to be uneasy. Greenhill knows all about her life and her boyfriend, and basically uses her as a pawn in his own schemes, all the while intimating that they're lovers and disrupting her relationship.I'm going out on a limb here and guessing that this movie did not have a big budget, and that was part of the problem. It was filmed in Canada, and back in 1993 anyway that meant low-budget. Also, while I like Rebecca DeMornay and Don Johnson okay, they're not exactly Michelle Pfeiffer and Mel Gibson, to name two stars of that era. I think better acting would have helped the movie. Don Johnson was just too much of everything - overly oily, overly smooth speaking, overly gentlemanly, overly charming, overly dressed. Supposedly his character is a gigolo. Maybe some women are desperate enough to fall for this guy but anyone who can't see through his act is pathetic.This movie needed a star, an attractive man who comes off as very likable naturally, without it being put on, even someone going against type like John Travolta or Tom Hanks (this is the '90s, remember) and then it might have been more compelling. It isn't an easy role - he has to have a threatening subtext, a look in his eyes, something, with everything about him belying it until the claws really come out.De Mornay, on the other hand, definitely conveyed her character's tension, anxiety, and attempt to stay calm, as well as a lot of allure.Jack Warden gives good support as an investigator who helps De Mornay.This is a decent story, with a few things that stretch reality, but like someone said on the board, Johnson is so evil you have to watch the whole thing to see if he gets his comeuppance. A worthy attempt if just not quite right. "},{"Title":"Murderer Don Johnson outwits his attorney and himself","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" After seeing Don Johnson in Dead Bang and especially The Hot Spot, I've become something of a fan. He again delivered the goods in Guilty as Sin, an entertaining neo-noir. I give it an extra point for Johnson's performance.In one or two places, I was reminded of how Bruno ensnares and manipulates Guy in Strangers on a Train. This movie is like Strangers on a Train with Guy being instead female.Johnson is a womanizer who lives off women and sometimes kills them for the money. He throws his current wife out a window after arranging an alibi for himself, one that at least raises reasonable doubt. He has pre-planned to get a crack lawyer (Rebecca de Mornay) to defend him and get him off. This she can do and she does.But in the course of the preparation of the trial, Johnson puts into motion a larger scheme, one whose motivation we must figure out. He interferes with his lawyer's personal life and attempts to break up her relationship with her lover who has proposed to her and whom she loves. He wants to seduce her. He wants to share his murderous past with her under conditions where she can reveal nothing due to lawyer-client confidentiality. He tells de Mornay that the defect with perfect murders is not being able to tell anyone. He wants to remedy that defect.Associated with that motive is more. Johnson wants to control her. Getting off for this crime is not enough for him. His motives go deeper. Johnson is psychopathic. He really hates women. He is a repressed homosexual, as Bruno was in Strangers on a Train. In one scene in which he tries to get de Mornay's sympathy, he portrays himself as being dropped by the women and their plaything. He wonders why men are not seen as the victims. What about his feelings? His whole tone and manner in this outburst are decidedly a feminine or catty parody. Johnson in his acting walked a fine line here and managed this scene well. He accidentally cuts his thumb and then several times sucks his thumb. In another scene with a role reversal, he allows a stranger to him, a woman, to buy him a drink. He is a dandy with his clothes. He stands up in court to show this off when a witness mentions this.If the scripting of de Mornay's character and if her acting had measured up to Johnson's, this picture would have been much better. As it stands, her part was not very deep and her performance was rather bland. She didn't particularly arouse my sympathy. Her role called for a hard-driving lawyer, to be sure, and even when she had sex with her boy friend, she initiated it and was rather cold. However, even taking the role into account, de Mornay seemed to me to belong to that category of acting (or non-acting) that I call staring. This is when the actor or actress stares but the stare conveys no emotion and the acting fails to use other body language or devices to deepen the characterization. This is not fatal to a performance or a movie usually, not unless the whole cast is doing the zombie routine. There are frequently other things going on that liven up the show. In this case, as long as Johnson was carrying on, de Mornay really didn't have to do much more than become part of the scenery. "}{"Title":"Murder, Mind Games & The Importance of Winning","Date":"3 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Guilty As Sin is an entertaining courtroom drama with a plot which is very reminiscent of Jagged Edge. In this story, however, it's the interaction between a defence lawyer and her client that provides the most interesting moments as both parties are very successful at what they do as well as being extremely ruthless. They both share a powerful determination to be winners and it's this compulsion that leads them both, at different times, to take actions which they know to be ill judged and reckless.Jennifer Haines (Rebecca DeMornay), a young criminal lawyer who's made quick progress to the top of her profession, is on a high after winning her latest court case when she's approached by David Greenhill (Don Johnson). Greenhill's a suave ladies' man who's been accused of murdering his rich wife by throwing her out of the window of their apartment and he wants Haines to represent him. At first she doesn't want to take the case but gradually she starts to find him interesting and convinces her superiors that she'd enjoy the challenge of defending Greenhill in what is guaranteed to be a high profile trial.Soon after agreeing to defend her new client, his behaviour becomes more threatening, he starts to get involved in her personal life and also Haines' private investigator, Moe (Jack Warden) begins to uncover some information about Greenhill's past which makes her believe that he is guilty of his wife's murder. Her attempts to drop her client are blocked by a judge and her professional obligations to respect attorney/client confidentiality prevent her from being able to use what she knows against him. With no legal or orthodox way out of her predicament, Haines plants some incriminating evidence in Greenhill's apartment. He immediately guesses that she's responsible and responds by taking some equally unscrupulous action to provide some compelling proof of his innocence.After the trial, Haines and Greenhill continue to play their dangerous mind games right up until the movie's violent denouement.At the outset, both Haines and Greenhill are very confident people but during their association, the psychological battles in which they indulge lead to Haines becoming more and more intimidated, especially when she starts to believe that her own life might be in danger.Rebecca DeMornay portrays Jennifer Haines' courtroom swagger and her addiction to the thrill of winning with the same ability she brings to conveying her growing uncertainty and fear as she realises that she's bitten off more than she can chew and is powerless to put things right.Don Johnson clearly revels in his role as the smarmy gigolo who's arrogant and very dangerous. His transparently insincere charm and his psychopathic behaviour make him a despicable villain who is nevertheless, amusing to watch. Jack Warden also provides good support as Haines' trusted old friend and adviser.Guilty As Sin isn't highly original or the type of movie that garners great accolades from the critics, however, for pure entertainment, it fits the bill nicely. "},{"Title":"Derivative of Hitchcock, obvious but okay...","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film often on The Movie Channel was made in the early 90's when there was a lack of new suspense films...audiences were ready for something more. Also at this time was when Silence of the Lambs came out, and for that time was groundbreaking.So for what this is, it is a good TV film. DeMornay as ambitious criminal attorney (she was very good in The Hand That Rocks the Cradle) wonder what she is filming these days.Anyway, Don Johnson as ladies man who is accused of killing his wife. There is a cameo with Jack Warden (excellenet veteran actor who was also in Lumet's And Justice for All and The Verdict with Paul Newman an excellent courtroom drama).Overall we have seen the story before, Johnson as conceited narcissist taunting his attorney...there is a twist at the end. There are several familiar scenes which Hitchcock aficionados will pick up on, including the North by Northwest cliffhanger ending. It's been done before, but worth watching for a few decent performances. 8/10. "},{"Title":"Good Old-Fashioned Legal Thriller With A Great Premise","Date":"5 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Jennifer Haines is a top-notch defence lawyer who takes on the case of David Greenhill, a lothario accused of murdering his rich wife. Greenhill used his attorney-client privilege to smugly confess not only to this murder, but to those of other wealthy women. Haines decides to risk her career by planting false evidence to prove Greenhill's guilt ...Courtroom thrillers are a dime a dozen, and it's very unusual to find one as original as this - it supplants lots of clichés, focuses on the bare minimum of characters and comes up with lots of great ideas, which is why it entertains so much. It's styled much more like an old Hitchcock picture, with an intelligent yet vulnerable female lead and a suave but psychotic male. DeMornay is terrific and Johnson was made for this part, and they have tremendous intensity together on-screen, even though Haines has only fear and revulsion for Greenhill. The movie's prime asset is Larry Cohen's excellent script, with lots of snappy dialogue (You know what the problem with committing perfect murders is - you can't tell anybody.), and oodles of interesting plot twists - Greenhill picks out his defender before perpetrating his crime, Haines deliberately tries to lose her case (what American lawyer would ever do that), Greenhill produces evidence both for and against himself and connecting him to Haines - his ingenuity is boundless. There is a great simple score by Howard Shore, and Andrzej Bartkowiak's photography is crisp and polished, with lots of elegant simple two-shots of the leads, often with one in profile whispering in the other's ear. A fine thriller, well directed by old pro Lumet, which does what any good crime story should do - grab your attention and keep you guessing. "},{"Title":"Right about what I expected Good but not great.","Date":"14 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  BEWARE!  SPOILERS HEREIN!Sidney Lumet, director of Guilty as Sin is no stranger to tense thrillers.  In his repertoire are classics like Network, Dog Day Afternoon, Murder on the Orient Express, Serpico, and 12 Angry Men.  (For fun I have to add that he also did the The Wiz!) And its writer, Larry Cohen, well, he did write QThe Winged Serpent.  Hm...I thought Guilty as Sin was fairly interesting.  Primarily because I'm a die-hard Miami Vice fan, I've been meaning to see this for awhile.  And, basically, it was exactly what I'd expected.  Don Johnson is actually pretty good.  Though not without weak spots, his role as David Greenhill is fun to watch.  He's devilishly cute and he knows it.  I speak, naturally, of both Greenhill and Johnson.  And, in truth, Don's not a bad actor.  There's one terribly rewind-able scene where (while making a sandwich) he loses it and goes off on his lawyer.  It's great!  He's funny, chilling, pitiful, and scary all within one scene.  The tiny (easy to miss) touch that just about did me in was this second-long blank look that he gets in his eyes as he's talking to Haines.  It's just a tiny look away into nothing but it works!  For just one terrifying moment, the coy composure is dropped and we see the killer beneath.  Dead-eyed and inexplicable (like Jaws or Kathy Bates' Annie Wilkes).  And, of course, it's just nice to finally hear Johnson utter that favorite word of killer's the world over, F***.  Even if it's just because, like all TV stars who get a chance on the big screen, he can.Unfortunately, DeMornay doesn't give us much.  She's too hard looking to pass as pretty and isn't that great an actress. For obvious reasons, this isn't a problem in The Hand That Rocks the Cradle but since her role in Guilty as Sin is primarily to look scared while Don does his thing, she doesn't quite pull it off.  Furthermore, after the half-way point, the movie kind of winds down.  Other than some shrewd evidence-planting by Haines there really isn't much to see here.  Don Johnson's demise is mildly interesting but not quite climactic.In summation, Guilty as Sin, despite some highpoints, was, well...OKAY.  "},{"Title":"What Mr. Greenhill wants, Mr. Greenhill gets. (spoilers)","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a swell movie to check if you're in the mood for psychopathic villains and their quest for control. Don Johnson makes the perfect villain, comparable to Michael Keaton in Pacific Heights, when he plays David Greenhill, a highly wealthy control freak accused of killing his wife. He hires Jennifer Haines (Rebecca DeMornay), star defense attorney, to take his case. He is sure he will beat the wrap because, afterall, what Mr. Greenhill wants, Mr. Greenhill gets. Haines knows that she has a guilty man on her hands, but is she willing to sacrifice her career, and possibly risk her life, to put the brakes on the sleeziest man alive? Not if Greenhill can help it.This is an eerie courtroom thriller, and does the job perfectly (complete with murky grey scenery), despite sticking to some routine. And, in my opinion, it contains one of the greatest revenge scenes to make a pretty suspenseful ending. The story keeps the pace, and it has excellent performances by an excellent cast (Johnson, DeMornay, and Jack Warden) to keep you biting your nails the whole way through. If this is you're kind of story, you're in for a treat. "},{"Title":"An unexpected comedy!","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Don Johnson is...guilty of sin. Some people have already been offended by my critique of Guilty as Sin(1993) and a few others might disagree, with my take on big daddy Don as an over privileged man(murderer). But millions will agree, due to the lack of big ticket sales. The funny part is, that I really have enjoyed many of his performances. This is not as if I'm just looking to sort of stall out on a movie he did because I don't like him. Stephen Lang, is in the cast as well and he really is one heck of a versatile character actor, Sydney (the Director) should have switched the two actors roles....Johnson's David Greenhill, was a smart-Alec twerp of a womanizer. Sitting at that bar telling that woman she could pay for his drink and that Women take care of me. was one of the most ridiculously delivered lines I have heard. He, for me didn't come off as a suave lady killer, he came across as a man that you would like to take out to an alleyway and beat the socks off of em'. It was quite a spectacle the way that David dressed in black and a stocking cap and met the lawyer in the parking garage and beat him and his car phone to bits! That was a solid action / drama piece in the story that segue-way-ed nicely into the next place...Don has been in quite a few really 'great' roles, in which he was the only one that you could see there. It would be a crime to put in a different actor, they never would have filled his shoes. But, not here. On the out, the ending in this was 'pure' Hollywood in bad scripted form. Falling off the ledge on top of him, as she makes it out, alive and he dies. Sure. That's just one of the reasons (of many) why I gave this a 5/10 . "},{"Title":"Courting the Lady Killer","Date":"15 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" In Chicago, beautiful blue-eyed defense attorney Rebecca De Mornay (as Jennifer Jen Haines) celebrates a courtroom victory by stripping to her tight underwear and arousing boyfriend Stephen Lang (as Philip Phil Garson). Looking very sexy, Ms. De Mornay wins another round. Another handsome man, gigolo Don Johnson (as David Edgar Greenhill), is also interested in De Mornay. Accused of throwing his wealthy wife to her death from a window, Mr. Johnson has decided De Mornay is just the woman to get him off...This slick thriller exemplifies adept direction by Sidney Lumet, photography by Andrzej Bartkowiak and editing by Evan Lottman. The landscape includes some beautifully presented apartments, office buildings and parking structures. Much of the story is involving, but therein are some fault lines. An interesting mix of clichés and surprises doesn't mix entirely well. Good is stock character Jack Warden (as Moe), who runs a familiar course. Bad are a couple of plot developments which nonsensically undermine the proceedings.****** Guilty as Sin (6/4/93) Sidney Lumet ~ Rebecca De Mornay, Don Johnson, Jack Warden, Stephen Lang "},{"Title":"There's no denying Lumet's experience","Date":"23 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Did I love the Sidney Lumet film Guilty as Sin? No. Did I enjoy it? You bet. Compared to Lumet's previous films like 12 Angry Men or The Verdict, it's weak, but as entertainment it works. Lumet is always making us question the nature of his characters, are they good or evil? Are they guilty? There's no denying that Lumet is a master of creating questions and letting us slowly receive the answers. The acting is serviceable, Johnson is good as a woman-killing madman, DiMurray makes the grade as a lawyer that loves the smell of victory. Is the dialouge masterful? No. Just like the whole film, it just makes the grade; no more, no less. Yet when you contrast this film with other killer-oriented films, it's honorable. "},{"Title":"Aside from the good acting and great conclusion this is pretty stupid","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" **SPOILERS THROUGHOUT THE REVIEW** High powered attorney Jennifer Haines (Rebecca DeMorany) is seduced by handsome, smooth (and obviously sociopathic) David Greenhill (Don Johnson) into defending him over a charge that he killed his wife. As she gets to know him she discovers that he DID kill his wife and is slowly destroying her life. She gets old friend Moe (Jack Warden is wasted) to help her but David isn't above killing to get his way.It starts off good with great acting by DeMornay and Johnson but the story gets sillier as the movie goes on. Some VERY questionable legal technicalities are bought up and DeMorany goes to truly ridiculous lengths to get Johnson convicted WHILE she's defending him! Also there are huge loopholes in the script and DeMornay overreacts (and overacts) when she realizes what's going on. Seriously, wouldn't an intelligent attorney like her see that Greenhill is a raging sociopath AND extremely dangerous? Still all the acting is good and it leads up to a bloody and satisfying conclusion. I give this a 6 but (unless you're a fan of any of the stars) you're not missing anything. I originally saw it back in 1993 in a theatre and I wasn't thrilled with it then either. "},{"Title":"Don Johnson shows of quite good","Date":"24 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Guilty as sin is the one movie that show what an etraordinary good actor Don Johnson really is. He plays a very complicated role that would be very difficult for most of the hollywoodcrew. But he does it trustworthy and real. I ca believe in his character in spite of its fragmented personality. Great thanks to Sidney Lumet who let Don Johnson show what a great actor he really is. Unfortunately I'm afraid i will never see such acting again from Don because he ain't recognized as great actor but more as an actionsoapoperaactor. Furthermore the casting on Guilty as Sin is remarkably good. All good actors who knows their job. "}{"Title":"Rreally good thriller","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I was skeptical when I saw this movie was on, but watched it anyway. I found myself stopping what I was doing, and drawn into it. Don Johnson is PERFECT for this part, and it is some of his best work, I think, Rebecca DeMornay was also perfect, and it is a really good movie that keeps you on the edge of your seat. This movie keep you wondering what is REALLY true, and then, when you find out, it becomes very creepy and tense.I recommend this movie highly, if you like a good psychological thriller, that is not gory or bloody, but really makes you think. It is acted so well, it also makes you realize there are great looking psychopaths out there, and the plot is completely believable. "},{"Title":"Rebecca Demornay looks the best in Guilty as Sin (1993)","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Rebecca made Guilty as Sin so interesting.  Acting as the best lawyer (Jennifer Haines) in the city, she wears that corporate business lady suite and makes intelligent statements in court and her body languages made everybody awake.  No lawyer I have seen in my life in any movie was as beautiful, intelligent and sharp as her.  "},{"Title":"puke","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" this was one of the worst movies I've ever seen. I'm still not sure if it was serious, or just a satire. One of those movies that uses every stupid who dunnit cliché they can think of. Arrrrgh.Don Johnson was pretty good in it actually. But otherwise it sucked. It was over 10 years ago that I saw it, but it still hurts and won't stop lingering in my brain. The last line in the movie really sums up how stupid it is. I won't ruin it for you, should you want to tempt fate by viewing this movie. But I garantee you a *nghya* moment at the end, with a few in between. If you have nothing better to do, and you like to point and laugh, then maybe it might be worth your while. Additionally, if you're forced to go on a date with someone you really don't like, suggest watching this movie together, and they'll probably leave you alone after they see it. That's a fair price to pay, I guess. "},{"Title":"Nailbiting!","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I actually seen this film some years ago. I was impressed by its main character being Rebecca DeMornay(who was also a thrill in The Hand That Rocks The Cradle). I'm a big fan of mystery and suspense. I feel this movie drags somewhat, but it keeps you guessing about Don Johnson's character.The finale is the best part of the movie...though I wont give it away, but if you're into mystery, this should be a good one to view. "},{"Title":"one of the most evil operators","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Don Johnson was magnificent. One got the impression that he could have done these things in real life he was that convincing. How can Rebecca Mornay have been miscast unless there was a clear example of what her character should have been like ? Clearly she was not as sharp as she thought she was so who could have been cast in her place - Angelina Jolie etc ? Her sexuality was largely lost in the role - the compulsory bedroom, or was it an office, scene largely wasted her naked charms but no doubt there is an special cut somewhere ? And certainly her boyfriend could have looked a bit more of a high flier and up to the job of satisfying her. I never quite worked out why Don Johnson kicked the c##p out of him. But then regrettably I missed the denouement as my LP recording as I went to be well after midnight failed to track leaving me with only a usable soundtrack. But I presume that the gigolo had to die as there really wasn't anyway else for him to leave the stage.I thoroughly enjoyed Guilty as Sin but had to scroll up twice to remember the title so perhaps it wasn't representative ? Gigolo without a Soul might have given too much away ? Pack em, rack em and dispatch em might have been too crude ? So Don Johnson can really act might have been too Patronising ? Too seductive for his own good is off a critic' note pad ? Watch it the next time it is on TV and it is well worth your time to do so. "},{"Title":"GUILTY AS SIN (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There is something wrong with this picture and you just keep on asking why as first of all you should expect something great from a veteran like Sidney Lumet (a man who has the needed experience in courtdramas, just think of the splendid Twelve angry men), you can't blame Don Johnson who is perhaps one of the most underrated actors ever and Rebecca De Mornay (even if she did nothing groundbreaking ever since, apart from 3identity) does what she need to do  playing a goodlooking advocate... And yet this movie leaves you with so many questions that you can only conclude that Lumet tried to hard to make his Fatal attraction as this is the story from a succesfull lawyer (De Mornay) whose career and life seems to be completely destroyed once her client (Johnson) appeared to be the killer he is accused of and tells her how she has to play the game. 90 minutes long there isn't one second of excitement and even if you never saw the movie before you just know how the plot will be and that's not exactly my idea of a good thriller.  "},{"Title":"Static thriller.","Date":"18 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  By focusing more on character development rather than on the whodunit aspects of the plot, this courtroom thriller manages to hold your interest and rise somewhat above the average level of the genre in the 90s. Don Johnson is ideally cast as the manipulative, quietly menacing possible killer. Unfortunately, the film never becomes as thrilling as it should have been, due to Lumet's static, unexciting direction.   (**) "},{"Title":"Real Good Suspense Movie...","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Don Johnson gives an excellent portrayal of a demented mind in this movie. I'ts suspenseful and has some good acting in it, I highly recommend it for people who love scary movies. Don Johnson isn't the good guy Tubbs in this one that's for sure... "}]