[{"Title":"Better than people give credit for...","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"45 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This isn't Airplane!, The Man With Two Brains, , or any number of classic slapsticks, but it is up there, and it is funny.  While it has its slow times, it still manages to make you laugh.  Great one liners, and wonderful acting make it a solid and worthy buy.  Everytime you watch it, you will find yet another smart-ass, sarcastic reply, an offbeat joke or an obscure parody.  Loaded Weapon 1 hits and for 90% of the time doesn't miss.  It honestly doesn't get enough credit. "},{"Title":"Hate it all you want. I like it, and think it's pretty good -- for a spoof.","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"46 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm not a huge fan of slapstick spoofs. I love Airplane! and the Naked Gun films, but it's not my favorite genre. Ironic, then, that I find most spoof movies enjoyable, at the very least, because they're all really, really stupid. There's more quality in Airplane! than, say, Hot Shots!, but both films are enjoyable, because you have to do absolutely no thinking whatsoever. All you have to do is laugh a few times. And with the millions of jokes (okay, hundreds) per film, you're sure to find at least a handful of things worth laughing at.National Lampoon's Loaded Weapon 1 is one of my favorite spoof flicks. Why? It's stupid, silly, funny, and one of the most enjoyable films available to see. Yeah, it's stupid, like I already said. But it's loads of fun, too. And I don't care if critics bashed it when it came out -- it's still a very fun movie.Everything gets lampooned in this Lethal Weapon to Die Hard to Silence of the Lambs to CHiPs. And, alongside It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World; Austin Powers in Goldmember; and The Player, it has some of the most cameos/stars to date. Get this Emilio Estevez, Samuel L. Jackson, Tim Curry, Jon Lovitz, William Shatner, Denis Leary, Erik Estrada, Dr. Joyce Brothers, Bill Nunn, Kathy Ireland, Corey Feldman, J.T. Walsh, Paul Gleason, F. Murray Abraham, Bruce Willis, Phil Hartman (R.I.P.), Whoopi Goldberg, Charlie Sheen (Emilio's half-brother)...am I missing anyone? Mel Gibson, Danny Glover and Joe Pesci would have completed this cast. I wonder if they rejected cameos.Wes Luger (Jackson) has been assigned a new partner, the loose canon Jack Colt (Estevez), who lost his dog long ago and is now mentally unstable. Luger lost his partner (Goldberg), too, and the effects of the past often catch up with him, so far that he finds it impossible to fire a gun without shaking violently and spastic-like.General Mortars (Shatner) is planning a devious scheme of running drugs through a Girl Scout cookie-type company, and Colt and Luger try to thwart his plan and save the day before it's too late. Meanwhile, they come to appreciate each other -- while lampooning everything in sight.The most puzzling thing about Loaded Weapon 1 is the fact that, if you look at most user comments on the Internet Movie Database, they're all quite positive. It has a low standing at 5.3 stars, yes, but the user reviews for the film are pretty decent. A lot of people found the film funny for what it is. I do, too.Spoofing a spoof is kinda pathetic, I'll admit. Lethal Weapon always was more tongue-in-cheek comedy than anything else. Even as a hard action film it was always winking at the other films of its genre. Wayne's World isn't exactly a drama of epic proportions, either, come to think of it. Even Basic Instinct is a hard film to spoof, if you take a moment to reflect -- it's never exactly horribly serious. Just sleazy. (I won't ruin how Loaded Weapon 1 pokes fun at the famous Sharon Stone interrogation scene.)Yet, in my honest opinion, Loaded Weapon 1 does a pretty darn good job of spoofing everything in sight. Estevez is a good Riggs-type who pines for his lost dog (not a wife, mind you, but a dog). Jackson -- who's usually great -- is decent as the Murtaugh-type character, although he is shoved aside by the screenplay to make room for Estevez. (Whose brother was just as good in Hot Shots!, although I think this is a funnier film.) Lovitz, hair bleached (impersonating Joe Pesci from the Lethal Weapons), comes across as an irritant sidekick who appears out of thin air only when the plot needs him -- which I suppose was the point. (Was Loaded Weapon 1 assuming that Joe Pesci's Leo Getz character was an irritating co-star placed in the film as nothing more than an easy plot device? Probably.)And in one of the simplest -- but also one of the most effective -- scenes, we get the famous bathroom bomb sequence from Lethal Weapon 2 told in an entirely fresh perspective. Here's how it goes The door to Jackson's house is wide open. Estevez walks in and calls him. I'm up here! is the response. Estevez walks up the stairs, gets to the bathroom, opens the door, sees Jackson on the toilet and says, What are you doing? Safe to say, he's doing exactly what it looks like. His blunt reply is one of the highlights of the film. (Let's face it, that scene from LW2 was destined to get poked fun at some time or another -- I'm just glad it got spoofed in this.) "},{"Title":"Spoof Hits More Than It Misses","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a spoof of the Lethal Weapon movies, along with Basic Instinct, Silence Of The Lambs and a few other crime movies. It's pretty tame profanity-wise, but this spoof is no family fare, that's for sure. It's also pretty darn funny.There are a lot of verbal and sight gags, cheap shots and sleazy comments, impossible to catch them all in one viewing. That's maybe the only negative too many sex jokes which is why this is rated PG-13 (and could easily be R). Emilo Estavez, Samuel J. Jackson, Jon Lovitz, Tim Curry and William Shatner all show their comedic talents, as does supermodel Kathy Ireland. All-in-all, a fun 80 minutes, especially when you are familiar with all the movies they are making fun of in this film. "},{"Title":"Stupid, yet funny","Date":"5 October 2004","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  As several others have pointed out - this is not a very good film. However, it's still pretty darn funny. It's a B-version spoof film, but I still laughed more than on average.When you don't have terribly gifted writers and/or actors you have to rely on throwing in as many jokes as possible in order to try and get more laughs. And a surprising amount of them are actually very funny (albeit extremely silly, and stupid).Favourite bit when Estevez and Jackson are driving in their car and suddenly realize they're being followed - by two guys wearing ski masks, sitting in the backseat of the car.If you know what you're getting yourself into, Loaded Weapon is an underrated little gem. If nothing else, it's fun to see Sam L. Jackson before he became a serious actor. 7/10  "},{"Title":"Hit and miss but still very funny","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"21 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  When Sgt Billy York is murdered because she found out too much in relation to drug smuggling, Sgt's Colt and Luger are put on the case.  Colt is a psychotic burnt out cop and Luger is 48 hours away from retirement and not looking to get killed for anyone.  They investigate and find a sinister plot by General Mortars to bake cocaine into cookies and get girl scouts to distribute it.All spoofs run the risk of being very hit and miss.  The best ones (Airplane, Naked Gun) simply have more hits than misses and keep the gags none stop.  Here the ratio is slightly more hits than misses, but not by much.  The plot is irrelevant, suffice to say that, as well as spoofing buddy cop movies, it also has specific spoofs that work reasonably well (although the Basic Instinct one has lost a bit with time).  The film manages to have a slow start but still be funny, even if many of the jokes you will know from other films of the genre).  I love these silly spoofs so I was laughing but if you're not really a fan of spoofs then you might struggle with this one.The cast is pretty good and is crammed with so many famous cameos I wondered how they did it!  Jackson was looking for a bit of variety after several acclaimed roles with Spike Lee and he found it; he shows a good comic touch and he delivers his lines really well - I doubt he'd do this type of film now though.  Estevez spoofs Mel Gibson really well and he too isn't afraid to send himself up.  Lovitz is almost as annoying as Joe Pesci and does a good impression, while Ireland is nice to look despite not having that many laughs and the fact that she cannot act for sh*t.  Curry and Shatner ham it up something awful to good effect and are funny.  The sheer volume of cameos (of quality) is amazing and almost all of them bring laughs.  Charlie Sheen, JT Walsh, F Abraham Murray, Denis Leary, Phil Hartman, Bruce Willis, Whoopi Goldberg (although she'll appear in a window these days), Paul Gleason, Joyce Brothers and a blink and you'll miss him Christopher Lambert - very impressive line up really!Overall this is not one of the best spoof around but it does stand out as one of the strongest of the National Lampoon series (especially nowadays!). It is very hit and miss but the majority are hits and they come fast enough to cover the gaps.  Silly references or silly dialogue delivered straight - it made me laugh and that's why I've seen it several times.  Not great but funny, and all you probably want when you sit down to watch it. "},{"Title":"A very very funny, though overlooked, comedy","Date":"21 April 2001","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After watching this movie for an umpteen number of times, the gags have run a bit dry, but I remember first seeing it and I could not stop laughing. The cast is full of grade A celebrities, including Sam Jackson before he really hit big.  There are some classic gags.  It's all done very low-brow, but in a way that had me rolling with laughter.  Go see it!  You'll have a great time!My score  8 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"I liked it very much","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I am glad my fellow reviewers (some of them) also found this movie enjoyable.  It was silly at times but never insulting and the large cast helps greatly.  Of particular interest is cameos by Erik Estrada, Dr. Joyce Brothers and Bill Nunn.  Even Kathy Ireland manages to be funny!  Its not the Marx Brothers or Some Like it Hot, but for what it is, I liked it a lot.  "},{"Title":"Your pants will be dancing with figs!!!","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Released in the same season as Last Action Hero (another under-rated spoof of dumb action movies) and sharing a few cast members with it too, Loaded Weapon is more light-hearted stab at those horrible 'buddy-buddy'/'loose cannon partnered with old guy days from retirement' movies that were in unholy abundance around the late 80s and early 90s. Lethal Weapon (a film that has really not dated well at all) is to blame for the sudden popularity of this sub-genre and it's at this particular series that Loaded Weapon takes most of it's well deserved stabs.Emilio Estevez is Jack Colt, a gun-happy cop on the edge who has been walking a thin line between sanity and alcohol-fuelled psycho since his dog ran away. Samuel L. Jackson is Wes Luger, a Detective with only a few days before he retires. His former partner Billy York (Whoopie Goldberg) is killed and he demands to take the case even though his superiors think it was suicide. And so Colt and Luger get involved in a remarkably silly plot with cocaine disguised girl scout cookies. The evil General Murturs (William Shatner thoroughly enjoying himself) and his henchman Mr. Jigsaw (Tim Curry) plan to lure Colt and Luger into a trap before they foil his next major drug deal. There are loads of cameos and even more in-jokes than you can shake a stick at. What makes Loaded Weapon better than most other heartless spoofs is that every line of dialogue is delivered perfectly and every scene has it's own special moment (if not more than one). From the hilarious opening in the mini-mart to pretty much any scene with Jon Lovitz (spoofing that horrible Joe Pesci character) there is loads to enjoy. Every aspect and cliché of this unfortunate sub-genre is exploited and made fun of, even the musical score plays a vital part in the humor of some scenes.Some of the most quotable lines of dialogue include'Half today. Half tomorrow. Half on delivery.' 'I'm Detective Luger, this is Detective Colt. These are our wallets.' 'You came!'-'That's personal!' 'Ooware eez tha meecro-feelm?''Don't thank me. I'm just a cop doing his job.''I'm your worst nightmare.'-'No waking up without my penis is my worst nightmare.'And of course...'CIGARETTE!!!'Unfortunately a decent knowledge of the Lethal Weapon films is required to get most of the jokes in this film but it's so funny that it's worth suffering through them first. It's a shame that they never made a sequel but never say never eh? "},{"Title":"127 Movies Rolled Into 1","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Another offering from National Lampoon, this time a mock-up of the classic Lethal Weapon series. Amusingly, they're not the only victims of parody here. Wayne's World, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, Basic Instinct, Chips, Silence Of The Lambs and several others have been incorporated into this wildly hilarious (loosely used term) collage of moments. Obviously, not to be taken seriously and only recommended if you're not expecting a movie that offers a deep-dwelling plot. But it's totally for you if you're into a belly-laugh or two. Samuel L. Jackson's performance is laudable and so is co-star's Emilio Estevez. There are countless cameos by many Hollywood stars and all seem to make the movie a little more entertaining in their own typical way. Definitley worth a rent... "},{"Title":"if you like the naked gun series then you will like this","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"17 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I loved this movie, expecially the first time i saw it. I laughed at every little funny scene they did, expecially when the guy had athlete's feet and when he takes his show off, fire bursts from his toes. and when the guy was shampooing his hair. hey sarge, it's tingling, good, that means it's working. I loved how they had the 2 guys from Chips appear in the movie. oh and the guy's trailer, that looked like it was a mansion inside. I'm glad they had tim curry in the movie, he is such a good actor. I loved when he was driving the stick shift car.  "}{"Title":"dont judge it as a movie!","Date":"14 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  i gave this movie a nine. You critics out there will say  that didnt deserve a 2. the reason i gave it a nine is because it is a comedy. most comedies arent meant to be good movies they are meant to make you laugh. The director did an excellent job on making you laugh in this parody. memorable line i am your worst nightmare. No waking up without my penis is my worst nightmare 9/10 i rate comedies on how they make me laugh not on the plot. "},{"Title":"Lasted The Test Of Time","Date":"14 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" OK, just to get this out of the way I've always loved this movie. I actually saw it before I saw the Lethal Weapon series (Though I was familiar with them) and loved it even more once I had. The thing that makes this movie funny, even today, is that even though it has a lot of topical humor from the early 1990s it's mostly made up of self-sustaining jokes that last. Not everyone is going to know who Leona Helmsley is, but everyone is going to laugh at Tim Curry in a wig. And then there are the myriad of cameos by stars who know how play it straight but don't necessarily take it too seriously. From the delightful appearance of Samuel L. Jackson as Wes Luger to the walk- through of Emilio Estevez's brother and Cory Feldman it's a non-stop parade of talent that knew what kind of movie they were playing in. (Not to mention it almost brought a tear to my eye to see Phil Hartman doing what he does)Even if you're not a fan of the Lethal Weapon movies you're going to find this movie funny. It fires off about 30 jokes a minute, about 20 you're going to laugh at. If you are a fan of the Lethal Weapon you'll probably laugh at about 29.Watch it with friends, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Typical child of the 90s","Date":"24 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Naked Gun-style parodies were everywhere in the early 90s, Loaded Weapon 1 is just one of the many. It's not really the funniest of the batch either, but it does have some trademark moments that define why the whole genre was so popular for a month or so. It's a typical hit-or-miss kind of thing, some stuff makes you laugh and some stuff makes you wonder why you're not going outside. There's really only one element in this movie that's consistently funny and unsurprisingly, that's Samuel L. Jackson. The guy just gives any movie he's in a necessary dosage of class, even if it is a poor man's Hot Shots!. There are also some fun cameos added, but not a lot is done with them. They just go for the hey look it's Bruce Willis-factor, which only works up to a certain level. Loaded Weapon 1 is a fun 90s spoof (they're all fun), but nothing special. "},{"Title":"funniest parody ever","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Emilio Estevez, Samuel L. Jackson, Tim Curry, Kathy Irerland, William Shatner, Jon Lovitz, Whoopi Goldberg, the list goes on and on, cameos from Bruce Willis,, Eric Estrada, and John Wilcox, has to be without the funniest parody ever made period, maybe Hots shots 1 and 2 close behind,, oh and yes Charlie Sheen cameo,, what a wonderful movie,, the Wilderness Girl Cookies are being laced with drugs,, and it's up to detectives Colt and Luger to stop them,, General Mortars is William Shatner,, the bad guy,, cameo also by Dennis Leary in here,, this is so funny it would take me two pages on here to list all of the funny one liners,, i can't remember laughing so hard at a movie ever,, it's that good,, i mean today you got let's see date movie,, scary movie.. epic movie,, come on,,, even scream is wearing thin,, here,, this was classic,, and will never be forgotten , at least in my mind,, this movie is a 10 plus plus for me,, go watch it,, and you will see. "},{"Title":"right up there with naked gun & airplane","Date":"17 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" first of all, ignore the fact that this film has national lampoons name on it. loaded weapon 1 is far better than all of the awful lampoons films.this is a spoof, through and through. the jokes are some of the most stupid i've ever seen, the acting seems to be quite deliberately bad (we all know that most of the principal players in this movie can act better), and even some big goofs and mistakes seem to have been left in. if you see these things and you think it's a bad movie because of them, you're missing the point. the film is intentionally bad, in the same way starship troopers was intentionally cheesy.so if you're in the mood for something that you don't have to take seriously (at all), this movie is just the thing. watch it once for all the obvious jokes, and then again to find all the jokes in the background (and there's loads of them).my favourite spoof of all time. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Hilarious Spoof!","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Loaded Weapon 1 definitely ranks up there with Airplane and the Naked Gun Movies as excellent, hilarious spoofs. Everything about this movie made me laugh, whether it was Tim Curry's Wilderness Girl, Emilio Estevez's trailer turned mansion, or Bruce Willis' well scripted cameo. The matter of fact way that the movie spoofs Lethal Weapon and other cop movies makes it even better. I definitely recommend this movie if you need a good laugh or enjoy the work of any of these actors. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"14 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After reading the other comments about this movie, I have decided that there is a simple test to know if you will like this movie and can waste 3 minutes instead of 83 minutes if this is not your type of movie.  Okay.  When you sit down and watch this movie, watch the first two scenes and if you think these are amusing continue to watch and laugh, if not then STOP watching this film.  The opening scenes of this movie are by far the strongest of the film, so if you hate those, it only goes downhill from there, BUT...The rest of us will continue to watch this movie and find out that it is one of the dumbest, but funniest movies ever created.  Sure, you can call bits and pieces of this film lame if you desire, but I still find it funny.  If you got to witness the added scenes that were in the NBC version aired a couple years back, then you can complain harder, because those were the scenes that were pasted back in off the cutting room floor and it showed.  They brought down the film, but some of the hard cuts in the released movie were explained, because awful jokes that were thrown into scenes were just cut right out.  This is not a complaint, because the video/cable version stays at a fast pace and you have to be paying attention to catch all of the jokes.This movie is like Hot Shots in that it is just done for stupidity and laughs and nothing else.  Yes, there is a softball plot thrown in there so that the jokes have a direction, but it is just done for fun.  Tim Curry, William Shatner, Emilio Estevez, and most of the rest of the cast look like they are having the time of their lives filming this, which only adds to this film's greatness.Remember, take the test to see if this film is right for you. "},{"Title":"A Classic !!!","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" You'll laugh, cry, hurl, and then laugh some more.  This movie is up there in my Top Five Comedies.  Now I know what you're thinking... It's just another dumb comedy.  Well, no.  That's not quite accurate.  This movie contains, Tragedy, a lot of Action, and some Romance too.  This movie is a MUST see.  This movie is Wall to Wall comedy.  BUT... Don't just rent this movie because you want a long night of laughter.  Rent this movie because it has a decent storyline, great actors, and some twists and turns. Now I read some of the previous reviews, and I can't believe what I saw !!! It's a misfire... Not Funny.  Are you nuts ?!!!  To say that about this movie would mean that you have no sense of humor.  My Point... Some people can take movies like this too seriously.  My advice... DON'T !  DUH !!! This Movie will go down as A Classic !!!  I give this movie a 10 !!! --Ross "},{"Title":"If you like parodies, this is a must-see!","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Before you watch it, make sure you've seen the lethal weapon series, the die hard series, basic instinct, and silence of the lambs. I laughed ALL the way! It's great!  "},{"Title":"Funny Funny Funny","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I'm a big fan of stupid humor and when I saw this movie. I thought it was one of the funniest comedies of the 90's. Samuel L. Jackson was the best. When he's behind the woman and looking at her with a very funny face was too funny. and the silence of the lambs parody was done very well. And when Jackson is on the pot taking a dump and telling Emilio was way too funny. I could never get sick of watching this film.  "}{"Title":"Relies too Heavily on Parodying Other Movies,","Date":"9 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Loaded Weapon 1 is a mediocre movie with a poorly written storyline that manages to be enjoyable because of a talented comedic cast. It definitely has some very good moments, Emilio Estevez and Samuel L. Jackson have great chemistry and played off each other very well, they were the right choice to parody Mel Gobson and Danny Glover's role in the Lethal Weapon series. There are also fun cameos throughout and some worthwhile film references, such as a scene from Silence of the Lambs and Wayne's World. The biggest flaw is that it relies very heavily on having each scene as a set up for parodying the popular films of this decade, that it never really tries to be its own film, there is a story here but it tends to get lost far too often, and all the loose ends are quickly wrapped up in the last five minutes. All the references to other movies are, for the most part, quite lame, they don't necessarily serve as satire on them, but almost a shot for shot remake of certain scenes, and when the most memorable moments are the nod they make to Basic Instinct or Dirty Harry, it makes you wonder that maybe you should have just watched those movies instead. It has its moments and is worth the watch if you have nothing better to do and need to kill some time, but for the most part, Loaded Weapon 1 never tries to be its own movie and relies on others for laughs, I wouldn't highly recommend it. A cop duo must put a stop to a cocaine ring looking to spread across the nation. Best Performance Samuel L. Jackson "},{"Title":"Star-studded cop spoof with genuine laughs","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Now this is more like it for a NATIONAL LAMPOON film LOADED WEAPON 1 is a great and affectionate spoof of the movies that takes the LETHAL WEAPON franchise as its main inspiration. It has plenty in common with Leslie Nielsen's NAKED GUN films, with a scattershot approach providing plenty of laughs, a lot of them obvious, a lot of them surreal, many of them relying on cameo appearances for effect.Emilio Estevez plays a maverick cop, clearly modelled on Mel Gibson's Riggs, while Samuel L. Jackson gives a stand-out performance as a retiring cop modelled on Danny Glover's Murtaugh. They're involved in a storyline involving over-the-top cocaine smugglers Tim Curry and William Shatner, and there are hundreds of gags packed into a slender running time. If you're a fan of HOT SHOTS et al then this is the film for you.And I'm still getting over those endless cameos. Bruce Willis is the best and most unexpected one, but watch out for the likes of Corey Feldman, Whoopi Goldberg, Charlie Sheen, Erik Estrada, Paul Gleason, and many, many others making unexpected and welcome appearances. This is probably the best film for cameos that I can think of. "},{"Title":"National Lampoons, really lampoons it up,  with another winner","Date":"18 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Why there wasn't a sequel to this, I'll be buggered. When I went to see this, was the last time I was ushered into a seat, the cinema was that full. I remember that happening with the first Police Academy. Gone are those days. How funny is this movie? If I'll be blunt, I'm afraid to hypothesize, I laughed that much, and this happens every time I watch it. Probably on average, 12-15 laughs per minute. Hows the casting of Jackson and Estevez? Perfect. Estevez's own take on the Marty Riggs character, I really liked. It was good to see him in this, where again, Jackson, a straight down the line cop, was solid as he is always, both the character's surnames named after guns. There are so many actors with small parts in this, I'm not even gonna start. Well I will, as we our Chips duo, and Corey Feldman as a rookie cop, Paul Gleason as the cop in the first Die Hard, and yeah Bruce Willis's John Mclaine. This movie sends up other movies like Silence Of The Lambs and the Sharon Stone interrogation scene in Basic Instinct which is a hoot here. The writers really have to be commended for this one, where they've really brought something, infectiously funny all through, where the plot too is original. There's a missing microfilm. A cop is killed cause of it, because it contains a secret cookie recipe, a facade, as it's really cocaine inside. William Shatner as the dastardly chief baddie is hardly recognizable. It's the best acting I've seen from the guy, while I liked Dennis Leary as a playboy type, who disposed of permanently here. This film too features some actors in the great actor status you wouldn't expect to be in this. This is another bucket list movie, you must see. It would of been great to see how a sequel to this, would of panned out. "},{"Title":"Those Wilderness Girls cookies were laced with cocaine. No wonder I couldn't eat just one","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Well first of all I was gonna maybe include the pants, fig thing somewhere but someone already did so...damn. Anyway I kinda grew up watching and really loving this movie so I guess it has a special place in my heart unlike most. As far as spoof movies I think it's right up there with the likes of Hot Shots and Men in Tights but probably not quite as funny as The Naked Gun series or Airplane. I consider myself a connoisseur of fine films of the gag or spoof genre and although LW1 may not be for everyone to me it's like a fine wine, it only gets better with time...and some wilderness girl cookies of course (kinda Jonesin') if you appreciate good spoof movies then you should enjoy this little wonder. It's packed with cameos from some big stars and some great comedians in ridiculous situations that will surely results in laughter. Oh and by the way look for Denise Richards in the scene where Denis Leary is playing the piano, pretty funny. Well i hope you give this flick a chance and i really hope you enjoy it. If you do tell em Matt sent you (optional). "},{"Title":"Wilderness girls....","Date":"5 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Much like Hot Shots! one and deux, The film basically parodies Lethal Weapons one and two, and throws in spoofs of other successful movies during this era.The plot is about a microfilm that has instructions of how to hide drugs in innocent looking cookies, and two cops have to recover it.What is good about this movie, is that it was one of the last genuinely funny spoofs ever made, and after Part Deux and ££ and a third, they became obsolete.The film isn't really laugh out loud funny, and some of the jokes are more miss than hit, but it's wonderful to see so many good cameos put to even better use (the Bruce Willis one is priceless).The only bad thing about this film, is that it's dated, due to the nature of it's topics. Many now wouldn't get the Silence Of the Lambs, or Basic Instinct references, even though they are blatantly obvious.The reason why many wouldn't get them now, is because the scenes that are parodied here, were so overplayed in the early nineties, that they were almost begging to be spoofed.All in all, if you are a fan of the action genre, you will get something from this, even though it's pretty throwaway stuff.Maybe Last Action Hero would have been more successful if this had not been made. "},{"Title":"My kind of silly.","Date":"11 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I can't get over just how stupid this movie was . . . and how I loved every minute of it. Loaded Weapon 1 is, for my money, the last great spoof movie. It marks the end of an era, especially considering how movies have sought to do away with the idea of lampooning something in favor of excessive references. Man, that's tragic. The whole thing's right up my alley; set your sights on the Lethal Weapon movies (or at least the bloated carcass they became), take shots at every single '80s action movie cliché in the book, and do it all in the spirit of Sledge Hammer!. It's foolproof. And everyone here (Estevez, Jackson, Curry, Shatner) plays it so comically absurd that you can't help but laugh at just how willing they are to throw themselves on the skewer doing it. Even Jon Lovitz is funny. That ain't no small feat. And in all honesty, the Bruce Willis cameo is my favorite of his work outside of Die Hard. I love this movie. The one-liners are priceless, the sentiment irresistible, and the replay value is shocking. 9/10 "},{"Title":"This movie needed to decide what it wanted to be","Date":"13 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  If you're looking for a movie with some good gags, this may just be it. The main problem with this movie is that it almost has too much of a plot and therefore lingers in limbo between spoof and standard-fare comedy.  (It leans more toward spoof.) There are some truly splendid bits in the movie the buddy bonding fight, the fantastic cameos by James Doohan (Scotty from Star Trek) and Bruce Willis, the Head & Shoulders commercial parody (which resurfaces later in the movie in the form of an athlete's foot cure commercial parody), and the men moving the glass pane just so someone can fall through it.  Those and more are all very funny bits. The problem is that some of the bits are just duds (the bomb on the boat, Jon Lovitz's weak impression of Joe Pesci, and the unnecessary and overdone Basic Instinct ripoff). The movie's pacing is just too slow and too slapstick-based compared to Leslie Nielsen's sight-gag-every-two-seconds style.  Airplane! and The Naked Gun were truly master spoofs, the Hot Shots! movies were quite good, but Loaded Weapon 1 does not quite live up to its predecessors.  As the tagline says, see it before they make the sequel.P.S. Emilio Estevez and Samuel L. Jackson do appear to have great on-screen chemistry. The police captain is very funny. Kathy Ireland cannot act and is not funny. Whoopi Goldberg's seemingly endless doorway scene - overdone, but with a little twist that makes you smile. Samuel L. Jackson's incredibly dysfunctional family provides some solid laughs. Tim Curry (including beard) dressed as a Wilderness Girl (similar to a Girl Scout) is very, very funny.  Even more funny is that Whoopi Goldberg, supposedly a veteran cop, is completely taken in by the ridiculous disguise. What is this recent trend with the assistant archvillain actually appearing more evil than the archvillain?  It happened in the first Rush Hour, and Tim Curry definitely outshines William Shatner when it comes to playing evil people.  Shatner is a slick heroic actor (Captain Kirk and T.J. Hooker). Those roles were right for him, but not Loaded Weapon's General Mortars.) "},{"Title":"I'M LOADED AND READY TO LAUGH!","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  To be brief, I really enjoyed this movie. This movie had stupid jokes happening every minute which I couldn't stop laughing. Those who didn't like this movie are either uptight or just snobbish, probably both. Those who liked this will also like the Hot Shots movies. When you need a quick laugh, this is the movie to watch! 10+ "},{"Title":"Shots of Comedy","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I enjoy movie spoofs.  It doesn't always work, but I find that it does here. I haven't even seen the Lethal Weapon movies, but I still found it funny. I thought Emilio Estevez did a great job parodying Mel Gibson (especially with his butt in the moonbeam walk).  And it's interesting to see Samuel L. Jackson before he discovered his bad mutha character.  All in all, a great spoof! "},{"Title":"An excellent film.","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Okay, we got EMILIOOOO and Samuel L. Jackson, a terrific duo. Although they have only been paired up in one movie, it looks like they've been paired up in a thousand! William Shatner is an excellent addition to this film. If you made it a one man movie, just William Shatner it would have been 100x better than this.. But since they didn't do it, we'll have to settle with this.I'm not dissing Loaded Weapon or anything. It's a great movie, even Lance Kinsey(Proctor&#153; from Police Academy 1-7) makes a cameo! Jon Lovitz, Tim Curry, and even Kathy Ireland! So if someone with their own K-Mart clothes line is in this movie, It's gotta be a hit! See this with your mom, dad, aunt, uncle, brother, sister, grandmom, whoever! Just see it!  "}{"Title":"National Lampoon's best.","Date":"10 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This hilarious parody of action movies is better than I expected. National Lampoon's wasn't this good since Christmas Vacation.This movie parodies everything from Lethal Weapon to Basic Instinct as two cops Colt and Lugar try to solve the deaths of Whoopi Goldberg and Denis Leary. This leads the two of them to for help from Jon Lovitz and Kathy Ireland. They finally end up with William Shatner as their prime suspect.The best part of this movie was the opening convenience store scene(Did he fire 173 times or 174?). I recently saw the TV version of this movie and it had a lot more scenes in it such as A scene where Lugar has to spin the wheel and found out how much time he has for the case; an extended scene where Colt searches Lugar's house; a buddy-bonding fight between Colt and Lugar; a scene where Colt dies and then comes back.Hilarious! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Very, very funny.","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Here, once again is a fick that for all intents and purposes should be considered bad and yet somehow comes out right in the end. The cast (besides Ireland) is excellent, and numerous cameos add wonderfully to the mix. There is a lot of filler, but when the gags work they're as good as they come. Watch for Samuel Jackson's attempt to shake a couple of hoods tailing him with evasive driving techniques even though the bad guys are sitting in the back seat of his car.  "},{"Title":"I can't believe this film receives such a low score","Date":"1 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Although this film is no masterpiece it is still far better than average in the funny stakes.  I can't understand why reviewers have given it such a low score.  The film gives plenty of laughs with some very amusing cameo appearances.  Anyway, Charlie and Emilio rock! "},{"Title":"Great Fun","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I love this movie!  A joke a minute.  Although some of them fall flat, it is still funny all of the way through.  William Shatner and Samuel L. Jackson do great.  My favorite moment is when Shatner says I'm a user!  Great fun! If you like movies like Airplane then you'll love this!  "},{"Title":"More cameo's then you can shake a .357 at.","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  NL Loaded Weapon 1 is one of the more underappriciated comedies. Emilio Estevez, Samuel L. Jackson, Kathy Ireland, William Shatner, and Tim Curry lead this hilarious spoof of Lethal Weapon movies and Silence Of The Lambs, Basic Instinct, and Wayne's World. They all do fine jobs. But the real fun is in the numerous and funny cameos. The best of which are Denis Leary and his wisdom battle with William Shatner, Bruce Willis in his accidental Die Hard like home wrecking, and Jon Lovitz as the annoying guy. There's another 30 or so cameo's so keep both eyes open. "},{"Title":"very funny!","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  the first time i saw this movie in 1993 or 1994 i prettymuch thought it was dumb. but two or three years later iwatched it again and really liked it. it's very funny.some gags are side-splitting funny. all in all a very funny  movie that is a must-see for people who love airplane! and naked gun type movies. i give loaded weapon 1 *** outof **** "},{"Title":"Just enjoy it for what it is.","Date":"18 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A very entertaining film with a lot of funny moments and just as many famous cameo appearances.  They've done their homework on the Lethal Weapon movies, right down to the Claptonesque music score.  This movie is not to be taken seriously.  It's just a bit of fun, with some nice ideas and great comic performances all round.  A nice touch of light entertainment.  "},{"Title":"Silly but hugely enjoyable spoof","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I laughed a lot when watching this movie, because it was so silly. I loved the cameos from Whoopi Goldberg and Denis Leary. I loved the silliness of the jokes. I loved the daftness of the story. This movie deserves to be highly rated as the whole point of a spoof is to laugh at the badness of it all, as most of it was just hilarious, and I mean that. I loved the references to other movies, without it becoming too offensive. The soundtrack was hip and cool, and the jokes on the whole worked. The performances were laugh out loud funny, especially from Estevez and Jackson, who couldn't be more different. (a bit like Rush Hour) There is also solid support from Jon Lovitz, Kathy Ireland, Tim Curry(with an accent that was a bit difficult to understand at times) and William Shatner. It did get a bit too silly at times, and the script suffered(though I loved the no waking up without my penis is my worst nightmare exchange between Jack and Jigsaw) but not that it was a huge disaster. Well worth watching if you're in a bad mood, or looking for fun! 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Great Lethal Weapon spoof!  it's very funny, with lots of great cameo's and fun performances all around","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This is a great Lethal Weapon spoof! it's very funny, with lots of great cameo's and fun performances all around. All the characters are great, and the story is cool as well, plus Emilio Estevez and Samuel L. Jackson are simply amazing in this!. It also spoofs a lot of other films like Basic Instinct, Silence Of The Lambs and lots more, and I thought Estevez and Jackson worked really well together, and had excellent chemistry, plus The opening is a riot!. I loved how they spoofed the scars sequence from Lethal Weapon 3, and my favorite cameo had to be Bruce Willis's, as John Mclaine, it was great!, plus Estevez did a great Riggs impression and Jackson did a great Murtaugh impression!. The ending is funny, and William Shatner is surprisingly fun as the main villain, plus Kathy Ireland spoofed Sharon Stone from Basic Instinct pretty well in my opinion. I hope they make a sequel to this as I think that would be pretty cool, plus this should be higher then 5.2 in my opinion. This is a great Lethal Weapon spoof!, it's very funny, with lots of great cameo's and fun performances all around, I highly recommend this one!.The Direction is very good!. Gene Quintano does a very good! job here with good camera work, solid angles and keeping the film funny and at a very fast pace. The Acting is a lot of fun!. Emilio Estevez is amazing as always and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, hilarious did a great Riggs impression, had excellent chemistry with Jackson, played it straight and just did an amazing job overall! (Estevez Rules!!!!!!). Samuel L. Jackson is also amazing as always, he is hilarious, did a great Murtaugh impression, seemed to be enjoying himself, didn't take himself too seriously, had some funny lines and was perfect for this part! (Jackson Rules!!!!). Jon Lovitz as always annoyed the crap out of me and was terrible he was no where close to matching Joe Pesci, and was terribly unfunny in my opinion. William Shatner is surprisingly fun as the main villain, he had a funny accent, and was fun to watch I dug him. Kathy Ireland is great here spoofing Sharon Stone, she was really hot, and did a great job I liked her lots. Tim Curry is funny for the most part, and didn't annoy me that much at all, he hammed it up big time, and it was great. Frank McRae is OK here but he generally annoys me, with his yelling, as I found it grating to my ears. Bill Nunn,F. Murray Abraham,Charlie Sheen,Denis Leary,Denise Richards,Corey Feldman,Phil Hartman,Paul Gleason,Whoopi Goldberg,Christopher Lambert,and the best of all Bruce Willis all have great cameo's!. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall I highly recommend this one!. ***1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Hilariously stupid comedy spoof!","Date":"16 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" stars Emilio Estevez, Samuel L. Jackson, Kathy Ireland, William Shatner, Tim Curry, Jon Lovitz, Frank McRae, Whoopie Golberg, F. Murray Abraham,Dennis Leary and Allyce Beasley. cameos by Charlie Sheen, Phil Hartman, Corey Feldman, Erik Estrada, JT Walsh, Larry Wilcox, James Doohan, Denise Richards, Bill Nunn, Dr. Joyce Brothers, Charles Napier, Richard Moll and Bruce Willis as John McClane.This is a hilarious movie. It's obviously a spoof of the Lethal Weapon flicks where Emilio Estevez and Sam Jackson play the two main characters and Jon Lovitz plays the Joe Pesci character. It has a buttload of special appearances and cameos, which all are amusing. My two favorite cameos are Phil Hartman as a funny cop and Bruce Willis as John McClane. The plot of this picture is that drug lords are traveling drugs through wilderness girls cookies and Mr. Jigsaw(Curry) first must shut-up the person who knows all about it(Whoopie Golberg) by killing her. She knew cop Lougar(Jackson) and soon he's partnered with loose cannon cop Emilio Estevez.my rating-B minus. 79 minutes. PG-13 for sexual humor and violence. "}{"Title":"One of the best National Lampoon's films","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" National Lampoon movies have a reputation for being crass, stupid, juvenile affairs that you probably won't enjoy if you're over the age of 14. National Lampoon's Loaded Weapon 1 bucks the trend Yes, it's still crass, but it can be clever, has jokes that you may miss if you're not watching closely, and has some genuinely clever lines as well as some great sight gags (the sight of William Shatner plunging his face into an aquarium full of piranhas to tongue-wrestle with them is nothing if not amusing). I would honestly classify this one as up there (almost) with the likes of Hot Shots (both of them) and the great Naked Gun films (in other words, the first two) as being genuinely clever and funny, even if its plot doesn't always hold up and not every moment is hilarious. Some of the jokes are dated and extremely topical, meaning you'll enjoy it more if you remember the day and age, but there are some truly timeless film jokes (grauitous beaver shot!).If you enjoy slapstick, silly films that mix juvenile humor with some genuinely clever moments and a LOT of film mockery (too much, honestly, but still) then you should see this. I'd like especially to say how pleased and surprised I was at the comedic performance of William Shatner, who is very very funny as the malicious General Mortars (groan). Samuel L Jackson in his pre-Pulp Fiction days is also funny, doing a better job at it than Emilio. Be sure to see this one if you liked the Naked Gun/Hot Shots style of humor, don't let the National Lampoon's logo turn you off. "},{"Title":"Just Saw Loaded Weapon last nite","Date":"30 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Oh man, this movie is right up my alley. I didn't get to actually 'sit down' and watch it, i was so so busy doing other things, but i'm going to rent it and watch it with friends and family. I loved airplane, and the first naked gun movie. Another movie right in the same 'genre' is TOP SECRET starring Val Kilmer. It's not talked about much, and I don't know why.......it's friggin hilarious. TONS AND TONS AND TONS of sight gags. I was rolling on the floor. My husband doesn't care for movies like that, so he was pretty bored. But anyway, this loaded weapon was pretty darn funny. Oh yea, also don't miss Charlie Sheen in HOT SHOTS.............Absolutely hysterical also. Loved the two bro's in MEN AT WORK where they played the garbage men who witnessed a murder. They were so cute in that. babes, yea, that's a better word. Both getting older now. They were at their prime in that movie.MRS. TM "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"13 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I thought that this movie was great, it was no Hot Shots but it was still good, I thought the script was good and granted Emilio Estevez isn't as good as Charlie Sheen but he's good none the less. Tim Curry does seem to carry the movie though WWWWWilderness girls William Shatner does have a good part too which boosts the movie quite a bit, Samuel L Jackson in a cop spoof was an unusual concept but it works. Charlie Sheen's cameo was funny although I think he did milk it a bit too much. Finally Whoopi Goldberg has a short part but so memorable throughout the rest of this movie. My advise is go and see this, especially if you loved Hot Shots or the Naked Gun series. "},{"Title":"A Classic Funny/Bad/Funny again Movie.","Date":"10 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is a classic, I recently caught it on MPIX, a Canadian Movie channel that shows old(er) movies.  I had actually forgotten how entertaining this film actually is.  Not so much for the lines delivered by the head actors, but the supporters and background gags are stupendous. Possibly the greatest lines are delivered by John Lovitz.  I'm not going to make, am I? Give it to me straight You're going to be just fine ZZZZZZZZZZZZIP! You truely have to see this movie just for this part, you can probably rent it somewhere locally, or buy it for less than the cost of renting it. If you like anything John Lovitz has ever done, then go get this movie. Also, Phil Hartman has a very small, but hilarious part in it.I'd give this movie 6.5 out of 10, only because the movie seems to drag, which is sad for a National Lampoon movie. If the movie had been edited down to just Lovitz's and Hartman's scenes, it would have been a perfect 10.  "},{"Title":"Crazy, manic fun","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  A very interesting mix of stuff here.  Samuel L. Jackson is a tremendous natural comedian and definitely needs to do more comedies.  Emilio Estevez stumbles through his role with a boyish charm.  Estevez has that same aggressive, in the dark personality that he displayed in Men at Work. Kathy Ireland pokes fun at herself, opens up her sexuality and is completely overwhelming in the role.  William Shatner is inspired as the snitty General Morters.  Tremendous star power in the supporting roles helps bring the movie home.  Classically inept, as all of these movies are.  "},{"Title":"Samuel L. Jackson makes this great","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I don't think this film would have been as good without Jackson. All the hilarious parts have him in them. The bit where he's takin' a s*** and Estevez comes in, his flashbacks, the way he looks at the freckled chick, the Head and Shoulders bit, and so on. There are a few lame jokes here and there but I still consider this a great comedy. You'll love it if you liked the Naked Gun films and such. "},{"Title":"Lame but funny","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I thought that even though this movie was lame, its lameness is what causes me to laugh. It falls along the lines of the Naked Gun series and the Hot Shots pair which I am a huge fan of. Although not as good as these (with the exception of Naked Gun 33 and a 1/3), my family enjoys it and I think it is worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Easygoing comedy with some good gags.","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This spoof of (mainly) the first two Lethal Weapon films has its share of clever, creative and unpredictable gags (the Japanese loudspeaker, the kicking the subtitles scene, the these matches say you're lying scene), but overall it's pretty sophomoric, and it may leave you feeling a little empty when it's over. A good way to spend 77 minutes painlessly, but not the best of its kind.     (**) "},{"Title":"I LOVE IT!!!!!!!","Date":"12 April 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This movie is the most funnyest movie I've ever seen in my whole life!!! The only minus in this movie is Tim Curry!! Nothing else!! There is not one second where you don't laugh!!!! It would be imposible!!!! I love this movie!! And all the other movies The national Lampoons Have mated!! But this one is just the best!!!! I LOVE IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Sorry if there are some mistakes in this note! I'm Danish! And I'm not that good at English yet!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"There are a couple of laughs here and there","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This largely unfunny spoof of the 'Lethal Weapon' movies, with a few bits of 'Basic Instinct' and 'The Silence of the Lambs' thrown in, is in the vein of movies like 'Airplane!' but lacks the inspiration. It's the first movie that's less funny than its own poster. The cast, led by Emilio Estevez and Samuel L. Jackson, is a lot funnier than the material, which (like the 'Scary Movie' films to follow) photocopies scenes from its source material without making much effort in the comedy department. The Hannibal Lecter spoof is funnier than anything else in the movie 'Quid pro quo, Mr. Colt.' 'What does that mean?' 'It means I'm pretentious.' The movie adds nothing new to the now extremely tired movie parody genre. "}{"Title":"Visually spectacular, but slow; Gollum's appearance is the key highlight","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" The Lord of the Rings gang is back. This time, we are told the story of young Bilbo Baggins, how he is brought into an epic adventure that will eventually culminate in the Lord of the Rings trilogy. Martin Freeman plays the young Bilbo Baggins, who is a happy-go-lucky hobbit in Middle Earth, who is enticed into a quest by the wizard Gandalf. On the quest is a small, but determined army of 13 dwarfs set to recover their rightful place/ home/ palace, Lonely Mountain, and their earnings in gold. They were driven away from this place by a fierce dragon, and nobody has been able to enter the castle since. However, the leader of the dwarfs, Thorin, has access to a key that may open up an alternate entrance.The dragon is keenly aware of dwarfs' smells, and may be alerted, but would be unlikely to notice a hobbit; a dragon would not have encountered a hobbit, as hobbits are by nature docile and non- confrontational. This is where Bilbo comes in, but the dwarfs, especially Thorin, are skeptical about his involvement, feeling that he would chicken out and be unreliable for the mission.I am not a Tolkien fan, and the LOTR movies were not my cup of tea, so I am not the right audience to comment on this. However, my two cents - Very picturesque directing, brilliant visual effects, and elaborate, if short action sequences litter the movie. 3D effects were really bad for me, but I think that may be more a comment on the theater than the movie - seeing as the 3D visuals were widely applauded. As brilliantly as the movie was done, it just didn't cut mustard with me. I felt underwhelmed; the movie felt too long, the plot too sparse, the characters too weak.One exception was Gollum. The scenes with Gollum were scary, intense, and powerful. Despite the short screen time, Gollum pulled off quite an effect. "},{"Title":"Rather funny take on the Lethal Weapon series.","Date":"3 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This one had Samuel L. Jackson in the Murtaugh role played by Danny Glover in the original series and Estevez in the Riggs role played by Mel Gibson, both do a relatively good job in this parody of that famous series. At this point there had been, I believe, three Lethal Weapon movies so there was plenty of things to spoof in this film though they did occasionally go outside that series for jokes most notable being a spoof on Silence of the Lambs that was funnier than most of the spoof of that movie Silence of the Hams. This one follows the basic story of the Lethal weapon series combining and spoofing elements of all three movies at the time and of course having many b-list stars making cameo appearances like the cops from the television series Chips, Whoopie Goldberg and the funniest to me being William Shatner in the villain role. This would be the only film in this particular set of spoofs, but they really covered a lot of the first three movies so they would have been stretching it to make a sequel, that and I a do believe this movie did not do all that well at the box office to warrant a sequel. Still, it was a funny little spoof, not being really special like say Airplane, Top Secret, or Naked Gun as those had stand alone plots, but it managed to amuse like say the Scary movies did. "},{"Title":"Fun.","Date":"26 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" What's not to love in a movie that pokes fun of action movies of the 80's and early 90's, and even does it pretty well? I've watched my share of Lethal Weapon, Dirty Harry, Die Hard etc. and loved them all, so making fun of them hits the jackpot for me.Great cast Emilio Estevez is BRILLIANT as the cool and distant, but sad anti-hero, Samuel L. Jackson as his partner, who's getting too old for this ---, William Shatner as the evil general and so on. Even Bruce Willis does a short visit on the screen!What I liked the most about this film is that it manages to keep it's focus the whole time; it would have been easy just to use all the sex jokes around like they do with the latest movies of spoof genre, but they don't over-do it here. There's plenty of solid spoofs in the film that stay well above the waist; there's action, bad dialog, overacting and more to share! One of the finest of it's genre! 3/4 "},{"Title":"May come off as stupid, but actually an underrated Lampoon comedy","Date":"5 January 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Loaded Weapon 1 was really the original spoof movie before we got into movies like Scary Movie, Epic Movie, Disaster Movie, etc. This is really a break out comedy performance for Emilio Estevez, who portrays a Mel Gibson sort of character in this spoof. Alongside him is Samuel L. Jackson, who is the equivalent to Danny Glover. All in all this film has a ton of celebrity cameos from Dennis Leary to Phil Hartman to even Corey Feldman. Also starring alongside as the main villains are Will Shatner and Tim Curry. The funniest character of the film is entirely Jon Lovitz. He was definitely a scene stealer in this one, even though the jokes seemed sort of unfunny. So check out this Lampoon flick. It may not be as good as Animal House and Vacation, but it's worth a try. "},{"Title":"Not the best spoof i've ever seen but far from the worst!","Date":"9 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I rented this out of Xtravision (Ireland's Blockbuster Video) on Friday because i was really bored and needed a good laugh, and i wasn't disappointed, far from it!There arn't any Laugh-Out-Loud gags but there a enough giggles and small laughs to keep you going through out this films short 79 minute period.The plot is basically about two coppers who join forces to stop this company from turning Cocaine into Cookies, and a mission to save a dog on the side!So overall it's a decent, funny,comedy film which, if you like spoofs (like me), you'll enjoy it!7/10 "},{"Title":"Very underrated spoof","Date":"11 October 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Loaded Weapon 1 is not a masterpiece by any measure. It has plenty of moments that make you cringe at the bad acting and even worse attempts at spoofing the dozens of movies it takes aim at. Yet it has aged remarkably well and I'd rather watch this than a good number of the late-80s and early-90s movies it spoofs.Samuel L. Jackson and Emilio Estevez were very well cast for the lead roles. Imagining Jackson in a comedic role is a bit hard until you see how well he pulls it off in this movie, and he delivers some of the most memorable lines in the movie. Estevez is cast in a character that purposely requires a lot of over-acting and he does quite a good job at it. I think this is the most watchable of any movie where he is in a lead role.As others have mentioned, the number of recognizable names and cameos in this movie is pretty amazing for a movie that is pretty much a cheap shot at the movies that were popular when it was made. Charlie Sheen, Emilio Estevez's bother and a star of the Hot Shots! movies being made around the same time, appears in one scene. William Shatner, already known for being campy, puts his reputation to good use in playing General Mortars and makes the bad guy of the movie look absurd. Kathy Ireland just plain can't act although that may have been purposeful in this movie since it works for her role as Ms. Demeanor. James Doohan, Bruce Willis, Whoopie Goldberg, Dennis Leary, Joyce Brothers, and Phil Hartman are some of the other notable cameos and roles. Of course who could forget the lead characters from CHiPs appearing, too.I have to watch this at least a couple times a year and discover something new nearly every time I watch it. I can understand why it gets low ratings here, since if the movie is dissected enough it really doesn't stand up to much scrutiny, but as a whole it works very well as a spoof. Loaded Weapon 1 and the Hot Shots! movies are about the last notable National Lampoons efforts and among the best out of the (all too) numerous movies they made. "},{"Title":"Flawed but often very funny spoof of action and cop films.","Date":"9 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Jack Colt (Emilio Estevez) is on the edge police detective with nothing to lose. Although Colt is depressed, since the love of his life disappear. Wes Luger (Samuel L. Jackson) is by the book detective, who's also a family man. Colt and Luger are teamed together, since Luger's ex-partner (Oscar-WinnerWhoopi Goldberg) seemingly died of suicide but Luger knows that his ex-partner was up to something. They discover that Luger's ex-partner uncover a sinister plot about drug-laced Wilderness Girl Cookies. Two bad guys (William Shatner and Tim Curry), who are in charged of these cocaine laced cookies. They make sure that Colt and Luger doesn't stand in their way.Directed by Gene Quintano (Funky Monkey, Hollywood Academy, Why Me?) made an amusing comedic spoof of action cop genres. The cast are surprisingly engaging with some surprise cameos. But the script isn't great (Co-written by the director) and Estevez seems out of place with this genre. But at least, it has some laugh-out moments. It was only a modest success in theaters but went on to be a cult favorite on video.DVD has an fine anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an good Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD has the original theatrical trailer and cast & crew information. Probably the most amusing thing is watching this movie now is Seeing Samuel L. Jackson in a comedic role. Since this is a tradition of Airplane! and The Naked Gun Series. Loaded Weapon 1 is a mildly diversion only, nothing more. Alternate Version exists with 10 minutes of additional footage but only for television. (*** 1/2 out of *****). "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"3 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" I'm not talking only about the IMDb score ... It's generally not given the credit it deserves. This movie is really funny. Plus it has all those great actors ...Samuell L. Jackson, Tim Curry, Emilio Estevez and so forth. There are even brief cameos (the most notorious is Bruce Willis, but I won't spoil it for you).This movie spoofs and parodies everything from movies to television and it is right on target! Although the title refers to Lethal Weapon, it is not only a genre spoof, but it helps to have a guiding storyline.Every (Movie/TV)cliche is taken care of in this movie, so it is likely that you will find something new to laugh at every time you watch it. It is just not possible to catch everything the first time around. Especially, when you laugh half the time and miss some lines of dialogue! "},{"Title":"The Best National Lampoon's Film of the 1990s and 2000s","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" This film is just great on so many levels. I haven't laughed this hard since Animal House. Though the film works as less of a sketch or situational comedy and more in the farce realm of Naked Gun, it works well for this film. In fact, many could compare this film to Naked Gun, as it is certainly a contemporary of the series.However, this film basically is a direct parody of Lethal Weapon, and first and foremost parodies that film alone, in the character development, the plot, and the look. Secondarily, you will see parodies of Silence of the Lambs, Basic Instinct as the most obvious in this film, along with a few other film parody references.Check out the star cameos in this film too, you have to be really paying attention to catch them all, as I counted over a dozen in the whole film, some only 30 seconds long.All in all, strong recommendation to view this film, ESPECIALLY if you liked Naked Gun. "},{"Title":"One of the best spoofs out there","Date":"18 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Loaded Weapon is a highly effective spoof that takes the mick out of the 80s and early 90s cop movies that we all enjoy so much! Estevez and Jackson make a surprisingly effective double act and play it all for laughs as you'd expect. The plot is a mish-mash of other films, Lethal Weapon the obvious target, but references to Silence of the Lambs are also quite funny. The soundtrack is also spoofed, a take off of the wildly over the top rock that is so adored by action movies! Will Shatner makes a few cameos as the badguy, whilst Tim Curry is great as his henchman! Numerous stars also guest for a fleeting second to add some nice moments. On the whole, this is a pretty funny film, best seen with a few pals and a crate of beer..... "}{"Title":"stupidly funny!","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time the other day and it was so funny! Samuel L. Jackson and Emilio Estevez are great together, the combination of dumb and lazy and not with it and serious provides loads of laughs!!This movie is for those who enjoy stupid funny! The plot would make any anyone like this interested! I would recommend this for laughs. "},{"Title":"The Comedian Samuel L. Jackson","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  After appearing in the various Spike Lee films as well as in 'Patriot Games' with Harrison Ford, Jackson went on to play comedy in 'Loaded Weapon' in order to broaden his base as an all round actor. Don't let him fool you. He may look like a gangster in the same way that Cagney did in the 1930's, but Jackson is far more of a rounded actor graduated from university than James Cagney was. "},{"Title":"A very so so Comedy","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This film Beckons the Question....How do you Spoof a film which never took itself seriously to start with,and in some ways was a comedy.The answer is,it really cant be done and in the end,the Lethal weapon films came up with far more laughs mostly in part to its laid back nature...whilst this film take a far more laboured approach.When I went to see this back in 1993...I went with much higher expectations and was disappointed.When i hired it recently on video recently i actually found it more funny as i watched it with far less expectation.The laughs in this film range from hit and miss,but the Real problem is Estevez trying to do a Leslie nielsen style deadpan act.It doesnt even remotely work and estevez got more laughs when he played Billy the kid in Young guns.Kathy Ireland is terrible(as you would expect from a Model)...and whilst Samuel l jackson falters on a humour level,he does show a sternness which helps a little bit.The film looks Utterly cheap and Jon Lovitz trying to do Joe pesci Role is so Bad that one only wished that Pesci himself was hired.I wont dabble about the rest of the cast...But the film is a real disappointment,and one can only hope that when people attempt to do Spoofs from now on...they can possess some of the Talent of the Airplane boysI give it 4 out of 10  "},{"Title":"Funny As Hell","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  National Lampoon At It's Best. Still A Few Laughs are weak, but others Rock! Also, If You've Seen Scary Movie 2 than you can compare Tim Curry's spoof acting in both films (But Then again, Scary Movie 2 has more sex, go see it) but frankly, in my opinion, Curry's Character is better in this movie, but Curry's character in Scary Movie 2 is funnier, but that's off the subject. i vote 7/10. How's that? Happy? See It, and see what you Like. "},{"Title":"Ineffectual combination of good and bad humor","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The last film from the National Lampoon factory before the magazine folded, Loaded Weapon 1 is essentially a so-so parody of Lethal Weapon and other buddy movies. Emilio Estevez and Samuel L. Jackson make an unlikely onscreen pair and at times it works, and other times it doesn't. Loaded Weapon 1 contains plenty of fresh and clever jokes (like Jon Lovitz's reference to Esetevez's brother Martin Sheen's work in Hot Shots!), but it also relies on plenty of material that's just plain stale and dumb, and the result is ineffectual and drab. William Shatner is hilarious as the main villain however, and look for cameos from Bruce Willis, F. Murray Abraham, and Charlie Sheen. "},{"Title":"Pretty lame.","Date":"7 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  Alright this film is pretty lame, but it has a few inspired moments of laughter. Tim Curry and William Shatner are funny in the film. Emilio Estevez doesn't have the comic timing of his brother Charlie, and Samuel L. Jackson is solid. Unless you're a fan of the actors in this film, you should skip this one. "},{"Title":"Satire well below par","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" It seems to be silly season on send-up and farce at the moment as National Lampoon present us with yet another satire. This time Lethal Weapon is the target, although other films (such as Basic Instinct and Die Hard) are also in the firing line.Emelio Estevez, Samuel L. Jackson and the supporting cast are not much more than average, and humour is achieved a lot less than stupidity. Look for cameo's from Charlie Sheen, Bruce Willis and Whoopi Goldberg among others.A very short film which falls well below the consistent hilarity it needed.Saturday, April 3, 1993 - Video "},{"Title":"Shooting blanks...","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  You can do a movie like this and make it funny.  They've proved that time and again with the Naked Gun movies.  To say that Loaded Weapon I isn't half as funny as the first ten minutes of one of the Naked Gun flicks isn't a criticism as much as plot description.They borrow from every cop movie under the sun (Lethal Weapon, Basic Instinct, Die Hard), manage to scrounge up a few cute extraneous roles (Shatner's is pretty good but Willis is better still) and there are a few gags that didn't have me looking away with lingering remorse (the guys straining to see up Ireland's dress during the interrogation, paying for a drug buy with a credit card then asking for the carbons, Bohemian Rhapsody popping up out of nowhere).  But the whole thing reeks of a last-ditch effort to try and wring the last drop out of a dying franchise (in this case, the National Lampoon name).  Have you noticed that, other than Animal House and the first and third Vacation movies, all the rest of their products have been almost criminally unfunny?  Unfunny enough to warrant investigation?  Unfunny enough that showing them to torture victims would break the pact of the Geneva Convention?Jackson acts in this one like it's a day off, Estevez tries but just can't make himself into the farceur his brother Charlie is.  The rest of them try but cannot rise above a script that sounds like it was written on the back of a cocktail napkin (this was co-written by one of the guys who wrote a Police Academy movie - HEL-LOO-OOO!)  If I have just one wish for the new millennium it's that National Lampoon stops pointing guns at the heads of writers who couldn't write movies if their lives depended on it to script any future efforts.  Provided, of course, that Lampoon has the nerve to try anymore.Two stars, for the convenience store shootout at the beginning.  THAT was funny.  The rest wasn't. "},{"Title":"National Lampoon's loaded dud...","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":" Make no mistake, this is far from even mediocre National Lampoon material. I mean the beaver shot might be the cream of the crappy jokes. Not funny. Not interesting. Even the numerous cameos are almost all wasted. Samuel L. Jackson in this movie makes The Man look like Oscar material. By comparison, National Lampoon's Vacation rates a 8.0, National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation 7.0, National Lampoon's Gold Diggers 6.0., National Lampoon's Van Wilder 7.5. In short, National Lampoon's Loaded Weapon 1 rates a 1.0 and is a failed attempt, which lacks interesting plot, interesting characters, and should be avoided unless you can take the punishment of a boring, unfunny, comedy. - MERK "},{"Title":"Lame wannabe/spoof of the lethal weapon movie,avoid if you can !!!","Date":"5 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  This lame wannabe  spoof of the Lethal Weapon movies. It has a few laughs. For most of the movie , it seems to follow any number of the Lethal Weapon movies. If you saw any of those movies , then you basically know the plot. It is OK for rental or if have a DVD player to skip to the best parts!! Otherwise , avoid this movie at all costs!!! The only thing that good about the movie is all the cameos by famous TV stars and movie stars!! "}{"Title":"Loaded with blanks","Date":"13 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  The guys who made this one were apparently going for a Zucker brothers-type farce.  They've failed.  The movie is just 83 minutes long, but it seems longer.  Nearly all of the jokes and sight gags fall flat.  Don't waste your time with this dull misfire.  "},{"Title":"an hour and a half of pure crapp","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Comedy, Crime","Review":"  I rented this movie, I have know idea why I even  considered it.  I watched it, and about 15 minutes into it, I felt like I was about ready to die, that's how bad it was.  It has a great cast, with many cameos from stars like Whoopi Goldberg, Dr. Joyce Brothers, Paul Gleason,Bruce Willis, Charlie Sheen, and the late Phil Hartman. I wouldnt even recommend this movie if you like the actors  in it.  I'd give it a 0 out of 10.  "}]