[{"Title":"An entertaining film.","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"31 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have never read the King novel 'Needful Things' and so can't compare it with this film one way or the other.But this film, about a mysterious character who sets up a shop in which local residents find various treasures and are then tricked into perpetrating horrors against their neighbours, is entertaining and contains some good characters and marvelously black comedy.  Though there are a few cheesy moments (like that ridiculous model which is supposed to represent a skinned dog), the film is still a winner.  Max Von Sydow is good as the literally devilish owner of the Needful Things store and the climax is nicely-done. "},{"Title":"Could have been better, could have been worse","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"35 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Needful Things is a typical mediocre Stephen King adaptation. The drawn out book itself isn't among King's best work. Still, the fascination of the story lies in the detail and that had to be trimmed down for a 2 hours-movie version (there is another cut of the movie that's one hour longer, by the way). A lot of things had to be kicked out, but there was way too much changing around of events, items and characters. Ace Merril, a very important character for the novel's big finale, was ignored completely, for instance. I could understand things like that if they improved the movie. Kubrick made a lot of changes with his version of Shining and at least one could see why. With Needful Things the changes seem totally random and that's rather annoying for someone who has read the book.If you don't know the story beforehand the movie will probably still seem rushed. You can't really make a connection with the many characters and Sheriff Alan Pangborn finding out what's going on in the town seems unbelievable. It didn't really work in the book, but in the movie it's just stupid that he would draw such far fetched conclusions so quickly.The acting, on the other hand, is solid. Max von Sydow is a good choice for the part of Leland Gaunt, and Ed Harris is great as ever, although he has to work with a rather mediocre script. The sidecharacters are okay for the most part, even though Polly Chalmers and Wilma Jerzyck are maybe exaggerated.Unlike a lot of latter King adaptations this one seems to have been made with a decent budget. The locations look good and there are a few nice special effects. At times the explosions and the score can be too much, though. It's as if director Fraser Clarke Heston realized his movie wasn't turning out as exciting as he hoped, so he decided to blow it up with some dramatic music and fire.Well, as I've said in the headline. This movie could have been a lot better, but it could also have been a complete failure. As it is, it's good for one viewing but if you've read the novel you're going to be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Needful Things","Date":"2 May 2006","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I love Stephen King, and I've tried to see as many of the movie adaptations of his books as possible. I haven't read a Stephen King book I didn't like - and Needful Things was the first Stephen King book I ever read, so it has a special spot for me. I think this was a pretty good movie, but could have been better if made into a mini-series and more of the stories in the plot could have been developed more fully. I realize this isn't always possible, but in the case of this movie, so many important plot twists were left out it was kind of hard to recognize the story. I think the casting was pretty good and this is a cute little movie to watch if you have some time to kill. But I definitely recommend that you pick up the book and read it if you want the whole story. You'll be shocked to see how much was left out. "},{"Title":"Sydow carries the movie","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Needful Things is an unexpected gem of a movie. I think its subtlety worked against it. Looking at the comments here, I think people missed the point of Max von Sydow's performance.The plot is simple. Leland Grant (the Devil) moves into a small town and opens up a shop that can get you anything you want, but he'll ask you for a favor. The favors exploit tensions in the town, causing people to turn on each other.Ed Harris is solid as the town sheriff, but he isn't given a lot to do, neither is his fiancée Bonnie Bedalia. This movie belongs to its the villains, the town politician J.T. Walsh unravels over the course of the movie, and von Sydow is utterly brilliant.This would be an easy role to overact on. You could be the mustache twirling villain quite easily, but Leland Gaunt is grandfatherly, likable, a complete gentleman. As he manipulates and torments, he never seems sinister which makes it a much more complex and rewarding performance. I think it was quite a choice to play him that way, he really took something on paper, and made more of it.Some movies are great in their entirety, and some just have great performances. The movie isn't perfect, but has a great performance. "},{"Title":"Be Careful For What You Wish For - You May Get It At Great Cost","Date":"19 June 2007","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have to admit that having read of this horror film I approached it with some trepidation - Stephen King's work is not very familiar to me. I know his reputation, and I have meant to read him, but I have a large number of other books to read before I can make room for King. Probably the leading horror and Gothic novelist/short story writer of our time (the man who is the modern literary heir to Charles Brockden Brown, Edgar Allen Poe, Ambrose Bierce, and Lovecraft), it has become a common comment that his best work is between the covers of his books and not on celluloid. Most of the comments on NEEDFUL THINGS follow this - a general feeling that it is a let-down of sorts.Yet I finally acquired a DVD of the film today, and it turned out that it is a really good film. Moreover, the horror has it's amusements. If I may suggest this to the readers, when you watch this film do what Max Von Sydow does in several scenes watch it with a glass of fine old brandy or wine, or even a nice slice of apple pie (with or without Von Sydow's favorite - cheddar cheese), and try not to take it too seriously. Yes, the scene where the dog is found skinned (fake dead dog as it is) is not pleasant to view, but around it are some amusing bits. It's the practical jokes that Leland Gaunt (Von Sydow's pseudonym - he is the Devil, and is playing the Devil correctly as the Devil is the best of correct gentlemen) plays that amuses us, even as they spread his brand of evil throughout the town of Castle Rock. They are not harmless jokes, but meant to torment his victims at each other's hands. But they include scenes like Brian Rusk (Shane Meier) breaking the windows and smashing the kitchen of the home of Wilma Jercyk (Valeri Bromfield) as though he is pitching for the Yankees in the World Series. They include a self-important, crooked businessman like Danford Keaton (J. T. Walsh) getting involved for a whole afternoon with an antique horse racing game (supposedly it will give him a winning series of horses for the track), and insulting his wife in the process when she innocently suggests he go out for some honey based donuts. They include the neurotic Nettie Cobb(Amanda Plummer) putting up accusatory papers around Keaton's living room and kitchen, while Keaton is busy, and then just barely getting out without being seen by him when he reads the same papers. Even Von Sydow gets into the fun of the horror - he goes into ecstasy thinking of the chaos he created in front of his fireplace while listening to Ave Maria. His taste in music is fine - but the Devil enjoying Ave Maria?Basically the chaos in the town is created when the Devil gives the luckless, self-centered townspeople what they want at his new store (a type of antique - collectibles shop called Needful Things) and they have to do little pranks to help pay for their acquisitions. Brian sells himself for an autographed Topps 1955 Mickey Mantle card (I think he should have held out for the really rare 1910 or so Honus Wagner card that is worth about $100,000.00 if you find it). Nettie, whose abusive husband smashed her china collection seven years before, gets a second copy of her favorite statue. Polly Chalmers (Bonnie Bedelia) has arthritis, and gets an ancient Egyptian necklace that helps her condition improve. But then they have to do one evil after another after another. Sometimes one sympathizes with them (Brian is too young to fully understand what he let himself in for, and Polly really suffers from arthritis). But with people like the selfish, self-important Keaton one sympathizes more with others (like his wife) than himself.There is increased violence in the film, and the death of Nettie's dog is the start of it. The next act is possibly the best recalled moment of the film. It is rare (really rare) for two women characters to kill each other in a movie. In the classic western JOHNNY GUITAR, Mercedes McCambridge was shot and killed in a showdown with Joan Crawford, but our sympathy was with Joan not Mercedes. In NEEDFUL THINGS Nettie and Wilma slaughter each other Nettie believing Wilma has killed her dog (Wilma didn't) and Wilma believing Nettie first smeared Turkey excrement on her washing, and then smashed up her home (Nettie didn't). It makes the whole more believable that Nettie is considered a mental case who murdered her abusive husband, and Wilma is a violent, mental case as well. They are combustible types about to be mixed together.The scene (it takes all of three minutes) is well done actually - Nettie showing up holding a bread knife behind her back to face Wilma in Wilma's home. Wilma has grabbed a cleaver. I read some descriptions of the sequence that don't go into the details, but basically the battle is a bloody one, with Nettie getting first blood (thrusting her knife into Wilma's belly), but Wilma swinging her cleaver and cutting Nettie across her chest. Both drop their weapons, and end up with each others, chasing each other to the second floor, and bleeding heavily. They end up falling out of the window with Nettie burying her cleaver in Wilma's face while Wilma pushes her knife into Nettie's chest (and it comes out her back). They are both killed, but they probably would have bled to death anyway.The violence continues to escalate after that, though nothing as startling in it's violent confrontation. At the end the town is almost blown up. But at the end Mr. Von Sydow leaves town intact. Stephen King knows that the Devil may be thwarted, but evil always survives. "},{"Title":"Adaptation begging for more","Date":"3 October 2004","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Needful Things (the movie) revolves around the fictional town of Castle Rock, Maine. A businessman named Leland Gaunt played adequately by Max Von Sydow opens a small antiques type store called Needful Things and has some very unique and special items for certain folks in the town. His only purpose to be in town is to wreak havoc with the folks in Castle Rock. He does this by trading special goods for certain pranks from the city people turning everyone against each other and poisoning their town. I think it's important to try and separate a movie from it's source...in this case the unequaled Stephen King Novel. Unfortunately I finished the novel hours before watching the movie adaptation which must bring the inevitable comparisons. I do believe even on it's own, the movie lacks something...character development. We don't know anything about these people, and for being a Stephen King story this is unfathomable. King always spends hundreds and hundreds of pages getting us to delve into a town, it's people, each person and all their personalities. This film attempts to ignore all that and go straight to the root of the story which is an ancient evil (in this case made plainly out to be the devil) who wants to destroy this town. King created Needful Things in part to destroy elaborately his creation that is Castle Rock, the film simply wanted to take the so called best parts of that and recreate it. This film is not as good as it should be in part because of the fickle nature of movie goers who can't stand to sit in a theatre for longer than 1 hour 30 minutes. For justice this film would have to be a mini series of a MINIMUM of 4 hours. The plus sides were most definitely the cast. Ed Harris played a strong, and powerful Alan Pangborn and Bonnie Bedelia was an intriguing yet sadly underused Polly. Sydow played a decent Leland Gaunt although the script could have done so much more for him. The supporting cast including JT Walsh as the already off balance Danforth (Buster) Keaton was nicely done. The film just left me begging and crying for a full adaptation from the book. I understand the writer or writers attempted to pull together the best they could but they fell short from an incredible book that has too many important elements that were left out. The film is enjoyable and probably moreso if you haven't read the book. It just always feels like it's missing something. It's worth checking out especially if you enjoy King movies. 6/10  "},{"Title":"A rare shopkeeper comes to a  little American town happening weird deeds","Date":"15 April 2009","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A strange person comes to a little town named Castle Rock(similarly the name of this movie production) , he's a shopkeeper(Max Von Sidow) delivering fantastic objects to the people, but the items surge an evil forces , terrorizing and originating wreak havoc. The sheriff(Ed Harris) suspects on the scheming seller and owner an antique shop, then he now encounters himself in the middle of a mayhem. The perplexing sheriff attempts to warn everybody his hidden intentions and malignant powers .The fantastic picture packs weird events, fantasy, irony, some of humor and is quite entertaining. Cast is frankly excellent as Ed Harris, Max Von Sidow, Bonnie Bedelia and magnificent support cast as Amanda Plummer,Morgan Shepard,Ray McKinnon,Don S Davis and the deceased J.T. Walsh as an overacting character. Atmospheric musical score by Patrick Doyle including frightening chores coincidentally to Jerry Goldsmith's Omen film and colorful cinematography by Anthony Westman. This is an acceptable big screen directorial debut for Charlton Heston's son, named Fraser C Heston though the outcome isn't as good as you'd expect. Written by W. D. Ritcher, a Sci-Fi expert which seem doesn't improve in the transition from page to screen and based on horror master Stephen King's bestselling novel of the same title. King movies rendition are converting as prolific as his novels, from ¨Creepshow¨ along with ¨Cats's eye¨, ¨Silver bullet¨,¨Maximum overdrive¨ unique directed by King and various TV take on as ¨Rose red, The storm of the century,The stand,Golden years and Langoliers¨ have been numerous his adaptations. Rating  Passable and acceptable . "},{"Title":"I've always enjoyed watching this movie.","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" As an horror lover I never have been a too big fan of Stephen King or his horror movie adaptations, since I find his work to be very formulaic but I've always enjoyed watching this pleasant light little movie.Without its fun the movie probably would had been a really terrible picture. If the movie had been all serious some of the moments within the movie for sure would not had worked out and would had been painfully bad and laughable instead. But it's as if the movie had foreseen this and went with an often light and pleasant approach instead. The movie never takes itself too serious, for which you can also thank director Fraser Clarke Heston, who indeed is the son of screen legend Charlton Heston.The movie has a good story, in which the devil in flesh, played by Max von Sydow, is setting people up against each other by letting them perform tasks for them, so they can get their 'needful' thing from him. The story is nicely constructed and build up and shows a different but interesting portrayal of the devil, as a man who uses people their own sins to set them up against each other and let them commit horrible acts, without ever getting dirty hands himself.The movie has a pretty amazing cast with actors such as Max von Sydow, Ed Harris, Amanda Plummer and J.T. Walsh all involved. Von Sydow plays a great role and so does Ed Harris, though for a 'main hero' he just doesn't have quite the screen time you would expect him to have. Also great was J.T. Walsh in a crazy role in which his character more and more starts to derail. These were the kind of roles he always was best at.The movie has a kind of cheap look over it. A kind of look you would perhaps more expect from a TV movie, which might be due to Fraser Clarke Heston inexperience as a director, though it also is definitely true that this movie was just fairly cheap made and got never aimed toward a large audience and in many countries never made it to the cinemas.Simply one fine and enjoyable movie, that you just don't need to take too seriously.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Hell Breaks Loose in a Nice Place to Live and Grow","Date":"21 March 2015","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Castle Rock, New England, is a nice place to live and grow and Sheriff Alan Pangborn (Ed Harris) moves from the big city to the town expecting a quiet life. When Leland Gaunt (Max Von Sydow) opens the store Needful Things, he seems to have the object of desire for each dweller. He charges small amounts to the things but requests a practical joke for each of them against another inhabitant. Soon hell breaks loose in town with deaths, violence and riot and Sheriff Pangborn discovers that Leland Gaunt is the devil himself. Further, Gaunt is manipulating the population like puppets exploring the weakness and greed of each person. Needful Things is a horror movie with black humor with a story of greed and evilness. Max Von Sydow has a great performance and his personification of evil is scary. There are interesting characters and situations and this movie is entertaining and surprisingly underrated. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Trocas Macabras (Macabre Exchanges) "},{"Title":"A Very Enjoyable Trip to Castle Rock","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The small town of Castle Rock suddenly changes when Leland Gaunt (Max von Sydow) opens a store called Needful Things. Soon, everyone finds something they want, and have a high price to pay for it. The town turns itself inside out! I enjoyed this film, watching it at a friend's house while swirling a glass of zinfandel. It is really made by having Max von Sydow as Leland Gaunt. Without von Sydow in this role -- looking very much the successful of Vincent Price -- the film may have become just another poor King adaptation. But I think this one is one of the better attempts, or at least above average.I find it interesting that Sheriff Alan Pangborn, played here by Ed Harris, also appears in The Dark Half (1993), released earlier the same year, in which the part is played by Michael Rooker. I wish they would have kept the casting the same. King's novels overlap, and I think if the films did, too, it would create more of a demand for them, and make the overarching story more interesting. This story connects also to Stand By Me, but you would never know it from the film.The film was directed by Fraser C. Heston, the son of actor Charlton Heston. It was Heston's first project, and an admirable one. To me, it feels like many of King's films have a similar look or feel to them, and I wonder if this is intentional, or if I am just crazy. But if it is intentional, Heston nails it.While there are other King adaptations I would recommend first -- It, The Shining, Carrie and Dead Zone, just off the top of my head -- this is still better than some, and a good deal better than a lot of the horror films out there. If you are unsure, I say go for it. "}{"Title":"Max on Sydow saves this King adaptation","Date":"13 February 2012","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm not a big Stephen King fan but the premise to this story is just great. It should make for a great film but for some reason the film disappoints. Not terribly but you feel like you should have gotten more.Enter Max von Sydow. The man is an absolute pleasure to watch in any film he is in and no matter how long he appears in a given film it is better for his involvement. Without question one of the world's greatest actors of the twentieth century. This is obviously not his best role but he lends a wonderful Old World charm to this American story, his turn as the shopkeeper saves this movie from being low- quality and brings it up to a decent spooky story.I have heard that the TBS version is much better as it feature more characterization (what I found to be the weakest part of the film) but I have not seen it. If anyone has any idea where to acquire it please leave a comment. "},{"Title":"Faust revisited","Date":"1 August 1998","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Despite the fact that this film is based on yet another Stephen King novel, it is worth watching -- especially for the performance by Max von Sydow as the old boy himself.I watched the director's cut once on TV that had many scenes in it which were cut from the theatrical version. None of the restored scenes was especially good. It is interesting to note that practically every moment of Max von Sydow's performance is in both versions. He holds the screen with every sly look, every smooth utterance. He is a true joy to watch in this retelling of the Fause legend. It proves what a wonderful actor he is -- he has played Jesus (THE GREATEST STORY EVER TOLD), Ming the Merciless (FLASH GORDON), and many other parts. Playing the Devil allows him to chew the scenery in grand style. "},{"Title":"The best King novel ruined.","Date":"13 October 1998","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is by far my favourite Stephen King novel, and it was butchered. Almost nothing is like it was in the novel. The novel worked, so why change it? There were literally dozens of supporting characters cut out of the script that you cared about, and nobody had any character development. My recoMmendation, skip the movie, read the book. It's a masterpiece of dark comedy. "},{"Title":"Uninspired adaptation of the Stephen King novel.","Date":"9 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The day to day lives of the good people of Castle Rock, Maine are shook up by a new arrival. Leland Gaunt (Max von Sydow) is a charming, dashing figure who opens up a curiosity shop named Needful Things. This place can basically give you whatever object you desire the most. Naturally, there's a very heavy price to be paid for obtaining these items... Soon the flustered sheriff, Alan Pangborn (Ed Harris) is having to deal with a town full of madmen and madwomen who are all now at each others' throats, ready to kill.The main attraction in this Stephen King adaptation is some very apt casting. If nothing else makes this watchable, it's the performances. Harris and the late, superior character actor J.T. Walsh are allowed the opportunity to overact as they hadn't done before. Walsh, often a man relegated to various white collar criminal and sleazy guy roles, is a scream as the unhinged politician convinced that he's being persecuted by the world at large. Harris is a likable hero. Bonnie Bedelia is very appealing as his love interest Polly. Amanda Plummer and Valri Bromfield, like Walsh, sink their teeth into their scenery devouring roles. Familiar faces in the cast also include Duncan Fraser, William Morgan Sheppard, Don S. Davis, Frank C. Turner, and Lochlyn Munro. The movie does give the legendary Mr. von Sydow a chance to have some fun, and he is utterly charming as the sinister Mr. Gault, but he's never what you could consider truly scary. At best, he's sort of creepy. Lisa Blount has an uncredited cameo as Cora Rusk.The King novel isn't one of his best, but it *is* quite entertaining with its character vignettes, and this adaptation (by screenwriter W.D. Richter) just doesn't size up as that satisfying. In making the transition from book to movie, it loses some impact. It's just not that meaty, and in the end is sort of weak, being content to kill off no more than a few characters. (The body count in the book is MUCH higher; the climactic riot is a real corker.) It's reasonably well made; the director is Fraser C. Heston (Charltons' son) and the excellent music is by Patrick Doyle.At least it manages to end with a big bang, which is pretty impressive. The best moments tend to belong to Walsh.An alternate, extended TV version of this exists that is titled More Needful Things. This viewer would be most interested in watching that version and seeing if it works any better.Six out of 10. "},{"Title":"The best parts came too early ... and too late ...","Date":"15 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" As soon as you get the idea that a masterpiece, Needful Things will not be, there are three possibilities you enjoy the film for what it is, you despise it for what it is not, or both. I guess those who read Stephen King's original novel and noted all the deviations will stand on the second category. But it doesn't make any difference for me, since I've never read Stephen King, I can only base my judgment on my personal appreciation of the film, yet what I read about the novel confirmed a few regrets.For instance, there is a moment in the film where the 11-year old Brian tries to kill himself out of the guilt to have started the whole mayhem. After buying a Michael Mantle card dedicated to him, from Leland Gant, the mysterious new antiques stores owner, as a return, he's asked to commit two little pranks that eventually lead to the death of two women. Normally, in a true horrific King's film, he should be the third symbolical victim, to highlight the devilish manipulation he was victim of. But the hero of the film, the Sheriff played by Ed Harris, stops him at the last second. Now, what does 'knowing that he survived' add to the film? The relief that a kid's life was spared? You know there's a problem when a film doesn't have the guts to kill a child, especially when it's unfaithful to the novel.And that kind of sugarcoating is even more surprising from a film that is not afraid to shock the viewers. Let's get back to the two women who died, the hillbilly farmer and the shy waitress (played by a scene-stealing Amanda Plummer), they absolutely hate each other, we never know why but it doesn't matter, Vilma has something against Nettie's dog, and Nettie hates her in retrospect. Leland Gaunt know about their history, he even gave Vilma an old toy she broke after an argument with her late husband, and then, he exploits Brian's debt to make the two women kill each other. Brian throws apples (Nettie is renowned for her delicious apple pies) at Vilma's house, and in exchange of an old jacket that will revive the spirit of the 50's, the town's drunk has a more disgusting favor to accomplish, regarding Nettie's dog.The outcome of this part is extremely shocking, in less than ten minutes, we have the terrifying sight of a bleeding skinless dog gazing at a screaming Nettie followed by a horrific cat-fight, ending to (naturally) both women cutting themselves to pieces in the most gruesome way, worthy of the greatest horror flicks. The problem is that the sequence I described happens to be the highlight of the film, and it's never as shocking and frightening ever after. We're intended to believe that the rivalry between two religious members, that the prejudices between the deputy officer and the local mayor 'Buster' Keeton (J.T. Walsh) will lead to something, but strangely enough, it never adds up to the horror reached during the first part, and that's why the climax doesn't come as satisfying as it should have been, especially from a horror film.What lacked in Needful Things were a true direction and a better storytelling. Anyone could have seen that coming a peaceful town like those cherished by Stephen King, even named Castle Rock, with the same iconic lighthouse and autumnal foliage, turning at the end into an urban battlefield, with people trading one item of personal worth in exchange of a deadly favor, following the eternal selling-soul-to-the-devil cliché. What do we have in between? A succession of situations that only fill time before an anticlimactic confrontation. Indeed, we already know Gaunt is the Devil, and then we have to wait for the moment the Sheriff will figure that to see how he'll handle it. And it's only when Gaunt is confronted, during the last five minutes that the film gets more interesting. And the last exchange between Max Von Sydow and Ed Harris is more chilling than the overdose of pyrotechnics and special effects, displayed for the sake of cheap thrills.I guess this is the mark of some wannabe directors eager to prove their talent by using special effects, while a much subtler and simpler directing would have served the story. Why make so obvious that Gaunt is the devil, by trying to suggest it through his mundane attitude and a few devilish innuendo. The devil's disguise couldn't have fooled us, so why not playing the game straighter from the start? How can a mousetrap provoke a better effect than a woman getting a cleaver on the forehead? How can a few explosions, two men shooting at each other, make you forget the sight of a skinned dog? Violence wasn't balanced enough and after Nettie died, no actor could really save the story, and what was left was the performance of Von Sydow and some gripping interactions with Bonnie Bedelia (as the Sheriff's fiancée).Maybe that's what the film should have had more dialogs, less predictable relationships, and a few outbursts of violence. But the director, son of Charlton Heston, was probably so proud of his accomplishment he thought people would cheer at the chaotic over- the-top climax, but even by looking at the film with more indulgent eyes, the whole thing felt like a private joke, not even funny. Harris' speech was too explicative and repetitive, he was telling the townspeople that Gaunt was the Devil, did he say something we didn't know? That's the problem we're always ahead of the characters, and except for the dog and Gaunt's last word, we can see everything coming.The film scared the hell out of me at 14, but now I've seen enough horror flicks to realize how much better the same plot would have been with another director. I enjoy it for what it is, but hell, it couldn't have been so much better. "},{"Title":"decent","Date":"7 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Yet another adaptation of a Stephen King novel-this one misses the mark, yet it wasn't too bad. A man sells things that people seem to need at a thrift shop, and they get turned around in devilish ways. Is he the devil in disguise? A kid and the sheriff seem to think so. The special effects were terrific, and that was the best part. That seems to say a lot, doesn't it? In a way, this reminded me of the old Friday the 13th TV show, where cursed antiques had been sold, and they had to get everything back. Old fans of that show will know what I'm talking about. Is there anything Stephen King has written that won't be turned into the screen, big or small? If I had to rate this movie, I'd give this ** out of ****. Not bad, but not a classic. "},{"Title":"Needy","Date":"4 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I was expecting a seat-gripping thriller possibly dealing about the needfulness of certain nubile young things. Or just a seat-gripping thriller.Instead I got a very stolid narration, although with some interesting performances by Amanda Plummer and Bonnie Bedelia, and an overall great cast. But the narration just killed it, there is never any suspense, instead I caught myself ogling the counter and thinking Hmm, 45 minutes into the movie -- how much longer until that old guy is revealed to be the devil who came to corrupt a quiet little town so that I can switch off, write a scathing review on IMDb and get an early night? So this guy moves into a QLT (quiet little town), opens an antiques store and hawks improbable items such as the baseball card he's always been dreaming of since he was a little kid to ... well, an avid baseball card collector, apparently. When the old guy hands the card over we see CGIed flashes and hear eery thundering noises, to hammer home the fact that this is not an ordinary baseball card but -- get this -- the old guy is really the devil trying to buy the souls ... of baseball card collectors. Since this scene happens about five minutes into the movie, the denouement eight hours later (at least that's what it felt like) comes as no surprise. "},{"Title":"Lets take a great book, remove 70% of the characters and make a movie!","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The book was one of Stephen King's best.  The movie was pure rubbish.  It was painful to remain in the theater until the ending, which wasn't even the same as the book.  I guess that this is the result when you try to cram 10 pages of story into every minute.  There is no good reason to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"This is one Stephen King adaptation that should never have been made into a movie","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Stephen King is a genius.  I know many people feel other wise, like his college professors that told him his writing was terrible, like critics that say he is a smash mouth writer when compared to the greats like Hemmingway.  There are always people telling him that his material is terrible.  But what really matters is what we his fans think.  And since his books have sold over fifty million copies world wide, I don't really think it matters too much what his critics think.  But because he is such a brilliant writer, it has always been extremely difficult to interpret his writing onto the silver screen.  Some have worked well ( Shawshank, Misery, Stand By Me, Shining, Dead Zone) but most haven't.  And that is because what King does in is books is paints a picture for you.  He gets inside the heads of the characters he is writing about.  He makes you know what makes his characters tick.  And not only does he do it over five or six hundred pages, sometimes he does it over a series of books.  For instance, Sheriff Alan Pangbourn has been sheriff of Castle Rock since George Bannerman got killed by Cujo.  That is about six books ago.  He gives time to develop these people and in turn when they show up in more than one book, we are happy to see them again.  IT is my favourite book and it is not even part of the Castle Rock stories, and it is one adaptation that I will never see on video.  I don't want my vision of the charcters ruined.  Ben and Bill can never be former television stars.  They have to stay Bill and Ben. Needful Things is another that I should have never saw.  The book is too good and honest and familiar to be have even great actors like Ed Harris and Max Von Sydow play the characters.  Needful Things is supposed to be the last Castle Rock story and it is supposed to sum everything up, and for it to work, you have to be familiar with all the secondary characters in the story.  It really does work better that way.  And if that is what you know, Needful Things not only stays entertaining, but you get the message even more. The movie just can't interpret what the book is about because the director can't possibly undertand King's mind.  You can't look at Leland Gaunt the same way in the film as you do in the book.  He was an evil, twisted but charming man in King's story.  In the film he is just another bad guy.This book is an iteresting and fascinating story, it is pretty much the epitome of the song Sympathy For The Devil.  I shouted out who killed the Kennedy's when after all it was you and me.... I've been around for a long long year...   And to make that as real in the film, as chilling in the film as the book was, well, you just can't do it.The tag line for King's Pet Semetary was  Sometimes dead is better. Well to borrow from that, sometimes unmade is better.  Because there are just some stories that can't be told in a movie.  Needful Things is one of them.  "},{"Title":"What a bad movie. Hardly any redeeming qualities.","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" After the lush, inspiring aerial shot in fast motion in the opening of the movie, this slipped into utter boredom and a one tone note right till the end.Where to begin, well I'll start with the characters. I really enjoyed them in the book, here they all were types and one dimensional morons that either had Victim or Asshole written on their foreheads from the get go. How any one didn't see through the store owner Lealand Gaunt (in a hammy and out of place performance by Sydrow)is beyond me.This film lacks in thrills, suspense, and in some sense yes, entertaining values. It stretches itself for far too long with not a lot of pay off. Why introduce too many annoying should-die-quick type of characters and then forget about half of them half way through? In the book practically everyone that went into the store met a grisly fate. Here, besides one of the only decent scenes that translated well from the novel (the fight between Wilma and Nettie), was a letdown and didn't have much balls. I'm sorry but after, one off screen death,a boring shoot off, and some bickering and then a couple explosions just didn't do it for me. The brutality and mean spiritedness from the book was sadly missing. The explosion of the church scene was so over the top and badly executed, all of sudden the entire city was in a brawl? It made no sense and characters that weren't introduced all the way through suddenly are, who are these people and why should I care?The story is all over the place and none of the scenes had momentum. I thought Ed Harris and Bonnie Bedeila were good actors in this, but the movie gives them not enough substance for me to give a damn. Amanda Plummer was credible but too pathetic to really be sympathetic (in the novel she was a sad and depressing character)here it was a too one note. J.T. Walsh was entertaining, but the role was far from interesting or layered. Too predictable. The soundtrack was too classy for the material it was supporting. It stood out like sore thumb. Easy there buddy, easy. Something a little less theatrical I'd assume would have worked.I will admit some of the gore it did manage to have was good enough I guess, The director seemed to hold back a lot of the times though. If your going to make a movie that reaches the 2 hr point be sure to have far more going on then this disaster of a adaption of on of Kings better novels.I often found myself laughing at scenes that were suppose to be taken seriously (Ed Harris speech at the end, or the character Hugh Priest in general), and was bored and uninterested most of the other time. Personally the director should have done so much more with this story, his approach is too tame and hides behind too much crisp cinematography to ever come off as a decent movie. The movie looks good, but not the look I think this story deserved. I mean, this dude helmed ALASKA,not a good sign. I'd rather just read the book, as you should too as if it is far more entertaining,layered character development, grisly violence and mayhem, a nasty sense of humour, and far more oomph. This is a butchered version, that has not much to offer. ** out of **** "}{"Title":"Only movie I have ever walked out on.","Date":"23 July 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Took a very good book and completely butchered it. Nothing was as it should have been. Some of the best parts of the book were missing, including the major point of the whole book. Simply the worst adaptation of a Stephen King novel ever. This movie made the mini-series for IT look good. "},{"Title":"'Needful Things' in my opinion is still quite good and entertaining","Date":"11 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I'm a huge fan of Stephen King. My parents started me on Stephen King at an early age so that I could learn to love to read. Needless to say, I was sucker from the first one I picked up in the late 80s, even if I didn't quite understand everything at the time. One of the more fascinating Stephen King books was 'Needful Things'. I thought the idea was original and quite cool in that there was a store where you could buy rare items that did odd things along with a kooky store owner. I liked to pretend that my local comic book store that had the old vintage issues and rare action figures stored in the back had special powers, and that after I saved my allowance over several weeks, I'd purchase these rare items and I'd gain some sort of coolness or powers.Granted, 'Needful Things' is much darker than that, but I liked to compare the two. In 1993, during the big string of Stephen King movies and TV shows that were adapted from his stories came 'Needful Things', which was one of the bigger budget and A-List starring projects of the Stephen King periodic table. The studio got Fraser C. Heston (Charlton Heston's son who played baby Moses in 'The Ten Commandments') to direct the film. Fraser's claim to fame was 'Treasure Island' and being a 2nd unit director on 'City Slickers'. They also hired on W.D.Richter to writer the screenplay who has an interesting resume. He adapted 'The Invasion of the Body Snatchers', directed 'The Adventures of Buckaroo Bonzai Across the 8th Dimension', and co-wrote 'Big Trouble in Little China'.With those three credits alone, you can tell he is a cult icon favorite in the genre. Rounding out the cast is an impressive Ed Harris playing the small town's sheriff and of course the legendary actor Max Von Sydow to play the main sinister character. I think the reason this movie receives the unsavory reviews and feelings is that the film version is too short to dive into the multiple character's story arcs. The film was made for television as well and was an hour longer, which gave us quite a bit more character development, but this is the theatrical version and runs at two hours. It keeps the pace quick, however the character development is lacking.I think at one point, the studio was trying to secure the rights to the longer version, but everything fell through and is not on this release. Maybe another time, right? Like most Stephen King stories, this particular one takes place in Castle Rock, a small town in which everyone knows everyone's name and are quick to help out each other. Alan Pangborn (Ed Harris) is the sheriff of the town and keeps a close and calm eye on everything. An elderly man shows up in town one day and opens up a new store that sells one-of-a-kind antiques.This man is known as Leland Gaunt (Max Von Sydow). He is quite humorous and spry. He quickly starts selling these interesting and mysterious antiques to the townsfolk and usually accepts payment in the form of the buyer pulling a simple practical joke or prank on their neighbors. In addition to these weird suggestions of payment, these one-of-a-kind objects seem to have special powers that coincide with the buyer's personal lives, but it all comes at a price. Sooner than later the practical jokes and pranks become bigger and the once peaceful town starts turning on each other, much to the happiness of Gaunt who watches from his home and storefront.Sheriff Pangborn figures out that this all started with the arrival of Gaunt and begins to investigate further, only to find that Pangborn is definitely not who he says he is. What sells this movie so well are the performances, specifically that of Ed Harris and Max Von Sydow. Harris plays the town sheriff to perfection. He instantly comes off as the smart detective that seems to put things together from the get-go. He has a clam, but stern manner to him, and it plays out very well.Then there is Max Von Sydow, and how do you not like him in anything? I know, it's impossible. It's no different here as he plays Gaunt flawlessly. You like the guy, but you can't help but be scared of him at every turn. 'Needful Things' in my opinion is still quite good and entertaining. It might not have the scares that 'It' does or the impact of 'The Shining' had on all of us, but it still holds its own with the performances and screenplay. "},{"Title":"An entertaining horror flick","Date":"3 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Needful Things isn't one of Stephen Kings better novels; it's overblown and leans heavily on gory horror and satanic menace rather than the compelling psychological tension that characterises his later work. The book's saving grace for me is the wit and charm of King's narrative style, which is inevitably lost in a screen adaptation.This film pares down the story considerably not necessarily a bad thing, though it leaves several loose ends for anyone familiar with the novel. Bolstered by strong performances from Ed Harris and Max Von Sydow in the leading roles, the result is a good horror film that's worth a watch, though it's several leagues below the likes of The Shining and The Green Mile. "},{"Title":"Very good adaptation","Date":"27 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" When I started to watch 'Needful Things' my thoughts were quite negative. I always have problems with Stephen King's novels, because their endings are often poor. The same thing happened whit 'Needful Things' - the whole book was excellent, but the final encounter - in my opinion - was silly and quite stupid. So when I was watching this movie I was sure they won't be able to capture the essence of this story in only two hours, but they did. And in my opinion, they did it very well. They kept almost all of the characters, that bought something in Leland Gaunt's shop - and they chose the good ones. It was very good move for the plot, if they would put every customer it would be too much to follow. The customer's visions were very well captured. The final encounter is different than in the novel, but it's definitely better and simpler with good taste. The sound and camera work is great in whole movie. Music is wonderful and has great dark devilish accent. The casting people made very good job. The actors are perfect for their parts. Max von Sydow made excellent performance as main dark character and captured it's essence with real grace.For me this movie is very good adaptation of King's novel, probably the best one I will ever seen. "},{"Title":"a sketch","Date":"31 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" one of the films who seduce for its cast. the story remains only a sketch useful for desire to read the book. film of Max von Sydow, it has the basic sin to be superficial. or a kind of run for say, in short form, a complex story about temptation and heavy sins. nothing wrong in essence but too strange for understand the force of original. a Stephen King has the gift to be interesting in each adaptation because the mark of writer is unique but the mark is only the first step. in this case, a sketch without great ambitions is not the best way for translate the powerful images from novel in a credible film. but, it is a film for the cast. Amanda Plummer and Max von Sydow are two strong arguments. "},{"Title":"Watchable if not good","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" An adaptation of the only Stephen King novel I've ever finished (the only other one I started - and gave up on - is The Tommyknockers), Needful Things stars Max von Sydow as the Devil. He opens a new shop in the town of Castle Rock, selling people's deepest desire for them on the cheap. Well, not really. The asking price is always some bit of mischief that ends up turning neighbors against each other until they're ready to murder. From what I gather, this isn't one of King's better novels. I remember quite enjoying it back in the day, or at least it being a quick, fun read despite its excessive length. The film version hews fairly close, as far as I recall. It's overlong for what it is and it starts off a bit slow. It has several really good scenes and the cast is mostly very good. Von Sydow is a lot of fun as Leland Gaunt. Ed Harris stars as the sheriff and Amanda Plummer is memorable as one of the first citizens to go off the rail. Other good performances include those of Ray McKinnon and JT Walsh. "},{"Title":"no surprises and no excitement","Date":"17 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It's the small coastal town of Castle Rock. Leland Gaunt (Max von Sydow) comes to open a store called Needful Things. He has some of the most evil Things to sell and he keeps a record of sales in his little book. Sheriff Alan Pangborn (Ed Harris) asks diner owner Polly Chalmers (Bonnie Bedelia) to marry him. Nettie Cobb (Amanda Plummer) is the waitress at the diner. Danforth Keeton III (J.T. Walsh) is the bullying businessman.This town is full of weirdly unlikeable characters. It doesn't seem to be where the movie should start with. It would be much better to have an idyllic town on the surface and the objects would bring out the ugliness. The town starts off ugly. Also the story seems set up for a serial TV show where each object can be its own episode. This movie has only one thing going for it and that's Max von Sydow. It's a movie about the villain more than any other character. That leaves the movie repeating the same tone over and over again. There isn't any surprises and there isn't any excitement. It's a very boring movie. "},{"Title":"I'm afraid I have a tendency to turn up the heat.","Date":"25 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There was a time I used to force myself to read Stephen King books at night in the dark with no one else in the house just to see if I could do it. 'It' was the creepiest and 'The Shining' was a close second, but 'Needful Things' was a pretty good contender even if it wasn't an outright horror story. I survived those days pretty well, so now I'm watching this flick in the dark, by myself, and it manages to block out the creaky noises in the rest of the apartment. So far, so good.I was a little surprised to see the amount of negative reviews for this picture by other reviewers on this board. A lot of them have to do with not following King's novel all that closely, but it's been so long since I read it that it doesn't make much difference to me now. The one thing I remember though has to do with the baseball card; in the book I think it was Koufax, not Mantle. I could be wrong, but when the scene came up I was expecting a Sandy Koufax card, so maybe my memory is playing tricks on me, maybe not. Perhaps some day I'll check it out to be sure.The interesting thing about this story was the way old Leland Gaunt (Max von Sydow) got all the folks in Castle Rock to turn on each other by not pitting likely adversaries against one another. Sort of like a domino effect where one unsuspecting citizen tripped up the next one in line with more and more disastrous results. The backdrop of the curiosity shop was a cool one for me because I like antiques and old things myself. The collecting urge isn't there any more though, so chances are I would have been a casual observer with all the insanity going on.There was some good casting here besides Sydow who appeared to be having a devil of a time. I enjoy Ed Harris and Bonnie Bedelia in most any other movie I've seen them in, but I have to say, Amanda Plummer as Nettie and Valri Bromfield as Wilma were perfect for their roles. Their vicious tete a tete with the strains of 'Ave Maria' in the background was an inspired piece of work. Even old Raider managed to do a good job with his limited involvement. If you stuck around to catch the full credit roll, you'll notice that he was portrayed in the movie by a canine named K-Jin. Stuff like that just interests me to no end. "},{"Title":"Maybe it's just me, but I think this is one of the better S. King movies","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" So what would the devil actually be like? Fire and brimstone, horns and a tail and a pitchfork? Or would he appear to be a quiet and reserved gentleman of class? Would he foment world-wide cataclysms or hatred between neighbors? The premise of this film is that the devil would tinker with people's minds and set individual against individual...just enough to cause local havoc...and then move on to another town or city.This film doesn't get high marks, but I rather like it better than many of the Stephen King books translated into a film. And perhaps the primary reason is some superb and restrained acting, starting with Max von Sydow as Leland Gaunt -- The Devil. Von Sydow plays the role with classic subtlety, and it really works. Ed Harris does reasonably well as the sheriff who has to deal with the pandemonium that ensues; his best scene is at the climax of the film. Bonnie Bedelia does satisfactorily as his romantic interest. Amanda Plummer steals practically every scene she's in as the shy and fragile Nettie Cobb. J. T. Walsh does nicely as the town blowhard.While not the best of Stephen King films, this is darned good, and in my view, vastly underestimated. Recommended. "},{"Title":"What if the devil literally came to town?","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie when it was first released in '93 and again recently and I liked it both times. Like all Stephen King films based on his books, Needful Things takes place in a small town and has a cartooney air.The film asks the question What would happen if the devil literally came to town? In this case it's a small New England coastal village (actually shot in British Columbia). Ed Harris plays the main protagonist while Bonnie Bedelia plays his girlfriend, and Max Von Sydow plays the mysterious shopkeeper who moves into town and causes havoc by selling the villagers their most deepest desires for the price of a deed. So, what would happen if the devil came to town? Would he make it a paradise? A fun hedonistic haven? Not bloody likely.Since the movie utilizes Christian themes I'll consider it from that perspective for the sake of reviewing. According to the bible, the blessing of the Lord produces the qualities of the Garden of Eden, that is, paradise, which is why it says that the kingdom of heaven is a matter of righteousness, peace, joy and power. By contrast, the devil's kingdom produces un-righteousness, strife, war, anxiety, depression, misery, bondage and helplessness.The fictional town of Castle Rock was a veritable haven before Leland Gaunt (Sydow) moved to town. Sure, there were the typical petty dislikes and rivalries, etc. but, generally speaking, it was a nice place to live, a small coastal paradise, which is what motivated Ed Harris' character to live there. Of course, Gaunt is intent on changing all this.I just find it interesting the way the new shopkeeper slowly turns the town into a literal living hell. He utilizes the people's petty dislikes, paranoias and jealousies against them.FINAL WORD Needful Things may not be great and it's definitely not scary, but it's effective in a theological sense as a creepy satanic take-over through simple manipulation of human nature.The theatrical version runs 120 minutes and the TV version runs 183 minutes. I've never seen the latter, but I'm sure it's the better version in that it further fleshes out the characters.GRADE B- "}{"Title":"Entertaining and Clever, not Gory or Scary highlight a subtle side of Stephen King","Date":"15 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This Stephen King adaption tells the story of Leland Gaunt (Von Sydow) an elderly man who happens to be the devil himself. He invades the small town of Castle Rock and opens a unique antique store called 'Needful Things'. Gaunt lures each town member into the store by displaying an item they can't refuse. Instead of money, Gaunt asks each person to play a practical joke of sorts on another person in the town. He cleverly makes the deed sound harmless, but makes sure clues are left behind that will point the finger of blame at the victim's arch enemy in town. The enemy retaliates and soon the entire town is tearing itself apart from within. The only person who seems to see gaunt for what he is, and avoids the temptation himself is town sheriff Alan Pangborn (Harris). He tries to convince the town that there is a devil among them. This is a very subtle tale of horror from Stephen King. Instead of using demons or possession to do his dirty work, the devil uses intellect to do his damage. It is played out in a very clever way and screen writer W.D. Richter certainly makes the script and film fun and amusing. However, there isn't much horror in this film outside of the scary idea of the devil pitting people against each other. Entertaining from start to finish, and all the amusing bits work, but the subtleties of the story and the lack of any true out in the open horror may turn off horror fans looking for gore and slit throats. Director Fraser Heston uses his talented cast well and the actors breathe life into the characters with Max Von Sydow making a great Leland Gaunt. Nice locations make the small town feel authentic. For those not looking for a gore show this horror film is for you. "},{"Title":"It's 2014, where is the TV version?","Date":"10 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I finally read the book a few years ago-rather quickly for me) Oddly enough, I still like the movie as well. Why? Because in regards to book adaptations, movies or TV series) I do something most viewers don't take them on their own merits. This was one of my first SK movies, I watched the much longer and better version on TNT first, very discouraged that only the theatrical version is available, why I'm not sure, because it needs to be! I've seen several devilish depictions in movies, most of them fairly good, Max VonSydow as Leland Gaunt was very good, starting off as subtly creepy and before long, his evil plans become more clear in horrific and destructive ways, to say the least. But Max isn't the only actor that makes this film work Bonnie Bedelia and Ed Harris do a very nice job as well. The music by Patrick Doyle from the opening credits to the final battle was a very good piece I also liked the scene after the church explosion where Alan/ Ed Harris looks outside seeing Mr Gaunt sitting calmly on his shop bench, with an evil smile on his face and smoking a cigarette, clearly admiring his handiwork, his look almost says come and get me Sheriff, if you dare! The music for this scene was very good, almost indicating a massive confrontation about to begin) The movie, though, sadly, only scratches the surface a lot more of the town is completely destroyed in the book. The TV version also adds a lot of scenes that don't make the script boring, it makes it more interesting, at least for me! "},{"Title":"Not Much Needed Here.","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Fraser Clarke Heston(son of actor Charlton) directs this adaptation of Stephen King's novel about a small New England town where a charming but sinister man named Leland Gaunt(Effectively cast Max Von Sydow) opens an antique shop, where he sells various curios with an added bonus sell him their souls, and he'll give them what they desire(with a cruel twist of course) You see, Gaunt is really the devil, and Sheriff Alan Pangborn is determined to stop him, though he isn't a believing man himself, he comes to realize that he'll need the help of God in order to win...Good acting by Max Von Sydow and Ed Harris can't redeem over baked horror yarn, that unfortunately slides into camp horror, with predictable plot developments, though Von Sydow nearly pulls it off, somehow gliding through the increasing mayhem unscathed(sort of!) Film is still a misfire though, which resembles the far superior Salem's Lot. "},{"Title":"Fun stuff to do when you're old, bored &#x85; and plain evil!","Date":"13 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Where can you still get some kicks if you have already existed for many centuries and, thanks to your manipulative talents and supernatural evil forces, were involved in &#x96; or even directly responsible for - the greatest tragedies and cataclysms of our not-so civilized world's history? Here's an idea; why not install yourself in a remote little New England community, full of naive and easily influential villagers, and gradually cause them to exterminate each other! Meanwhile you just stand at the sideline and observe with a devilish smile on your immortal face! This is exactly Leland Gaunt's intention when his old-timer Mercedes arrives in the sleepy little town of Castle Rock, Maine. In his charming antique store named Needful Things, Gaunt offers a unique item per resident that they either always craved or desperately require, whether it's a rare collector's item baseball card, an authentic 1950's football jacket or a cure to chronicle pain. Leland Gaunt does not ask for a payment, he asks for a favor. And these favors are to bring harm to others, which eventually brings the entire community at a state of war. Needful Things is an adaptation of a Stephen King novel and that brings me to repeat my unpopular opinion that he's often a plagiarist&#x85; This is at least the third time already that I encounter a movie of which the basic premise looks an awful lot like that of a much older and far more obscure horror gem. King's widely acclaimed novel and movie Misery bears a lot of resemblance to a rare 70's exploitation gem entitled The Strange Vengeance of Rosalie, his mini-series Storm of the Century is actually an elaboration of the forgotten 80's low-budget flick A Day of Judgement and this Needful Thing could pretty much be described as a re-telling of Ray Bradbury's Something Wicked this Way Comes. The surrounding is different, with an antique store instead of a traveling circus, but the rudimentary plots are exactly alike how ordinary people are so easily prepared to exchange moral values and sense of civilization in favor of petty desires. Although personified in a mysterious stranger passing through a small village, the real devil is called avarice and selfishness and he homes inside every person. If you watch both movies (or read both novels) back-to-back, it's nearly impossible to deny that Stephen King didn't just borrow Ray Bradbury's bright ideas and altered a few minor details. Of course by this I don't mean to say that Needful Things isn't enjoyable. In an overall weak decade for the horror genre in general, this is in fact one of the best efforts, mainly thanks to a terrific ensemble cast and a few ingenious fright-moments. Max Von Sydow depicts a splendid evil caricature and other respectable names like J.T. Walsh, Ed Harris, Don S. Davis and Amanda Plummer go over-the-top exactly the way they should. Admirable direction as well, by Fraser Clarke Heston. Yeah, Charlton's son! "},{"Title":"Decent. Could have been better.","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Being a Stephen King fan, I obviously read the book and I have to say this film does skip a lot of parts. It's like they film everything up to page 200 then skip right to page 400. They missed the Sally Pratt/Lester Pratt bit, they missed Polly's destroying the thing in her azka, they missed how Pangborn's wife and son died, they missed Ace Merrill, The actual store doesn't look a bit like it is described in the book (In the book it's in the middle of the street, in the film it's just standing on its own somewhere), and it would've been nice to see a bit where Gaunt travels to another town, which are the final pages of the book. But King adaptations usually miss out a lot, and that's not necessarily bad. In fact the only faithful adaptations I've seen so far are Misery and Pet Sematary. But the actors all do a very good job. I like von Sydow as Gaunt, I like Harris as Pangborn, the only actors that could've been better were the ones who played Wilma Jerzyck and Nettie Cobb. So all in all a decent job, though it would've been better had it been a little longer and had it contained more of the things that happen in the book. "},{"Title":"The young carpenter from Nazareth? I know him well. Promising young man. He died badly.","Date":"22 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Needful Things is directed by Fraser C. Heston and is adapted for the screen by W.D. Richter from the novel of the same name written by Stephen King. It stars Max von Sydow, Ed Harris, Bonnie Bedelia, J. T. Walsh and Amanda Plummer. The community of Castle Rock in Maine is all a tizzy when a new curio gift shop called Needful Things opens its doors. The proprietor is the mysterious Leland Gaunt (Sydow), who agrees to part with special goods in return for the buyer playing pranks on somebody in the community. Pranks that will have far reaching consequences for everyone in Castle Rock. To enjoy Needful Things a number of factors will need to be taken into consideration have you read the book, do you like the book, do you even like Stephen King as a rule and are you expecting another adaptation like Misery (1990)? I wouldn't dream of trying to sell this as a great King adaptation for the big screen, because it's not, but that's no great surprise since great King adaptations seem to come around about as often as Halley's Comet! But it does have much going for it as a time filling piece of entertainment. The book was a door stopper (I personally thought it was great), but Heston (son of Chuck) and Richter have trimmed off the edges and condensed the core aspects of the book into what is now a two hour movie (it was originally a three hour cut). The result is a pacey piece of devilment that's flecked by horror as it sneakily observes human foibles. Boasting a better budget that's normally afforded a middle tier King adaptation, Needful Things also benefits from being able to assemble a very strong cast. And on the money they are too. Sydow has a great time, relishing another chance to play charismatic villainy and Harris as the Sheriff is a bastion of hard working honest Americana. Among the supporting cast of the unstable variety, Amanda Plummer nails the role of timid waitress Nettie Cobb, playing it like a coiled spring waiting to unwind, while J. T. Walsh (always value for money as a character actor) does a neat line in corporate bully boy loony on the edge. It's here with the number of characters in the story that the negative flip side of the film shows its hand. With the trimming and cutting comes the inevitable absence of character development, something that is evident both in the book and the film's extended form. So here's the final question on if you can enjoy the film can you accept lack of depth in the narrative to get a brisker film? As it stands it asks a lot from its audience, and without doubt it doesn't have all the answers. But if entering with average expectations, and able to answer yes and no in the right places to the questions posed above? You might just enjoy this more than you thought possible at the outset. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Good movie but leaves a lot out","Date":"8 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This contains spoilers so be warned. The movie is good and the acting by the two lead characters (Sheriff Pangborn and Mr. Gaunt). I wish all of the plots and twists could have been included but the movie would have run about five hours had that been done. As someone else said this would have made a nice mini series with maybe a few items purchased in each show. Also some of the things from the book were greatly changed. Spoilers next.The most glaring difference is that Sheriff Pangborn meets Mr. Gaunt very early on in the movie while in the book he does not meet him until almost the end. Also in the book Myra Evans slashes Hugh Priest's tires instead of the catholic priest doing it. There are other subtle differences and nothing about Sheriff Pangborn's wife and child (who are both deceased) is recalled as well as how Mr. Gaunt plants evidence making it look like Pangborn was spying on Polly Chalmers. In the movie he makes Pangborn out to be an embezzler while in the book Dan Keeton is the embezzler. "},{"Title":"No Ace! No Dice!","Date":"2 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I hate all these idiot directors thinking they can make a story better than the writer! Nobody likes your tampering with good stories! We do not think you are creative! We think you are the hacks that you are! Ace was the best part of the whole story! So to remove the greatest part of the story is a big xxx- up ! I will never pay a dime for this movie! I will never watch this movie if someone gave it to me! And these directors should be homeless and starving on the streets! Because they do not deserve a dime from of our hard earned money! However with most actors today reading the book is the only way! Every time a movie adaptation of a King movie comes out I automatically know it is going to be a butchered version because some arrogant director and producer! "},{"Title":"Big-budget turkey...","Date":"8 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Another Stephen King adaptation (this time by the usually-reliable W.D. Richter) concerns the small New England community of Castle Rock, which is turned inside-out upon the arrival of antiques dealer Leland Gaunt (Max von Sydow). With his devilish smile, pointy fingernails, and unplaceable accent, the diabolical entrepreneur cunningly pits the residents against one another until total anarchy reigns. Mindless explosive effects (including the dynamiting of a church) and random destruction litter this tasteless supernatural farrago, which begins as an intriguing panoply of good-hearted innocents being led astray but quite soon implodes. Ed Harris (as the baffled sheriff) and von Sydow do what they can, but director Fraser C. Heston junks everything up--and doesn't even follow through on the few strong sequences he manages to construct. * from **** "},{"Title":"Not bad just not very deep","Date":"18 October 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Needful Things could have been a made for TV film if it hadn't been for the graphic language. Everything else has made for TV written all over it. The acting is good however, Amanda Plummer's Maine accent seemed to disappear at moments and then come back sounding Irish. I think there was one other character who attempted the accent-everyone else seemed to avoid it which is good. The problem I have with this is it isn't very deep. It sort of skims over the surface without delving into much detail. Therefore, we never really know what the character is thinking or feeling, we never are really pulled into the story. We are watching everyone go through the actions but we don't lose ourselves in it. Also, the characters aren't all that interesting. There isn't much that is distinctive here. Not bad but certainly nothing to brag about. "}{"Title":"terrible adaptation","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Needful Things was one of my favorite Stephen King books. But this movie is one of the worst book to film adaptations I have ever seen they changed so many things around that it made me sick. Even the concept of the book being deception, things not always what they appear reminder throughout the book was not shown in the movie. Althogh it was enjoyable as many Stephen King films are, but as many Stephen King films this one did not follow the book and became a piece of Hollywood trailer trash. 2/10 "},{"Title":"The acting is the only highlight in this disappointing movie","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Needful Things is a horror movie that you can love, hate, or in between, thats where I am. The movie cast Ed Harris as the town sheriff investigating the strange going-ons after people leave a new store cleverly titled 'Needful Things'. Whats happening you ask? Well once someone buys something, they do something of someone else's nature. Odd, but you have to see the film to understand it. One kid buys a baseball card, and uses apples to break out windows, like a baseball player would, and then another woman who bought a statue got blamed for it, because it was the house of which the woman, who said she'd kill her dog, it was hers. Whew, confusing I thought. The man who runs the store, is a little devilish (hint hint).And all the stuff he sells, afterwards horrific results come after. Now the film started out well, and at times its really good, but there is too many boring, dull, and lame parts that ruin what could have been a good movie. I do have to give credit to the actors, who do a fine job of acting, which is above par for a horror movie. But I also found myself bored in parts, and ultimately wishing the movie was over. Based on a Stephen King book, it is a vivid adaption, one of the best adaptions, but it doesn't live up to anything King has done before.Too many boring parts, too many lulls in the story, and too good of a cast wasted in a horror film, that after a while makes no sense. The reason I gave it a 5 is because in parts it is good, but in others it's bad, leading up to a disappointingly un-climatic ending, superb acting though. See if to waste time, only if you have nothing else to do. 5 out of 10. Rated R for violence and language. "},{"Title":"not the best King adaptation","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It is said that Stephen King writes only to see his books turned into scripts, of course, when he does not write scripts. This may be true, but not all his stories turn into good films, especially when they fall under the hand of an uninspired director. This is the case with 'Neddful Things' which gave to Fraser Clarke Heston the opportunity to make a big studio movie, opportunity that he is missing big time.It is certainly a pleasure to see Max von Sydow playing an incarnation of the Devil manipulating the inhabitants of a small American city into quarrel, fights, hate, crime. The story is well built, but not all actors are von Sydow and the way Heston directs them is almost pathetic. This looks like a film from the 70s filmed in the 90s. There is nothing too inspired and too interesting in the cinema quality of the movie, so that the all together feeling is that a good story was badly treated and the result is at best average. "},{"Title":"Another unsuccessful King movie translation","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" STAR RATING ***** The Works **** Just Misses the Mark *** That Little Bit In Between ** Lagging Behind * The Pits Based on another of Stephen King's lengthy novellas, this takes place in the sleepy little New England town of Castle Rock (also the name of the film's production company!), where a new antiques store, the titular Needful Things, has opened. The owner and proprietor, Leland Gaunt (Max Von Sydow) hides, you might say, a devilish secret. There's an item in his store that everyone in the little town wants-a small cash price upfront is first required, before a far more sinister price is asked for. As suspicion, hate and madness tear the town apart, it falls to police chief Alan Pangborn (Ed Harris) to restore order and save the town from a terrifying end...I read the novel of Needful Things earlier this year, and was eager to watch the movie adaptation again to compare them (like that was going to be any contest!) But it had been deleted on video and DVD and I couldn't find anywhere to rent it from. So I was happy when I finally found it in a flea market whilst on a shopping trip...It's one of the cruelest ironies that King novels are generally the best to read but when they get adapted to screen nine times out of ten they are complete junk, as is the case here. The material that makes his books great simply doesn't translate into a movie script very well, for some reason. And I suppose there's always the question why bother watching this when I could be reading the book again instead? I appreciate that some are simply too lengthy (i.e. It, The Stand) to be made into a complete screen work with all the situations and characters included, but there's no reason this one couldn't have included all the material from the book. As a result, a lot of key characters from the book (i.e. Ace Merrill) are not included at all and we have some terrible character development that means we don't care about the characters that are involved since they are so stripped of depth and motivation- for example we have one character from the book, Danforth Keaton, who murders his wife toward the end yet we were shown no build-up to hint at any reason that he didn't get along with or hated her and so it has no impact when it happens, unlike in the book where there was a lot of depth invested and it really involved you to find out what happened to the characters involved. All the material in the script to fill in the cracks, if you like, is really stupid and corny and the typically goofy stuff that gets included in King adaptations like this.Most of the film's problems are that it deviates so far away from the book but there's also some terrible acting from a cast that obviously can't feel for the daft material they're being asked to perform. In the 90s, a lot of King's work started skipping the cinema and just being made into made-for-TV/video territory. Rubbish like this must surely hint at why. ** "},{"Title":"Feels like the book for short tiny little secounds.","Date":"19 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I must say I love Stephen King's novels and my favourite is '' The Stand '' and this one. That's why it's such a shame this movie is so lousy. Sure, the actors do a great job but sometimes it just doesn't feel as interesting as the book. And the ending in the book was way way better than this one. For a couple of seconds things from the book hits you in the face but disappears as quick as they arrived. It probably doesn't matter but I sugest that if you loved the book you will HATE this movie.  "},{"Title":"Decent Stephen King adaptation.","Date":"31 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Needful Things is set in the small American New England town of Castle Rock where a new resident by the name of Leland Gaunt (Max von Sydow), whose most distinguishing characteristic appears to be that he never cuts his finger-nails, plans on opening a shop called 'Needful Things', the day of the grand opening fast approaches but a young boy named Brian Rusk (Shane Meier) decides to have a sneak peak & simply walks in. Brian is confronted by Leland who makes his most wanted item a reality, an old & rare baseball card, which he lets him have in return for a slightly naughty favour of playing a practical joke on someone. The shop opens & everyone in Castle Rock seems to find their dream possession, the thing their hearts desire the most all sold for very little money & with the promise that they'll do Leland a favour. Soon the entire town is playing tricks on each other that specifically targets the victims in a way which will hurt the most, it reaches a point in which they literally begin killing each other. Sheriff Alan J. Pangborn (Ed Harris) & his girlfriend Polly Chalmers (Bonnie Bedelia) start to suspect that Leland isn't what he at first seems & his shop has a sinister side to it...Directed by Fraser Clarke Heston (yes he is the son of legendary actor Charlton Heston) I thought Needful Things was a pretty good horror/thriller. I am aware that Needful Things exists in two distinct versions, the two hour home video cut which is the one I will be commenting on & a longer four hour cable TV version which I have not seen but it sounds boring. The script by W.D. Ritcher is based on the novel by Stephen King & was a little on the sedate side for me, it's over an hour before any sort of violence or horror comes into play while until that point it's pretty dull exposition & character building which is fine if that's your thing but I just found it a bit drawn out & lifeless. The basic story is quite good & is different although it's hardly exciting & at the end I felt it was all a bit shallow & pointless. I thought it could have used a bit more urgency & a bit more horror as my interest started to disappear rapidly as the minutes ticked away...Director Heston does an OK job of making it look nice enough although there isn't any great visual style to it. There's a reasonable atmosphere to it but don't expect any great scares as Needful Things seems to be character driven. Don't expect much gore, a skinned dog, some stabbings, a meat clever in the head & a few splashes of blood here & there.Technically the film is fine & is made with competence throughout. The acting is pretty good which helps.Needful Things is a decent Stephen King adaptation, it's not the best but it's not the worst either. Persoanlly I thought the story was fine but the slow pace & lack of real horror counted against it in my final reckoning. Worth a watch but nothing to get too excited about. "},{"Title":"Stay Away","Date":"15 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ** May contain spoilers ** Horrible. Just horrible. I loved Stephen King's novel, and this is just a horrible adaptation of it. They change the ending. They change the plot. They changed Alan Pangborne's character from a grieving husband to a happy fiancé. If you are a fan of Stephen King's novel, stay away. Even if You are not, stay away.The book was awesomely dark, even for Steve King. An 11 year old kills himself in the novel. A middle school principal is found with child pornography in the novel. THis is nowhere near as good as the novel.This movie is my least favorite film of all time. I hate this film with a vengeance. "},{"Title":"Painful...","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Reading the book I felt once again drawn into Castle Rock (Needful Things being the final part of the Rock trilogy), and the plot was a variant on the demon comes to small redneck village type story King likes to tell. The characters were all described in loving detail, and it made both a good psychological and gory horror.  The film on the other hand is awful. Gone are the character interactions and clever plot, and replaced by a story that tries to be exciting but misses by a mile. If you haven't read the book then you might enjoy this, else avoid at all costs, as with most films of King's books. "},{"Title":"Small-town Faust","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Needful Things is an adequate, if overly long adaptation of the Stephen King novel.  The director's cut is a must-see if you want to capture all the nuances and get more of a feel for King's original intent.  The main problem with the movie is...well, the incredible let-down of an ending, which bears no resemblance to the novel's even in the DC version.  The producers and writers, quite frankly, wimp out.   It's some fun getting there, but you'll be disappointed at the end. "},{"Title":"Needed More","Date":"15 July 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Needful Things is by no means a bad film, but neither is it an amazing film, it certainly feels like it has a great story (like all Stephen king stories) it's original and engaging, but something is missing and I can sort of put my finger on it.So Needful things has a really interesting plot, an old man comes into the town and seems to know everything about everyone (you need to have a really open mind when you find out why!) He sells what people most desire but in return they must do something bad! At first it seems innocent enough, like chucking mud at someones washing, but it quickly turns into something much more sinister and quite cleverly satisfying.Max Von Sydow is also really good as the shopkeeper, he's got a sweet old man exterior but then turns into a completely evil human being! He plays the character memorably and also makes him quite likable, just because of his childish mischief-making.The score is also really good! It's really dramatic and over the top which sets the right tone for the film. Music is used brilliantly and sometimes humorously throughout as well. All in all it is an entertaining film and certainly isn't boring. But then what is wrong? I think the feel of the film isn't quite fitting. It looks like a TV movie and the directing isn't that spectacular enough to live up to the spectacular storyline. The cinematography is also kind of messy. With the right director and perhaps a bigger budget this film could be a memorable classic! Unfortunately it's not and this lets it down big time.Don't avoid this film, if you get the chance to see it then see it! But, prepare yourself for a ridiculous yet entertaining storyline with some decent acting (Max!). But, it might leave you feeling empty and wanting perhaps some meatier directing. Nice idea, not so nice execution. "}{"Title":"Good acting, but overall the film tends to be on the boring side.","Date":"2 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie has two great actors in it, Max Von Sydow and Ed Harris. Their presence in the film helps this movie along nicely because otherwise it would be even more difficult to watch. Having read the book I thought it might make a rather good movie, however, many of the more disturbing aspects of the book are left out of this film. In fact there was a lot more trading going on at the Needful Things store to set up a more grand finale in the book than we get here in this film where it basically has a rather weak ending. Just to much stuff taken out of the book that would have made this movie more chilling, instead it is like the neutered version of the book. Still, the acting is good and the essence of the film is still there, lets face it the book was not exactly one of Stephen King's more chilling and scary tales. The film has a new shop opening up in town and the owner seems a nice enough fellow, however he seems to be playing the town and doing things to cause unrest within. He gets women to attack one another in one of the few scenes that mirrors the book and even the blood in that scene is toned down from what the book made it seem like they did. The sheriff is suspicious, but of course is one or two steps behind. "},{"Title":"If you have read the book DO NOT WATCH THIS FILM YOU WILL BE SO DISAPPOINTED","Date":"14 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A lot of Stephen King's novel that are turned into movies just suck with a few exceptions and this book was a great read but the movie left out so many good side charachters and plot lines and then changed so much of the storyline to fit it into a 2 hour movie format that this was just garbage compared to how good this story is. The only redeeming quality here in this film is the great late actor JT Walsh playing the charachter of Danforth  Buster Keeton. They have good actors in these roles it's just the plot has ruined this great story.Instead of watching this on cable  or renting it like I did read the book. You'll at least be happy with yourself if you did rather than kicking yourself for wasting a part of your life on this crappy rushed to the screen version of another ruined Stephen King story. * out of ***** "},{"Title":"Leland Gaunt palindrome for Iago.","Date":"7 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Entertaining and memorable for a broad audience; perhaps encouraging the brand new public Internet culture of 1993 to research the Bard. Obviously Mr. King is a fan of Shakespeare's super-villain; a male character portraying the lieutenant passed over for promotion, and who in revenge plays both sides against the center. The jealousy surrounding Shakespeare's sole authorship continues to this day, I'm convinced Hollywood's courting of King's extraordinary gifts provided impetus for this story. O, beware, my lord, of jealousy; it is the green-ey'd monster which doth mock the meat it feeds on. Othello III, iii, 165-67 (Alas poor IMDb hath succumbed to ten lines hereto requir'd, It is preferred a bare bodkin rather than loquacious volume be thus buried "},{"Title":"Liked the Book Better but...","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film, like the book it is based on, retains its small town intimacy. The characters are well drawn and Max Von Sydow does a stellar job as Leland Gaunt. Each of the other characters is well defined and brought to life well by the actors. Amanda Plummer is another standout. The only real complaint I have is that the book has a much better ending; Alan Pangborn uses magic... made real by his thoughts... to defeat Gaunt. I didn't like the uplifting speech ending the film defaulted to. However, it's a taut, tight thriller with lots of detailed touches. I highly recommend watching it and then reading the book. "},{"Title":"not the best job he ever did major spoilers","Date":"11 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw the DVD version (btw it's reformatted for 34, read edges cut off; also there are no specials except the trailer and a bad cast list lookalike) of the movie just after the 1996ties Romeo+Juliet video clip. Well, where the one excels in depth and sometimes lacks in performance, Needful things, as many other commenters said, has an good performance of Max von Sydow, but lacks some more depth.I usually quite enjoy Steven King, and it is natural that most of the book is lost in the transition to the film (as 500+ pages of literature just don't fit into a movie). Thus, there are a lot of places in the film where the viewer just thinks, Hmmm... something has happened here, and we ought to know, but they didn't show us. What I really didn't like was the big pathetic speech of the Sheriff near the end - let's talk, and we will be friends; and by the way, we really aren't responsible for all this - is the book really that bad at this place? On the other hand, the scene that struck me most was the scene with the 11-year-old trying to commit suicide, and the shocking pictures with him pointing the gun to his head; it's R-rated for a reason... but I think that such things really should be shown in films, because life itself just isn't Disney either.Overall, it doesn't have enough effects for a heaven&hell movie, and not enough depth or the right twist of the plot for a serious consideration of the diabolic in us all; it's however a movie to see for friends of the genre, of Steven King and absolutely for fans of Max von Sydow. "},{"Title":"It's Not Stephen King's Fault","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Fans of Stephen King books will probably hate this film since the most compelling elements are lost in the transition from book to screen. Fans of Stephen King movies may tolerate it a bit more. If you sit through the long version which is about 160 minutes then you are either bored to tears or worship Stephen King. The film is not scary and it has no humor or comic relief, but somehow it has a compelling element that makes us watch. I think the name of that element is Ed Harris. He's a superb actor although he brings nothing special to this film.The film is about a small town in Maine called Castle Rock where a strange shopkeeper opens a store that mysteriously has something for everyone in town. Something tailored to them that they would love to have. The shopkeeper Leland Gaunt (Sydow) AKA Satan manages to use the trinkets to turn the town against each other. Sheriff Pangborn (Harris) is the local law and the only one not enticed by the strange new dealer. From there you need to see the film or read the book to see how it goes and I believe in this case the book may be more satisfactory.As a bit of trivia the town of Castle Rock, Maine is fictional and is named after the production company Castle Rock Entertainment. There is even a lighthouse to match the trademark. The film in fact was filmed in British Columbia, Canada. If it matters to anyone half the cast has previously appeared in movies derived from Stephen King books.   "},{"Title":"Books vs. Movie","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Do not watch this movie if you have read the book... it is a major let down.As for scary, there is only one scene that is scary and it's about a skinned dead dog.But all I can say if you read the book first and then watch the movie it will not be interesting because it is very different from the book, and it's only minorly entertainment. "},{"Title":"Mean-spirited and bigoted??  Since when?","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Run that by me again ... since when is being anti-Christian mean-spirited and bigoted? -- Particularly since Christianity is in a dead heat with Islam as the world's most mean-spirited and bigoted religion.Stephen King is a brilliant writer who certainly has a fix on the inherent flaws of Christianity and the people who practice it. Of course, his fictional view of the devil takes directly from the viewpoints of the most mean-spirited and bigoted of Christians and holds this up as a condemnation of Christian superstition.Alas, Needful Things is not being given a chance to speak clearly. A huge chunk of the film has been edited out of the DVD versions (hence a relatively low rating). It's difficult enough to be true to King's vision without chopping the result. Let's hope the full version will get to be on disc soon. Van Sydow's brilliant performance deserves to be seen in as close to its entirety as we can get. "},{"Title":"Shamefully Poor","Date":"29 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I have yet to find a dictionary with powerful enough adjectives to describe just how poor this film is. I imagine it takes a great deal of skill and diligence to extract everything of merit from a thoroughly enjoyable book and still leave a recognisable (but soulless) story intact, but the people who spawned this painful adaptation clearly had both qualities in abundance. Where to begin on criticising this unholy mess is problematic enough, but it is by far the least of this film's worries.If you are a fan of the book, I urge you never to sully your enjoyment of it by subjecting yourself to this film. Watching this dross would be the movie equivalent of desecrating the grave of a favourite relative.Even if you weren't a fan of the book (which, in my opinion, is excellent apart from the last few pages) even those with a heavy cold can't miss the choking stench of ham wafting off most of the cast, and with many very talented actors and actresses on board, some of them really should have known better. I felt such embarrassment on Amanda Plummer's behalf just watching her opening few scenes that I really hoped for a while that my chair would open up and swallow me whole. As for the lady who was playing Wilma, I can only assume that her performance was the result of some kind of dare that had backfired horribly on her and the director was too polite tocomment on the fact. In all fairness Max Von Sydow does give a fairly creditable performance, but his noble efforts are like watching a salmon trying to swim up Niagara Falls - he's good, but the flow is very much against him.Lame acting aside (for which the director is probably more at fault than the performers), this is just a scrappy, unsatisfying mess. The breadth of the original story is compressed so much that the main characters had all of the depth and panache (and most of their motivation) wrung out of them even before the first shots of this film were taken; all that is left is the charmless and unadorned skeleton of a fine story. It's impossible to be objective about hypothetical scenarios, but I imagine I'd have thought this was a very bad film even if I hadn't read the book. My disappointment was merely amplified by the force of expectation.There should be laws which prevent films like this from happening. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"21 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I dont understand why the critics hate this movie. It isnt very scary. It could have been a comedy if it didnt have the gory scenes like the little boy who tries to kill himself and the dog that gets skinned. I'll give it a 7 out of 10. Recommended for Stephen King fans.  "}{"Title":"Beware of what you think you just have to have to call your own.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Based on a Stephen King novel, NEEDFUL THINGS provides the intrigue and eeriness to keep you in your seat. A mysterious man(Max von Sydow) comes to town and soon becomes the most talked about citizen. Could it be that the devil himself has set up shop as an antique dealer in a small town in Maine? von Sydow is masterful and dynamic in this role that dominates the screen. Also starring are Ed Harris and Bonnie Bedelia. Harris is steady and Bedelia is deserving of your attention. Also in support are J.T. Walsh and Amanda Plummer. Not the best, nor the worst adaptation of King's horror on the screen. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Needful Things is a decent film about a man who arrives in a small town to set up his stop and basically turns out to be the devil. Good acting particularly on the parts of JT Walsh and Ed Harris.  I did read the book by Stephen king first and definitely reccomend it over the movie as characters are explained much more in depth and as always from the book to movie, stuff is left out.  But overall, not a bad film.  "},{"Title":"Caveat Emptor (Buyer Beware)!","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Me like this film.  Me laugh, me somewhat moved, me not quite cry... Me a little scared.  International actor Max Von Sydow is given a chance to ham it up (as few others of his professional category qualify) as The Devil... or his younger cousin, at best.  As already indicated elsewhere on IMDb, there was a TNT (?) cable version (something like a total of three, or four hours...not including commercials). The story (based on Stephen King's novel) has less roots in the Faust legend, than it does in the grand, American groundbreaking novel Peyton Place (author Grace Metalius' once-taboo and scandalous book about provincial hypocrisy and antiquated, stifling mores).  King's plot is the goblin's version of this aforementioned soap-operatic melodrama Polly Chalmers is a chronic version of Peyton Place's Constance McKenzie, Nettie is inspired by Peyton's Nellie, and Sheriff Alan Pangborn (played by Ed Harris) is Peyton's high-school principal. Leland Gaunt (Sydow) is the mysterious proprietor of a store that caters to customers whose lives are devoid of any of life's more positive and personal fulfillments.  Be careful what you 'wish for,' because the devil is liable to give you your due.  The film's able cast includes Amanda Plummer (as the nervous Nettie), the late J.T. Walsh (as the compulsive gambler) and Bonnie Bedelia (seen previously in Tobe Hooper's two-part telefilm Salem's Lot, based on another King novel).  "},{"Title":"Compellingly Spellbinding.","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Leland Gaunt (Max von Sydow) is coming to your neighborhood. What's Your Needful Thing? It doesn't matter. From enchanted sunglasses to baseball cards to Hubble figurines, he's got it all. Come on in! Look Around!He's got a line of used and indeed, rare, merchandise to show you. Don't see it? No problem. Just ask. More than likely, housed in the back of his store, he's got just what you're looking for.But.There's a price to be paid for all things given to you by dark entities. And this Leland fellow, he's not a Lighthouse, that's for sure. Once you've made the deal and the item is exchanged, you owe him a favor; a prank, as it were. Nothing dangerous or dirty...just...mean. No harm, no foul. Not until all the pieces begin falling into place, that is. But once the full picture's finally revealed, will it be too late to stop that final piece from sliding right into its slot?Great movie. Better book, but as Stephen King adaptations go, it's quite entertaining.Did I mention the book's better? Mmmmkay. This movie gets a 8.2/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Not too bad, very good acting.","Date":"11 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I must admit, I had been wanting to see this film, ever since I learned that my personal favorite of King's stories had been made into a movie - though this fact in itself was enough to make me much more ambivalent about seeing it. The acting in it was very good, even though I was a little iffy about Ed Harris playing the somewhat whimsical Sherriff Pangborn. Most of the original dialogue was kept pretty well intact, from the original story. The two real downsides to this are the fact that a LOT of the cast of the story doesn't appear in the movie. Second, the plot is made much less mystical to coin a phrase. If one has not read the books, however, the movie is surprising and quite creepy, and yes, of course, sometimes pretty gross. All in all, a good scary film to watch and curl up with someone on a dark stormy night. "},{"Title":"* * out of 4.","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The devil shows up in a small town in the form of Max Von Sydow who runs a small collectables store. He has items that the town's citizens have dreamed about owning all their lives. He lets them have the merchandise if they do his bidding for him and the once peaceful town now finds itself upside down. Max Von Sydow's great performance is basically the films only virtue. Rather poorly adapted from a novel by Stephen King. Even the ending fails to inject much life into the proceedings. Rated R. "},{"Title":"For a King adaptation, its pretty good","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I've actually never taken the time to read the book, however I've read many other of King's book; and everytime their adaptations come out I feel soorry for him. However this story is entertaining, nothing more or less. Its not scary but it does give some thrilling scenes, which pretty much make the movie. Mr. King should be proud of this movie, because thats as good as it will ever be. "},{"Title":"good,nothing more","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a good horror-movie nothing more and nothing less.The swede Max von Sydow is great as Leland Gaunt.I read the book before I watched the movie.The book was much more Stephen King than the movie.Many good actors like Ed Harris,Bonnie Bedelia,Amanda Plummer and J.T Walsh make this movie better than other similar films.It is 6.5 of 10. "},{"Title":"Bad film","Date":"6 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I am a fan of Ed Harris' work and I really had high expectations about this film. Having so good actors as Harris and Von Sydow is always a big advantage for a director but if the script is bad what can you do? I really think that Needful Things is the worst movie of Harris' filmography and that getting involved with it was a huge mistake. Anyway, I've seen much worse movies in my life but Needful Things was a disappointment because of the waste of acting talent. The story as an overall seems too unbelievable and fake. I don't know if that is because of the book, 'cause I haven't read it. But if the script was so bad, I can't see the reason for filming it. Maybe it was the commercial success of King's books, or the need for low-quality movies for the VHS era of the 90's. Whatever the reason was, though, this movie was a very bad choice for anyone involved. "},{"Title":"To the point","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this film when it came on the TV. I am a regular movie viewer but have never heard of this movie. I like horrors but i cant say i am a big Stephen King fan although i do like some of his movies. This film is well directed and all characters in the film are interesting and contains the usual dark Stephen King feel to it. The script is well written. The revolves round a store owned by the devil. Buy something from his store and you may have to give him something back. The devil is exactly how we think of him. Cunning and tricky. Wants only one thing from us. He is the devil after all. He also has his eye on the female lead in this film and wants her for other uses.(take a guess.) A well made horror that is way worth a look. "}{"Title":"You Reap What You Sow !","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Enjoyed viewing this picture and seeing all kinds of local town folks shopping at a store called Needful Things and being waited on by Max Von Sydow,(Leland Grant), the owner of the shop. Leland Grant is a very warm and charming man who came from Ohio and many other places, unknown to his customers. A young boy enjoyed visiting the shop and obtained a very collectible baseball card and was not able to fully pay for the item; so Leland Grant wrote him in his I OWE YOU book, and gave him the item for a simply favor to accomplish. There are all kinds of strange things going on during the film, pig dung is thrown on laundry sheets hanging out to dry, green apples are thrown threw windows and the list goes on and on. Even romance blooms with the local sheriff and his girl friend, while the entire towns people start hating and hurting each other. This is an okay Steven King film, but I have seen better, and the story is simply about Evil vs. Good. "},{"Title":"very poor","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a big stephen king fan and have read most of his books and seen many of the movies though the transition from book to movie on a lot of kings books are bad this was exeptionally poor. The characters which were created so well on page come out very bleak on screen. the actors seemed to have trouble connecting with their characters and you can tell on screen. This movie is terrible even for a king adaptation. I give this movie 3/10  "},{"Title":"Good movie that gets a lotta criticism","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie for me was a lot like 'The Shining'. I loved the book 'The Shining' and I loved the movie. I saw 'Needful Things' and loved it, then I read the book. Although, like 'The Shining', the book and movie are vastly different, I loved each of them.It gets a little dopey at the end, but Max von Sydow's performance was magnificent, and Ed Harris is great as usual.I read a review on IMDB which claims that the film doesn't have any humour or comic relief, which I don't understand. I thought that there were a lot of funny parts.Obviously, being a movie based on a Stephen King book, it's not for everyone, but if you like Max von Sydow and/or Ed Harris, I'd recommend checking it out for them alone. "},{"Title":"Moderately entertaining if in the right mood","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Needful Things is one of the most boring and uneventful horror films for most of it's time.**SPOILERS**In the town of Castle Rock, Sheriff Alan Pangborn, (Ed Harris) decides to investigate the opening of a new shop in town run by Leland Gaunt, (Max Von Sydow) called Needful Things. Taking time out first to propose to girlfriend Polly, (Bonnie Bedelia) a local diner waitress, he goes over to see what he's selling. Simply selling odd things, he's allowed to stay as he asks merely of favors for later. As more and more townspeople visit the shop, the more they each get aggravated with each other over a series of pranks and practical jokes they are pulling on each other. When everyone in town is ready to kill each other, the remaining ones start to discover the startling secret that has haunted the town. Gathering up the clues and solving the mystery, they head out to stop the deadly force contaminating the town once and for all.The Good News Frankly, there isn't a whole lot to commend about this film. All of it's good points come from the final third, where the film lets loose and really goes all out. There's just an endless stream of exciting action going on that there's just pure joy as the result. When a full-on riot in the streets, complete with random fistfights from the extras in the background, looting, vandalism and more going on, this one really gets going in the best sense. Couple that in with the realization of what's been going on, some really bloody deaths and some huge explosions that do a ton of damage, this one can't get any better than it does in these segments. That it blows up nearly the entire town in this segment is a testament to it, really taking it's time and drawing it out in a grand sense to give it the illusion of Hell on Earth, which is exactly what's at sake. That it decides to drop the really lame subplot about the pranks, yet still manages to include them, is a nice move and ties things together nicely. Overall, this is watchable only for this section, and it alone holds the film above water.The Bad News This is an incredibly boring film. The fact that the majority of time is spent with absolutely nothing going on other than the residents of the town. There's no scares in this section of the film as we get seemingly endless scenes of the citizens going to the store and receiving gifts from there. This pretty much is repeated for just about every citizen in town, and with only very few differences with how they come into contact with the store, but the overall sense from these scenes is just boredom. Nothing at all happens and the film just takes forever to get going. By being as long as it is brings out that one even more. By spending so much time with the townspeople and staying away from the horror, this has the ability to really drain the life out of the film and really bring it down. There was too much time spent here and not on the much more lively and interesting second half, which is where all the good stuff is, and that leaves the beginning with a ton of areas to get through before which is just plain boring. The last main flaw with this is that it's just not all that scary. The central premise isn't anywhere near being scary and doesn't offer the chance for anything at all to happen because of the fact that this produces nothing in the way of scares, nor has the ability to do so. That, almost as much as the really slow plotting really doom this one.The Final Verdict Basically watchable only for one section of the film, this one is a tough sell. While King fans might get some enjoyment out of it, the slow beginning and uneventful nature, until the ending, will really tax the more liberal viewers out there. Take this one as with your feelings on King, a fan should give it a watch while non-fans should heed caution.Rated R Graphic Language and Graphic Violence "},{"Title":"Spoilers herein","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In the 1960's, the late Jack Weston and the late Claude Akins appeared in a Twilight Zone episode entitled The Monsters Are Due on Maple Street, in which the residents of suburban Maple Street, Anytown, USA experienced strange events on their street. As panic spread, the citizens began to turn against each other, with mounting violence and vandalism. SPOILER HERE It turned out that the prime mover responsible for starting the trouble was a pair of aliens who were manipulating the citizens' electricity as a prelude to an invasion.I thought about this Twilight Zone episode last night while I was watching NEEDFUL THINGS. Castle Rock seems to be a reasonably peaceful town until the arrival of the Max Von Sydow character Leland Gaunt, who no sooner opens his store when he manipulates the townspeople into calling their petty differences into the forefront(s) of their minds, magnifying those differences threefold (or more), and eventually turning against each other - with mounting violence and vandalism - just like in the old Maple Street Twilight Zone episode. The natural outcome is chaos; even members of the local clergy turn against each other in NEEDFUL THINGS. So much for pastoral counseling...Leonard Maltin gave NEEDFUL THINGS 1.5 stars and proclaimed it a bottom of the barrel bore. I disagree with him. I didn't care for the abundant foul language in the film; that and the violence justify the R-rating. But the acting was enjoyable. I found this to be an interesting movie, with an important message for our troubled times It is much easier to react than it is to think... "},{"Title":"actually, I liked the movie...","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  But I think that had I not read the book before watching it, I would have been rather disappointed with it.Needful Things was a rather lengthy novel and, unfortunately, very nearly everything in there was important to the plot.  Moreover, the movie lacked the texture of the novel because so much of the story was missing.Then again, my mother rather liked this movie as well.  She's no fan of Stephen King (she likes Misery, and that's about it) but something about this movie really interested her.  She still refuses to read the book.  I suspect this is because then she wouldn't be able to enjoy the movie as much. "},{"Title":"Doesn't suck that bad...","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" ...for a movie based on a Stephen King novel. No, I don't really mean that last part, because The Green Mile, The Shawshank Redemption, The Shining, Dolores Claiborne and Misery were all fine flicks of course. Despite being an SK fan, I haven't read Needful Things yet, and I think this movie can't be compared with the book. It sure was shallower because we have to miss all the italicized thoughts and elaborate descriptions from the book. But I have to say that it was better than I expected. It was well acted, even the kid playing Brian Rusky did a good job. Kids tend to ruin a lot of movies, but this boy lets you believe that he is gonna do the thing he intended to do (I'm being vague to circumvent a spoiler alert). Anyhow, there were good performances all over, but what do you expect from people like Ed Harris, Max von Sydow and Amanda Plummer? And Bonnie Bedelia (= the wife of Bruce Willis in Die Hard 1&2) does a great job too. But there are just too many flaws to make this a good movie. For instance, Ed Harris finds out way too quickly what's going on. In some movies that moment is delayed much too long, here it's the opposite. ***SPOILERS AHEAD!*** Also, the characters are not developed well, it's almost laughable to see them attack and hurt eachother, while devilish Max von Sydow chuckles in front of the fire place. And it's really too routine to end a movie with a sermon from the good guy and, like that isn't enough, a big blast. ***SPOILER END*** The ultimate ending, on the other hand, is quite unusual, but not scary or haunting, like it was supposed to be I guess. The cinematography looked good at times, other times it was B-movie quality. How can one like a movie that is never funny, surprising, spooky or suspenseful? With a tad bit more care and some better directing this movie could've been a 7 or even 8, but I have to give it a 6, despite all good intentions. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I like Stephen King movies. Some are good, and some are really bad. This one is good. It wasn't the best King movie ever made but it sure beats Sleep walkers. In this movie the acting was great. Especially, Max von Sydow as Satan. He was really good for the part. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes Stephen King movies. "},{"Title":"Has a few problems but is worth watching!","Date":"9 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The story of Needful Things comes from Stephen King, who else could it have come from. A store opens up in a small Maine town (where else?) called Needful Things. The funny thing is that it's owned and operated by Christopher Plummer who appeared in Stephen King's DOlores Claiborne. Anyway, he is the devil in disguise. He coordinates trouble. The stories sometimes are problematic with me. I thought the Elvis mom who spends all day long playing Elvis Presley music and sleeping with a statue of him was pretty bizarre. I only saw the TNT version so I am sure there was editing going on. Ed HArris and Bonnie Bedelia are perfectly cast as a couple who try to escape the devil's lure but they are only the few who are able to escape. Valri Bromfield plays the hot-tempered local who seeks vengeance thanks to the devil. The story of Needful THings has a purpose. Be careful what you wish because it might happen and you wouldn't be able to control it. The town soon learns that they are messing with something inhuman. Anyway, it's worth watching for sheer entertainment. You can't get too caught up with it or you'll go crazy. "},{"Title":"Mess of a film that is certainly enjoyable.","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A mysterious stranger by the name of Leland Gaunt (Max Von Sydow). Who comes to Castle Rock, Maine to open a curio shop. The shop seems to have something for everyone but Gaunt is actually the devil. He trades for souls asking his new clients for doing favors for him by starting trouble by turning the locals against each other and then setting a chain reaction between murder and mayhem. The local sheriff (Ed Harris) is set to destroy the devil before Gaunt is going to destroy the whole population of Castle Rock.Directed by Fraser C. Heston (Alaska) made an entertaining, often tongue in cheek black comedy. Which is Based on a Novel by Stephen King (The Green Mile, Christine, Hearts in Altantis). Before the film's summer release, Needful Things was heavily cut to toned down from the Original Three Hour Cut to a Two Hour Version for theatrical release. Like several Stephen King adaptations, this wasn't a hit at the box office. Like most King's adaptations, Needful Things did better on video.The film has an good supporting cast likeBonnie Bedelia (Salem's Lot), The late-J.T. Walsh (Good Morning, Vietnam) and Amanda Plummer (Pulp Fiction). The performances of Von Sydow and Harris are good. DirectorHeston made a special cut for TBS Superstation-adding most of his original cut for television. Although, just cutting a few vulgar funny scenes from the original theatrical cut. TBS Superstation cut runs three hours long.DVD is the original theatrical release from MGM. DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer and an fine-Dolby Surround 2.0 Sound. DVD only extra is the trailer. Mostly fans of Stephen King will find this enjoyable. Watch for actressLisa Blount, which she was seen very briefly in the theatrical cut. Blount's role in the TBS Superstation cut is much more extended. Also watch for Lochlyn Munro (Scary Movie, Unforgiven, White Chicks) in a bit part as a Police Deputy. Needful Thing is a mess but at times it is clever and viciously genuine darkly funny thriller. Screenplay by W.D. Ricther (Invasion of the Body Snatchers-1978, Big Trouble in Little China, Stealth). (****/*****). "}{"Title":"I thought it was a good movie , but I haven't read the book .","Date":"1 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I am a Stephen King fan and I have to say this movie wasn't bad at all .I have to admit I haven't read the book (yet) and It was a mistake if I see the reactions from other comments .But since I haven't read the book , I can't compare the stories . The story was very good , although it wasn't fantastic compared with the book I can imagine.What I liked in this movie was the professionalism the movie was made with  not to cheap , GOOD ACTING(Max von sydow was good but not always convincing (he was not scary at all , more a sweet old man but maybe that was the point but still the metamorphose wasn't clear enough) , Ed Harris is a good actor and played his role well in my opinion , and Bonnie (his wife )acted also quite good , the smaller roles were played convincingly. The problem in many SK movies is the terrible acting in my opinion but that was here no problem.If you haven't read the book and you can appreciate Stephen King's work , this won't disappoint you.I will give it a 7/10 because I thought it was one of the better Stephen King movies and I very much enjoyed watching it . "},{"Title":"Long version tiring; short version absolutely brilliant!","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I must've been in just the proper mood for seeing a film,--especially this one!  That night I had a dream in which I was informed that Stephen King got this story from a paranormal source - ufo occupants!  I never thought of the Max Von Sydow role as the devil, but just a disgruntled old man who'd discovered that his new town was under the haunt of a paranormal flap during which his vicious tricks actually worked, and/or he was capable of mesmerizing and manipulating the townsfolk. I find stories about the traditional devil tiresome, but this story was electrifying; I was buzzing when I came out of the theater!  Brilliantly edited down from a much longer version that took a whole lot of wasted time explaining things that didn't need explaining, it allowed the viewer's brain to be stimulated into filling in the details, and it didn't take a genius to see what was going on here!  I'm giving it a 10-rating because I can watch this movie over and over again and never get tired of it---my one criterion for a 10-rating! "},{"Title":"What is it with people...","Date":"4 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  You CAN´T compare books and movies,  they are totally different  things, you would not compare a CD with a book,  would U? This movie is bad on it´s own, no need to compare with books. Pretty solid acting from Von Sydow though.  "},{"Title":"needful StRings","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Another Stephen King movie, I'm getting bored... No! Please don't get me wrong! It's just lately there's ALWAYS one of his movies in the theater! There pretty good, but it's too much! But anyway, NEEDFUL THINGS is an exciting movie, I have invented a word for it it's splashable. That means, it's quite good. Like all the novels of King, the story is original (as usual), and the music is excellent. MAX VON SYDOW plays an the bad guy. He's a great actor. He performed a splashable good work as the priest in THE EXORCIST (also with LINDA BLAIR from BEDROOM EYES II). ED HARRIS, we all know him as the general from THE ROCK, plays the cop, and BONNIE BEDELIA (the wife of John McClane in DIE HARD I & II) plays ED's wife. Yes, it's a good movie, but it's not the best of King. "},{"Title":"Mean-Spirited, Bigoted King Adaptation","Date":"7 April 2007","Score":"11 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Wow, this is anti-Christian bias big-time! This is based on a Stephen King novel and he written this kind of bias before and then Hollywood exaggerates it even more. In this film, we see a Protestant minister and a Catholic priest BOTH act like fools and be profane at the same time. Of course, the Devil has taken over the town so maybe his influence is into these guys, too, but they are typical Hollywood portrayals. They never show a minister who talks and acts like Billy Graham, or your local minister or priest. And - another given - they make the Satan character the most interesting of the film. Max Von Sydow plays the Devil and makes him a likable guy. Ironically, Von Sydow has played a number of these roles after portraying Jesus in the 1964 film, The Greatest Story Ever Told. You wonder why actors are so screwed up? They don't know if they are God, Satan or anyone in between.Ed Harris, who played a lot of unlikeable roles up until the last few years, is appropriately cast in this story. He and the rest of the mean-spirited characters in this film do NOT make it fun to watch.From what I've heard, King's book is even darker and more sick than this hate-filled movie but better constructed. Frankly, who cares. King and Hollywood deserve each other. "}]