[{"Title":"Visit Sweden - don't worry about the weather!","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Kadisbellan(The Slingshot)is perhaps the best foreign film of 1993. Great story, acting, and many funny moments.Slingshot is the touching, humorous tale of a Swedish boy in the 20's, from a socialist, jewish family, and his resolve against life's persecutions.His persecutions include a sadistic, fascist school instructor, overbearing parents, a bully brother, the police, and the daily maturation of a boy to a young man.How Roland handles and endures these problems is the heart of the film. His solutions are clever and sometimes humorous, but all based out of Roland's steadfast self awareness. We have all walked along the same path.The cast is super, and each character is extremely real.Outstanding kudos to Jespar Salen, who plays Roland. His acting and the faces he utilizes make the viewer actually feel his hurts, his inquisitiveness, and his triumphs.A special role also played by Stellen Sarsgard, as Roland's socialist father, who pontificates daily to any in hearing range. Memorable is his visit to a Russian orthopedic specialist to end his sciatica.There are many characters and side plots, most end as ours would, but Roland's experience with a young prostitute ends tragically.The Slingshot gets its title from Roland's ingenuity. His mother sells forbidden condoms, and Roland absconds with some and fashions slingshots out of them for sale to classmates. The slingshot is just one of his many inventions.Another enjoyable benefit is the quality of the film as a period piece.  "},{"Title":"well done, very entertaining, excellent picture","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Sit back and enjoy it.  It is well done. It has a good story line and will entertain you and your family.  The acting is excellent, color and photography are excellent as well.  A real surprise of a movie.  The boy in it is really innovative.  Making slingshots out of condoms. Wow! "},{"Title":"Highest Praise","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Slingshot is a gem beautiful, rare and one in a million. "},{"Title":"Yet another great movie set in the 50s about growing up","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yet another great movie set in the 50s about growing up. It just says it all. it is impossible to break the spirit of this young boy, how hard the xenophobic school and society try. An important and beautiful film indeed. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and quirky!","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film from the early 1990's is similar to MY Life as a Dog, by Ingamar Bergman.  Like Bergman's tale, this film is seen through the eyes of a young boy.  The adversity he faces as the son of a Russian Jew and a Socialist are portrayed with humour and intensity.  SBS did very well once again to screen this film in 1998.  "}]