[{"Title":"It makes you stop and think.","Date":"27 April 1999","Score":"48 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is one which really makes us sit back and evaluate our lives and our relationships with those we love.Michael Keaton turns in a superb performance as the career man who is struck down by terminal cancer while his wife is expecting their first child.The film then charts his efforts to make a video tape, for his unborn child, of his life and then discovers that it is not what it should be. With the help of a spiritual healer (Haing S. Ngor) and his wife (Nicole Kidman) he sets about trying to set things right with his family and his life.Although the ending at the after life is a little bit dreamy after the reality of the film, this is still a superb piece of movie making with winning performances from all the cast and a wonderful script.Definitely not a film to relax to of an evening, it is one of those films, like Philadelphia, that should be watched every now and again just to remind us that life is too short for arguments and should be cherished. "},{"Title":"Worth watching","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"42 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I generally don't enjoy films that deliberately pull on your heart strings, I usually really resent that, in fact.  Generally my main criteria in watching a movie is that I must be entertained.  However, this powerful, affecting movie really pulled me in.  I don't know why I started watching it, the subject matter would normally repel me, but I simply couldn't stop watching because most things in the film were just so believable.  Michael Keaton gives an absolutely killer performance as a businessman dying of untreatable cancer.  The story is pretty simple-- he basically is on a quest for inner peace, after a holistic healer convinces him he can die happier if he can let go of his anger.  The fact is, part of what makes this movie so good is that the baggage Keaton carries around from childhood is nothing earth shattering; in fact it's fairly mundane and similar to what most of us feel.  I found myself sobbing, even weeping, for the last half hour of the film-- watch this one alone if you don't want anyone else to see you doing this!  Not a fun movie you can watch over and over, but very thought provoking and worth while.  I have no idea how Keaton was overlooked for an Oscar nomination in this fine film. "},{"Title":"A film close to my heart.","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"36 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I lost my father as a very small boy.So small,in fact,that I have no recollection of him whatsoever.This fact is what drew me to view this movie,otherwise it would have been overlooked.My father's death was sudden,so he really had no time to prepare in the way that Michael Keaton's character did here.Bob Jones did what he had to do to make sure his newborn son would not grow up without him,and this is what touched my heart about this movie.Also,the scene where a near death Jones limps to his son's room,up to his crib,touching him gently, and explaining to him that this whole dying thing wasn't my idea. This one,short moment,was enough to console me through my lifelong sadness of having to grow up without my own dad.His dying wasn't his idea.From a reviewer's standpoint,this perhaps is not a great film, (the ending was unbelievably sappy),but it will always have a special place in my heart for personal reasons.Those of you with fathers, those of you who have lost fathers,and those of you who are fathers should see this movie. "},{"Title":"Truly accurate","Date":"7 January 2004","Score":"39 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is my first time commenting on a movie, but after reading some reactions to this movie, I needed to say something.  A few people have suggested that the movie is contrived or false.  This is not so.  Six days prior to my 16th birthday, my father died of cancer.  He had been diagnosed three years prior and had fought it all the way.  I have never seen anything as accurate as My Life.No, there is nothing funny about death, but the comedy is true.  It was there in my father, and it has been there in others that I have known. The faith healers go nowhere.  They rarely do.  That is the point.I have seen this movie only once, and I doubt I will ever have the courage to watch it again.  If it were anything but accurate, I don't believe it would have had this effect on me.  Keaton performed brilliantly, and the reactions around him were all believable.That being said, this movie is only made to draw tears, and does so well. "},{"Title":"Underrated masterpeice.","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"31 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of those movies that comes along sometimes and knocks you to the floor by absolute surprise. Sad to say, this is the most underrated film I have ever seen.  This is the one film that can break you down into tears every time you watch it. It has a really touching theme as well. The theme is of course, make it count, and that is exactly what Bob, Michael Keaton, does. I think the most beautiful part of the film is when Bob notifies his wife at the amusement park that it was his due date for death and that he was living on borrowed time. Living on borrowed time from the prayer he made earlier in the film. This film is one of my all time favorites and is a must-see for strong, hard hitting tear jerkers. "},{"Title":"Keaton Gets Overlooked Again","Date":"18 December 2002","Score":"34 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  In my personal, yet almost humble opinion, Michael Keaton is the most underrated actor out there.  It seems like this man could star in a movie portraying himself and the critics would still claim that he wasn't believable.The first time I ever saw Michael Keaton was in 'Night Shift' and I thought to myself, This guy is one of the funniest people on Earth.  He put in terrific performances in 'Beetlejuice' and 'Clean & Sober' in 1988, but yet wasn't even nominated for those roles.MY THEORY Maybe the judges felt that his portrayal of a recovering alcoholic in 'Clean & Sober' would strike too close to home for many of the recovering alcoholics in the Shrine Auditorium, but that's not my point.From his portrayal of Bruce Wayne/Batman in 1989 (and again in 1992) to his remarkable bad guy in 'Pacific Heights' in 1990, Keaton has continued to amaze me with the range of acting that he has.In November 1993, I saw 'My Life' and I could just feel that he was going to win an Academy Award for it.  Come February 1994, the nominations are announced and Keaton isn't even on the list.  What the...?  I guess cancer wasn't the cool disease that year, since in the end, Tom Hanks won for 'Philadelphia'.Stepping down from my soapbox  'My Life' is a great film.  It's funny, thought provoking and yes, VERY SAD.  I love this show and I hope that you check it out when you get a chance because I think you will be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"every moment counts","Date":"6 March 2003","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Learning from a Doctor, that you only have months to live, would have to be one of the hardest pills anyone could swallow. Yet in the 1993 drama, &#145;My Life', our hero is facing the end of his life, and doing it in the best way he can. The world we live in today is full of people who are dying from cancer just like Bob Jones, but no movie has showed what a struggle it is. Here is a movie that does not shrug away from any of the underlying issues Bobs has to face, as he is living his final days. We all need to watch this film and cherish what an experience it really is.  Meet Bob and Gail Jones, a happily married couple expecting their first child, who are passionately devoted to one another. But tragedy strikes their otherwise untroubled middle-class home when Bob learns he has advanced terminal cancer. Faced with this profound crisis and the realisation that his child may never know him, Bob decides to make a video documenting his life so that his son will have some knowledge of his father. Creating the video proves to be an emotionally and mentally Herculean task, as Bob discovers he is as shallow as the public relations material he produces for a living. Before he can successfully complete the video, Bob has to make peace with himself, reconcile with his estranged parents, and accept what is happening to him is inevitably going to kill him.What a great story for a movie. I like the way we see Bob Jones struggle through the entire movie, as I am sure that is how it is for all cancer victims. The story is also beautifully filmed, with the shots where Bob is making up the video for his son, done exceptionally well. This movie was written and directed by Bruce Joel Rubin, and was his directorial debut. I feel that this story had a part of his own life within it, (his mother, Sondra, was in the film and the film is dedicated to her memory), but in no way did this take away from the viewing experience. In fact, I feel that it enhanced it all the more. The movie stars two wonderful actors in Michael Keaton and Nicole Kidman. They share a very unique bond on this movie as you really believe they are in love. They also show that they are struggling with what ultimately will be the end of their fulfilling marriage. Keaton's performance is one of his best, as I feel he was a great choice to play Bob. I like how we see that Bob is filled with anger towards his family, especially his parents (which would have to be contributing to how sick he is becoming). The scenes we see with Bob's family are great, as they build real tension, and show that Bob's life is not content as it needs to be. Other important characters in &#145;My Life' include the Chinese healer, Mr. Ho (Haing S. Ngor), who tells Bob that he needs to get his life in order, before it is too late. Bob is unsure how to take the healer, accusing him of &#145;doing something'. Mr. Ho is a vital character to the final make-up of the movie. I also have to mention baby &#145;Brian' that Bob and Gail had. The twins, Brian and Andrew Camuccio, were great babies to use in the role of the Jones baby. Considering the point that the movie was at, their happiness helps to balance the sadness that is taking place as Brian's father is close to death. This leads to some of the great scenes in &#145;My life'. As I have said all of the video documentary scenes are great, as they give both the audience and Brian a great insight into the life of Bob Jones. The scenes that show Bob's anger towards his family are great, as we get to see that his life was not and is not what it should be. This is no more apparent than at Bob's brothers wedding reception, where he lets fly with some scathing attacks at his entire family. Yet it is also good to see that Bob has made peace with his family towards the end of the film, as he can finally rest in complete peace. The end of this movie, while it is difficult to watch, was a great and fitting conclusion. Showing Bob near to death and extremely sick, was a game move that I feel worked. I can understand people not liking it, but you have to be prepared to be confronted by this man's death, with death always being confronting in any movie or circumstance.  In closing this is a movie I will always return to when I want to get &#145;my life' back into some sort of prospective, as it helps you to make sensible choices about your future. It points out to its audience that we should all appreciate life while living on this earth. If we don't, we run the risk of dying an unfulfilled life. I never had the chance to meet my mum's mum, as she died before I was born. In a way I am glad I did not see her before she died, because she died a most unpleasant death, from smoking related emphysema. So from watching this movie, I can imagine what her last few days on this earth would have been like. I also like the way that baby Brian, keeps Bob's legacy alive, as he is a happy child, just his Dad was before he died. The tagline to this movie is so true, when it comes to the end of human life, &#145;every moment counts'. We all need to do this, as we never know when our last day on this earth could be upon us. CMRS gives &#145;My Life' 4.5 (Very Good &#150;Brilliant Film) "},{"Title":"Touching movie","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"17 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm not a very big fan of these kind of movies, but this one stands out. Watching Bob (Michael Keaton) record advices to his son to watch later in life was indeed very touching, and his struggle to make up with his parents... I can recognize his feelings in myself sometimes... Very good and touching movie. "},{"Title":"Why Wouldn't You Like This Movie","Date":"2 May 2000","Score":"16 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was a great movie. I am a big Michael Keaton fan. I think the casting was great. I think the plot plot was good. The theme is excelent. It's a very very sad story. But it's one you enjoy watching and will probably become an instant favorite. I highly recommend! "},{"Title":"make it count","Date":"5 August 1998","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Every once in a while, there's a movie that slaps us in the face and tells  us to dump the materialism and cherish life. This is one of those movies.  Being a person who has lost a family member to Cancer, this movie is  intense, very powerful, and some viewers were sobbing so hard they had to  leave the theater. It's a movie about family, love and the joy of taking  pleasure in the little moments. Definitely a tear-jerker.   "}{"Title":"Made me reach for the tissues...","Date":"8 May 2003","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bob Jones is excited to learn that he and his wife will be having a child soon. But before long the excitement is replaced by heartache as Bob learns that cancer will probably kill him before he ever sets eyes on his baby. Fuelled by a desire to cheat fate and still have a hand in his child's upbringing, Bob starts recording a series of videotapes advising his child-to-be on all aspects of life.Before long, Bob's video soliloquies start him wondering about his own life and his own parents.Bob decides he has to make peace with himself and his parents from whom he's been cut off for so long.The scenes in this film are sure to turn on the waterworks and pull the heartstrings.A beautiful film about a difficult subject. "},{"Title":"Moving.","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of the most deeply touching films Hollywood has ever released. It is Michael Keaton's Titanic. So many people do not value the days we have been given and dismiss life. To have so many souls try to end what one man will struggle to keep is tragic. Nicole Kidman portrays a wife whose conflicts would be unmanageable in reality, yet families are faced with this suffering. We have disconnection with our families and so many voids that need to be filled.I will not give any spoilers. The only true spoiler would be not seeing this film. Most rental stores did not stock it, but with persistence and a mom and pop store, we succeeded. I hope this film touches lives that need to be reevaluated. Breathless. My wife and I were moved to tears many times. "},{"Title":"My Life and Life As A House...must-see tear jerkers","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Both of these movies will bring you to tears. Not because they are related in any way, for they are not. But they both deal with families, death and dying, which I think needs to be more addressed in this day and age. My husband lost his dad in November, and it has been a very rough road for the whole family. A lot of ups and downs. Both of these movies are his favorite, as well as my top picks. We watch these movies together at least once a year, and we cry and cry together. Not because we are sad, but because it makes us realize that one day one of us will be gone, and the other will have to go on alone. I think they really make you see what you have together, and what you can do together before time runs out. It lets you see what is truly important in life, what needs to be addressed and what needs to be let go. Watching these films certainly makes me appreciate everything that I have in life, from my health to my family. I highly recommend both of these films. How can they be so overlooked? "},{"Title":"Seen Three Times, Over the Years","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Deliberately watch it for Keaton's mastery. Having been months since last seeing it, still, the day Queen Latifah knocks on the door, when he shows how hard it is to walk, is the second stark reminder of how good he is. The first is as he dies. The only performance of dying that has that world-class quality is Christopher Reeve in Somewhere in Time.Keaton's character choosing to leave his child various videos as they occur to him, especially the one about shaving, is what wells the tears for me. You can touch the feeling Keaton is capable of evoking.Like some of the other comments, I agree I was astounded that he didn't win the Oscar that year, much less not even nominated. Yes, Tom Hanks was incredible in Philadelphia. It's apples and oranges.I disagree that the Chinese attitude toward his anger was hokey. Anger does become illness. "},{"Title":"My Life","Date":"26 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My Life is a wonderful movie. This is not a movie I would have particularly watched myself. I watched this movie in one of my classes and I obtained a lot of useful information out of this movie. The movie is a classic drama, which tells you when life gives you lemons make lemonade. This Movie is not a feel good movie, it is a movie that will teach you many of life's lessons. My Life is a type of movie that will most likely make you cry, I know, I did. This is not a movie you are going to watch everyday of your life, but it is a movie that will help you look on the bright sides of situations. It teaches you to be thankful for living each and everyday you do. It reminds you to look on the better and brighter things of life, rather than looking upon the bad. In addition, this movie tells you how a man travels along with his life with an incurable disease of cancer. He just hopes he will stay alive along enough to see his child to be born. As he makes this wonderful video of himself throughout his life, he learns to forgive, and look upon the finer things of life. I hope you learn the lessons I did from this movie. "},{"Title":"This is My Life","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film when i was 11 years old. I didn't realize it would have this big of an impact on me. You see, this is the story of my life. My mother was pregnant with me while my father(who passed away when I was 6 monthes old) was dying of bone cancer. His one wish was to see the birth of me, just like bob in the movie. He didnt chronicle his life, as this character did in the movie, so unfortunately all I have are a few old wedding pictures and his old sports trophies. For some strange reason seeing this movie(which i own now) was like knowing a part of him. I reccomend this touching movie to all who have lost loved ones! "},{"Title":"Too heartbreaking to see often","Date":"4 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My daughter gave me the DVD a few years ago. It took me a while before I got around to watching it, because I had never heard of it. It was like being hit by a truck. I don't think I've ever watched another movie that makes me sob out loud, or had a bigger lump in my throat. It is one of the most heartbreaking films I have ever seen. Just watched it again tonight, and fell apart. I can only watch it maybe once a year, because it devastates me so much. I cannot understand how Michael Keaton's performance was overlooked. He tore my heart out. Needless to say, I cherish this movie. I'm glad my daughter gave it to me, because I think she probably couldn't bear the anguish and pain of watching it more than once. Regardless of the way it affects me, I will keep it in my DVD/video library. I admire Michael Keaton's performance in this movie. He was so very believable. It's a keeper. "},{"Title":"My Life 11-15-2006","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is written so well! Every time I watch it, it makes me become more introspective. I will take stock of my own life, and re-appreciate the people around me. The movie also exposes the personal pain that we carry through our own life, thus calling me to forgive.I believe the father - son relationship in the film is wonderful. Hell, the whole family dynamic used to portray personal baggage is perfectly relatable.The movie is a real tear jerker for me. I do not weep during films ... this one I do. STILL.The only pan I have is a slight one. I am not a Nicole Kiddman fan. Her emotional range is typical hers .... Weak. A stronger actress, would have put this film in the box of Kleenex hall of fame! "},{"Title":"EVERY MOMENT COUNTS","Date":"11 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have to say, this was one movie that impacted my life. I had a grandmother I was very close to that died of cancer. This movie did a great job of portraying the life of an individual with a pained heart who just wanted to do something special for his unborn son. As the movie plays out, Keaton finds that the other task at hand is releasing the pain from his heart...his relationship with his parents with whom he was embarrassed of as a child. The movie had so many emotional up's and down's it was hard to forcast if I would be laughing within the next five minutes or crying. The one part of the movie that touched me the most was when Keaton was being shaved by his father(whom he recently reconciled with) and he looks up at his father with his cancer riddled face and tells him that he loves him. This part made me weep. All in all this movie is given a 9 out of 10 rating. A movie that puts life and what we have in perspective, as the tag line of the movie says....EVERY MOMENT COUNTS! "},{"Title":"True Art","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After seeing this one i am just proud of putting Michael Keaton in my top 10 best actor of the world list 1.TOM HANKS/ AAMIR KHAN 3.Michael Keaton 4.Irfan Khan ....etcThe accuracy of the movie can be appreciated when YOU SEE A PHOTOGRAPH OF Nicole Kidman on a table having the looks of 80's (Early years of her marital life in the movie because the movie is set in 1993) with curly hairs. She is very convincing in her acting. Michael Constantine was also very good as the father of Michael Keaton.Michael Keaton was just awesome....cannot say more than that. I really do not have words to say how I feel about his work. I don't know if he has won an Oscar or not. But from some time back i have doubts on the credibility of Oscars.  "}{"Title":"A nice story and true tear-jerker","Date":"10 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is about a guy who learns he has a few months to live while his wife is pregant with their son. He wants his son to remember him so he begins to videotape himself talking to his unborn son and teaching him things about life. He also learns to come to terms with his anger, mostly towards his family and past which he has coldly tried to block out. Michael Keaton and Nicole Kidman give excellent performances as the couple expecting. The movie has a wonderful message...'Life is too short to be angry all the time' More girls like this movie than guys as far as I know, but guys don't shun it. 'My Life' will move you if you open up. I can honestly say this (along with Deerhunter) came as close to making me cry as humanly possible. But I internally held my sorrow and further reinforced the societal masculine standard of 'boys don't cry' unfortunately. There are a few scenes in particular that are tough to watch with a dry eye. The ending of course, and the part where Keaton and Kidman share an unexpected hug while in a busy theme park. This is a well done scene with nice complimentary music that sets the tone. The entire movie does this. It plays with our emotions by using deep music and meaningful messages. We should all identify with Keaton's character who learns a lot about life as it comes to an end. This is a 7 out of 10 in my book. "},{"Title":"Like no other Movie","Date":"20 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of those movies i watch so i can feel like life is worth living. It truly makes you think about why your here and what will it be like when your not. The last scene in the movie is perfect, and if you have kids you'll get it. If not, then try again after you have them, if your ever lucky enough. Michael Keaton is my favorite actor. From this to Pacific Heights to Batman, he's truly versatile and displays a humanistic quality in every character he portrays. I don't know many people who've scene this , i think its one of the rarely know jewels, but at the same time , i think its one of those movie that people relate to only if they look at life in the same way. "},{"Title":"Hope amid Death","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Definitely one of the best movies I have seen (in my personal top 10) hence must be incredible to rate a mention on the honour list. A tale of courage and hope, resilience amid death. Keaton gives a fine performance as a cancer victim and soon to be father. He prepares numerous videos of himself to show to his newborn son when he matures. These tapes in itself are humorous and heartwarming. Kidman's performance is also worth a mention, as is Keaton's screen parents. He learns to love the little things in life and to let go his stress and rage inside of him. This is a truly sad film but the ending of him dying inspires hope - there may be life beyond death. The useful metaphor of the rollercoaster is sad and heartfelt. Happiness emerges in his consolation with his parents and brother. The final half an hour is one of the finest last half an hours in 21st century drama - rivals the brilliance of Travolta's Phenomenon. Phenomenon(also rating a 10) is greatly challenged. The circus metaphor is also another useful one- shows the alienation between father and son which is ultimately broken. "},{"Title":"this is one of Michael Keaton's best !!","Date":"23 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this movie was Fantastic.. it is Michael's best work by far... he is One talented actor and this movie proves it ..it was excellent.. some good parts and sad too.. and it is so sweet how he shows His son how to shave in the video he makes for Him .. it was just the best of His movies.. all i have is Great praise for this one.. it made me like him even more.. i had been a fan of his for a long time ... mind you he does some not so great movies . .but this one is an exception to the rule.. "},{"Title":"Touching, sad, funny... a unique mix.","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"    I've been planning on seeing this film for years but never got around to it.  Then I happened to be up late last night and this film began.  So I figured it was now or never, and I started watching.  I was not disappointed.  I don't really know how to describe it... the overall tone of the movie was dark and impending, but, to my surprise, there were some bits of humor.  I'm not one to laugh at many things but I found myself laughing with tears in my eyes as I watched the birth, and the baby's first months, as well as some truly funny comments Bob made throughout the film.   I certainly recommend it... you really will laugh, cry, and think about just how precious life really is and not to have hate in your heart or it will consume you. "},{"Title":"A very accurate portrait of a terminal expectant father","Date":"30 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched this movie again after many years and it still moves me to sobbing tears. Bruce Joel Rubin wrote and directed what a lot of people would consider one of the most emotionally moving motion pictures ever made. His vision of childhood disappointment and hanging onto anger are so accurate. His portrait of a young family before, during and after a birth are also very accurate and amusing. And the way he wrote and captured a family accepting, preparing and experiencing a terminal death is so touching and very, very real.It's a shame that Bruce Joel Rubin wasn't recognized for an Oscar, but I guess the Academy figured since he already had one (for writing Ghost), he didn't need another.This movie easily marks Keaton's finest performance, in my opinion. He gets to show off his funny side as well as display some pretty deep emotions. As many IMDb members have already stated, he's one of the most underrated actors.For anyone that has lost a family member to cancer, you will immediately be brought back to the time you lost your loved one. It is so true to life - really well done. For anyone who hasn't lost a loved one to cancer, you will be reminded that life is so precious. Whoever you are, you will cry - so have the tissues handy. "},{"Title":"Solid drama, sure tear-jerker","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bruce Joel Rubin's film, dedicated to his mother, tells the story of Bob Jones, a highly successful business executive who faces the horrible truth of cancer. Doctor's give him no hope of recovery, so Bob (Michael Keaton) is forced to deal with his terminal illness in a very real way. Throughout the course of the film he struggles to come to terms with death, the impending birth of his new child, his love for his wife and his relationship with his estranged family.There are no show stealing performances, however the cast are competent and Keaton gives one of his best turns to date. John Barry's score is good, but sadly restricted.This is not a new theme, as we have many times before faced the subject of dealing with death and righting oneself before in the movies. While the movie is heart warming throughout, Rubin (writer-director) fails to generate power and compassion until the end of the film. Here though it becomes poignant and moving. A few script miscalculations, such as the roller-coaster scenario, may have cost My Life its intended impact. Still, a solid drama for the most part, and a sure tear-jerker.Sunday, February 6, 1994 - Village Doncaster "},{"Title":"Just simply a beautiful story","Date":"23 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie just blew me away. It was such an incredible life-comparison film. It guided you to the core of a deep relationship between a man and a woman who are going through a difficult family crisis. I for one can compare my life to this film, i've been through a a very difficult time where i was losing both my grandparents and it's very, very hard to deal with.I think, in some cases, it's difficult to make an emotional tragedy film (along with other genres too, of course), and i'm very proud of the actors, writers, producers, and every single person involved in My Life because they couldn't have made it any greater than it already is.This film instantly delivers you into its atmosphere and shows you reality. Life isn't fair, and we all have to live it that way. Many individuals take advantage of life, but you don't know what you have until you don't have it anymore.Bob Jones Dying's a really hard way to learn about life.My personal opinion of what i think this quote means is that dying shows you how great and brutal life can be and it should be an honor that you have had the chance of experiencing it, even though death is frightening. "},{"Title":"Life is a roller coaster!","Date":"19 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bob Jones finds out that he is dying of cancer so he makes a video tape for his unborn child to watch after he dies. The tape has all sorts of life lessons such as how to shave and how to introduce oneself. It has how Bob met his wife and Bobs philosophy about a possible stepfather.Bob goes to acupuncture specialist and the acupuncture specialist knows all types of secrets about Bob. At first Bob calls the guy a quack but returns to the specialist and the specialist tells him to let go and forgive. Bob goes to see his parents after 10 years and also rides a roller coaster again after like, 30 years. I love the roller coaster scene, especially that kid Bob sits next to and the kid makes the comments. That was great.The last half of the movie, my face was raining tears because there is this one scene where Bobs dad is shaving his face and he tells him he loves him. That was very very touching.This is a great movie and a definite roller coaster of emotions! "},{"Title":"Top Of My List","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie tagline alone hit home - Every Moment Counts.In this age of hi-tech productions where plots get lost in all the computer-animated gloop, the most techie item in this movie was probably the video camera that Michael Keaton's character used to document his reminders for his unborn, and later, born, child.What I liked about this movie was how real it portrayed the anxiety and fear of having to face your last day, and knowing that it could come at any time.Just like many of its viewers, this film brought tears to my eyes, especially now that I have a family of my own. It reminds us of the frailty of our lives, and how important it is to savor every moment we have with the people we love.My Life ranks at the top of my personal Best Movies list. "}{"Title":"Worth Seeing","Date":"25 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Acting All but one of the characters require not much acting, like the baby role. The lead requires a rare ability to play convincingly a comic and tragic role at the same time. Few can do it so well as Michael Keaton in this movie.Script Corny and cliché ridden, yes, but the story line is full of beautiful moments.Score and cinematography Okay. Nothing brilliant, too much like a movie made for television.Ending Sad and sappy, but compelling if you paid attention throughout the movie.I give this movie 8 out of 10. A good tear-jerker with good and great moments that out-number the bad moments. The subject of the film moves the heart and Michael Keaton marvelously fills the lead role. "},{"Title":"Every minute counts.","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the best movies I've ever seen.A deep look at the idea of early death, forgiveness, and miracles. Lots of humor and a wonderful cast. The story about Bob's illness is not for everyone and it could be painful for some people to see. Still, it is handled with such good taste and hope that this movie will give you some thinking to do. Keaton's amazing and Kidman's great.You'll cry with this one.But you'll feel good for that.One of the most underrated movies ever.Maybe future generations will discover it. "},{"Title":"encouraged to see","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie may not of been a hit at the box office but I love it! My uncle wrote this movie so that may make me some what biased but I do encourage you to see it! Btw. In somewhat the middle of the movie...my grandmother (rest in peace) opens the door to the home to let people in...ahh i miss you granny! Also a lot of my family members are involved in background scenes....wasn't around for filming so I sort of missed out on that opportunity...but yeah it is a very sad movie and shouldn't be seen if your not in the mood for a sad ending...but it does hit home at the heart. Everyone in the movie does an amazing job of playing they're part. "},{"Title":"OH man!","Date":"7 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Well.......This has to be one of the most tear jerking movies i've ever seen. I cried the whole way through the last parts. I've never, ever seen.. It makes me think, I would want to do that for my kid if I ever found out I was gonna die and a kid was on the way. Who wouldn't do that for their kid? I have two small cousins, and they're getting ready to enter Kindergarten, and if something happens, I want to tape small segments about my life, so that they would remember more than I showed them. Because they are the most amazing people I've ever known. And God, if I ever did die that way, i wouldn't change a thing. Except i wouldn't cuss. "},{"Title":"Bitter-sweet film about dying young","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Michael Keaton gives a stellar performance as a man who finds out that he will not live long enough to see his unborn son grow up. Determined to fight death, he nonetheless prepares for the worst. His wife (played by Nicloe Kidman), wanting to capture the life of her son's father, takes video films of Keaton to later share with the son. There are many touching moments in this film. From the initial denial, to the desperate search for a miracle cure, to the final resignation of a worn-out body, this film shows what people go through when they face the undeniable fact that they are dying and that they are leaving grieving loved ones behind. This film reminds me of my high school English teacher, who had struggled with diabetes for her entire adult life, and at the age of 50 was clinging to life after repeated kidney failure. She told me to cherish your good health, because no money in the world can comfort you when you know you're going to die any day. A week later she passed away.This movie is a celebration of life and a reminder that no matter how insignificant we may think we are, when we die there are always people left behind who will miss us and wish we were still around. "},{"Title":"Love and loss has never seemed more real.","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" In 1989, I witnessed my father become weaker with every radiation treatment as he tried to beat lung and brain cancer. I saw the small amount of hair left turn white as a sheet, his words become less and less coherent, and how his body deteriorated into a shell of what he was only three months before that time. Once you see something like that, you never forget it. Five years later, My Life was released. A fan of Michael Keaton, I went to see the film, expecting a shallow, typical movie-like rendition of what cancer does to a person. I did not get what I expected. Instead, Keaton's physical and psychological portrayal was so life-like and painful that I actually felt like I was back with my own father, five years before. Anyone who ever doubted Keaton's acting chops will swallow that doubt, along with the tears you won't let out because the guy next to you has a huge belt-buckle that says Don't mess with Taylor. But if you look closely under the brim of that ten-gallon hat, even Taylor can't help but let a few out. Performance-wise, they don't get any more life-like than this. Nicole Kidman's inner-struggle to hold back the typical why me reaction is so real it's scary. As he turns to video-tapes to reach his son after he is gone, to trying all kinds of untraditional cures, the entire film's attention to detail is astounding. You may or may not love the movie as I did, but anyone who has lost someone to Cancer will no doubt be touched by it. And those who have not, should count their blessings and realize, even if just for that night, what's truly important in life. "},{"Title":"Different experience for me this time...","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie when it came out in 1993 and then I thought it was a brilliant film and I was one of the many people sobbing in the theatre. Last night was the 3 year anniversary of the death of my father to leukemia and this movie happened to be on TV. I got to watch it from an entirely different perspective and I have to say, after watching my father deteriorate and pass away, this movie was one of the most accurate portrayals of the last months & days of a cancer victims life (especially the death scene itself). I just wanted to give it my highest praise for showing the pain that is inflicted on all the family and reminding me my dad is finally out of pain & got to ride his roller-coasterThank you. "},{"Title":"Things everyone should do","Date":"19 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My Life is one of those few movies that truly dwell on the things that matter the most in life. Some people are too busy or even too ignorant to pay attention to issues like the ones this movie focuses on. Other people might dismiss it by saying its just a movie. I say to those people...tell that to people who are actually in that position and lets see if you can leave with a smile on your face without any regrets. Other people might think its corny and or are even too embarrassed to admit liking this movie. Whats corny or be embarrassed on the fact that a person knows he's going to die and tries to live his life the best he can till then.People in this world tend to enjoy entertainment more, which is fine, but when it comes to reality, they rather not deal with it because its either too painful or time consuming....well THATS LIFE. Honestly though, life is what we make of it. So basically those people only make life as hard as they want it to be. So few movies about the real issues of life and earn so little credit for it. I believe that My Life should be judged by the issues that it is revealing, not by whether how many cars blow up or how uninteresting the story is. All of that are just excuses for them to face reality and actually do something about it in their own surrounding. Lastly, My Life deserves even more credit than it has earned. Plus the acting from Michael Keaton is exceptional and you will rarely see him act so truthfully as in this film. "},{"Title":"Excellent drama which will warm your heart, make you feel good, and possibly cry","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" MY LIFE, in my opinion, is an excellent drama which will warm your heart, make you feel good, and possibly cry. During the whole movie, I could feel Bob's (Michael Keaton) pain. This is because he was suffering from cancer. I could imagine how that feels. Still, I thought that his project of putting his life on tape was really neat. In my opinion, that's a great idea for someone who may or may not live to see their first child. If you ask me, the performances were good, the direction was excellent, and the cast was perfectly chosen. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this excellent drama that will warm your heart and stay with you eternally to any Michael Keaton or Nicole Kidman fan who hasn't seen it. You're in for a feel good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. "},{"Title":"great movie","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  people really should see this movie. It is a beautifully told story that makes you think about what is important in life. The cast is amazing. Nicole Kidman gives a heartbreaking performance. Michael keaton  can make you feel his pain. If you like a good tearjerker watch this movie. two thumbs up, way up "}{"Title":"the #1 tear-jerker","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  to make it short, this is the saddest, but not in a bad way, movie I have ever seen.  I have never actually heard large quantities of people boo-hooing in a movie theatre until i saw this flick.  Despite the crying, the movie made me thankful for the relationships that i have with the people i love, and actually gave me good food for thought when i left.  It wasn't a downer. "},{"Title":"Prepare to sob like a sailor in Thailand","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Okay my one line summary really doesnt make any sense, I'll admit that. I will say though, that the main point of it is this you WILL cry watching this movie. This is especially true if your relationship with your father was a bit frayed. I remember seeing this one in theaters when it was released and at one point during the movie, I looked back at the rest of the theater being that I was sitting close to the front, and EVERYONE in the theater was either crying or doing their best to hold it back. Make no bones about it, this is a really sappy movie. Somehow, it's as sappy as it can get without delving into pure cheesiness (and if you want that, I can't think of anything as nauseatingly sappy as Sweet November... ack). Watch this movie and write me back if you disagree with me on it being a touching drama with a lot more pluses than minuses. And if you can watch this one without tears welling up, consider yourself one tough son of a b****. "},{"Title":"Touching at times","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie had the drab feel of early 90's movies, though the cast was well put together and acted well. There were points in the movie where I was sincerely touched, which is always nice, but other times the movie took odd turns. The ending in particular was nothing to write home about. And I must say ruined the movie for me. For the beginning middle, and near end of the movie I was really touched and it had me in one of those moods where I rethink every detail of my pitiful life. The ending ruined it for me. I watched the credits scroll and thought to myself That has got to be the dumbest thing I've ever seen, but the movie had me going for a majority of it, so I didn't rate the movie too low. It was.... alright. I would recommend it to a not-so big movie person, but wouldn't watch it again. "},{"Title":"Very Convincing","Date":"8 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yet another tear-jerker. I defy anyone NOT to cry while watching this. Some people just seem to love crying so I suppose, cynically speaking, film makers have found a market for these people !!!I've never been much of a Keaton Fan as I don't like the man's looks - he seems to look innately evil ( put to very good use in Desperate Measures ) but in My Life I admit he was thoroughly convincing ! I myself like making video films and I could really understand his wanting to make a film for his child-to-be for use after his death. It makes your stomach turn in grief, but is a very unselfish and altruistic. It's sad to see him try to make up with his parents but feel that he hasn't really attained the goal he initially set himself.Nicole Kidman's acting as a beautiful, loving, tender and supportive wife was ABSOLUTELY MAGNIFICENT and extremely believable. I would recommend several viewings of the film as it is difficult to take it all in first time round ! Also be warned, Keaton is in good physical form for most of the film despite his cancer, but when he starts going downhill towards the end, the make up is extremely convincing and it really is quite a shock for the spectator !  "},{"Title":"Beautiful film, but no chemistry between brilliant Keaton and so-so Kidman","Date":"16 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Like most of the other people who watched the movie, My Life, I thought it was wonderful, heartbreaking without many false notes. There is one problem with the movie, though, and that is Keaton and Kidman have absolutely no chemistry. Micheal Keaton is truly an underrated actor, one who can play pathos, drama and comedy brilliantly. Kidman is Kidman. Not once did I feel that there was any connection there between the two. In fact, she seems to smirk her way through most scenes. That was the one major flaw in the movie. Scenes where I *should* have wept - I didn't. The only scene which made me cry was one near the end between Keaton and the wonderful actor who played his dad. "},{"Title":"Heartwrenching tear-jerker!","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this film few years back and few days ago again. At first, before I saw it I thought it'll be rather boring but when the movie went on I was enthralled by the struggles of both Bob's and Gail's characters.Not only was Bob about to die but the burden that Gail had to carry...with Bob's imminent death and her unborn child. I mean how can she cope with her child growing up without a father and it would be a heavy burden on her part.Secondly, Bob's recording for his child via his camera. It was truly a painful thing to see that you'd be leaving for good and not being able to teach your child about life.Lastly, the music. My Gawd! I've always been enthralled by John Barry's music...his music are like precious gems to any movies. Good examples like Chaplin, Out of Africa and Somewhere In Time. John, you're a genius! You're truly a maestro.All in all this is a great great movie. Just surprised why it's not contested for Oscars as Best Picture. "},{"Title":"extremely slow","Date":"15 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bob Jones (Michael Keaton) is dying from cancer as a P.R. guy in L.A. His wife Gail (Nicole Kidman) is pregnant with their first baby. He starts making videotapes to introduce himself to his future child. He is estranged from his family in Detroit even changing his last name, and has no close friends. His brother Paul Ivanovich (Bradley Whitford) is getting married. After being told that he has only 3-4 months, Gail directs him to a Chinese healer named Mr. Ho (Haing S. Ngor). He is powerfully effected by Mr. Ho and starts examining his unexamined life. Bob and Gail fly back to Detroit.This starts very slowly and dourly. Bob is not an appealing character. He's closed off. Watching him doing the videos is pretty boring. This is screenwriter Bruce Joel Rubin's only directing credit. The lacks any kind of drive for a very long time. It's a poignant concept and Keaton pours everything into this. It adds up to a tiresome cinematic experience. "},{"Title":"An Excellent movie!","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really like movies that actually teach us something. This movie teaches to value life, to be positive and not give up even amidst the toughest situations, and to not loose a sense of humor, also, that it is never too late, as long as we live, to set things right with others (our family) and forgive others and yourself. My favorite scene is in the end, when Bob (M. Keaton) dies and finds freedom and joy. For me there is a great allegory that was brought in with the roller coaster earlier in the movie and in the end. Also, since I am a musician, I praise the music of the movie, written by John Barry, that was very beautiful and tasteful. A fully recommend this movie to anyone. "},{"Title":"Haven't watched it yet, because I'm living it now","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am writing a review for a movie I have not yet seen. I remember the trailer from years ago. It held appeal for me, but not enough for me to track the title down. Now is different though. Because now I'm living the film. After 8 years of struggle with colorectal cancer, the doctors unanimously give me three months to live. It is mid September. I'm told that being here for Christmas is a long shot. I have two splendid kids. When I was first and suddenly diagnosed in 2007 (I had to undergo high risk surgery that very day), they were 6 and 9 years old. That wasn't nearly enough time for them to remember me. So I fought. I fought like hell, with my terrific wife bolstering me, every shuffled step at a time. The Irish bless weddings thus May your hairs grow white on the same pillow. That won't happen for our union. So I wrote a love letter for my wife to be read, one a month, until she turns 90. That was 460 letter. They fill ten boxes. And I STILL haven't expressed all the gratitude in my heart. Our children, now 18 and 14, are ready. And so, by needs, am I. My (at the time) 13-year-old daughter (that was last year) launched a wonderful way for she and I to bond. We wrote a novel together, STRANGE GIRL, by Katharine and Stuart Chapin, available on Amazon Kindle for less than a buck. Please check it out. I hope I have time enough left to edit the audio version of the book. But one thing my wife and I are going to do right away, tonight in fact, is stock the couch at either end with Kleenex and watch MY LIFE and thereby, I expect, live my good but blessedly not perfect life twice over. "},{"Title":"wonderful movie","Date":"13 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Wonderful movie,even after 20 years. Michael Keaton is brilliant. Young Nicole Kidman shows that she will become a good actress. Script was well done and the story was touching. Makes you think long after the movie is done about your life and all the simple thing that could makes us happy and we ignore it. It is a very good movie,very alike with terms Of endearment and wonderfully done. In front of death life seems to change a lot.Love and forgiveness are the only really important things to understand.No wonder that both Nicole Kidman and Michael Keaton were Oscar nominated.They make this wonderful movie a real masterpiece. "}{"Title":"best movie ever","Date":"12 May 2013","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A pure masterpiece.! According to me one of the best movie ever.Michael Keaton becomes my favorite Actor after watching this movie. As we all know Michael Keaton is the most underrated Actor in the Hollywood Industry and that breaks my heart in a certain way. his acting in this film is INEXPRESSIBLE. Nicole Kidman supported him(Keaton)pretty well as his wife.! The Director of this movie is Bruce Joel Rubin, writer of GHOST(Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore). He did a Marvelous job by directing this movie. But, this movie didn't get any attention whatsoever. that's just bizarre. To be honest i seriously think Keaton should have won the Oscar for his UNBELIEVABLE performance but, despite of that he didn't even get the nomination.! If you really want to see a good family movie you should watch it.! "},{"Title":"Depressing","Date":"2 March 2013","Score":"14 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I rank this low because, like most older folks I've lived through several painful losses. I didn't like it, wasn't entertained by it and can't understand why anyone would like to be depressed by a movie. Seems like it would take a form of morbid 'danse macabre' curiosity - but then again, to each their own. On the other hand, I have enjoyed several movies with the underlying theme of death at their essence like Ghost.The idea of leaving behind a video tape to teach a son about life and about yourself has some story quality but doesn't overcome the darkness of the movie.I have no complaints about the acting or production qualities and normally enjoy movies with these two leads. Keaton plays his character well and Kidman is as always, beautiful and easy to watch. "},{"Title":"Every Moment Does Count....","Date":"4 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Bruce Joel Rubin's 1993 flick 'My Life' is one of those films, that remain underrated for unknown reasons and how! I wasn't aware of 'My Life', despite being a hardcore fan of Michael Keaton & Nicole Kidman. I checked their filmographies and I clicked on the main page, and I was moved by it's storyline. 'My Life' is undoubtedly, one of the best films I've ever watched in recent times.The Writer-Director knows what he wants to make, he knows his intentions. He succeeds in all departments, this film makes you realize 'That Every Moment Of Your Life Is To Be Counted & Remembered'. A beautiful film on a man's last days.Keaton is astonishing, watch him in the scene when his family arrives to see him in L.A. for the first time. You'll get moved. Kidman is fantastic. The helplessness of losing her husband is always visible in her eyes, which make your eyes hurt real bad. It's one of her career's best works in my opinion.on the whole 'My Life' is a must watch. Two Thumbs Up! "},{"Title":"Well Acted, Well Written, Very SAD Movie","Date":"9 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I have only seen this movie once, when it originally premiered and there wasn't a dry eye in the house. After all these years I still think it's Michael Keaton's finest performance. With that said it's highly unlikely that I would ever see My Life again, too sad, to emotionally draining. The sadness isn't just because of his illness and untimely death but his inner struggle with his family and heritage speaks volumes to many 1st generation Americans who have and do struggle with the same feelings. Nicole Kidman and Queen Latifah are very good in their perspective roles.It's a good movie and worth seeing but be prepared to cry and reflect on your own mortality. "},{"Title":"sometimes we need this movie to remind us that life is a cherished gift","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I just recently started taking a BCA class in college, and have begun to develop a different perspective on how I watch movies, and have started to search for the underlying meaning in each one.This movie pulled me in without warning, I was just flipping through channels and happened upon My Life. As many have said before me, this film is seriously underrated and should have been given more credit than it did.It is a simple plot, really- A somewhat newly married man Bob(Micheal Keaton) has just learned that he has liver cancer in addition to the fact that his wife, Gail(Nicole Kidman), is pregnant with their first child. After dealing with the initial shock of the news of his death, Bob decides to do the best thing he could possibly do for his unborn son he makes him a video tape, going over random how-to subject matters and things relating to his personal life (i.e. how to walk in a room, how him and his wife met, how to play basketball, how to make spaghetti, etc.) Unfortunately, his doctor tells him that his death will probably take place before the birth of his son. Devastated by this news, he turns to God for help, asking him for just enough time to see the birth of his son.Also, he visits a Chinese healer, who explains to him that he is holding in some inner anger from his childhood, and that he must forgive whatever he is holding a grudge against. Turns out, his family seemed to be the main source of that anger. The best part is, it wasn't anything tragic he endured as a child. He was merely angry for things the majority of us had to deal with when we were kids- his dad always at work, his father making promises to go the circus and not carrying it out, etc. Therefore, the relationship between Bob and his family has seriously and sadly distanced over the years.I don't know if anyone will really find this comment useful, but i felt that i needed to give my input, because i felt so strongly connected to the film.In addition to the obvious message and conclusion to the film, minor aspects of it truly touched me as well. The relationship between husband and wife is picture perfect, one in which i hardly can see anymore among couples today. These two characters absolutely love each other, and they wanted to spend the rest of their lives that way. It is a relationship in which i am almost jealous of, one that i yearn for, and I hope that one day I might be able to experience such a subtle, yet devoting and loving marriage. (okay, kinda getting corny) Michael Keaton and Nicole Kidman deliver amazing performances in this film. And as many have probably said before me, are very underrated. Both are capable of playing so many different characters, and each time I watch them, my admiration for them grows. Keaton, playing a man who is trying to deal with his illness and what little life he has left, trying to make the most of it, and attempting to give the best possible gift he could give to his son. Kidman, playing a pregnant wife, torn between trying to comfort her husband in his situation, but also dealing with her own sorrow and grief knowing that her husband will soon pass away.All I can say is, great movie. Not a tear-jerker w/o any underlying message. Boy, does it mean something. This movie will connect to anyone who watches it and relates it to their own life. For me, it does in two ways- My father was gone for seven years of my childhood because he was in the navy. Therefore, as a child, I never had a father figure and maybe something as simple as a little tape where i can see him show me how to change a flat tire would have helped me. More importantly, my 6-year-old cousin died a few years ago. She was beautiful, fun, and could be annoying as hell.But just like Bob, her life was taken when it was just beginning. Just Like Bob, When she was starting to learn a few things about herself, it kind of came to an abrupt halt and she will never get the chance to continue it. I find it interesting how When Bob's life ends, his son's is just beginning. Mainly what really tugs at me about this film, just as it did with my cousin, is that life was taken from both of them when they were most happy, when everything seemed like it couldn't get better, and then their lives turned for the absolute possible worst. So....is it better that they died at one of the best times of their lives rather than the worst? sorry to get emotional, i might have gone a little further than i meant to, but I'm a 19-year-old female, and these things tend to happen a lot. "},{"Title":"A must see, keep a hankie nearby!","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For anyone struggling with cancer or have a family member facing death, this is a must see,,, a real tear jerker and a real healing experience. If you have family issues, resentments, difficulty with parents or siblings or children, rent this movie. It can be very therapeutic. It may get you to appreciate those you love a little more. This movie has a great combination of emotions from belly laughs to rivers of tears, to heart wrenching sadness. If you are afraid of death, rent this. If you are afraid of a loved one's imminent death, see this film. Watch it as a family. Michael Keaton does superb acting, and really should have been an Academy nominee. "},{"Title":"My Life...","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" My Life is a unique movie in that its loaded with clichés, but it also has a message that is very powerful and poignant.It is a shameless tearjerker, and you will want to keep the Kleenex box handy for this one, however the message of the importance of family relationships is clear, and one that is often ignored by Hollywood.Our family connections are so important in the big scheme of things. These are the relationships that will help us get through the tough times - such as illness or the death of a loved one. Sometimes these relationships get strained - through pride, or an unwillingness to forgive. This is real life.This film correctly shows that this can happen, but when push comes to shove, everybody makes an effort to heal all the past wounds. It also shows that we aren't perfect. In this film we see that both Bob and his parents made mistakes, but instead of dwelling in the pit of anguish that this kind of unresolved pain can cause when a loved one dies - it shows the joy that something as simple as forgiveness and love can provide. "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"15 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is a good example of experiencing deathMicheal Keaton portrays a dying man who doesn't have much longer to live.His wife will have a son soon. So he decides to make video recordings of himself so that way his son would know what his own father was like.Throughout the movie he decides to do stuff he didn't do before. And meeting some relatives of his.He fears about dying any second but pretty soon he'll be brave enough once his time comes.This movie's not too bad. But it does give some good advise on what you should do if you experience the same problem the main character has in this movie.I suggest renting it first, cause I'm not sure if all Micheal Keaton fans would enjoy this one. "},{"Title":"Close, but no cigar","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My Life is a good movie that could have been great if only it had demonstrated some focus.  It's genre is officially Drama, yet so many comical bits are infused it blurs the line and takes away from the theme a man, faced with terminal cancer, makes a videotape to remind his unborn son of his father while trying to enjoy his last days.  It's a good idea but could have been better developed.  The comic relief is, of course, intended to lighten the mood up after so much pain and desperation.  But the simple fact is, there is no cuteness in dying.  Hope, there is, never cuteness. I have lost two grandparents at an early age to cancer, and this isn't the way it feels.  Michael Keaton is funny, yes, but the so-called good outlook on life feels phony. Another thing that bothered me was the Chinese faith healer it seemed like this was going somewhere yet it never did.  It was a loose end that never tied up.  The last two scenes (don't worry, I won't reveal them) are a study in contrasts.  I didn't like the surreal second-to-last bit, but the final scene made up for some of the film's weak spots. Obviously, My Life is meant to be thought about.  We're expected to project ourselves into the characters' situation.  How would we react? What would we do with only a few months left?  If you can imagine that, then this movie will affect you--and that truly is the purpose of any movie with a brain, to affect you.  But My Life could have been a more complete package with a more focused plot.  Well, at least the baby was darling. "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of ''My Life'","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" For one viewing, this is highly recommend. If you want a movie you can enjoy over and over, I would reluctant to recommend it.THE GOOD - This is wonderfully acted by the two leads, Michael Keaton and Nicole Kidman, who play a married couple Bob and Gail Jones. Keaton is dying of cancer and videotapes his last months on earth with his wife so that their new baby will have something to remember him by. The supporting actors who played Keaton's parents and brother also were excellent. For such a somber theme, the film moves remarkably fast for the two hours. There were good messages of forgiveness and compassion. There were some touching scenes, as you can imagine. The theme song is here is worth noting, too. It is beautiful, reminiscent of the magnificent title tune to Out Of Africa. The language is pretty tame in here, too, except when Kidman is giving birth.THE BAD - You would think that a younger man dying of cancer would be praying to God for a miracle, or asking God's help in dealing with the situation, or consulting a minister, priest or rabbi, but Hollywood is never going to go that route. Instead, Keaton goes to a New Age-type Chinese healer. Eastern religions are politically correct in America but not Christianity or Judiasm, of which this country was founded. Also, in a nice film like this, it would have been more apt with the f-bomb Kidman throws in.OVERALL - The good far outweighs the bad and the movie is good one. Recommended. "}{"Title":"Making Death As Good As Life Should Be","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  MY LIFE isn't so amazing that it will change your life forever, but it does relay the essence of thought and the provocation to ruminate on your OWN life, inevitably.  The story is a little forced, the acting a little over the top (especially Michael Keaton), and the story paced and delivered to pull at all the heart-strings at just the right moments, but essentially it works; you ask yourself, What would I do or say if I were in this situation? & What would I (or should I) do differently now?, and you feel for Keaton's character as a result.  I might not fully appreciate this film, or even ponder it for hours afterwards, but it did make me cry, maybe because it asked those very important questions of my own life.  "},{"Title":"One of The Most Formulaic and Contrived Films of the 1990's...and It Still Affected Me...Somehow","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have just seen the Bruce Joel Robinson directed My Life on Starz, and all I can say is that it is the most formulaic and contrived piece of celluloid I have seen in a long time.  That being said, I must also say that while it has to be one of the most contrived films I have seen, it also turns one or two of these contrived scenes and contrived performances into something special or effective.The film starts off with Michael Keaton talking to a camcorder and telling it that he is dying of cancer.  That first scene has been done before, but the way it was delivered was excellent and the first few scenes showed some promise, while they were still generic.  As the film progresses we get to know more about Keaton, his wife played by Nicole Kidman, his spiritual healer played by Haing S. Ngor, and the rest of the familt.  With a film that is so intent on trying to show where each character stands, you finish watching the movie feeling empty, like not one of the characters made a true impact on you.  But you also have a feeling that something touched you in the film, which happened to me as well.I think the thing that dissappointed me in these performances is that some of the material was good enough that the characterizations could have been done more realistically and more naturally.  Michael Keaton plays Bob Jones (what's up with that name?) in about 4 different ways, shifting around from anger, depression, sadness, and happiness in such an unnatural manner. Although the way he goes about presenting Bob as dying was very true to life and poignant, his best work in the film.  Nicole Kidman (Gail Jones) is probably in her most cliched role I have ever seen her in.  She plays the sorrowful wife in such uninterested way, as if she is waiting to break out at a point in the film, which never comes up.  Haing S. Ngor (Mr. Ho) is the same performance given from Pat Morita during his career rolled into one...in other words, the height of mediocrity.  Michael Constantine and Rebecca Schull (Bill and Rose Ivanovich) bring their performances into the cliched zone as well, with the caring mother and the gruff father.  Finally there is Bradley Whitford(Paul Ivanovich) who has about 5 lines of dialogue in the whole film, so I could barely rate his performance.  I would also like to point out that a favorite character actor of mine, The West Wing's Richard Schiff appears in teh film as the younger version of Bob's father, but he says less then Whitford.The direction by Bruce Joel Robinson is just straight-forward story telling, except for the odd off-ramps into holistic healing.  The most clever thing about the direction is the handling of the healing scenes, until a sub-par lighting effect and shows how much these scenes really don't belong in the film when all is said and done.  The straight-forward story telling is done in such a way that evokes memories of a very special episode of Blossom or Home Improvement.  That is brought about the odd, almost cutesy, dealings with the devastating illness that is cancer.  In addition, the screenplay, also by Robinson, is just downright stupid in some places.  There are a pair of scenes that deal with rollercoasters that take away from the feeling of the film, an implausible scene in which Bob enters his old house, and the worst scene by far in the whole film that involves a circus.  With all these flaws, it still got to some part of me, and the last 20 minutes of the film are truly effective in my view, while being very cliched at the same time. It is really all Keaton's way of going about these last scenes that really work.  That is the reason I didn't completely blast this film.It's hard to tell you if you should see this film or not.  For some reason this film affected me, I still am confused about that one.  But I could see how many would think this is a horrible piece of contrived film. If you are into Michal Keaton, weepie films, or have lost someone to cancer in you life, then you might want to catch this film on TV.  If you disagree to all these things, then you might still enjoy some of it, but all in all you are better off skipping it.My Rating  3/10 "},{"Title":"Couldn't believe the acting","Date":"13 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am certainly not vested with the skills of a movie critic, but I do have my personal opinions. I have bypassed this film for 13 years, because every time I started to watch it I got negative vibes and moved on to something else. Last night I watched it all the way through for the first time. From now on I am going to trust my intuition. I am very forgiving of the anomalies in a film if the subject matter is interesting enough to prompt suspension of reality for a bit, so after the vibes started to kick in last night, I made a willful decision to suspend reality and give the benefit of the doubt. In my average viewer opinion, the acting in this film was worse than that in Plan Nine From Outer Space. On several occasions I got the impression that Michael Keaton was just rehearsing his lines and they kept the cameras running as a spoof. There was one instance where he was in bed with his wife and he had some kind of attack that threw him across the bed and on to the floor. As he picked himself off the floor, his acting was so lame that I totally expected him to say, okay the next line is yours. I think they must have given Nicole Kidman a Valium before each take. These two did no acting, they just said their lines. The actors in Plan Nine at least knew they were making a film. "},{"Title":"Corny and manipulative","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I used to hear all kind of great comments from many friends about this movie, but I wasn't able to watch it; until yesterday. And I didn't like it that much. From the beginning, we know what's gonna happen so maybe that's why we get ready for the events creating a wall in our sentimental side that this movie, based in results, couldn't find an intelligent way to come across. Or at least with me, because in a personal appreciation, most part of the scenes are built in a shameless go-find-a-tear-soon structure that couldn't work on me. I don't buy the way the couple manage their inevitable fate; I mean, he's going to die and she's gonna be a single mother and I don't see any angriness, desperation or deep hearted sadness, states in which I sure would be if I were on any of their shoes. And if that was the intention of the film, then they failed because I couldn't picture myself in such situation.  Keaton, an actor that I sure love is just OK in here, even though he never lead us into the soul of a dying-soon-to-be-father man. Kidman doesn´t play better in the film and she´s invisible as a presence, something you can´t afford if you are bounded to the main role; but I respect her only because she was in the last Kubrick's effort. Even so, the blame relies not only on the character's weakness but on the script, that has as much holes as the moon's surface.My life is predictable rather than emotional; the chain of events and the way they act upon them is telling you what's coming next. I don't want to spoil anything, so I might just say that we move ahead faster than the movie in so many parts, that the thoughts left on me after every single move was I knew it was going to happen this. And it's corny, real corny and manipulative. I'm aware that I'm not a person who cries over movies, but sure I've felt that heavy weight in the chest caused by an excellent, impelling drama, and I even was driven to tears with La lengua de las mariposas, so I don´t consider myself a tough son of b****, it's just that I don´t find -and I can't- any good reason to like this movie the way I've been told from movie goers that I admire as cinema critics.My life it's not emotive, it's cheesy and corny.  "},{"Title":"Buy a video camera and tape your toilet for two hours and you'll wind up with the same sh1t!","Date":"2 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was 117 minutes of pure Hell and I wouldn't care if the main character winds up there! Michael Keaton used to be a funny witty smart a$$ but has now morphed into a pure dumb A$$. I'll save you $2 in rental fees and 117 minutes; He dies at the end and I for one was very glad it was over! Ten bucks says his wife taped over his video tape five minutes after watching it. I think the writer should have have died before he finished this script it might have saved us from Deep Impact and Stuart Little 2. I can't believe someone thought that a movie about a guy video taping his last thoughts was a good idea. My Uncle Walters video will was more entertaining than this movie and at least I got something out of it at the end! "}]