[{"Title":"whyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy?????????????","Date":"12 May 2005","Score":"127 out of 175 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" the first Robocop was amazing, Robocop 2 was a worthy sequel. WHAT THE HELL HAPPENED!? half the cast was comedians, the acting was god awful, the script was stupid. I mean how do you go from solid R rated flicks to a PG 13? Now this film shows the fall of OCP, and many people jumping out of windows or shooting themselves. Ironically that's what anyone viewing this film would want to do. Which is why they don't have theatres on the top of buildings.this film should be erased from history, and maybe if they make another robocop call it robocop 3 again, to help people forget about this one.-50 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Robocrap!","Date":"11 June 2006","Score":"74 out of 90 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This highly-disappointing sequel finds our hero going against law and order by siding with a group of down-and-outers who stand to lose their neighborhood because of evil corporate interests. Along the way Robo crashes cars, battles robot ninjas and flies through the air like a six-ton Superman. Alas, none of it can save ROBOCOP 3, a film into which very little real effort seems to have gone.When watching ROBOCOP 3, one can't help but think the producers lazily expected the well-established Robocop brand would simply sell itself this time around. Making matters worse, they tried to move away from a more adult-style of action and sci-fi and deliver something you might watch with older kiddies. I mean, robot ninjas??? What is this, Mighty Morphin Power Rangers? This thing even attempts to deliver a do-the-right-thing message, but the whole effort is so muddled and ridiculous it can't succeed (nor should a movie like this even try).I am willing to cut movies a lot of slack, but this one's a stinker. No wonder Robo was reduced to a cheap Canadian-filmed TV series following this disaster. "},{"Title":"About what you would expect for a second sequel","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"63 out of 81 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Firstly if you don't like Robocop at all, then obviously leave this alone, if you've never seen Robocop, watch the first film, then come back and read the rest of this.Robocop started out as a hard ass cyborg, you simply wouldn't mess with (He even helped spawn a video game, in which he fought the Terminator, you've got to be Tough to be mentioned in the same breath as a Terminator - you get the point, he was hard) and, he was portrayed by Peter Weller, who did a good job.In number 2, Peter Weller was still there and Robocop was still fun and still tough, even if it wasn't a great movie.However, now on to the third film, take my advice and miss it, even for Robocop fans, there little here to enjoy, and this is why.Robert Burke, has replaced Peter Weller as Robocop, and i not knocking him as an actor (I Don't know much of his work), but he isn't Robocop, Period. Also Robocop is now as weak as a kitten, and Oh yes, and he can fly now too, Yawn! This movie simply insults the Robocop name, in every way, i can't think of a single reason to watch this film, it's another case of no sequels necessary (although Robocop 2 - wasn't all bad)3/10 "},{"Title":"One of the worst science-fiction movies ever","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"72 out of 115 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" When I was very little, I became a fan of the first 2 Robocop films. So when I heard they were going to release a third movie, I couldn't wait. Then I saw the movie, and couldn't believe what I had just saw. I was terrible. The story was actually good and could have worked. But they had to do what ruins a lot of other moviesadd a little kid character. It also featured a very horribly written character of a robot ninja. And without Peter Weller from the first two movies, this movie just wasn't the same. And a PG-13 rating? The whole point of the Robocop movies was to make some of the most violent and swear-filled movies you'll ever see. So my advice to you would be to watch the first two Robocop films, and pretend this one was never made. "},{"Title":"So 'BAD' it's funny......","Date":"23 April 2005","Score":"42 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 3 is an 'insult' to the classic original. First of all, the character of Robocop is played by someone else and the result is just plain embarrassing. The film is very soft on violence, which was a poor decision on the director's part because the original film is notorious for its excessiveness and loved by fans. A PG-RATED Robocop is just a desperate attempt to cash in on the wider audience, which proves that the film was made by profiteers, rather than film-makers. This film is so bad, it's literally dripping with cheese. Robocop flying is an unintentional funny moment in the film and the part where Robocop drives a car off a bridge and lands on all four wheels, is just plain ridiculous. This film was the nail in the Robocop franchise's coffin. I honestly wish that it had never been made. "},{"Title":"Should have pulled the plug","Date":"30 January 2004","Score":"35 out of 50 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The Robocop idea went far enough with number 2. The third installment is just awful. Peter Weller had sense enough to stay away from this set. I enjoyed the first, thought the second was OK but hated this one. This story was contrived and the acting abysmal. When I began to watch this I had a feeling it was going to stink and sure enough, it did! Don't bother with this one. "},{"Title":"Darn shame!","Date":"29 February 2004","Score":"30 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Righty ho, what went on here then? I can't believe they made this and saw fit to release it! It lacks nearly everything the original Robocop had....especially a big killer robot!Robocop 1 had ED-209.Rococop 2 had the huge vicious psycho cyborg Cain.Robocop 3 had a samurai robot that looked like a normal guy and if you managed to get a decent hit on him he would break like a dodgy little action figure! The director must have realised that this was a bad move half way through making the movie so he added a few more of these unmemorable villains to make up for the fact he didn't have a big impressive killer robot in it and failed miserably.Sorry but that sums it all up for me. There is of course a load of other faults that i won't go in to but that was the main fault when i watched it.A few little cool bits in this movie but the bad far outweighs the good. If this hadn't been so sucky we would have probably got treated to a Robocop 4! Damn! 3/10 "},{"Title":"End of a trilogy, what a way to go out on a whimper instead of a bang.","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"33 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 3 (1993) was an unwanted sequel that helped killed a studio and sat on the shelf for over two years. Why was this movie made? Who knows, it didn't make a dime and the film makers tried to make him kid friendly which killed the series in the process. The movie was so unwanted that Peter Weller didn't want to reprise his role of Officer Murphy for a third time. Whilst the second film was extremely dark and depressing, the third installment swung wildly in the other direction. Two wrongs don't make a right. The director and writer Fred Dekkar should have known better. He made a couple of fun and watchable movies in the past. What ever made them click misfired on all cylinders in this boring and safe for the family sequel.Well, this movie killed it's box office draw. Nobody wanted to see a kid friendly Robocop. The next time it appeared was on the small screen in two syndicated television programs. Neither raised a big stink and Robocop went back into mothballs. A shame really because Robocop was cool. Hell, part two is a classic compared to this celluloid tripe. Recommended for die-hard Robocop fans. Other need not apply, except children who want to see Robocop in action. "},{"Title":"Robocop saves Sesame Street","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is the worst possible turn the series could take. Form the violence in the first movie and the mindless violence in the second, the third movie is suddenly as lame as possible.First off, let me say I don't understand why people find this third movie a better movie then the second. Because it tries a story line with a little more thought in it? True perhaps, but that's all it's got going for it. One painfull moment follows the other. I like lists, so let's list some.<<!!!As always, SPOILERS ahead!!!>>A black woman who's not even 40 calls herself an old woman during the deportation, the deportation itself is a complete fraud (pick out a cop and follow him around. It shows that their instructions were just run in that direction and act mean, but for crying out loud, don't hurt yourselves!), the laptop reprogramming of the ED-9something, cops who don't know how to defend themselves when they've got guns and the punkers got sticks, robocop who loses every fight he's in, dream sequences on screen like a soap opera (in the first movie they were just a read-out of the brain activity. A lot more real), Robocop obviously not weighting anymore then a normal man these days (2 of the rebels carry him) and the japanese man responsible for the killing can just walk around among his victims, never in danger. And do I even have to mention the flying he's doing?Add unmemorable villains and not one engaging action sequence and this movie has really nothing going for it. The decission to have no blood in the movie is almost funny when they have no trouble having a couple of suicides in the story. The story itself, isn't that worth it then, one might say? Let's just say it's impressive how they can make an almost epic theme reminding of the holocaust so incredible boring and unadmospheric. I certainly didn't care for any character, that's for sure.At least Robocop 2 had action and humour going for it.2/10 (hey, it still is robocop) "},{"Title":"Easily the worst of the franchise, but a boatload of fun none the less!","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Before I begin, let me get this out in the open Robocop 3 is easily the worst movie of the trilogy.OK, now the rest of the review.Though this is the worst movie of the series, Robocop 3 manages to find a way to redeem itself (be it intentionally or unintentionally) by being incredibly cheesy, and ultimately a load of fun! The film doesn't even really seem to be a direct continuation of the series, though it does reference the first movie several times via flashbacks. The story is just about as dull as it could get, and the acting leaves much to be desired. Not to mention, the one saving grace this film could have had (special effects) does nothing to help save the movie from falling to B-Movie status.I'm not sure why Peter Weller was not brought back for this one, but I think he was wise to avoid it. Robocop has been reduced to cheesy one-liners, and badly choreographed fight scenes. However, I think this adds to the movie's charm. The film seems to take a very tongue-in-cheek look into the world of Robo, and this saves it from being a complete failure. Also, it seems as if the writers or director were watching a lot of Japanese anime, one of the main villains in the film is a ninja who is seemingly unstoppable; many of his scenes are so stylized you'd swear you're watching an anime. Rip Torn also adds to the film's silliness as the head of the corrupt corporation, OCP. He makes the main conflict in the film not even seem threatening due to the fact that he isn't menacing at all.Overall I'd say this film is more of a comedy than a sci-fi flick. It contains so many cheesy moments that it's best enjoyed with a small group of friends (my close friend opined once This is what Mystery Science Theater 3000 was made for, how right he was). If you are a fan of the series because of the grittiness and realism displayed in the first, avoid this entry. However, if you're looking for a good cheesy popcorn style sci-fi film, by all means, get some friends together and have fun! This film was made to be laughed at! "}{"Title":"This is the directorial debut of a total idiot !!!","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" What the hell were they thinking when making this... comic book crap....this insult to celluloid!?! Spolers Ahead!!! Instead of a drug lord in cahoots with an OCP CEO or a drug cult in bed with local politicians like the first two, we have a platoon of fascist security guards called the REHAB which make Homeland Security look like a Girl Scout Troop! They tear down people's houses, while the residents are still living in them! They not only relocate the inhabitants, but they execute them like criminals! Why execute them? I mean is there a cheap source of fuel in their fluids or something? What? This tells me that the plot is thinner than a teenage supermodel with anorexia! Next, Robocop goes on patrol in this post-apocalyptic Detroit with his partner, Anne Lewis, who eventually gets killed by REHAB(probably looking for more homeless people to execute). Anyway, Robo is framed for her murder. OCP has awarrant out to arrest Robocop. What? Yeah, that's a laugh! Arrest something that's gonna' kick your ass if threatened! Isn't against his programming to kill another fellow officer? Since he's on the run and OCP is deep in the red they run crying to this Japanese corporation and send over this android ninja. Was it something new to anticipate? Yes! Was it something like the intense, white-knuckle action of Predator, or the legendary sci-fi One Must Fall face-off like in the Terminator movies? HELL NO!The fight sequences are dreadfully ridiculous at best, as realistic as flying pigs and anal probes by alien invaders! I knew then it was for kids under 13! Spoiler The ninja confronts Robo in fight to the death and all this tin can could belt out is Your under arrest for destruction of police property! All while the ninja kicks his ass and takes off part of his arm. This movie is a goddamn joke and a half! The characters are two-dimensional and more goofier than a hippie on whip-its! REHAB recruits street punks that look more like rejects from an 80's metal video! Wait a minute! isn't this supposed to be Detroit! The same city that is predominately Black. Then why are there crazy white kids with Mohawks and piercings out the ass causing crime instead of kids with baggy pants and Uzis! Why the hell would the Nazis...I mean the REHAB hire thugs to do they dirty work for them when they should have the manpower themselves? Good God, what have these bastards done with the Robocop franchise? They kiddie-ized it! What, no killer cyborgs, no David Koresh-type drug lords, no social satire of American society? Come on this is ROBOCOP, here, man! Spoilers Ahead!The final battle of this bull***t excuse for a movie has Robocop in a jet-pack! A jet-pack! The last words from the REHAB Fuhrer are Stupid fools! Does this sound like a common Robocop villain? I don't think so! The ending is so pathetic it almost made me gag. I said to myself this can't be Robocop 3...it can't be! Maybe it's a cheap imitation like they did with the Universal Soldier films. Alas, it was the real deal. ARGGGGHHHH! Let's get one thing straight, Robocop is not Dick Tracy or Superman!He is not a comic book kiddie hero who flies! He is an R-rated movie hero! Whoever directed this blasphemy to science-fiction cinema should be sent to a Siberian gulag! Because he allowed some corporate dumb-ass with the mental capacity of a hyper-active 7 seven-year-old hooked on Pixie-Stix and Jolt Cola to destroy a cult classic!They should have stopped at Robocop 2! Then, waited for Verehoven to come back, because when he left the magic left with him! This movie isn't worth the money to rent from Blockbuster! And you're an even bigger-ass fool if you're stupid enough to buy the DVD! Don't look at this travesty...you'll go blind! "},{"Title":"Why???","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"23 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Its been a while since I've seen this movie... I think it was 1993 that I saw it. But I do remember this.... it SUCKED! The first Robocop was good, kinda gory, but still good. Robocop 2 was an improvement even, I thoroughly liked it and even watch it to this day. It was going to be hard to follow up Robocop 2 and the epic battle between Robocop and Cain. But they tried to follow it up anyway, or can we really say that they tried?? Because when you watch this drivel it would only lead to the conclusion that they let their kids write, produce, & direct. It was a gimmick, a parody, a joke.Firstly, they should never have strayed from the R rating because some of that is what made parts one and two. Then they make it all gimmicky with the samurai droids, him able to fly and other useless garbage. THEN they went to a different actor for the role of Robocop!! The special effects were sub-par and the story was even worse. This was a total flop!! "},{"Title":"I don't care what people say...","Date":"3 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't care what people say. I think this film is cool. It is flawed, but it is still far cooler than RoboCop 2 (or RoboCrap as I like to call it). The drama in this film makes it unique amongst its predecessors, and it is much better than the likes of 'Batman Forever' (another film unique in its own franchise). **SPOILERS**The plot sees OCP going ahead with Delta City. They hire a mercenary group called 'Rehab' to 'escort' the people from their homes and into rehabilitation camps. The police hate this idea and once a stray bullet hits officer Ann Lewis, RoboCop is seriously p***ed off. The plot is simple, but it is superior in its simplicity. It is the campy one-liners and gags that let this film down on more than one occasion. Things like RoboCop commandeering a pimp-mobile and Sergeant Reid having to deal with a drag queen prostitute are just a few of the things that had me fuming at the television screen. I'd say it is for this reason that a lot of people hate this film with such a passion. Another reason that this repelled Robo-fans was because it had very little political satire other than the fact that the main characters were trying to beat the system for the good of the people. There is very little 'MediaBreak Advertisement' sequences, and even the ones that are shown have strong relevance to the story. This is probably because this film is aimed squarely at children so that more action figures can be sold. However, I quite enjoyed the drama of the people rebelling against the corporate monster OCP for the rights to their own homes. I especially loved the part where even the Detroit Police Department thought that OCP had gone out of line, throwing their badges at an OCP executive, and leaving the building to go and help the civilians reclaim their homes. This is something you don't usually get in a superhero film (if you want to call any of the RoboCop films 'superhero' films). **MAJOR SPOILER ALERT!!!!!!!!**It is pretty obvious that they gave RoboCop a removable gun/flamethrower attachment (it attached to his hand) to sell action figures. The same applies with the jet pack seen at the end of the film. However, I felt that they were incorporated into the film quite nicely, and the flying scene, however fake, is pretty cool if you take it with a pinch of salt. Especially with Basil Poledouris' theme music booming in the background.**END SPOILERS** Overall, RoboCop 3 does not deserve to be in the 'Bottom One-Hundred Films' list. I believe it should be in 'The Best Sequels' list. If you enjoy RoboCop because he's a superhero and not because the films he appears in (usually) have strong political satire in them, then this is the film for you. 6/10. "},{"Title":"not as bad as some want you to believe, but still far from satisfying","Date":"17 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This review is written assuming you've already seen Robocop (1987) and Robocop 2 (1990). If not, don't proceed until you see those firstRobocop 3 (1992) picks an unknown number of years after the events of part 2, Cain's gang and his Nuke Drug has been obliterated and Robocain has been defeated by our hero. The Old Man from the previous two films is gone (either died or resigned after the events of Robocop 2; the movie doesn't say) and is replaced by the CEO (Rip Torn). The Delta City Project inaugurated in the previous film is falling behind schedule and OCP incurs in debt, leading to its takeover by the Japanese corp. of Kanemitsu. Meanwhile, they adopt increasingly forceful methods to get back on track by hiring mercenaries called the Rehabs led by Robert McDagget (John Castle) to evacuate areas for demolition and send the locals to correctional facilities. A band of freedom fighters spring up, Robocop and Anne Lewis track them down after seeing a little girl joining them in an abandoned church. Unbeknowst to them, the Rehabs have tracked them down, and orders them to leave the building to them. Robocop and Anne Lewis refuse, but when Anne gets seriously injured (and dies a few minutes later), he quits the force and joins the rebellion, while undergoing structural repairs in his programme.Robocop 2 may have shocked some viewers for its excessive violence, but it is better than this one. The storyline is more coherent than the last film in the sense that all main ideas make it to the end but it's too simplistic. While Part 2 was ultra-violent and gloomy, this one went into the opposite direction. Sure the absence of the first two films' graphic violence would make it more appealing for kids, but this movie just has little to make up for it; it starts off very promising but it gets sillier as the it progresses, culminating in a ridiculous fight between Robocop and the Samurai, which is a far cry from the excellent finale between Robocop and Robocain in the the second movie, giving the impression that the filmmakers have run out of money by that point.However, Robocop 3 still has some worthwhile moments to spare it from becoming a candidate for MST3K. Most of the action sequences save the aforementioned fight are well-staged and creative, and the film has some creative use of CGI. Robocop's new gadgets-- the jet-pack and his cannon-- are worthy additions, and our hero still knows how to make an entrance (diving from the highest level of a parking lot and dropping down 10 storeys below).Peter Weller, however, did not reprise the role, most likely because he has grown tired of having to walk into that baggy costume for hours and hours on end and sweating buckets in the process, and he's replaced by Robert John Burke. Burke is a worthy successor to Weller, mimicking his movements down to the smallest details, but it just doesn't feel the same without him.Bottom line Robocop 3 is the worst of the series, but it's not as terrible as some people tend to exaggerate.Trivia the beautiful Jill Hennessy appears here as Robocop's leading programmer just before becoming famous as Kincaid in Law and Order and later in Crossing Jordan. "},{"Title":"A TV Movie quality follow up that borders on ridiculous...just didn't go right","Date":"17 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Now I won't say that Robocop 3 is the mega disaster that a lot of reviewers call it. I mean Robocop 3 lost the benefit of being an eighties action film so granted the violence and foul language would be toned down because suddenly the political correctness of the 90's was in full swing. So that meant making Robocop more family friendly. They also lost Peter Weller from the lead which I didn't realize how great he was as Robocop until he wasn't him anymore. I have to wonder if screenplay writer Frank Miller was angry at the creators of Robocop so he spun this tale as a cruel prank because Miller is no slouch at writing, he is a legendary comic writer (300, Sin City, X-Men, etc.) and the story for Robocop 3 borders on ridiculous. All of the dark gritty atmosphere is pretty much gone from the original film, the tongue in cheek political humor is gone as well despite some off attempts to do exactly that. And it is true what reviewers have said that Robocop has suddenly become a complete weakling. He spends so much of the film repeatedly falling on his robo butt and trying to get back up. He's lost all of his cool factor, all of his heavy hitting super hero instincts.Robert John Burke takes over the robo suit as Robocop and Alex Murphy. He just doesn't seem to have a handle on the character and doesn't give as much effort as Peter Weller did. Maybe it's because the first two films were so much better but Burke just isn't cut out for Robocop and spends most of his time trying to get back up on his feet. Rip Torn takes the helm away from The Old Man as head of OCP. Torn is a decent actor but he doesn't seem to have near the screen presence that Dan O'Herlihy had in the original films. They do mention The Old Man several times so to close his portion of the story. John Castle is one of the villains in the story as McDaggett, yet another corrupt OCP Officer working to rid the city of Robocop. He's okay, a little strung out and insane but decent enough. He doesn't hold a candle to previous villains in the series. Nancy Allen returns thankfully as Robocop's partner Lewis and the film does give her character something of closure so I give them kudos for that. Robert DoQui also returns for his third go around as Sergeant Reed and for the first time in the three films he really gets into the action which is terrific. Jill Hennessy joins the cast as Dr. Marie Lazarus who personally takes care of Robocop. Her performance is a little bland as she often is in her roles. It's a big cast with some decently memorable faces but I can't cover them all here.So here is why Robocop 3 is NOT the disastrously horrendous film that some make it out to be. First of all it ends the trilogy with a final big battle between OCP and the Detroit Police Department which essentially brings OCP down. It also brings back some of the familiar faces from the series and gives closure to the story on Lewis although her and Burke just don't have the chemistry that her and Weller had as partners. The story is decent enough and simple enough to follow but it just doesn't hold up to the previous two films. The entire aspect of Robocop flying is so ridiculous and they surely had to know that it was ridiculous. If it ain't broke don't fix it and they do fix the unbroken recipe which essentially ruins the series. It is true that Robocop 3 was a fall from grace and this film felt like the quality of a TV Movie which is maybe why all future Robocop installments hit Television. A rather bland disappointment. 6/10 "},{"Title":"This is not RoboCop 3","Date":"11 June 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is like a black sheep in the RoboCop flock. Kinda' like Terminator 3. The 1st and 2nd parts were gooood so the writers wanted to make more money, but they were out of ideas.If you don't think of this movie as the third RoboCop just an independent movie then it is okay; not the best but watchable. I can make my peace with the flying RoboCop but the robot ninjas were ridiculous. Especially at the end where the little girl and RoboCop's designer reprogram them under 10 seconds using some sort of a wireless interface without having any access code. That is simply undignified, even Microsoft Windows has better security measures.I'm gonna watch the Prime Directives next and I sincerely hope this family/action/sci-fi style RoboCop 3 has will not be continued. I want my savage sci-fi back! "},{"Title":"And here lies the corpse of Robocop!","Date":"8 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I loved the first movie, and still watch it every now and again, even though I've watched it countless times.I thought Robocop 2 was a little more violent than it needed to be, but it was a worthy sequel.Robocop 3....... I'm not quite sure what people were thinking!Some people complain about Robert Burke taking over the role from Peter Weller, well, thats the least of the movies problems.The film is known as being majorly delayed because Orion went bankrupt (they've had some pretty big hits, how the HELL did they manage that?!), and if Robocop 3 had been released in 1991 I doubt the hatred for it would have diminished. Lets look at the statsRobocops 1 & 2 were 18 rated films... Robocop 3 was a PG13! Robocops 1 & 2 were littered with swearing... Robocop 3 wasn't! Robocops 1 & 2 didn't have annoying kid characters... Robocop 3 did! Robocops 1 & 2 had good effects for the day... Robocop 3 didn't!The storyline for Robocop 3 actually had some promise to it, ditch the stupid computer expert kid, dump the flying suit, dump the Z list actors, have at least SOME of the original actors in it, and things could have been better.It's hard to even fathom how this diabolical mess is even remotely part of the series, because its clearly killed the Robocop franchise dead in the water. I really would love to say something positive about this film, but I can't. I would much rather Robocop ended on film number 2, but just about anyone I have a film related conversation with where Robocop comes up, praise the first film for its biting satire and humour, think number 2 was OK, but just weep that Robocop 3 was ever conceived.The only good thing about Robocop 3 was the Commodore Amiga computer game tie-in with the film. If only the film was half as good as that, Robocop 3 would have been a pretty special film.The only reason I have it is because I have the Robocop Trilogy Boxset, and to be honest, if I only had the choice of buying them separately, I would choose NOT to buy Robocop 3! "},{"Title":"It still has its problems but they are much more forgivable","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" After watching the first RoboCop, I was really looking forward to the sequel. And once I saw the sequel, I could not believe how derivatively messy it had become. When it came to this film, I wasn't sure what to expect. Peter Weller had moved on and Robert Burke had taken over as the ironclad police officer. According to the majority of viewers, RoboCop 3 was garbage. Turns out though, I liked it. Maybe not as much as the first for various reasons but at least this movie carried forward with the story of Alex Murphy. Unlike the first sequel that drove us in circles.RoboCop is back one more time to save the city of old Detroit. But this time, it is on a much bigger scale. It is not mentioned to how the old man of OCP disappeared, but it's assumed that he finally died. Now in charge of OCP is the CEO, played by actor Rip Torn, and it's up to him to make sure a place called Cadillac Heights is ready for deconstruction within a certain date. So to remove the people from this area requires a group of officers called The Rehabs. But as the audience will discover early in the intro, that these officials aren't very helpful nor do they care.The head of the rehabs is Paul McDaggett, played by John Castle. John Castle is good as a selfless official but that's all he is. He's not a Boddicker and not a Cain. Burke as RoboCop isn't a bad fit either. Yes, it would have been better to still have Weller in the suit but hey, you do with what you have. And yes, Burke makes Robo sound funny but it's really not that annoying. As long as the voice isn't high or super low pitched, it shouldn't be that big a deal. Even when Robo's helmet is off, the make-up department did a swell job having him look like he did in the last 2 films.Co-starring Burke are some of the last remaining characters from the cast of the first film. Felton Perry is still playing Johnson, only this time, he seems like he's having a hard time picking sides. He's been apart of OCP for a long time but soon realizes how corrupt the company has become along with its massive dept. Of course I don't understand how he didn't see that with half his fellow co-workers biting bullets and attempting to fly out windows. Nancy Allen is still around as Anne Lewis, Murphy's first and only partner. Even sergeant Reed (Robert DoQui from the last 2 films) is still there. He too realizes the corruption of OCP and decides to take a stand. It's nice to see OCP finally lose its foundation.One thing in particular I did not find enjoyable is the lack of bloodshed during this film. The director of this sequel is Fred Dekker and it surprised me that he allowed this film to be rated PG-13. Why Dekker? You made Night of the Creeps (1986) and that was rated R? I mean at least you still could have had the screenplay release some four- letter words to get it an R rating. And it's not productive to make a sequel and have its rating changed from all the others that came before it. I understand that the reason is to have a broader audience of ages but how does it help when the kids don't even know who RoboCop is or what his background was? It's a plan of failure and Dekker should have seen that.Not to mention that RoboCop has a machine gun that he can now attach to his body. God that would have been cool to see if this film was rated R! Plus, he can fly now too. Yeah big deal to some of you skeptics but it really is a nice addition. Basil Poledouris is back as well, to do the his noted music again for this franchise. So that's a plus. And the best part is by the end of this film, Alex Murphy at least finds a group of people who don't treat him like an investment but more like a human. Isn't that what we wanted from the past two films? I did.Having the last installment being rated PG-13 was a wrong move but it can be seen that Dekker's team tried hard to bring back the other elements that made the first film a hit. And for most, it should please its fans for at least making that attempt. "},{"Title":"Oh, my God (insert uncontrollable laughter here)","Date":"27 January 2007","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I just had to see this sequel, like I explained in my other Robocop 2 comment, my friend lent me the Robocop Trilogy and so my excuse is... well, I had no choice? Lol, OK, I know, I had a choice, but I was curious and wanted to see what the third Robocop was like because I have heard horrible reviews and you know when you hear so many bad things about something that you simply have to see for yourself? Well, I guess this was the case, I think we could all relate. But yeah, this movie was very over the top and very silly along with the dramatic time change.I'm guessing it must be the future due to the futuristic equipment, even though everything is very dated. So now another part of OCP is on the case of destroying Detroit by making people homeless and jobless, but don't worry! Robocop is on the case! He looses his faithful partner to the evil corporation and tries to save the homeless while trying to stay together for the evil robocops that Japan has sent over. Can Robocop defeat OCP once again? And by the way, you'd think after all the evil talk from the first and second Robocop movies, OCP would have gone out of business by now.Robocop 3 is very over the top again, like the line stated in the movie Just follow the explosions to see where Robocop was. But I think there must be someone out there who is absolutely in love with this movie or the trilogy itself, as for me? I think I am just going to stick with Terminator, please I recommend that you do the same, otherwise you might go crazy with all the strange coincidences that is the Robocop series.3/10 "},{"Title":"So, lets just ignore the plot then?","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop 3, is far and away a better film than most people give it credit for. The very fact that it's the third in the series, that it had the violence toned down, and it's not Peter Weller seems to have really put peoples backs up. It shouldn't, and those people who seem to be on some vitriolic campaign to slate this film are ignoring it's most important merit. It's plot. The plot carries on the established Robocop saga, in a far better way than it predecessor did so, and I think it's about time a little light was shone on this fact. Mc Daggett is a strong and believable villain and Robert Burke did an excellent job in replacing Weller. The plot is extremely well structured and paced, and tells a genuinely interesting story of corporate greed stampeding over peoples rights. Now I'm not saying Robocop 3 had any big social message, but the rebels were entirely believable, Robocop's side switching was handled very well, and the whole story just gelled naturally. It wasn't exempt from problems of course. Niko was maybe a bit to much for most Robocop fans to accept, the SFX and action scenes were well wanting of a couple more mill being spent on them, and the end fight between Robo and the Otomos just flat out sucked. However, what should matter to most people is the story and acting. On both of these levels Robocop 3 scores and I genuinely wish people could see past the number 3 at the end of the title and give this film more of a chance. Anyone who seriously thinks Robo 3 is one of the 100 worst films of all time deserves to be sat in front of Dude, wheres my car, until they scream for forgiveness  ) "}{"Title":"Worst RoboCop ever.","Date":"10 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Detroit has become a war zone as the OCP Corporation, taken over by a Japanese corporation, is violently kicking people out from their homes in order to start construction on Delta City. If they don't clear the entire suburb of Cadillac Heights within four days, OCP's stocks will fall & the company will be ruined. Amidst this, RoboCop has been trying to defeat the Splatterpunks, a violent gang of thugs who have been attacking the police. When he disregards a direct order to chase a group of resistance fighters who have stolen weapons from a police armoury in order to rescue his partner Anne Lewis from the Splatterpunks, the head of OCP's Security Concepts division orders RoboCop's head technician Dr. Marie Lazarus to erase his memories in order to make him less prone to violating orders. But Lazarus refuses to do so & is fired. When Lewis is killed by the mercenaries OCP has hired to kick people out of their homes, RoboCop joins forces with the resistance in order to stop the mercs & the Splatterpunks, who have joined forces to complete their mission.The original ROBOCOP was a science fiction masterpiece of the late 1980s, a film that has become legendary for its biting satire of what was considered to a future where corporations run amok & take over the running of whole cities, one such corporation trying to defeat crime by resurrecting a dead cop into an unstoppable cyborg who then goes after corrupt members of the very company that built him. The film became a blockbuster & a cult classic & spawned a whole franchise as well as matching the likes of THE TERMINATOR for sci-fi influence on the genre ever since.After the underrated ROBOCOP 2, the franchise practically blew its foot off with the likes of RoboCop 3. This sequel was universally panned by just about everyone & most die-hard Robo fans consider it to be utterly worthless. I personally don't entirely agree &#x96; the film has some game attempt to up the stakes on the story, with the cyborg taking on violent punks, corporate mercenaries & even a number of android ninjas in a story that should have been regarded as top-notch. But what looked on paper as excellent only ended up as significantly flawed in execution. Director Fred Dekker handles the action scenes well enough, even if he fails to match the legendary ultraviolence that the first two films were renowned for, but in his quest to make the film more 'family friendly', makes several attempts at putting childish humour into the mix. The scene where the young computer genius manages to reprogram an ED-209 robot was kind of cute but the rest of the gags just plain clunked.As for RoboCop himself, Dekker has made several critical mistakes that cause the film to crash & burn. Robert Burke does a pretty passable job of playing the cyborg but he is not Peter Weller in the slightest. Plus he has a really big chin that is distracting whenever he's not wearing his visor & chinguard. The first two films pitted RoboCop against some formidable machines &#x96; the ED-209 in the original & the replacement cyborg in the second but here the Japanese android ninjas are just plain mediocre &#x96; able to be defeated very easily & only have superior speed to make up for their weaknesses. RoboCop is also severely weakened in terms of toughness that is really annoying &#x96; he managed to survive severe punishment in the first two films but here is so weak that a mere rifle grenade can knock his power systems down significantly.The acting is okay for the most part. The only person I found to be subpar was Rip Torn, whose buffoonish portrayal of a cowardly & incompetent CEO was really grating on the nerves. Nancy Allen does a good job as usual but is criminally underutilised to the point that Dekker felt that killing the character off would help in balancing the film, something that didn't entirely work. Also underused were the Splatterpunks themselves, an interestingly wacked-out band of psychos who only appear in two scenes yet are built up into a major menace, something that fails badly. If you've got young children you want to introduce to the RoboCop franchise, this would be a pretty safe bet but there are some animated spinoffs that would do the job even better. "},{"Title":"Typical third film","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" So once again it's up to RoboCop to uphold the order and battle the evil tyranny of criminals and corrupted corporate moguls alike. Does the third film in the RoboCop franchise have what it takes to stand side by side with its predecessors?Well no, not really. They main problem here, once again, is the story. The original film was a brutal, gore-filled satire. It was aimed for adults and for what it was, it took itself surprisingly seriously. It questioned the meaning of humanity, the morality of stripping away free will for efficiency's sake, what it meant to uphold law and order to the best of your abilities. Whereas this movie simply thinks it's cool that there's this robot dude that has all these gadgets, shoots really good and beats up bad guys. It's merely a cheap superhero storyline given a paint of RoboCop. A thin paint, because even the character doesn't feel authentic, siding with rebels and actively going against the law and order.And this is a shame, because on the technical side of things, it still feels like a genuine thing. It has the feel of a RoboCop film, for the most part. Sure the main actor has changed, but I really couldn't tell most of the time. Sure the monotone helps hide the differences, but still, good job Robert John Burke. Furthermore, the set designs, the music, the feel of the action and so on, it all works. But it's hard to remain invested when you're expecting an adult science fiction story and the movie is trying to treat you like a fifteen-year-old.This is a heavily flawed film. It cannot be recommended to any hardcore RoboCop fan, because it betrays its source material so badly. Yet as a standalone film it does deliver some good action scenes and interesting visuals. It'll keep you entertained, if you just let it. So, not for everyone, but personally I don't begrudge seeing it. "},{"Title":"Still no match for the original, but the better of the two sequels","Date":"12 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" There's a saying that goes, If at first you don't succeed, try try again. Of course trying again doesn't guarantee the outcome will be better than the last one. If a sequel to a well liked film is a letdown, then you would think that would teach the studio a lesson and keep them from going forward with any sort of continuation. But alas if there's money to be made then another sequel will come our way, but it's not always a bad thing. 'Robocop 2' wasn't a big a smash as it's predecessor was and many fans felt it was a step down, but it must have done well enough to please Orion Pictures because soon after another sequel was in production. Once again there would be a new director at the helm, which is not nearly as disappointing as the recasting of the title character. Then the company had some serious money troubles and the film was shelved for a year, which usually is not a good sign. Well surprise surprise, 3 is actually the best of the sequels.Pros Most of the performances are solid, especially Nancy Allen's. Pretty good story, stronger than part 2s. Excellent production design. Basil Poledouris, who scored 2, returns to compose a great score that reintroduces some classic themes. Lightening pace. No shortage of exciting action scenes. Fred Dekker may be no Paul Verhoven, but he handles this all like a champ. Once again great work on the effects.Cons Action is watered down. Some cartoonish performances, especially by Rip Torn who's better than this. Title character is out of commission for too much of the film. Plot wears thin.Final thoughts What began as a really interesting and exciting series doesn't end with a whimper, but could have had a better send off. Still this is an improvement over the mindless second film and makes a decent attempt to get the series back on track. Just don't go into this expecting something of the same caliber as the original and you should have a good time.My rating 3.5/5 "},{"Title":"I can see the wires, Mommy!!!","Date":"24 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie is not pure RoboCop. It is, however, a good idea gone horribly bad.  The appeal and vision of Verhoven's RoboCop is all but dead in this third installment that barely made it to theaters.  Frank Miller's story is on the money, but it seems to have been chopped up and spit out into this mess.  Oh, it's a good idea to have Robo team up with a group of rebels against OCP, but it's not fully realized throughout the movie.  I don't know, you just don't get the feeling it's working!  And why kill off Lewis? And what happened to Murphy trying to find his humanity?  And why is this a PG-13, not a bloody, violent R movie?Robert Burke is okay as Murphy.  Still, he doesn't have the voice, charisma, or jawline that Peter Weller has that made RoboCop unique, and memorable. I also really missed Dan O'Herlihy's presence as the Old Man, OCPs head honcho.  Rip Torn is a good actor, but he misses the point of his part. The rest of the supporting cast is pretty good, except the little girl. (Incidentally, Weller and O'Herlihy must have known that this script was crap.)I 100% agree with one reviewer here that the last 20 minutes are extra cheesy.  Especially with flying Robo leaving an about-to-be-Ninja-robot-nuked building, but escorted by wires!  There are a million ways they could have hid those things!  The non-wired flying Robo scene was okay with the windows blowing out, but it quickly turned silly.Ultimately, the aforementioned flaws were what had people saying, I *won't* buy that for a dollar! "},{"Title":"Not near as good as the first two","Date":"20 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop 3 could have been better. Robocop is even more wussed up than he was in 2. The Old man than owned OCP is not in 3. What is up with that? At least Johnson was in this one. A few of the bad guys in 3 are wimps especially the rehab unit. Ottomo is just plain stupid. Robocop has a jet pack in this one. That is stupid , ridiculous and childish. 3 starts out ok then gets worse then gets better and starts to look like it will be as good as the other two then just sucks. This had acrobatic ninjas in it. What is up with that? The end part where Robocop goes into the OCP office is ok. i liked that part. It was the only cool part in the whole movie.  Watch this one if you want. You might not like it though.  "},{"Title":"uhm... not quite as good as u would expect","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  1 was good, good gore-violence blended into a sf movie. 2 was ok, not that great, but enjoyable. 3 was dumb, crap. the cheapness of the CG could be seen in many parts of the movie, and i thought the age it was made in was far more advanced than the other two. "},{"Title":"Pretty Much What Everyone Expected...","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop was a fantastsic movie - great special effects and characters but at the same time a believable and powerful plot. The aftermath of this film was somewhat tragic though - a superb futuristic cop opened so many doors for producers, be it for cartoons, tv series or motion pictures. Trouble is, Robocop was used to death. The fact that he had been turned into a cartoon for kids completely took the edge off the violent and well thought out character Paul Verhoven had created for the original movie, which is why its first sequel sucked. Robocop 2 was, well, torture to watch. It was absolute garbage. Robocop 3 however, brought new life to the franchise - the loss of Peter Weller as Murphy was a blow but Robert Burke's portrayal almost lived up to that of Weller's. The plot is fairly decent and the fact that many of the original cast were present makes it a true sequel. Although much of what we see is expected, it is nevertheless a good action movie and deserves more credit than it has received. Worth watching, but don't expect miracles. "},{"Title":"This Killed RoboCop!!!","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This one movie killed the RoboCop era, it was no where near as good as Robocops 1 & 2.  I think the newer fans would love it, but as for people who had already seen and loved the first and second, avoid this one.  While I enjoyed Peter Weller's role of RoboCop in 1 & 2, Robert Burke in this one, doesn't seem to have any clue what he's doing.  Also I don't like the story in it, turning RoboCop into a 'nice' guy, it don't work, we prefer watching RoboCop the way he was in the first one, we're not used to Robo acting 'Mr. Nice Guy'.  Avoid this movie at all costs.   "},{"Title":"Mass marketing failure","Date":"31 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ----Possible Spoilers----O.C.P have been bought over by a Japanese corporation, and intend on beginning construction for Delta City, the 'perfect city'. To do this, certain places need cleared. Cadillac Heights is one such place. Hiring a group of mercenaries from the Amazon Nuclear War, O.C.P have six days to clear it for demolition, or O.C.P's stock plummet and they're ruined. A small band of residents do not take kindly to this and are determined that the destruction of their homes does not go ahead. Officer Alex Murphy (Robocop) sides with them, since the mercenaries (called the 'Rehab Unit') killed Officer Lewis and nearly put Murphy off line.    Once again, it appears Frank Miller's vision has been taken over by a director, intent on aiming this for a kiddie market. The story is very interesting (due to Miller, I suspect) but Fred Dekker reduces the blood letting, the language is cleaned up, and there's a cute little girl who befriends Murphy. Aggggggghhhhhhhhhhhhh. Hell, there's even new attachments for Murphy (jetpack, removable hand, machine gun) and he's lost the inner turmoil that made him someone to root for and care for.    A note to M.G.M the best way to look at Robocop is as Batman. Both are similar characters, and both were destroyed by eager production companies intent on making a few bucks from eager kids, and then sell them as action figures.    The action scenes, although pretty short, are quite enjoyable, in that Saturday night 'nothing on T.V, so we'll go and get out a film' sort of way. The whole film has a cheap look about it. This doesn't suit, since you need big action scenes and gunplay and a futuristic look in Robocop. The ninjas, Otomo, are interesting villans. They are like Japanese Terminators, and would have been great in a few more scenes.    Admiringly, it tries to go back to the tone of the original and even borrows certain elements from Verhoeven's direction, but it just doesn't work.I give Robocop 3 a 4 out of 10.(Watch Robocop Prime Directives (2000) for the true sequel.) "},{"Title":"Lighten up! I've seen much worse!","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's not a great movie, but it entertains.. much as the old Batman series... with tongue firmly in cheek!I paid to see this in the theater, and I did not feel the least bit cheated.. I have now watched it a few times and am entertained.. WHY the low rating????? I would watch a Robocop IV if one were made.Give it a watching with an open mind... better yet  watch Robocop 1 & 2 first to get the background.   2 1/2  stars out of 4 "}{"Title":"A Frank Miller story","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Make no mistake, Robocop 3 is nothing but a fine comic-book by the work of the master of the genre, Mr. Frank Miller. Loving the first film of the series, one wonders how much of that film was influenced by the work done by Miller just one year before in the acclaimed The dark knight returns graphic novel (this novel is from 1986, whereas Verhoven's classic was from 1987). And I believe that by the use of the T.V screens as a technique for the story to progress and also by the concept of a future city, where the criminal run amock. So as the sequels are written by Miller himself, this technique even accentuates further. This second sequel is perhaps better than the first one, due to a much tight script and story. Plus, the return of Basil Poledouris to the scoring duties makes a nice touch to recover the spirit of the original. All in all, an entertaining comic-book translated to the screen. Don't ask for anything more (as the song says). "},{"Title":"Worst Movie Ever","Date":"8 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This has got to be the worst piece of s*@t ever made. It took away 90 minutes of my life which I will never get back again. The acting was as wooden as a puppet. Wait a minute that's an insult to puppets. I'm sure that the $2 or so I spent renting this movie more than paid for the special effects. I could've done a better job with a piece of papers and some crayons.  "},{"Title":"Jesus H. Christ, Frank!","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Believing in my friends' warnings I didn't rent this movie, but instead waited for it to come out on TV and save a few bucks ('cause of what I'd heard, this turkey ain't worth ONE). Well, all I can say is that my friends were every bit RIGHT! Credits said written by and Screenplay by Frank (Hard boiled and Sin city-comic books) Miller, so I hoped this would be just something like a mis-directed Crow. You know, you could still be able to see a very powerful story behind the fuss on the screen. Well, you WON'T BE! All I can say is, Frank, WHATTA HELL WERE YOU THINKING!? Robocop one of the top-ten actioners of the 80s. Robocop 2 an underrated gem, and this, the conclusion of a would-be excellent trilogy...one of the worst movies EVER MADE!! Yea, this piece of s**t lies at the very bottom of the barrel, right next to titles like Lawnmower man 2, D.N.A, Nirvana and Highlander 3.I just hope one day they'll right the wrong, make a movie by the name of The REAL Robocop 3 with a solid R-rated attitude, and then publish a excellent DVD-trilogy. And in it they won't mention this part by so much as a word! "},{"Title":"I've seen worse","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  There came that faithful day when there was nothing else to rent. I watched it and found out why people didn't like it. It lacked what made the first movie so memorable Violence. Appealing only to kids with low attention spans. "},{"Title":"Bizarre... like watching a cutesy 80s TV show with blood & guts","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Although this final installment of Robocop doesn't measure up to the original 1987 masterpiece, or even the 1990 sequel, I've got a special place for it in my heart. That would be the wtf did I just watch chamber.If you remember the old 80s TV action shows... like The A-Team, Spenser For Hire, MacGyver, etc... you're halfway there. These were shows that didn't have a lot of substance but were fun to watch anyway. The plots were mostly predictable and the execution was corny, but that's precisely why we watch them.Robocop 3 is an unusual return to that style (whether by design or not). Plot is linear, scenes are bright, dialogue is snippy but not particularly witty, and dramatic/disturbing scenes are glossed over, almost as if it's made for a PG-13 audience (WHOA, I just realized this IS PG-13... while the first 2 films were rated R).Yet the film also injects spots of extreme violence and creepy dark humor... like the 2 or 3 comedic scenes of people committing suicide, which did make me laugh out loud, I admit. Those were the scenes I liked best because they remained true to the original dark satire of the original Robocop.I still don't view the Robocop trilogy as an action story but rather a brilliant dark comedy. Robocop 3 has the same bizarre news briefs and hilarious commercials peppered throughout, and although it's not as thick as in the original, the vibe is still there. But the overall feeling is one of campy 80s. Check out the hilarious 80s hairstyles & clothes (denim jackets... dear lord I thought we burned all of them!). Really bizarre. If the director intended it to be deliberately ironic, he's a freakin genius. "},{"Title":"Pretty good movie","Date":"4 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's sad that viewers haven't seen the meaning here. R3 decided to water the violence down and make it a family action film. This convinced most viewers that they wouldn't like it. It's a stereotype that action films are typically brainless and unfortunately, the films that try to break that stereotype aren't a financial success most of the time. So it seems that the stereotype is here to stay. Most people clearly missed the social commentaries that R3's making. It mentions that OCP is kicking people out of their homes, all in the name of making the city 'safer'. Message being that politicians only want to make the world safer for those who are rich, no one else. Did the audience miss this message when they call the film dumb? ******SPOILERS******** Officer Lewis' murder follows, which was anti-climactic. No slow motion screams, none of that BS. Just real, surprising, wasteful violence that shocks the audience in the sudden way it's carried out. The OCP agent was tired of her, so he decided to execute her on the spot, which was a waste of a great person, but then again, all deaths of good people are. Not that there isn't drama. Robo's frustration is obvious when he's unable to attack his partner's murderers, succeeding in being able to blow up the OCP agents' van and providing his side with a brief respite from the enemy's onslaught. He then carries his dying partner away, knowing that all his strength, armor and firepower is for naught, as she's dying in his arms anyway. One of the best lines anywhere is when Robo tells Lewis that she doesn't need to be scared because it won't hurt for much longer. So the good guys took a hit, and finally, it's time for Robo to hit back. The director copies one of the styles that made Robocop 1 so successful, where in R1 we had the privilege of accompanying Robo as he patrolled the city and searched for everyday criminals to apprehend. There's nothing wrong with director Dekker (sp) copying Verhoevan's (sp) style, since if it worked so well in R1, why not do it in R3 also? The audience that's been fed what feels like ages of anxiety from OCP now gets its (and Robo's) wish as Robo is finally able to delete Directive 4, finally allowing him to hunt down OCP employees just like he hunted down criminals in R1. Thus, we again can ride shotgun with Robo as he mows down OCP agents, and find out more about his new weapons. It's worthy to note that one scene from R3 is a carbon copy of a scene from R1, where R1 Robo confronted two men who were attacking a woman at knifepoint, and shot one man in the groin before the second surrendered. In R3, we have 2 male OCP agents who are harassing a teenaged prostitute, only this time using their status as power rather than a weapon. In both scenes, the audience is treated to seeing Robo's shadow as he approaches the horrible scene, ready to make it right. Only difference is his reaction, where instead of Your Move, Creep, it's Didn't You Hear? The Lady Said No!, followed by gunshots into the two OCP agents' kevlar vests, that sends them flying through glass. To all those Robocop 3 haters is &#150; you actually want MORE than this in a film??!! That's not the end of it. Following the rescue of the teenage prostitute, Robo tells her that she needs to get home, because she's breaking curfew! That's one of the sharpest social remarks I heard, where there's a curfew that's supposed to reduce crime by mandating teenagers to stay home at night, but obviously isn't working because the majority of crime is being committed by 'law-enforcing' OCP agents! **********END SPOILERS********* There's a lesson in there for people who thinks that quick, overnight solutions that simply sound good will work when applied to complicated problems. Real solutions are slow and difficult, not quick and easy. Not to say that Robocop 3 is a great film. It's not. Robocop 1 was a great film, but R2 and R3 *are* good films in their own right, and a good Trilogy together. But there *are* drawbacks to it, starting with the budget. It's painfully obvious that this film was under-funded, proven by the sets, special effects, and that tiny actors in R1 have huge parts here. Also, while watered-down violence to make a film family-oriented isn't a bad thing, the violence here is a bit TOO watered-down. And last, Robocop went from cyborg killing machine to compassionate social worker too easily. Considering how many people he casually (though rightly) killed in the past, it would've been more appropriate if he had felt confused at the feeling of having an orphaned girl embrace him for comfort, rather than instantly knowing that he needs to gently place his hand on top of the back of her head. The message there is clear&#150; that simply blowing villains away won't solve the crime problem, and we need to make sure that regular people don't turn into villains themselves. While the message is true, Robo should've needed more time to become a social worker than the ten minutes he was given on air before his personality switched. See it for yourself, then decide.  "},{"Title":"What a joke!","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop with a jetpack? Foreign investors taking over OCP? I know they overbudgeted on this film as well - did they not check the script? And did not one of the actors turn around and make a suggestion or two to the director? WORST FILM EVER! "},{"Title":"Robo Plop","Date":"13 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is a dreadful film from what promised to be a great franchise. The first movie is great and having seen it again recently still holds up well, and even the sequel is not as bad as I once thought it was, but this however is tripe. Peter Weller is wisely gone to be replaces by the non-descript Robert John Burke (who has never been seen near a movie since). And Nancy does not stick around for that long either. Leaving us with a directionless movie which has no good characters stirring up the same kind of stories we have already seen. This time a news Asian corporation has taken over OCP with the same corporate ruthlessness, along the way the only good thing is Robo going anarchist. The great CCH Pounder is wasted as Bertha and we get a crappy cutesy kid character and rob flying. Truly terrible. "},{"Title":"One of the worst sequels ever!","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first two ROBOCOP movies are classics thanks to the extraordinary writing and directing. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about ROBOCOP 3. In fact, the writing and directing are the two main problems with ROBOCOP 3. For this third installment, co-writer Fred Dekker takes over directing duties and manages to pull off one of the worst directing jobs I have ever witnessed. How hard can it be to make ROBOCOP movie and have it not suck? I'd imagine one would have to work really hard to mess up a ROBOCOP movie. The action sequences look horrendous, lacking the style and coolness of the action scenes in the first two movies. Maybe this wouldn't be so bad if there was actually a decent script and character development, but none of that is evident in this disaster. What the viewer is left with is a lifeless, boring, and cheap looking sequel that leaves fans begging that there will not be a fourth installment. Luckily, so far there has not been a ROBOCOP 4.  "},{"Title":"Welp. This is what a kid-friendly RoboCop movie looks like.","Date":"21 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" At this point, there's been enough vitriol leveled at RoboCop 3, that to throw some more on the pile seems kinda mean-spirited. Make no mistake, it's not great, and a far cry from the original. Pretty much everything you'd expect from a RoboCop movie aimed at the family market. Murphy sprays bullets like the A-Team, and he's pretty hapless (mostly just stands around, waiting to let the bad guys take the first hit). And the killing-off of a major character didn't account for much of anything (what a waste).And ugh, the pimpmobile.But I'd be lying if I said it was torture. The OCP exec's plummeting to the pavement actually made me laugh (c'mon, it was funny). It's bad, but not egregious. At least until Murphy dons the rocket pack and takes to the sky. That's when the headache sets in.5/10 "}{"Title":"I've seen worse!","Date":"27 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I honestly don't understand the all-negative reviews regarding this movie. I thought it was quite decent. Let's discuss the reasoning via Pros and cons.Pros the movie itself fits right in the time-line with the first two RoboCop movies. We know that OCP is the big villain in all three of them because of their idea of wanting to take over Detroit with their Delta City design which would involve taking out old neighborhoods (as the character Mayor Cuzak pointed out in RoboCop 2). In the this installment, it seems that OCP tries to actually GO THROUGH with the Delta City redesign by means of brute force through a group know as the Rehabs who forcefully drive individuals and families out of their homes and on buses just so they can build their Delta City. Robocop with his new gadgets and tools made by Dr Lazarus take the side of the citizens as any good police officer would and finally deal a final blow to OCP towards the end. Plus we get to see a better character development out of RoboCop and Alex Murphy.I actually thought it was rather action packed and the plot line was pretty clear. You want a horrible movie? Watch From Justin to Kelly or 50 Shades of Grey!!! Robocop 3 is way better than those two.Cons The plot line seemed a BIT predictable and Peter Weller was not there to reprise his role as RoboCop. Also sucked that Officer Lewis gets killed by OCP. I kind of zoned out at the non-action parts, but nonetheless, the whole movie was watchable.Give it the benefit of the doubt and try watching it before knocking it. "},{"Title":"No. Just no.","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The first Robocop was amazing, Robocop 2 was a worthy sequel. I use to sit and watch these movies with my father. It was something he and I bonded over. This movie just ruined a good Saturday night. how do you go from solid R rated flicks to a PG 13? People loved it for the action and violence. Why ruin a perfectly good formula? Along the way Robo crashes cars, battles robot ninjas and flies through the air like a six-ton Superman. Alas, none of it can save ROBOCOP 3, a film into which very little real effort seems to have gone. It's obvious someone just sat back and expected this movie to sell itself. It didn't. Not one bit. Save your money. Save your time. Run far far away from this movie. "},{"Title":"So bad , you can't even laugh at it","Date":"10 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop is a classic science fiction movie that didn't had too much luck with the sequels. Robocop 2 was a flawed , but decent sequel that was almost universally hated by the audiences and the critics. Too bad , because it stayed true to the original. It didn't had the freshness , depth or heart of the first one , yet the violent action and dark satire was still there. The franchise still had potential and I believe that with some effort there was still a chance for interesting next installments. Unfortunately the Orion studio had financial problems . They decided to make Robocop 3 as a family friendly action movie rated PG-13 in desperate attempt to gain as wide audience as it is possible. Robocop 3 was filmed in 1991, but was not released until end of 1993 due to production company Orion going bankrupt. The result ? A movie that is one of the worst movies EVER and a final nail to the franchise coffin.Making a Robocop 3 movie with PG-13 rating makes just as much sense as making a porn movie with no sex at all ( maybe with some brief nudity here and there). ITS TOTALLY MISSING THE POINT of the original movie ! It has no heart, no brains, sly social commentary and no hard violence. Robocop 3 became the very thing that first two movies were often laughing at &#x96; a politically correct hero in a gutless , soulless and brainless Hollywood movie.To be honest a PG-13 Robocop 3 movie COULD work. The story has some potential and you can make a exciting and deep PG-13 action movie (The Dark knight). Unfortunately the whole movie seems to be aimed at kids and has a cartoon approach to it that just doesn't works. I'm amazed that this even is rated PG-13 , not PG.Peter Weller made a wise decision not returning to the role of Robo and choosing Naked lunch to do instead. I recommend to watch that movie instead of Robocop 3 . It may not be for everyone , but at least it's entertaining. Orion tried to hire Michael Dudikoff (American ninja) , but ended with Robert Burke . I can't say anything else about him except that he was in this movie. And that for some reason the studio modified his voice so it sounds annoying. Dan O'Herlihy, the old man from the first two films, does not appear in this film. The rest of the regular cast is back , unfortunately they don't have too much to do.Robocop here is basically a zombie with no personality. He also disappears for a large part of the movie. The regular cast has very little screen time and awful dialogue to work with. The new characters are annoying , especially Nico &#x96; kid genius hacker. The main villain is not one bit interesting or menacing. The acting here is awful with people either underplaying or overplaying their parts.The story here takes some elements from what comic book writer Frank Miller prepared for Robocop 2 . Mind that both Robocop 2 and Robocop 3 were heavily rewritten and have only few elements from Miller's original script. The story here could work. Unfortunately the screenplay is filled with cheap humor , predictability and stupidity. I found a site on internet which points out that Robocop 3 has faults in every scene ! The direction by Fred Dekker is apathetic. The pacing is lackluster. The action scenes are pathetic. The special effects are embarrassing , especially when you consider that Jurassic Park was in theaters that same year.This movie deserves every bad comment it gets. There are no redeeming qualities to this junk. After this movie there were two lame TV shows and cartoon. The franchise was slaughtered. I give it 1/10. "},{"Title":"Really wanted to like this but....","Date":"20 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the second movie in this series, I was hoping that the third would be better. As soon as I found out that Peter Weller was not going to be Robocop, I knew the movie was in trouble. When it was released, I did see it in the theaters. I wasn't too pleased with the movie..........period. Peter Weller not being in it was a big factor for me. Nancy Allen's character dying early in the film was another. Really, the entire movie seemed to be off for some reason. Perhaps the PG-13 rating had something to do with that, I'm not sure. I was hoping that would be the end of this franchise. Sure, I watched the TV series for a short time, wasn't too impressed. Then, in 2014, the new and improved Robocop would be released and everything would be back to normal in the Robocop universe!!!!! Right? Wrong!!!! What a major disappointment!! I did not see the movie in the theater (Thank God) but did rent it. What a waste of time. One of the most boring, action movies I have seen in many years. I would prefer to watch Robocop 3 any day, instead of this weak imitation of a Robocop movie. Again, some of my negative review of Robocop 2014 could be because it was rated PG-13. Maybe if it was R rated it could have been a better movie????? Then, again, I may be wrong. "},{"Title":"Dead or alive...just don't.","Date":"14 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop returns in this sequel to be accused of murdering his partner, get chased and assaulted by Japanese robots and make friends with a rebel cell in the sewers of Detroit....What the heck happened between Robocop 2 and 3? In this movie, I saw the threads of several great plot lines and themes, but none of them were realized. Nearly everything about this movie was just awful. The actors sucked, the pacing was garbage, I can't imagine that there was a director in this mess and the writing was an atrocity.The only bright spot was that this movie achieved what it apparently set out to do; kill the franchise. It was pretty clear that this movie intended to either end the franchise or reboot it from the major threads present in the script. It succeeded wonderfully in that regard.The biggest disappointment though is that there was so much potential in this script for great social commentary, but it fell flat because the writers tried packing too many complex ideas into one script.If you are a die hard Robocop fan, then watch this movie. Otherwise, it's entirely skipable. "},{"Title":"Far from perfect, but better than its reputation suggests","Date":"28 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Omni Consumer Products are up to their old tricks and are intent on turfing citizens out of their homes so that they can demolish them and re-build a new town called Delta City. The new CEO of Omni Consumer Products (Rip Torn) recruits a crack team of mercenaries led by Paul McDaggett (John Castle) to evict the citizens from their homes. However, some of the citizens form a rebel alliance and fight back against OCP and the mercenaries.Ahhh here we have Robocop 3 which is kindly referred to as the turkey of the franchise. Although this third film is far from perfect I do think that it's unfairly maligned and I will attempt to explain why I'm prepared to defend it...First of all if we begin with the story; here we basically have the entire focus of OCP and their greed which is pretty much what the first film explored. I think that's what gives it the edge over the second film as I found the story stupid in the second film whereas it was better in this film. Think about it you're more likely to get on side with a bunch of rebel fighters who are trying to protect their homes as opposed to a bunch of violent drug-pushers. Given the fact that Peter Weller was responsible for making Robocop something of an icon it was a brave move for Burke to accept the role in this third film. To his credit, Burke does a very good job and was every bit as good as Weller in my opinion. Granted it was a risk re-casting the role, but I personally felt that it paid off here. Another strong aspect of this film is that the writers made it more of a human story and explored Robocop's emotional psyche more; examples of this are Robocop's decision to disobey an order to go and rescue Lewis OR Robocop's decision not to tell Niko that her parents were dead. Robocop 3 is notably less violent than the first two films which may disappoint those with a lust for blood. I myself have no problem with blood and violence, but I think it was toned down here to create a more human story. I also suspect that the writers perhaps didn't want to create too much of a copycat sequel. This film also has so much camp value that's almost impossible not to like this film; Robocop is given a lot of dry dialogue here and some of the lines that he delivers are cheesy, but very funny as well (this camp humour was present in the first two films, but there seemed to be more of it here). The final line in this film was probable one of the most memorable that I've come across and was also very funny. Are there any problems here? Well as Churchill the dog would say 'Oh Yes'...... The first half of the film is dull and lifeless and was a bit of a slog to get through. Thankfully though the second half is much stronger so this isn't a major criticism. I thought the inclusion of a flight pack for Robocop was a ridiculous idea. I also thought the inclusion of the Splatter Punks was a bit pointless and unnecessary. Some of the performances were woeful(particularly from Rip Torn who I felt was miscast here as he lacked the menace that the original old man had in the first 2 films). I also found it hard to take him serious as he reminded me of Terry Thomas with that stupid moustache. Aside from Burke, the only other performance that I rated in this film was that of Paul McDaggett who did give the film some of the menace that we saw in Robocop and Robocop 2. The robot ninja character could have been developed better and the fight scenes between him and Robocop were ridiculous, anti-climatic and the resolution was rather predictable. Overall then this is a mixed bag of a film, but for me the human story and the camp value combined together made this to be a fairly enjoyable film or possibly even a guilty pleasure. Yeah it has its problems, but I don't believe that it is deserved of its terrible reputation. I actually thought it was a slight improvement on Robocop 2, but it doesn't come close to the greatness of the original Robocop. "},{"Title":"EMBARRASSING for the iconic character!","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Firstly, look at that poster. That face in the background... could he pucker those lips anymore?? CavemanCop more like.I think the hardest pill to swallow with the deplorable RoboCop 3 is that Frank Miller was the screenwriter...This film's backstory is so poorly executed I have trouble reciting it now... OCP turns on its own people and merges with a Japanese corporation, implementing a rehab military force to evict Detroit citizens so they can take over the city. RoboCop, really doesn't do very much.So for starters, Peter Weller doesn't reprise the lead role, and while this doesn't affect it greatly; the mask is pretty well enclosing, but you do notice it. RoboCop has more lines, and it is really surprising how badly acted Robert John Burke's mouth is... he juts his chin out as if to fit the costume! It looks idiotic.The character of Alex Murphy continues to be mistreated, RoboCop 3 feels like a cash in worse than the second film; they have so little idea what to do with his character, they bench him for most of the film! Enter Nikko, a ten year old girl who can hack into and reprogram ED-209 units (for example), and a host of other characters who form a resistance force against OCP. Nancy Allen returns as Murphy's partner Anne, but is criminally underused.The villains are hopeless. They just are. We have the most stock British bad guys I have seen in a long time, allied with shadowy Japanese businessmen who send ninjas (yes, actual ninjas) to defeat RoboCop. Okay, so RoboCop taking on ninjas, as cumbersome as he is... could be exciting right? Well, the film builds it up all right. Massive, massive disappointment.The tone of the film is completely off. I said RoboCop 2 was lacking Paul Verhoeven's satire? Well this film proved me wrong! The humour here just... dies. It literally dies. Its deader than Elvis. My god. You'd have to be drunk or high to appreciate it. A man who is in the police station shouts at the sergeant RoboCop?? You got an AlienCop too? How about a GhostCop?? What... what does that even mean? How's the violence, you ask, it has a 15 certificate after all? I actually don't know why it has a 15, this is easily a 12A by today's standards. Sure there's a few bloody gunshots and splats of red on people, but otherwise this is virtually kid friendly. Crime in Detroit is initially shown with a lady pushing a trolley of empty cans, only for her trolley to be hit by a car and for someone to mug her. Oh. My. God. Someone call RoboCop, quick! He'll save her, diving a pink cadillac, that cartoonishly falls apart. That also happens...This is the Terminator Rise of the Machines of the RoboCop series, and I feel bad for Alex Murphy. I feel bad that his story was never told, that screenwriters just got lazy and wrote a shoddy shooter script with no heart at all. This was the first time I watched this film, I'd seen the other two, and honestly I wish I hadn't; it is embarrassing for the character. "},{"Title":"RoboCop Becomes GizmoDuck","Date":"27 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" RoboCop fights to help homeless people, or something like that, in this lackluster third entry in the series. The first movie was amazing. The second was a huge step down but not unenjoyable. This one is mostly crap. Peter Weller is gone. The production is low budget. RoboCop doesn't even show up until 20 minutes into the movie! They soup up RoboCop in silly ways that reminded me of GizmoDuck from the DuckTales cartoon series. He gets to fly and everything. Oh and it's watered down to the point that it has a PG-13 rating. I suppose it's still watchable if you are a big fan of the series or maybe B movies in general. But most people will likely find themselves struggling to finish it. Try to stick with it long enough to see RoboCop fly, though. It's not impressive but it's one of those craptacular cinematic moments you will want to tell your grandkids about. "},{"Title":"A movie to pity","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Poor RoboCop 3. Hating this film would be wrong, like picking on a shortbus full of mentally challenged children. It's a terrible picture, no doubting that, it's just a bit pathetic not contemptible. With Orion Pictures on the brink of bankruptcy and the RoboCop franchise one of the only properties that might get them cash to pay off some debts, they decided to ditch the extreme violence that RoboCop films are synonymous with and make a sequel the kiddies could enjoy. Orion couldn't even get this thing into theaters with their financial situation and after two years on the shelf, this family friendly RoboCop tanked at the box office. The lack of gore is not the problem here, it's a shoddy looking film stuffed with cheese and a plot about RoboCop fighting for the people is about the least interesting adventure they could throw this character into. Robocop 3 was a death blow to the career of director Fred Dekker and an example of trying to play it safe with horrifying consequences. "},{"Title":"RoboCop 3 The franchise killer!","Date":"13 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It seems that every movie franchise has one, a movie so bad that it kills the series. RoboCop 3 sadly, is no exception. OCP has begun to move forward in their master plan to create a better Detroit, this plan is known as Delta City. Unfortunately for the citizens of Detroit, this means destroying their homes. There is strong opposition to this, so OCP deploys armed mercenaries known as Rehabs. Their job is remove people from their homes by force. One of these people, is a computer whiz kid named Nikko. After her parents are arrested by the rehabs, she is found and taken in by the leader of the resistance movement. Meanwhile, it is revealed that OCP has been bought out by a Japanese corporation. (This comes into play later) So a short time later, RoboCop and Lewis track Nikko down at an old church. Unfortunately so have the rehabs and their leader, McDaggett. He and the rest of the rehabs have orders to kill all the people in the church, but RoboCop and Lewis refuse to stand down. RoboCop can't fire on the rehabs because of Directive 4 (I'll explain what this is later.) McDaggett and the rest of the rehabs open fire on them and thus, Officer Anne Lewis is killed. I'm sure many of you can guess why this infuriates me on multiple levels! Not only does RoboCop do absolutely NOTHING to save the life of his friend and partner, but the biggest problem, is that her death has zero meaning or purpose! This is one of my favorite things to complain about in a bad movie or sequel. If you're going to have a main character die, IT MUST HAVE A PURPOSE!!! For example in Star Trek II, Spock dies to save the lives of The Enterprise's crew. In Aliens, Gorman dies to atone for his mistake. In Cruel Intentions, Sebastian dies to save the woman he loves. In RoboCop 3 however, Lewis dies only to get her out of the film, and to add a cheap revenge motive for RoboCop to get the bad guy. So...anyway, RoboCop takes a bazooka to the chest, McDaggett and the rest of the rehabs leave him for dead, He joins the resistance and decides to fight for their cause, the Japanese corporation dispatches a robot samurai to deal with RoboCop and the resistance, the cops all quit when they're forced to work with the rehabs, RoboCop takes out McDaggett and the rest of the rehabs, and of course, saves the day. Now let me explain what that Directive Four crap was, and why it makes no sense here. In the original film, Directive four was a fail-safe put in by OCP's corrupt vice president. Which meant that RoboCop could not apprehend, or act against any member of OCP. Here's why it makes no sense First of all you would think, that after the events of the first film, that RoboCop's designers would've taken that out, so something like that wouldn't happen again. Second, after being left for dead by the rehabs, RoboCop simply deletes the directive. If he could do that at any time, why didn't he just do that earlier, and why couldn't he do that in one of the previous films? To sum it all up, RoboCop 3 pretty much sucks all around. The climax was halfway decent, but the rest just sucked. The lead actor doesn't even come remotely close to filling Peter Weller's shoes, the humor isn't funny, Anne Lewis dies for no reason, the main villain isn't even the least bit threatening, and 90% of the time RoboCop is always getting his a$$ kicked! I don't blame Frank Miller for the movie being bad, everyone knows that the studio determines how a movie is made, and how it will turn out. In fact, If you're a fan of RoboCop, and want to see What could've been. I recommend you pick up one of Frank Miller's RoboCop graphic novels. I've read one of them myself, and it was excellent! You'll get much more entertainment from reading one of them, than you'll get out of this cinematic pile of crap! Like most poorly done sequels, RoboCop 3 could've been great, but all it turned out to be was a last-ditch effort to squeeze out more money for the studio. If you haven't seen it, skip it. If you have, do yourself a favor and pretend it never existed! "}{"Title":"Against the conventional wisdom it's the best film of the trilogy","Date":"21 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It is really bizarre that so many people consider this sequel an awful movie. It is by far the best film of the franchise. It has all the qualities of the two previous movies, without their flaws. Indeed, I consider the first Robocop overrated, the worst of the three, as it lacks the interesting sociological and political elements brought by its two sequels.It is very impressive that a film about a super-policeman have the courage of showing that when the State goes against the citizens, they have the right to defend themselves. The important critique of the privatization of public services, present in the previous movies, remains strong too.Besides that, Robocop 3 doesn't have problems of the first two films of the trilogy, like bad casting (really awful actors for the smaller roles and extras) or ridiculous scenes. "},{"Title":"A P.G rating and Robocop is a terrible combination","Date":"22 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" OCP employs a bunch of sadistic mercenaries to take the people of Detroit out of their homes, out on the street. When Nikko is evicted and forced away from her parents, she joins up with a bunch of rebels led by Bertha (CCH Pounder) to make a stand about losing their homes. Meanwhile, Murphy (Robocop) loses his best friend Anne Lewis. He promises her he'll get revenge on the people who killed her just before she died. Robocop is a classic movie that was ahead of its time. The second sequel was a major disappointment, but this movie is even worse. This isn't the train-wreck people say it is, but it's pretty mediocre. When Peter Weller refuses to return as Robocop, Nancy Allen only agreeing to return if her character is killed off, you know things are in dire straits. A P.G Robocop isn't very effective, you just don't do it. I realize the remake of Robocop is P.G, I don't agree with that either. Robocop should be loaded with violence and bloodshed, just the way it is. The violence is so toned down because of the PG rating that it hampers the movie in a huge way. Nancy Allen was a fixture in this series, this is how you repay her? Not only that, but Robocop's revenge was so anti-climatic. I wanted to see something gritty vengeance, not the stuff we got. Flying Robcop with a jetpack? It's like the writers wanted to purposely crap all over the legacy of Robocop. The set-up is actually filled with potential, but it fails to maximize on it. It should have been much more intense than it was. It's filled with droll humor that seems so out-of- place. Wait until you see the scene where a bank robber walks into a diner with a machine gun, only for a bunch of cops with guns to be there. The acting is OK. Robert John Burke resembles Peter Weller in looks, but not in talent. He has some lame one-liners and I didn't get the emotional feeling like I did with Weller. It's not entirely his fault, he has nothing to work with. Nancy Allen is a trooper for agreeing to a small role. CCH Pounder gives the best performance in the film. Remy Ryan is tolerable as the kid. Thankfully, she didn't overdo it. Jill Hennessy is gorgeous to look at, average performance wise. They didn't explore her character enough. People like Mako, Rip Torn & Bradley Whitford are wasted in their roles. This isn't the atrocity people say it is, but it's a lifeless sequel that killed the franchise. The PG rating really makes this a mundane experience, along with some stupid writing. Robocop enthusiasts may wanna see it out of sheer curiosity, others beware4/10 "},{"Title":"What... No Peter Weller?!","Date":"25 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a brilliant and exciting film ROBOCOP was! It was followed by the ho-hum sequel ROBOCOP 2. Three years later, desperate to cash in on the cyborg craze started by TERMINATOR 2, the studios decided make a third ROBOCOP movie. If you were a kid during the early 90s, the commercials gave you the impression that it was gonna be really cool. Especially when they showed Robocop using a jetpack. When I finally did get around to seeing it, well let's just say it was a big letdown. Maybe we should've taken it as a bad sign when Peter Weller refused to return for the third one. Okay, here's the story The head honchos at OCP are still hellbent on turning Detroit into Delta City. Unfortunately, there's a large group of homeless people who are none-too-happy about having their hiding spaces destroyed. Robocop eventually comes to their aid and joins their resistance movement. OCP has joined forces with a Japanese Cybernetic Company, which includes cyborg assassins. It all culminates in an epic battle between cyborgs. There's very little, if anything, to recommend this one, unless you include an ED-209 being turned into a good guy. This film runs out of steam too too early and can't even live up to the lowered standards of ROBOCOP 2. Take my advice, just stick to the first ROBOCOP and pretend like the sequels never existed. "},{"Title":"Good story but still need better production design","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Omni Consumer Products has been taken over by a Japanese corporation. They are now trying to clear out the city of Detroit with a private army of Urban Rehabilitation officers to make way for the construction of Delta City. Now the inhabitants have taken arms against both the law and the criminals. RoboCop (Robert John Burke) is reprogrammed to take out the inhabitants but he has a change of heart with the help of Officer Anne Lewis (Nancy Allen). Then they send in the samurai robot Otomo.The Urban Rehabilitation officers look stupid. They need to look scary. And the criminal gangs look like bad campy 70s stereotypes. There is a general problem with the production design. All of it looks cheesy. And I don't know what a samurai robot is suppose to look like, but this is as bland of a samurai robot as there is. I do like the story more than RoboCop 2. It's a lot clearer and less messy. However the B-movie production design continues. The franchise needs a darker cooler reboot. "},{"Title":"RoboCop 3 review","Date":"3 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The part-man-part-machine-all-cop hero is back! Unfortunately, he's not the same. The third film in the franchise swaps out Peter Weller for Robert Burke, and director Fred Dekker doesn't have nearly as much guts his predecessors.The good news is that the film is still pretty fun. There is plenty of action to be had, with lots of shoot-outs, chases, and explosive scenes of all-out revolution. RoboCop continues to beat the snot out of bad guys (including samurai robots), and in one daring scene, he even straps on a jetpack and flies! However, the experience of this film is substantially fluffier and more lightweight than the last two films. As a PG-13 film, all the pulp and gore is stripped away, setting a totally different tone and style. This also leaves the door wide open for a plethora of scenes that are silly and cheesy. Even though the film maintains a decent pacing, and it can be serious when it wants to, most of it is ridiculous to the point of being unamusing and daft.The story has a few bright spots it is pretty interesting to see how OCP becomes so Nazi-esque that they incur RoboCop's wrath. However, the film takes a few liberties that might be upsetting for fans (especially concerning one of the series' most beloved characters). Aside from that, the story plays out in a pretty standard fashion, and little is added to the established characters. Despite a few interesting ideas, there's little satire or thematic depth to be found.This film uses good, but rarely great, photography and editing. Acting is pretty silly and over-the-top from the whole cast; it worked great under Paul Verhoeven, but with Dekker's direction, this level of excess is not nearly as effective. Writing is average at best. This production has some okay-looking sets, props, costumes, and special effects. The music score brings back the classic theme of the first film, but doesn't really much variation on it.RoboCop 3 is the film where RoboCop commandeers a pimpmobile, catches a bullet with his bare hands, and where ED-209 becomes loyal as a puppy. This is pretty much on the same level as 1995's Judge Dredd; both films have the potential for some serious edge, but it is dulled pretty heavily by simply being too cheesy and lightweight. It's easily the worst of the original series, but still entertaining as a guilty pleasure.Recommended only to the most die-hard of RoboCop fans.3/5 (Entertainment Good | Story Average | Film Marginal) "},{"Title":"Makes Robocop 2 look like a masterpiece","Date":"31 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 3 is hardly disregarded film and for good reason as it a very poor sequel and conclusion to the Robocop series, becoming a pale intimation of itself. Robocop 3 follows on from Robocop 2 left off, with OCP being brought out by a Japanese company and must start construction of Delta City or else go bankrupt. They need to force the eviction of a poor district and OCP are met with armed resistance and when Robocop's (Robert John Burke) partner, Anne Lewis (Nancy Allen) is killed by OCP's lead thug he ends up joining rebels.Robocop 3 is a very poor film, suffering from a number of problems. There were major casting changes and whilst Burke does a decent job replacing Paul Weller, but he is surrounded by an atrocious acting, such as Remy Ryan as a genius child hacker. The action was very weak, especially compared to the first two, the violence was toned down and had horrible special effects when the first two have very strong effects for their time. It looked cheap in the first film Robocop had ED-209 as a threat, Robocop 2 had RoboCain, Robocop 3's big threat was a robot ninja and only played by a regular man.Lewis was killed off in this film, a major character in the series and she wasn't even given a proper send off, just killed so the film could showcase their bland British badguy is evil, enjoying pain, suffering and power.Robocop 2 was a film with major problems, but at least director Irvin Kershner and his writers were trying to honour and recreate Paul Verhoeven's look and style and try and keep the satirical elements of the first film. Robocop 3's director Fred Dekker disregarded the legacy, making a less serious yet less funny film. It took 20 minutes before we got to see Robocop (I think by the third film people don't need to wait to see him). They was no effort on the satirical edge or being interesting.Bradley Whitford from The West Wing was a refreshing presence in the film, being a bright spot as the Jackass extraordinaire and Julie Hennessy as Dr. Lazarus was one of the better performers.As a finale to the Robocop trilogy Robocop is a wasted opportunity, dumbing down and toning a very adult series and serves as the Batman and Robin of the Robocop series. "},{"Title":"Robocop 3","Date":"19 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" With the imminent release of the new Robocop film I thought a rewatch of the notorious trilogy bookend was in order. Directed by Fred 'The Monster Squad' Dekker and written by graphic novel icon Frank Miller how could it go wrong? Well in all fairness I don't think they did go that far wrong abeit a few obvious changes.First of all as we all know the overall violence had been watered down hugely. Of course there are some that will argue that blood n bullets don't equal a good film, and they'd be right, but in the case of this franchise I personally think you need it. Like various other classic adult franchises ('Alien', 'Predator', 'The Crow' etc...) they simply work better without restrictions on who will be watching them, free reign...because they are for adults. So straight off the bat all the dark satirical graphic novel type violence and blood has almost been taken out. I say almost because the film does have some good moments. You can tell its an old 90's film because it does still manage to squeeze in some violence and edgy bleakness. A small scene where an OCP suit leaps out of their tall skyscraper due to their stock crash. Next scene we see a 'blink and you'll miss it' shot of him hitting the ground, well you don't actually see that. Plus during some actions scenes where bad/good guys are gunned down you do get some good old fashioned bloody squib hits just like the first two films. Most don't have any squibs but they are in there so the film isn't all PG-13, pretty sure you get that these days.The actual plot isn't too bad in all honesty, its not too unfamiliar but it works for this franchise. OCP control the cops and now have this special unit specialising in clearing out this specific urban region in Detroit to make way for Delta City, yep the're STILL trying to make Delta City. Naturally OCP are trying to make out this is a positive thing for Detroit and they're actually helping people relocate, but of course in reality they are acting like Nazi's and stormtrooping everybody off in buses without a care for families, property, well being etc... The concept works but its a forced one, most of these OCP guys are dressed like Nazi SS officers with long trench coats in militaristic fashion. They round everyone up just like the Jews were in WWII, many end up getting shot but all that is covered up by news propaganda. Their leader played by Brit John Castle is a decent Euro villain who snarls perfectly. So you throw Robo into the mix and at first, like the cops, he's following OCP rules but eventually he sees how wrong it is, as do the cops, and they all change sides. Its all very predictable, there are a few predictable sequences where the drama is suppose to be heightened to rouse your emotions, like when the cops turn up to help the civvies or when Robo goes after the bad guy who kills Lewis, but the film never really manages to charge you up as it should. It tries hard to do so but just feels flat. There are some nice visual moments (Robo's intro sequence) but nothing as iconic as the first film, hell even 'Robocop 2' couldn't quite give us anything that visually iconic.I think the worst part of the film was the inclusion of the Japanese company working with OCP. This really didn't need to be in there and I don't think you would of missed it if it wasn't. The most heinous crime for the film had to be the Japanese samurai assassin cyborg which was like something out of a trashy low budget ripoff flick. The daft part being this cyborg looked infinitely more advanced and sophisticated than Robo, more like a Terminator, and could have easily kicked his ass all over. Well he could of if he didn't just do martial arts flying kicks on him. He does manage to slice Robo's forearm off but somehow Robo is able to just stick that gun enhancement back on, despite his arm being half sliced off by a katana.The killing of Officer Lewis definitely meant the end of the road for this franchise though. I was still quite impressed they got quite a few cast members back for classic characters, OCP suit Johnson, Casey Wong, Bixby Snyder and Sgt. Reed are all back, as is a nice well done cameo from ED 209 (unaltered too). I was also impressed with the makeup on Robo's face when his visor is off. They managed to get Burke looking exactly like Weller! no dilution anywhere, the effects are spot on and look great as does the rest of the suit. I also think Burke did a good job as Robo, he accentuates his walking and mouth movements a bit too much if you ask me but apart from that he was good. All sound effects on Robo's movement, his gun, ED 209 and visual graphics for Robo's vision are all perfectly recreated, good continuity.Yeah so jet pack Robo felt a bit too much like a merchandising ploy but...damn I'll admit it I quite liked the idea. Its not too incredible an idea and it did look quite cool. I think the limitations on budget and effects hampered what could of been something pretty neat. All in all this film isn't as bad as I recall to be honest, it carries on nicely from the previous films, story is OK, effects all look as good as previous films...had Weller been involved who knows. Bottom line for me is the lack of graphic violence, grimy seediness and dark satire, a must in a Robocop film.5.5/10 "},{"Title":"Redefines the definition of a truly awful movie","Date":"27 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop I was truly amazing - I enjoy watching it - even to this day. However - Robocop 3 fails at ALL levels; writing - directing - acting. Whereas Robocop I was a love story - (yes) - Robocop III elicited zero emotion. Although some basic plot elements were sound - folks being evicted from their homes by a mega-corporation - others - youngster who would have embarrassed even David Levinson (Jeff Goldblum) in Independence Day - with - her computer skills - filed miserably. One does not truly appreciate the acting skills - (to include supporting actors) - and - directing - until a wonderful script - (minus a child prodigy) - falls into the hands of others much less capable. In all - a terrible film - which - only helps me to better appreciate the original. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"8 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie was just awful. The story was practically non existent. It felt like it was written by a group of 12 year olds who were bored and had no imagination. The script would have been better off if it had been turned into a TV episode. The acting was decidedly wooden in places although the actor who played Robocop wasn't to bad (could have been worse and could have been better).The whole movie is aimed at kids with all the gimmicky attachments for Robocop (flight pack and arm attachment) being nothing more than product placement for the tied in merchandising.Im giving this a 3 out of 10 because the only decent thing about the movie was the soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Better Than  The Second, But Still Weak.","Date":"28 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Vast improvement over the dreadful Part II, this still suffers from feeling watered-down, and overly kid-friendly, as Robocop returns to fight his own company again, who are ruthlessly trying to evict the citizens of Detroit to make a profit, and are trying to merge with a Japanese conglomerate, while at the same time stave off bankruptcy.Though there are some good action scenes, and its heart is in the right place, this feels tired, as if there was no sense of urgency or purpose behind it other than completing the story. A shame, because with a bit more story preparation, this could have been good, but feels rushed, though it sat on the shelf for two years! Does have a satisfying ending though. "}{"Title":"A Complete Disaster,","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 3 is a brutal disaster,it is without a doubt the worst of the three Robocop's,and thats saying a lot comparing it to the also terrible Robocop 2.I thought the movie began promising,and I thought it seemed better than the second Robocop,but as soon as I saw Robert John Burke as Robocop I knew I was going to hate it,I never knew until I saw this that Peter Weller wasn't in it,and this guy was a terrible replacement,he made no effort to sound any bit similar to the original Robocop.Peter Weller was the only I liked about the second one,and thats what made this movie so terrible,at least they killed off Nancy Allen's character,I never liked her in it,her acting is amazingly terrible and was happy that she wasn't in this very much,but her acting for the beginning of the movie was probably even worse than she was in the first two.If you enjoyed the first Robocop,leave it at that,the sequels are both humiliating,their boring,predictable,too long and the cast are really uninspired,they made me question why I liked the first one.Do not bother with Robocop 2 or 3,trust me,even if you didn't see the first one and have nothing to compare it too,its still terrible.Robocop is completely fixed and takes on a large group that are looking to evict people from Detroit. "},{"Title":"A disgrace to an amazing concept","Date":"14 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The original Robocop, unless you're talking to fellow movie buffs like myself, is often seen as cheesy and over-the-top. In reality, the film is a pure cult classic if there ever was one. There are so many moral issues that flow subtly and neatly throughout the film, the violence is graphic and extreme-yet somewhat believable. The underlying comedic elements such as the TV commercials and newscasters are hilarious. The 2nd Robocop was good as well, although it fell more into the Hollywood tradition of trying too hard to do a sequel to match the first. A lot of the things I loved about 1 weren't in 2, but it was still good. Now we have 3. In every way it is the COMPLETE OPPOSITE of the original and what Paul veerhoven set out to achieve with it. First off, PG-13? Cmon. The plot is filled with more bullet holes than the people that got shot up, Peter Weller isn't back and it shows, the acting is terrible, the action is terrible, not only is it by far the worst Robocop film ever, it is one THE worst films ever, period. A disgrace to what could have ended as an incredible franchise. "},{"Title":"one of the worst things i've ever seen","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I'll get right to the point with this one I didn't give this movie a 1/10 because I got the chance to see the ED-209 again. I've always loved that robot. I thought it was so bad-ass when I first saw it.But the BS starts right after we see the ED-209, when that kid takes control of the droid with her computer toy made out of plastic. I mean is that computer toy something or what? It can hack into security cameras and broadcast videos all over the TV channels, it can hack into ED-209's memory, and the list goes on.There are so many things that don't add up in this movie. But the thing that most bothered me was robo's mouth. It looked like he was trying to take a number 2 throughout the whole movie. He looked horrible. Couldn't they have piked somebody else for the job? Everything about this movie is horrible. I didn't like anything I saw in it, the story is horrible and it stinks so bad it makes me wanna puke.Bottom line is... I won't even count it as one of the robocop movies because it doesn't deserve it. It's nothing but a pile of crap and it shouldn't belong on this planet. "},{"Title":"Utterly worthless","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" RoboCop's cinema outings come to an ignominious halt with this trashy, clueless sequel. Apparently mistaking the original film's black humour for knockabout comedy, director Fred Dekker slapsticks the character through a plot involving a ninja robot and a kiddie sidekick. Even the Media Breaks are used for cheap laughs; well, everything is cheap. Returning characters are shadows of their former selves, while new RoboCop Robert John Burke waddles around in Peter Weller's cast-offs like he's shat his pants. Come the end he's a poorly-bluescreened jetpack pilot in a sequence that not only reduces the character to a cartoonish parody but also transforms him into an action figure. Dekker's direction is apathetic, the villains are cartoons, the action is flat,the visual effects are dire and there isn't a single moment that doesn't fail in some way. This is a stupid, incompetent, unfunny, soulless junker, a travesty of the original movie. "},{"Title":"Outdated even in 1993.","Date":"16 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" After the disappointment of RoboCop 2 and with Peter Weller opting out of the lead role, this third offering in an increasingly flagging franchise serves as little more than a series of homages and overly staged looking action set pieces. In an attempt to bridge a wider audience, the signature violence and gritty nature of the previous RoboCop films is diluted down, however it's hard to imagine anyone post Terminator 2 feeling the faintest of thrills from what is a clumsy looking, badly written exercise in endurance against tedium. Surprisingly, a few supporting players from previous 'Robo's' clock back in for another shift, although one presumes it's purely for the money and their presence does little much other than to remind of just how far the apple has fallen from the tree. To it's minor credit, RoboCop 3 tries hard not to take itself too seriously and while there's a few gags that raise a smile, these moments are thinly spread and mostly serve as distant echo's of Paul Verhoeven's vastly superior original. As the end draws near and your brain has had enough, Robo turns 'Superman' as we witness him donning a jet-pack while dishing out justice to the bad guys from the skies. What should be the jaw dropping final spectacle looks sadly outdated and is emblematic of how passe the series has become. Unsurprisingly, this was the last time director Fred Dekker sat in the big chair. "},{"Title":"An ignominious end to an obsolete technology.","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Same old, same old but with two wrinkles.One; this film is decidedly PG, no real violence, blood, or profanity, and the black comedy in the fake ads is toned down accordingly too.The second is the introduction of what should have been a cool nemesis for the slow and ineffectual automated upholder of the law a Robo-ninja. But they f*cked that up too &#x96; more on that later.Detroit must've gotten tired of being the scungy future city, in this film most of the action takes place in the fictional Delta City. This time OCP, the company that runs the police force has been taken over by a Japanese company, meaning everything is more efficient and profitable &#x96; even the Robo-Ninja.I won't spend much time on this one because this is where a mediocre franchise really hit the downslope and got desperate. Roby 3 has a genius tech savvy 6 year old working alongside the resistance and performing elaborate hacking and programmes with her rudimentary laptop that is bigger than her. It also introduces Lewis with such drama and seriousness that you would think it was a De Niro reveal. Nope, just the same untalented actress still hanging around dining off the same one shift association with an automated cop.A typically seedy and punkish looking gang serves as the resident minions, and it is 20 minutes before we even see Roby this time out. Peter Weller has gone, but that was never a big factor anyway, consider this just another set of lips spouting the same banal dialogue and cheesy catchphrases.Everyone is still surprised again when he thinks for himself, again he is gunned down and left for dead, and again once he realises just who is behind everything he comes up against a purpose built Robo-Cop-Killer, the altogether too built up Robo-Ninja.Look I hoped like hell that the battle of the Robos would rock, which made the awkward pacing and two or three moves before a crappy killing stroke battle that followed so disappointing, I can't stress enough how dodgy the two confrontations between the Robo's are.In fact the 'massive' finale is full of tacky sub-Troma-esque touches. In a street battle with hundreds of enemies face to face on both sides and thousands of rounds fired no-one dies until Robo-Cop shows up, and after he wins the day in 15 seconds flat everyone jumps around like drunk idiots after the superbowl.Final Rating &#x96; 4.5 / 10. The first two films weren't much to write home about, but RoboCop 3 is lamentable, consigning the future's most unnecessary and ineffectual robotic hero to the scrapheap. An ignominious end to an obsolete technology. "},{"Title":"Cheap, nasty diluted entertainment","Date":"28 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop finds himself pitted against his own police department as he helps an underground resistance group from having their homes torn down by greedy OCP it's conglomerates.Like its predecessor Robcops 3 on paper sounds great, with an interesting concept featuring loss, empowerment and corruption. Orion's bankruptcy is evident, plagued by production issues the final result is unsatisfying.Director Fred Dekker's Robocop features a number if interesting elements, Robocop's changeable weapon arm, a flying jet pack and Ninja robot assassins. OCP is in the process of being taken over which treads new ground creating a sense of economical uneasiness as the backdrop. However, everything feels rushed, cheap and nasty with actors unconvincingly made to look either dirty, villainous or army like.Due to the awful script it's hard to tell if Robert John Burke measures up to Peter Wellers Robocop character. Luckily for actress Nancy Allen Ann Lewis' appearance is short. Rip Torn's Hammy performance as OCP CEO livens things up but is cringe worthy and solid actor Mako shows up as Kanemitsu but it's too little too late.With bigger production values and a shake up of Frank Miller and Fred Dekker's screenplay it may have fared better. Nevertheless, under scrutiny Robocop 3 is diluted entertainment in all departments. "},{"Title":"Political satire disguised as cheesy science fiction","Date":"24 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Ignore the bad acting, one-liners, and cheesy gimmicks - Robocop 3 is a powerful social satire about the anti-democratic ruling elite and government/corporate crime.As the third installment of the series shows Detroit slipping into even more of a dystopia, the parallels with society are striking. The movie takes the economic troubles of the times, especially the widening gap between the rich and poor, and takes them to the extreme. This is symbolized between the battle between the working class with the help of the police department and the ruling elite with help from the splatter punks. The film has many parallels with the social landscape of the late 80's and early 90's. Similarly to how OCP's plan to run Detriot's police force under a government contract spun out of control, Reagan's plan to turn Cold War difficulties over to NSC operatives to fund the contra army also ended in disaster with the decision to use a private, for-profit company to divert money. The irony of this kind of covert foreign policy is highlighted in Robocop 3 by moving the action from Iran and Nicaragua to the American city of Detroit. "},{"Title":"Great Movie All Things Considered","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have been a fan both Orion Pictures and the Robocop Franchise. I have to say that even though Orion was in the middle of Chapter 11, I feel they still made a decent film. The story is great and the new characters are great additions to the film.The third installment of Robocop begins in the way the previous films did with a Media Break segment. This time OCP is on forcing citizens out of Detroit in order to make way for long-overdue Delta City. OCP then hires a special police force lead by the evil Paul Macdaggat to throw the citizens out of their neighborhood.According to OCP, Robo has become to independent and must be contained in order for the corporation to take over the city. Robo with the help of his partner Anne Lewis and the good hearted people of Detroit must now fight back for what is right.This film introduces a flightpack to robocop along with new allies. Robert John Burke fills the title role for Peter Weller in the final installment.Nancy Allen, Robert Do'qui, Mario Machado and Felton Perry all reprise their roles(they are given little to do). "},{"Title":"They sold us out, those capitalist pigs.","Date":"14 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" It's ironic that corporate greed, a topic satirised throughout the RoboCop series, was ultimately responsible for the death of the franchise. Seeing a potential fortune to be made from lucrative movie tie-ins (video games, toys, cartoons, fast food promotions, comics, t-shirts, bubble bath etc.), unscrupulous studio execs at Orion targeted the third chapter in the RoboCop series at a wider (ie., younger) audience, diluting its impact and selling out fans of the original film in the process.Directed by Fred Dekker (of kiddie horror hit The Monster Squad fame), working from a script by comic writer Frank Miller (whose earlier script for RoboCop 2 hardly did the franchise any favours), the last in the trilogy abandons the grit, gore and satirical content of the first film rather than the cynical vision of down-town Detroit as an urban hellhole inhabited by lawless scum, we now discover that Robo's stomping ground is actually loved by the honest folk who live there, so much so that they are willing to take up arms and fight OCP, the evil corporation that wishes to relocate them in brand spanking new accommodation (the rotters!). With one of RoboCop's prime directives being to protect the innocent, it's not long before the chrome-headed cop joins the fight for freedom, and the poor people of Detroit get to stay in their slums. Hooray for RoboCop!Since every good action figure should have plenty of evil adversaries and cool accessories (kerching!), the dumb script also introduces a Nazi-style head villain, robot ninjas, a gang of punks, plus a cool snap-on flame/thrower and jet pack for Murphy; these supremely daft elements, combined with the cartoonish action, cloying over-sentimentality, awful dialogue, and stereotypical good guys (one of whom is a lovable child from the ghetto able to hack into high-tech computers&#x97;gack!) all go to make RoboCop 3 an unmitigated disaster.3.5 out 10, rounded up to 4 for the bit where the ninja's jaw gets dislocated&#x97;that bit was actually pretty freaky! "}{"Title":"Robocop for kids...","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 3 is a great example of how to ruin a franchise. The first Robocop is a classic, an action movie with sci fi elements and lots of in your face violence. It really works, its a classic definitely. Second part is an entertaining movie, not a masterpiece like the first one, but still a violent action movie with lots of good stuff on it. Then, there's is Robocop 3. Robocop 3 is an attempt to make Robocop a superhero for kids, and its a complete failure. Its just stupid. Robocop here is a character with lots of feelings,he almost cry in one scene... he makes ironic jokes....he fly ...come on!!! the violence here is gone, and well this is just a waste of time. Hope they make another Robocop 3 (because this one doesn't deserve to be a Robocop movie) 3/10 "},{"Title":"The lovers of the first hate it, the haters of the first love it !","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The truth can be so surprisingly simple at times. I hate the inordinate violence, so the original Robocop as well. I wrote a review about such a movie entitled (Successful Hero with Failure Satire) where I expressed how it was all brainless stupid work that didn't even amuse me. Here, to tell you the truth, it did. It's so fast but not demented, entertaining but not disgusting, tumultuous but not annoying, and cute not bloody. Actually all of that disturbed the old fans of the series, like it's a Rambo flick yet for children. But as long as the fierceness got reduced, the fans got angry, and ironically I got happy ! So it's not their Robocop inasmuch as my kind of Robocop. I don't understand why the big fuss because the absence of (Peter Weller) ?? Apparently the man got ENOUGH ! And as for me there is no problemo at all since the role doesn't demand much of acting (or actor !). Look at the fiery sexy (Nancy Allen) also, as she agreed to reprise her role if her character was to be killed off in the first half of the movie ! I liked the ninja fighter, the flying Robocop as a dream comes true, and the idea of computer genius child which is adorable and scarcely done. (Rip Torn) is great as usual, and he fitted with that plot perfectly. For the first time in a Robocop movie the sense of humor, even if dark, is right. Not to mention the fervent music and its sense of sublimity; especially at the climactic flying scene where the feeling of victory was unforgettably impassioned. The things to complain about are  few moments of bad special effects (very obvious at the flying), the Japanese businessmen as the evil force who's going to buy the country ! (Maybe natural fear at the time which you can find it easily at other movies from the same era, that nearly disappeared afterwards, yet looked here a little bit juvenile), (Jill Hennessy) who was favorable for her role but extremely not my favorite, and finally (Nancy Allen)'s hairdo; it gets worse as the series progresses ! (Fred Dekker) handled it fair like live-comic-book, at least not as crazy hysterical as (Paul Verhoeven) the honorable director of the original. Too bad that (Dekker) didn't direct anything ever since ! It's the fastest, less drastic, and the most PG-13 in the series. Although I'm not a fan of Ropocop but I enjoyed this as well-done 100 minutes of pure pastime. "},{"Title":"Robocop is back again","Date":"13 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop 3 offers the same old stuff action,laughs and good characters.This time robocop is played by Robert John Burke and John Castle plays the villain.Nancy Allen is also back as Anne Lewis.  Not quite as good as 1 and 2 but still enjoyable.  "},{"Title":"They Should Have Pulled The Plug After The Sequel","Date":"6 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The OCP has now a powerful grip-lock on the city of Detroit. Along with their Japanese shareholders, even the Detroit Police Force is now under their jurisdiction as they are now working for them. With the Japanese shareholders they are in the process of destroying the already crumbling Detroit and transforming it into a more enhanced Delta City. However liberal sewer dwellers who not going sit down and let this happen; they will revolt to any means necessary even if it means through violence and carnage.However, the OCP hires some Rehab Teams which are military police led by a menacing cyborg named McDaggett whose plan is to bring those who oppose the OCP and make them part of their justice. But the opposing liberals find a robot that will side with them. After the death of Officer Lewis (Nancy Allen), Robocop (Robert Burke) has become the defender of the rebels in their quest to win back their city and to take down the OCP of its own foundations.I'm sorry to say that this was the most unpleasant way to end the series. In fact they should have pulled the plug after the second instalment. Granted, the story had a lot of good things going for it, the script was the definitive Achilles Heel that really made the movie appalling, which also made the performances mediocre at best.The tone of violence was watered down badly as it went from an R rating in the first two instalments to a dismal PG-13 rating. Even the swearing was toned down gregariously as well. My guess was that the producers were trying to promote this film to a more broader audience. They went far as to have an animated version of Robocop as a way of making merchandise and if that's not enough to hurt a franchise, remember a few years ago Robocop invaded WCW wrestling and came to the aid of Sting (Steve Borden), that was pure ludicrous (Who remembers Capitol Combat 90 The Return of Robocop) This is the worst thing since Rick Steiner having a verbal spat with Chucky from Child's Play.Another factor that hurt the series was its frugal budget. The first movie you could not go wrong with the special effects. And the violence was gritty and effective as the bullets were aimed to perfection.The acting overall was a letdown too as the only character with spark (pun intended) was Robert Burke who filled in for Peter Weller as the heroic Police bot. With the new characters, the development was absent in this instalment. If you are curious and would like to see it I'm not stopping you. It's still enjoyable, but not very memorable. "},{"Title":"Hey kids!","Date":"9 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" 'Robocop 3' is a real turkey that for the most part deserves it's putrid reputation as one of the worst sequels of all time. It's a movie that offends me really more for the thought process behind it and for the aftermath it had on the career of director Fred Dekker. The film suffers because it has a violent tonal difference from it's far superior predecessors and any fan of those films is bound to be offended here. 'Robocop 3' is made solely for children because Orion thought they could sell toys. It's a kind of offensively ironic thought really because 'Robocop' is a movie that blatantly is about commercialism stealing the soul. I think as it's own piece 'Robocop 3' is merely a forgettable action film but as a sequel it is a slap in the face to the mythology and the fans. 'Robocop 3' feels as though you can feel Orion breath down the neck of the film. It is a children's film and it's a children's film in the worst possible way. It plays as if it thinks kids are stupid. This is a quintessential flaw, children are intelligent especially with adventure films. Why are films like 'Star Wars' or 'Superman' so brilliant at capturing the imagination of children and adults alike? Because they take time to develop a mythology and characters that are engrossing and spark the imagination. 'Robocop 3' is a sequel to two very adult films that have a mythology that deals with very adult themes that are beyond children's capacities. Gone completely in 'Robocop 3' is the violent anti-capitalist satire but even more important is the themes of losing one's humanity. Alex Murphy does not want to be Robocop. Robocop is a perversion of the laws of life and death and the first film is an exploration of what it is to be human. Sure Robocop looks cool but the aesthetics hide a troubled soul seeking to reclaim it's self. 'Robocop 3' is all about celebrating the cool looking aesthetics because they sell toys and not caring about what lie underneath. There is some aspects of the Alex Murphy resurrection story trying to fight their way to the surface here but they are ruined by the fact that this film can't play with them because they might scare children and so instead we get rock'em sock 'em jetpacks. 'Robocop 3' probably shouldn't have been made. There really wasn't anything left to tell in the story. That being said I think Dekker and crew had the foundations upon which to build something had they not been told to make a children's films. I like the idea of an armed resistance finally fighting OCP because it is very much a natural endpoint to what Verhoven set up in the original. The problem is that in order to do this story right you have to go into some radical leftist territory that doesn't sell tickets or toys. Fred Dekker takes a great deal of criticism for the film's failure and I don't think that is particularly fair. If anything this film is above a bomb rating because Dekker can effectively stage really brilliant action sequences. I think 'Robocop 3' could have been a lot of fun had they given Dekker complete creative control. 'Night of the Creeps' is a very funny and visually fun gory horror film and a 'Robocop 3' made in those lines would have been an effective fun end to the trilogy. I like the action scenes provided that some of the stupid dialogue is taken away.The film is just a mess and a missed opportunity. I like to think that somehow this film could have been good and Fred Dekker would get the respect he deserves and that this great series would have had a proper ending. The problem is you can see a film company perverting something profound in order to make money. Orion was kind of like OCP in that regard... "},{"Title":"Disgrace to the Robocop franchise","Date":"18 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This 3rd installment is most definitely the weakest movie in the Robocop trilogy. In fact it's inferior in every way compared to the previous 2 movie, despite the fact that the 2nd installment wasn't all that great but much better than this. At least in the 2nd installment Peter Weller still played Robocop, but in this it's portrayed by a different actor. I dislike it when the original cast get replaced in sequels and such. Watching this was like watching a cheap episode of a Robocop TV show than a actual movie. The plot is just terrible, I don't know if it's because it tries to be kid friendly but it just doesn't work. The special effects look really cheap in this and seems like the most low budget out of the 3 movies in this franchise. In fact this one is just not worthy to be in this franchise, this movie really does ruin this franchise from being a good trilogy. In fact it does a lot of damage to this franchise, for being the 3rd installment everything is super lame and stupid. There just doesn't seem like any effort has been made for this one, maybe the creators just thought it's Robocop so there doesn't need to be much effort made as long as they make their money. Which is sort of ironic because of the plot in this movie. I am giving this movie a 3.5 because I seen worse.3.5/10 "},{"Title":"Breakdown...","Date":"4 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This time Robocop joins a rebellion to his creator's Delta City plan which throws poor people out on the streets and locks them up in horrid camps (not unlike the concentration camps, which the movie implies) so they can build a new city, also Robocop is out to avenge his partner. The problem with Robocop 3 is that it's so clichd and wooden that the simplistic approach kills any potential such a story has. Also another thing is that Robocop is hardly in any of the action sequences and when he is, he comes off as tragically wimpy. I mean Robocop beat ED 209 and Robocop 2 two worthy challenges and his adversary this time are ninja androids and an army? Also the grenade he takes to the chest is extremely ridiculous because he had to have been blasted twice by the machine in the second one by rockets and so this Robocop is positively not the killing machine he was in the first two. Also the tone of the film has changed into a more kid friendly action flick and because the first two felt like graphic novels this disappoints anyone over the age of 9. Still no matter how one slices it, this movie is a surefire franchise killer and with Robocop turning into a cartoon show and a lame TV show, this is the movie that started Robocop's downward spiral.* out of 4-(Bad) "},{"Title":"Man, the nerve!","Date":"14 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Another bad move for movie makers! Frank Miller, Lay off the Robocop franchise already. Isn't it bad enough that he messed things up with Robocop 2 three years earlier? He just has to make things even worse with another sequel! When it comes to really bad sequels it's never a dull moment. Especially the ones that follow the films we loved. It's just plain wrong! And still ED-209 didn't get a big role again. ED-209 was the only good part in this movie. Movie makers are just not trying anymore, That's all! It's like I've said, they don't make them like they use to. A terrible waste of money on this bad film! And you thought Robocop 2 was bad, Three is much worse! This movie is just as bad as Superman III for sure! I'm surprised that they didn't bother putting a new cyborg called the Robocop 3 like they did in Robocop 2. Even Peter Weller was smart enough not to star in this movie after what happened in the last sequel! And interestingly enough, Robocop wasn't the first name to appear in the cast in the end credits. Even the makers of this movie knew that Robocop 3 was awful! And even worse was the Robocop TV Series that aired a year later! It didn't do good as well. That's why it lasted for only one small season. The Robocop franchise is going, going, going, Gone! Sorry Robo! You tried and you failed! That's the way the ball bounces. You might as well give it up! "},{"Title":"B list actors + D list director = quite a mess.","Date":"8 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I had avoided this movie for years, being a huge fan of the original and a slight fan of the sequel, I knew this franchise was headed straight for the basement but I did not want to personally go there.Well finally I caught up with this movie on TV, and I was just about dead on. Its bad, its worse than bad. I mean there are so many missed opportunities here its hard to count them all. And so many boring tired clichs that it boggles the mind.Its almost like the director was hired at the last minute and had no love for the project or material, to say he phoned it in is a huge understatement.Just one example out of potentially thousands, why have Robocop chase the van with his hand out the window hole? Why wouldn't he just smash the windows out totally so he could aim and shoot at will? Was the windshield of the car giving him protection? Did he need it there to keep the bugs out of his teeth? Its like nothing was thought through in this film, they all seemed to show up, get their paychecks, smile, and go home, and nothing else.A sad, painful and pitiful death for what could have been a great series. "},{"Title":"Depends on what you are expecting","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  If you are expecting another movie like the original you will be disappointed there is less violence, the set pieces are not as well directed, and the satire is virtually non-existent. The original Robocop was a fresh, hip, exciting flick when it came out, and this is not. However, this film has aspirations of its own, and it lives up to them. I think it took a lot of guts to change the direction of the series like they did here, moving away from the dark nihilism of part 2 and giving us a strong moralistic story and turning Robo into a humanitarian superhero, a champion of the oppressed and helpless. It's almost like the turn Miller made when he did Mad Max 3. That film was no Road Warrior, but it was still good.There are a lot of bad things about this movie the Japanese android was good but terribly misused, there are no action sequences that stand out, and some of the lines were incredibly cheesy. However, I think the acting was the best of the entire franchise save for the first, and I think they took great care to develop the movie's secondary characters, something they completely disregarded in part 2. I also liked that they used Poledouris' original score, which was sorely missing from part 2.I would put this on par with Prime Directives, above Part 2, and far above the TV series. If you're looking for a film that compares to the first, forget it. That movie is in a league of its own. Its greatness is the reason so many mediocre entries were even made. I hope the franchise is reborn, however. Robocop deserves the chance to become a truly great action series. "}{"Title":"the LEAST of the series.","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In this useless episode we find our half man half machine battling a new corporation that wants to evict hundreds, maybe thousands of people out of their land to make way for Delta City. Robocop must also do battle with a Japonize model Cyborg that is assisting the new corporation.Robocop has gone from cleaner of the street scum to product for the kids to enjoy. Very un-entertaining. Easily the least of the series.*/4 "},{"Title":"Not very good","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can't remember if I've already reviewed this or not but, oh well, here goes.Robocop 1 - GoodRobocop 2 - OKRobocop 3 - What the F**k was the point?My number 1 wish for the robo trilogy is that they should've followed the Terminator pattern and made the films darker. Forget all the comic book crap and the flimsy plots. Robo 1 was good but it would have been even better as a darker film series. Its no wonder these films never rivalled the Terminator series, its impossible for them to do so. The idea and character of Robocop is brilliant, it just could've be used 1000 times better. R3 doesn't do much to help the series at all. I mean Ninja Robots?!?! That was the point in the film when you just knew the film was dragging itself along a bed of needles by the testies.Robocop 3, Your are the weakest link, goodbye. "},{"Title":"Oh boy...","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Remember back in the 80's when Japan was going to take over the world?  Well, they finally got around to it in 1993's Robocop 3!  As if OCP wasn't bad enough, now it's OCP - Japanese Subsidiary.  Those inscrutable, crafty Japanese buy out OCP and attempt to turn one of Frank Miller's worst comic books (Give Me Liberty) into a movie.  When they arm a gang of punks who speak in a hilariously bad future-slang to shove honest, hard-working Americans out of their homes, they find out what it means to screw with hackneyed, overblown archetypes.With all of the blatant self-induced plagiarism, Frank Miller really has no one to blame but himself for how badly this stinker polluted the world at large.  From the Splatterpunks' unconvincing future-cyber-cool or whatever it was supposed to be, to Otomo's oh-so original icy composure, nothing in this movie works.  There's a reason comic books only cost two or three bucks - so that when you get entertainment of this caliber at least you don't feel so ripped-off. "},{"Title":"Was this a comedy???","Date":"2 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I couldn't believe...well maybe I can...that Robocop 3 was this bad...If you saw the original Robocop with Peter Weller you would know, in my opinion, that it was a classic.  Robocop 3 was so funny that I wanted to star in the next Robocop movie Robocop 4 The Adventures of OCP and Me.  DO NOT SEE IT!!!!! Unless you want to laugh to your tuckus off.  By the way you will notice that they didn't remove the rope that was helping Robocop fly. PAthetic. "},{"Title":"Not that bad.....","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  *****Spoiler Warning*******Yes, this movie was supposedly delayed from release for over a year because it was so bad, and it's not exactly Oscar material, but then again the first movie wasn't really very good.  The original Robocop succeeded because it was so different and in-your-face.  The biggest difference is Peter Weller isn't here, and the New Guy isn't as good, even under the mechanical outfit.  The movie has a whole has a decidedly low budget feel to it.  However, the ragtag urban rebels have a sort of camaraderie to them, and overall I liked this movie better than the overkill violence of the second.  True, the Samurai at the end was a bit hard to take, but compared to some of the other truly awful movies out there I don't think this one belongs in the bottom 100. "},{"Title":"My least favorite of the three so far...but not that bad.","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm not really going to defend this film.  I can see why a lot of people wouldn't like this film, but there are some cool things to be seen in this film.  ...And it was much better than I expected.  This could have been an excellent film if a few things had been changed.SPOILERS AHEAD!!!The first thing that didn't sit very well with me was that they killed off Officer Lewis.  Granted, it was a noble death and was pretty well done, but I didn't want to see Lewis get gunned down so haphazardly.Secondly, there needed to be some better (and longer) fights between RoboCop and Otomo (The Japanese Android)!  All of the fights between the two were way too short and were anti-climatic.  Although, I must say I liked Otomo during the fight scenes, he had some good moves.  It just seemed to me that RoboCop was a bit of a wimp against Otomo.  And, in the finale of the film, our hero doesn't even get the kill, the little computer hacker girl turns the Otomos against each other.  Quite a bit far-fetched if you ask me.Lastly, there were a number of cheesy things throughout the film that could have easily been avoided or better done.  For instance, the scene where the little computer hacker girl hacks into ED-209 and makes him obey her.  Kind of a cool idea, but could have easily been done better.  Oh, and why did they always refer to the CEO as The CEO, just give the guy a name!!!  Also, some of the comedy in the film was either too dark or misplaced.  I would tend to want to leave the comedy out of a film like this.END OF SPOILERSThe cast in the film was decent, I wouldn't say excellent, but they got the job done.  I thought Robert John Burke was a good replacement for Peter Weller, Peter will definitely always be the true Robocop/Murphy in my eyes, but Burke pulled it off and looks quite a bit like Weller at times.  Nancy Allen returns to the role of Anne Lewis and does a fine job, as was expected.  Remy Ryan (as Nikko) was ok, sometimes really good, sometimes terrible, nothing spectacular there.  Rip Torn (as the CEO) was a bit unexpected in the film, but did an ok job.  I don't blame Rip, I blame the writer of the character, there was just something off about him.  Mako (as Kanemitsu) did a fine job as usual, he played the perfect head-honcho Japanese business man.  Something about CCH Pounder (as Bertha) really bugs me, I'm not really sure what it is, but there was something I didn't like about the character...or maybe it's the actor...I'm not sure.  Stephen Root was another unexpected cast member, although at the time of this film he was somewhat unknown, now it's hard to see him as anyone other than Jimmy James of News Radio.  Nonetheless, he did a fine job with is role in this film.  Daniel von Bargen (as Moreno) did a great job with his role as well, there is something about this actor that I've always liked.  Jill Hennessy (as Dr. Marie Lazarus) was a nice touch, she did a fine job in the film and looked quite good.  Bradley Whitford did a pretty good job, a few bad lines here and there, but overall, pretty good.  He seems to be very good at playing a smug jerk.  All in all, the cast was pretty good, a few things I would have changed here and there, but the fault in this film lies more with the writing and the direction, not the cast.The plot in the film was nothing to write home about, but it was decent, it had it's moments.  I did think it was interesting that RoboCop was forced to choose between defending the public and serving his creators (OCP).  The film had an interesting idea, what happens when two of RoboCop's prime directives contradict each other?  Good idea, not perfectly executed, but a good idea.I was somewhat impressed with the special effects in this film, sure they weren't perfect, but there is some good stuff to see.  The scenes involving RoboCop and Otomo looked pretty nice.  Personally, I thought the flying RoboCop was pretty well done as well (could be that my expectations were quite low)...granted, they could have been better, but I'm sure the budget was somewhat low for the film.  There were also a number of really great stunts in the film.No, the film isn't spectacular, and it isn't as good as either of it's predecessors, but it's worth a watch.  If you are a fan of the previous RoboCop films, give this one a shot, just don't get your expectations too high.  Personally, I enjoyed the film, and I hope you will too, thanks for reading.-Chris "},{"Title":"I liked it but the first one was still the best.","Date":"29 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I liked this movie despite the bad acting only because it was Robocop. I liked the Japanese corporation owning OCP since there was no way the old man could've still been the owner after the fiasco at the end of the second one. I liked Kanemitsu and Otomo. I found the action scenes to be quite enjoyable as well. I liked the parts when Robocop fought Otomo. Althought I think Otomo should've had some more scenes. The Rehabs were real wusses though who in real life couldn't hurt much. ED-209 gets to blow some stuff up for a couple of minutes and that wasn't all bad. I thought it was good they were finally going to be ready to build Delta City. Overall I liked this movie and would reccomend it.  "},{"Title":"Pretty awful, actually!","Date":"10 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Please, why did Hollywood have to destroy the whole story of Robocop and release a third iteration of a film classic?  I mean, Robocop 2 was a dreadful attempt at seriousness but come on, a flying Robocop?  This really is a cheap bargain bin video nasty, I did not even know it existed until I found out on IMDB, when I switched on the video, I knew we were in for a bumpy ride as soon as I noticed that the original Robocop wasn't in it. There was no plot, no action and certainly no emotions just hardcore gun fighting scenes, terrible, 1 out of ten. "},{"Title":"Pretty lame affair","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Everyone agrees that Robocop was the cultural, sci-fi masterpiece of the late 80s (before Total Recall came out, of course!) - and they were both directed brilliantly by Paul Verhoven.Robocop 2 tries hard to beat Robocop on every level, the gore (the take out Cain's brain and show him his skull scene is pretty horid, and was not needed), and only ends up making it a pretty lame action movie - sure there WERE cool moments - and the introduction of RoboCop 2 and that science lady who wants to screw a bad guy and thinks good guys are a waste of time...Anyway, by the time RoboCop 3 came out, it had no backing, no budget, no story, nothing - it was really hard to make anything good - so they dumbed down the action, and stuck to the plot.*SPOILER* The plot has McDaggett (played ruthlessley by veteran British actor - why are all bad guys British? - John Castle) evicting all lower classes out of Detroit City for the Japanese investors - the way Castle does this is a throw back to the harsh, brutal World War II - and makes several references to this. *END SPOILER*Anyway, the film is not as brutal, cool or as original - it certainly doesn't have the same direction or worth of story...the jet pack idea was stupid and was totally out of place...the ninja idea was a good idea - but they screwed it up when half way in we get to find out it was a life-like cyborg...The film isn't really worth watching - some people say this is the real sequel...I don't agree, there can never be a sequel that even touches Verhoven's original...its a shame producers never seem to learn that. "},{"Title":"Underrated movie.","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie even though there are numerous plot holes. I though Remy Ryan did an excellent job as the child hacker. This movie is precursor for dystopic cyberpunk feel (large corporations control everything, small bands of people fighting against them, most of all a young child prodigy whose computer hacking skills are almost frightening.) "}{"Title":"oh boy!!! this movie is horrible!!","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The first two where great.  Fred Decker was a great Robocop.  Then Orion Pictures goes and makes a pg-13 Robocop 3 which aims only for young kids, which totally sells out on the built in audience the first two movies had. Then the low blow was having Robert John Burke as Robocop.  There was no chemistry between Robocop and officer Ann Louis which the first two films had.  The highlight of the film was when Robocop flies!!!  You can see the strings, and the blue screen!!  That's a great film.  I give it a D- "},{"Title":"Very third rate film","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I switched off after 30 minutes.  This is an example of what started as a good idea became exploited to be silly, even worse than the Batman series. I always enjoy the special effects but do like a plausible story line.Please do not make any more Robocops.  Producers and writers try some more ideas and let's have some imagination. "},{"Title":"Another lifeless cash-in sequel","Date":"15 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  RoboCop 3 isn't the worst movie of all time, but you certainly won't want to see it more than once. It's just so average. Exactly what you would expect from a bunch of average actors and an average crew. Just in case you didn't think RoboCop was based on Iron Man he flys in this one, which is the only original thing in this movie.  "},{"Title":"Get the game instead!","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Part 2 at least featured a then-very-nice stop-motion bad-guy robot though not much else. In Part 3, we get a (though mechanical) very run-of-the-mill kung-fu guy. Also some kid who hacks into computers and more standard stuff. Look for the old Robocop 3 computer game (the 3D one, not the arcade), which has all the atmosphere the movie's missing. "},{"Title":"The slow, agonizing death of the series","Date":"26 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" More British people will be villains... less subtlety will be in symbolism... and no clichs will be left untouched. Our hero faces the greatest threat this time around A family film. Since when was RoboCop anything resembling child-safe? The humor almost invariably(the rocket scientist bit is arguably a notch above the rest) takes such a dive, it goes right through the bottom in a mess of few jokes and gags, and an even smaller amount that anyone could actually find remotely funny. The dark comedy in this comes off as extremely misplaced. They continue the tradition, started by the prior entry, of making fun of what we earlier took seriously. Honestly, there should be severe penalties for the puppy line. The attempts at recreating or mimicking elements of the first get increasingly desperate, and the satire is worse than nonexistent, it's plain *ugly*. Some of what Frank Miller wrote for the sequel before this one that wasn't used in that, made its way into this, utterly devoid of the fun and imagination of how he thought it up, of course(do read that comic book instead of viewing either of these, if you're a fan of his). Evidently, between the previous picture and this, Johnson turned into... well, his name. In fact, all the old characters seem messed up, several are parodies of their old selves, and the new ones aren't that interesting. Credibility is an issue, too. It can be debated how adequate a choice Burke was... he certainly doesn't bring a lot of emotion to the part... but CCH Pounder, Rip Torn and Mako do impressive work. How do you manage to render their efforts forgettable? I suppose this script was what it took. And Stephen Root... for crying out loud, they wasted *Milton*! The flight gear and Otomo... let's just say, I'm with Rod Hilton in regards to those. A cute, spunky kid hacker(and of course, computers can do whatever is convenient for them to do) is one of the leads. Who thought this would be worthwhile? Who in their right, or even wrong or twisted mind, would take a look at the description of those ingredients, and sincerely feel that it would come to be anything other than Pure Crap Stew? The pacing is lackluster. The acting is underdone or overplayed. This has not got a single memorable scene to it, and you'd be hard pressed to find any redeeming qualities. The action is dull and uninspired(I would like to point out that more than one of the sequences consist of one fighter *nudging* their enemy every so often). Whatever thematic material or message there is in this is a poorly stated, micro-wave re-heated puddle of whatever was left of one of the points the original movie made expertly, that the second also tried for. In the end, this one isn't even good for a laugh, or to see how low they sank. There is quite frankly nothing here. I recommend this to no one but those who have an abundance of time and an unquenchable thirst for watching train wrecks. Everyone else... you're probably better off pretending this doesn't exist. 1/10 "},{"Title":"What went wrong?","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop, the visionary sci-fi film, was and is a masterpiece. Ultra-violent, stylish and visually brilliant, it is one of the best films of the 80's. It was followed by a lesser sequel, Robocop 2, which was inferior to the original but at least kept its head high enough to be a countable sequel.Then comes Robocop 3, an abysmal third outing to the series. Having seen all 3 within a fairly small time scale, I can say that this film has a totally different tone to the first, and none of its appeal. It seems to be aimed at easily impressed 14 year olds (or younger) in a similar way Joel Schumacher's 2 Batman outings were. The strong violence of the first one is replaced with cheesy, watered down action scenes you would expect to see on a second rate Saturday night TV series. As for Robocop, he has lost any character or gravitas he had in the previous films, and is now just a dumb machine played by a different actor (Peter Weller made a good choice to avoid this one).Add a cutesy little girl in one of the lead roles, robotic Japanese ninja's (one of whom is introduced in a meditating position, despite being a robot) Robocop zooming around on a jet-pack and hammy acting galore, hey presto, a recipe for disaster. "},{"Title":"A watchable sequel, but easily the weakest of the series.","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" In this third instalment of the ROBOCOP series, OCP has a deal to build the brand new Delta City over the site of the crumbling Cadallac Heights in Detroit, however despite the eviction notices, many families refuse to leave & decide to stay & fight tooth & nail to retain their homes, that is until OCP dispatches a group of mercenaries to move into town with the wrecking ball & forces the people out of their own homes, led by the sadistic, Paul McDaggett, however a group of well armed revolutionaries, quickly forms & decides to fight them back while sporting some pretty heavy artillery. During the conflict, Robocop & his partner wind up being torn between doing their own duties as police officers, to help their fellow officers evict the families & siding with the innocent & try & help the innocent & homeless families. When Robocop's partner is killed & himself damaged in a shootout with the mercenaries, he is taken by the revolutionaries, who with the help of a female scientist that helps Robocop at police headquarters, helps repair him. In an effort to combat the revolutionaries & Robocop, OCP sends for a deadly ninja android assassin to help destroy Robocop & kill the revolutionaries.ROBOCOP 3 was shot in 1991, but due to the financial burdens Orion Pictures was going through at the time, it sat on the shelf for close to three years before being dropped into theatres in 1993, where it was met with poor reception by both fans & critics & quietly flopped & wound up ruining FRED DEKKER'S directing career & killing off the series for many years before it was revived, first with a made for TV miniseries & then a remake in 2014 of the original movie. There are reasons for this, while ROBOCOP 3 isn't as bad as it's reputation would have you believe, it's still a far cry from the first two films entertainment value. The problem here is, is that the film's over the top violence that permeated the first two is almost non existent, it seems that the PG- 13 rating behind ROBOCOP 3, severely straight jackets the film-makers from going further with the carnage & bloodshed. The fault of this does not belong at the feet of film-maker FRED DEKKER & the production crew, but rather the then financially burdened Orion Pictures executives who demanded that the film be watered down to a PG-13 rating in the hopes of gathering a much more wider audience than the first two films & thus opening the door for bigger & better financial returns, this ultimately proved to be a big backfire for Orion, because not only was ROBOCOP 3 critically panned by both fans & critics (it's listed in the top 30 worst sequels of all times list according to Empire magazine) but it drove away it's target audience that flocked to the theatres in droves to see the first two & teenage & pre-teen audiences didn't bother to go see it either, with the few who did see it calling it trifling & boring, causing the film to be a financial flop & in an ironic twist, Orion executives wound up helping to killing off their own money making franchise! Another big drawback is the fact that almost none of the same people who made the first two (sans FRANK MILLER who helped pen the second film & a few of the actors) return here. Dan O' Herlihy has moved on as the chairman of OCP, even Peter Weller is missing in action, replaced by ROBERT JOHN BURKE, who actually fills the role of Robocop quiet nicely & was a close enough match to make for a possible replacement for Weller & puts in a very fine performance as the films hero. The gore & heavy violence has been heavily toned down as most of the action usually consists of lighter fighting scenes, explosions & shooting, not to mention a few car chases. However these scenes are few & far between & mostly occur in the first half hour & last twenty minutes of the film, in between the action set pieces, the film is utterly dry on action & Robocop spends the vast majority of the middle of the movie completely damaged & out of action.I will say this though, despite it's many drawbacks, ROBOCOP 3 at the very least keeps it's story fairly simple, without adding to many subplots that go underdeveloped, which is one of the things I felt hampered ROBOCOP 2. Dekker does fairly well behind the camera & he also peppers his script with some fairly funny moments The little girl heroine of the piece actually has a Robocop & ED 209 action figure, he brings back the I'll buy that for a dollar commercial from the first, as well as returning to the original Robocop metallic coloured armour (Part 2 had a blue armour look) & plenty of humour, especially in a scene where a guy walks into a small diner to rob it, only to find out that a lot of the patrons are well armed cops & a humorous commercial advertising the Johnny Rehab doll, based on a popular cartoon series for kids.In the end, ROBOCOP 3 while nowhere near as good as the first two films, is worth a watch. As a sequel, it's not very good, but if looked at as a stand alone entry, or even a full length version of the 1994 TV series, it remains a fairly watchable film. But this is strictly for fans of the first two films, if you're not one of those people than I wouldn't bother with this one. Followed by ROBOCOP PRIME DIRECTIVES. *** stars "},{"Title":"Don't bother to watch this one if you liked the original","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The biggest flaw of RoboCop 3 is, that it was actually made. It lacks everything that made the first RoboCop and even the second one great action movies Good action and likable hero. And actually it does lack good acting and even a good storyline. Or actually the story in it might be good, but it's just told so wrong in the film.Second mistake is, that RoboCop is played by a different actor, Robert John Burke, who just doesn't fit in the part. He's even shorter than original Robo Peter Weller. Or at least Weller was little thinner. Or less bulkier. Or better actor. Speaking of actors, Anne Lewis (Nancy Allen) is one of the few original actors who did actually return into this third installment of the series, and even she had the wisdom to die in this. Good for her.And then there is this feeling in the film, that someone had a bright idea of making a kid friendly RoboCop film without brutal action.And if that isn't enough there are these pretty poorly executed special effects, like the flying jet pack RoboCop.As for sequels go, this isn't probably as bad as Conan the Destroyer, but it's pretty close. "},{"Title":"Garbage","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop (Robert John Burke replacing Peter Weller) goes one on one with the corporation that created him - and some more kid friendly chaos ensues.Burke is alright as Robo, but the rest of the actors suck (no comment on Nancy Allen at this point) and the franchise had pretty much jumped the shark by this point, reducing Robo to a walking kids toy and lacking much of the slickness of #1 and the spectacle of #2. Dan O'Herlihy, the old man from the first two films, does not appear in this film. Peter Weller was probably wise not to get involved in this one. Not even for die hard fans. "},{"Title":"Hey, It's better than the Russian Terminator","Date":"1 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Okay, let's be honest, it's a bad movie. A very very bad movie. But still, I couldn't help but watch, maybe it was like seeing a car wreck or something, I don't know. What I do know, there were pieces of this movie that were actually worth salvaging. My advice, get the worthwhile pieces, reshoot the lame ones with GOOD CG effects, add more violence and blood, offer Peter Weller enough money that he's gonna want to put a ton of metal back on, and then you've got a hit! My motto is 'Violence is golden.' Sell this new version on DVD as 'Robocop 3 The REAL MAN'S Edition'Oh, and if you want it to be really manly and R-rated, let's get Lewis to do a nude seen before she's ventilated.Have a very safe and productive day "}{"Title":"Poor, but I managed to stay awake.....","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie was on TV over here this weekend.  It ran after the original Robocop last weekend.  Inevitable that we'll see comparisons made, so here goes.  This movie has all the promise of the original, but never EVER delivers on anything.  The fight scenes are less intense, there is a far smaller bodycount, the bad guy isn't at all believable, and the acting was very poor.  All in all, if you have a choice whether to watch this movie or have root canal treatment, open wide and drill away.  The only redeeming feature is that they left no realistic room for another sequel.  Good judgement, guys. "},{"Title":"This movie does not deserve to be part of the robocop series.","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" What a letdown this move was. Robocop One and Two build a complete sequence of the uncaring and self serving corporate takeover of society and use of cyborg technology or rather misuse. This movie is a total loss the humor is gone , the plausible plot is gone, the concept of realism is non existent , the rating is PG. It should be listed as attempted comedy not science fiction since it deviates so far from the original concepts of the robocop universe. The director is the main reason the 3 movie is crap -I immediately realized something was wrong when the humor appeared to be aimed at 5-10 year olds rather than the usual R rated audience of the first two movies. "},{"Title":"Why did they make this?","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This is definitely my least favorite robotic cop movie, well it's a toss up between this and Cyborg Cop 1-5 or however many Cyborg Cop movies there are. This couldn't have made much money at it's release and saddest of all it had to kill off Murphy's partner, why was that even necessary? That's why she's not in any of the video games. I enjoy watching changes in the robocop movies such as Lewis's ever changing hair, from short in the first film to somewhat longer in the second, to a perm in the 3rd. Another funny moment is near the end where robo kills two OCP officers for flirting with some teenage skank. I'm really sorry it had to turn out this way, you know, like a Disney movie or something. "},{"Title":"Robo-crap","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Yeah, this movie's a turd. The directing is entirely sub-par compared to Verhoeven's masterpiece, the writing is embarrassing, and the acting is uneven. If I had to pick a particular thing that made the movie crap, though, I would say it was the horrible writing. For example if being a police officer is the point of Robocop's existence, why is he going to go up against the people that own the police department he works for? How many computers do you know of that just delete their commands at a whim, because they don't want to follow a command when they feel compassionate towards people that are being ushered out of their homes? The plot is ridiculous.As for directing, I didn't really have too terribly many complaints. At least you could understand what was going on. I remember the first time I watched Battlefield Earth, and I couldn't even figure out what the characters on the screen were doing, because the directing was so bad. I was really expecting a little bit more violence from a Robocop film. Although, if an extraordinary plot had been there, the lack of violence wouldn't have bothered me so much.As for the acting, however, I don't even know what to tell you. Nancy Allen wasn't so bad, but she was underused, and died too quickly. Not to mention that the way she died was rather undeserving, especially considering the integral part she played in the first two films. As for the other actors, it was real bad, starting from Peter Weller's replacement, Robert John Burke, all the way down to the horribly miscast Rip Torn. I'm not really sure what Rip Torn was hoping to accomplish by being in this rotten film, but I hope he got it out of his system, so he can go back to being in movies that don't rank so high on the crap-o-meter.Anyway, It's the crappiest of all 3 Robocop films, which you could've probably figured it was going to be when you heard that Peter Weller wasn't even going to reprise the role that made him famous. Now, they're releasing all 3 on DVD in a box set, but does anybody really care?  "},{"Title":"This film should be stricken from the records","Date":"28 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This film was awful, it has none of the violence,cursing or political messages which made Robocop an excellent film & Robocop 2 a typical sequel overblown and badly scripted.I own the Robocop trilogy on DVD but this film has been taped into place in the box-set and that's where it will stay!! I can't bear myself to go into the gory details of the film or I might have to return to therapy (my last stint was after my original viewing of this film) but the only element which saves this from a 1/10 (I gave a it 2) is Basil Poledouris's fantastic 'Robocop march' but that features prominently in Robocop 1, so why bother with this??My answer AVOID AT ALL COSTS "},{"Title":"Good sequel to RoboCop!","Date":"31 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The last film in the series RoboCop 3 is different than its predecessors as it has violence but it is toned down.The way Robert John Burke is fixed up he does look like the original RoboCop.Nancy Allen has a smaller role in this film and I liked the villain(s) but I just wasn't satisfied with the result.RoboCop 3 has a lot of action and good music by Basil Poledouris.If you haven't seen any RoboCop films yet I recommend that you see the series in order.As for big fans of RoboCop I think you`ll like the third installment but if you like big time graphic violence then you`ll enjoy the original film much more!  "},{"Title":"9 out of 10 stars","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  First I feel I should start by saying that rh_backup should be smacked, several times.. As a child Robocop was one of my all time favorite super hero's.. I was just a kid when I saw the first movie (my parents let me watch anything) Lots of Blood, great fight scenes, shoot outs, action packed! Dam what a movie.. Part Two, same thing, exactly the same thing, only this time he had to stop another robocop, who was the leader and maker of a drug called Nuke!! Same characters were in it, same look to everything, Robo was perfect!! To say 2 was bad is like saying one was bad, and once you say that, you have no place here!! 3? 3 was good, I liked this movie a lot..Robert John Burke did a good job as Robo, because Peter Weller refused, as it was believed he didn't like the suit, because it was made from real Metal, It weighed a ton, and he told Orion, that he was not doing part 2 even, but they got him to do it.. This is rumor, so I don't know how much it true.. Robert John Burke was almost perfect, even when the helmet was on or off, but the voice needed work.. I still liked it, and I have great Respect for the man.. But the movie was made cheaply, and it shows, it was not even rated R, Why? cause more kids liked the movies than first thought, so this movie was made for them.. He fought a android, Samaria warrior.. And had such screw ups as 4 men I believe picked him up and carried him.. In 2 it took the entire police squad that was picketing, and they still said he was heavy!! Also he had Prime Directives, but in 2 he fried then out of his system, so he couldn't have had directives at all.. Oh well,,.. Little more blood, and we would have had a contender with the other two.. I give this movie 9 out of 10 stars, because loss of blood... "},{"Title":"The worst of the 3, but still ok","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop 3 is the weaker of the trilogy, but still worth a look. Poor acting though except maybe a few people such as Robocop! The special effects are a good plus for the film. But I wouldn't rent it. That was a mistake I made before.67%  "},{"Title":"stupid!","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  this movie is sooo bad! i loved RC 1 and 2 , but 3 just ruined everything... rc needs THREE hits, and he goes down? come on! in 2 he fell from a skyscraper, got punched through walls and still kicked ass!can't believe the script is from frank miller.....a real disappointement... "},{"Title":"The Trilogy","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop  3 is the best out of the three. It's interesting,  entertaining, and good. It's not as dark and violent as the first two. If you are into Robocop than this motion picture takes the series to it's limits...  "}{"Title":"This film is amazing","Date":"14 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 1 and 2 were great, and this movie was not at all far from that.Sure Weller wasn't in it, but Robert Burke was a brilliant Robocop, he had great delivery on a lot of lines and he played a very kind character, and he kept very faithful to the characteristics Weller gave to the Character, but added his own stuff. But through the majority of the film it feels like Robocop, luckily they knew not to show flashbacks before he was Robo, for the different appearance would become more obvious, but they kept the mask on him a lot and he looks no different then Weller with it on, and even when not wearing it he still really suits the part. His voice is different but suits a cyborg.and Anne Lewis, despite lack of wanting to be in this since losing interest while doing sequels, she still plays her part emphusiastically and dramatically, (SPOILERS) and her agreement of being killed off added a very touching and artistic death scene.the acting in general is Amazing, CCH Punder in particular plays a very touching role, John Castle is a brilliant bad guy, the rest are all good. The Special Effects are the best of the robocops (though it is the newest). and the Directing is very nice, i feel similar elements to the original, but with action genre conventions.and its been complained that this is a more innocent film (PG-13), but a good film doesn't need violence. Yes its always nice, but this film compensates through other things. It's got to be the most 'goose-pimply' of all of them, (SPOILER)especially in the scene where the Police warn the people of OCP and assist them in battle, its a nice start to a climax.This is the most epic one of the 3, though maybe not the best, definitely the most actionable and funnest to watch. "},{"Title":"This Movie Stinks!","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is so horrible, it should have never been made.  The special effects stink, everybody you have grown to love from the first movie is killed off and Robocop is a wimp in this movie. Avoid it at all costs!  Thank You  "},{"Title":"Underrated and barely watched","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Of all the movies I have looked up on IMDb, Robocop 3 is the most underrated I have discovered yet. I actually liked this movie better than the first or the second because of the variety of characters, plot depth, and story line (which includes an intense battle on the streets between organized criminal and defending Detroit citizens, a hand-to-hand fight between cyborgs, and dramatic moments that made me studder ). Far be it from me to say that everyone will find this movie the way I did, but I just want it to be known that I like this movie. From the original soundtrack and realistic action to the believable environment of a decaying Detroit. I give Robocop 7/10. "},{"Title":"Very Good Movie, But Not As Good As The Other Robocop Movies","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This movie is very god. I liked it a lot. But it is not as good as the other Robocop movies. One Pete Weller doesn't play Robocop, and two Nancy Allen plays a small role. But besides that, this movie was very good. I loved the violence in this movie(like in all action movies) and it was all cool! There was a bit of comedy(sort of) in this movie, too. Some people think this movie sucks and is just a bunch of junk, but I think those people are very, very wrong. Even though this movie was very good, I think Robocop 2 was the best of the Robocop series. Robocop 2 had a lot more violence and was much cooler. But I think everyone(who is old enough)should watch this movie. They would be impressed by all of the cool violence.10/10 "},{"Title":"The worst movie I have ever seen!","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I didn't see the other two Robocop movies but this movie was the worst movie I have ever seen.  WOW!  This is bad.  The dialog was horrible.  The casting was poor.  The story was completely absurd, boring.  The love story was cheesy.  What a mess. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies of my childhood","Date":"21 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Those who say that this is rubbish, are absolutely clueless when it comes to sci fi action movies. I mean, I cannot even begin to fathom as you to why someone would hate this so much. Did your dog die just before you wrote the review? I must have watched this movie literally about 25 times when I was a kid, there are some epic bad ass moments, the drama is good, the villain's are awesome, the fight scenes are good, I don't know what else you would want?For anyone considering watching this, do not listen to the haters, if you liked robocop 1 and 2, you will love this. If you've never seen the first two, you'll probably still love it if you like action hero sci fi style movies.Enjoy. "},{"Title":"The original on crack, a must-see","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Fred Night Of The Creeps Dekker directing a RoboCop-movie, on paper it's really not that bad of an idea. If you can direct 90 minutes of snails shooting out of people's heads, you can probably direct a decent action flick as well. And you know what in practice it sorta holds up too. Everyone who loves RoboCop is supposed to hate this movie with a fiery passion, but Dekker's complete insanity is just so irresistible. I don't think the guy ever even wrote actual scripts, literally everything about his movies seems to be thrown in at the last minute. Screw it, we'll work in some ninja androids, why the hell not. It's not an ideal way of filmmaking, but it's undeniably entertaining. The only thing that really bothers me about this movie is our group of heroes, which is just completely unlikeable. Rooting for the villains is not an uncommon thing in this genre, but these protagonists are just disturbingly bland. The contrast with the awesome villains just couldn't be bigger, which is sort of a bad thing because villains rarely win in this genre. RoboCop 3 probably ruins the complex mythology of RoboCop or whatever but come on, chill out. It's a lot of fun. "},{"Title":"Contains one of the worst fight scenes ever put on film","Date":"28 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" (www.plasticpals.com) I knew it was a bad sign when Peter Weller passed on the role of RoboCop in the third film. Having finally watched this train wreck for the first time, I don't blame him. It's almost hard to believe how many bad ideas and clichs are woven into this turd. Beyond all of that is the more troubling realization that, as far as protagonists go, RoboCop is a dead end with no room to grow. Although he is capable of making decisions based on emotions, he is basically a zombie with no personality &#x96; not exactly someone you want to spend a whole lot of time with.OCP (the fascist corporation that has been trying to take over Detroit) still hasn't gotten anywhere. You'd think by the third film OCP would be in the midst of building their dystopian Delta City. It certainly would have made for a more interesting setting than boring old downtown Detroit. They've formed a Nazi-like regime (led by a snooty Englishman) to forcibly evict people.We're soon introduced to Nico, one of the film's more annoying characters. Of course, she's a kid genius who can hack into robots and computers using her laptop computer. After being separated from her parents, she befriends a group of libertarian revolutionaries that are trying to resist OCP by hiding in the sewers. When RoboCop sees the plight of the people he decides to join their cause. The audience, on the other hand, will find it hard to identify with the rebels. Why are they willing to give up their lives for such deplorable living conditions? In a lame reference to Detroit's failing auto industry, OCP has been taken over by a Japanese rival. To make matters even more stupid, the Japanese company sends over a Terminator-like ninja robot to fight RoboCop, even though RoboCop and the police force are owned and operated by OCP. Don't get excited; the inevitable duel between RoboCop and the ninja is (and I say this without hyperbole) one of the worst fight scenes ever put on film.The story is also painfully predictable. In one scene, a nameless officer approaches Murphy's old partner and asks, Hey, want this body armor? which she declines because she's off-duty. You guessed it, she gets shot and killed in the next scene. When the rebels steal a futuristic jetpack from the police armory, you know that somewhere down the line RoboCop's going to be flying around like a jackass, which he does in the grand finale. The visual effects are even more embarrassing when you consider that Jurassic Park was in theaters that same year.The RoboCop series started out OK, but it quickly degenerated into a creatively-bankrupt mess once director Paul Verhoeven left and Frank Miller started writing them. While RoboCop 2 was pretty awful, the third film is almost unwatchable. The characters are annoying, the action is boring, the special effects are terrible, and the plot makes no sense. It's a prime example of how not to make a sequel, and I implore you not to waste your time watching it. I decided to review it and it was on Netflix instant stream, so that's my excuse. I shudder to think that this franchise is slated for a reboot. "},{"Title":"WOW and not in a good way!","Date":"20 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I like Robocop the first and sceond movie they are great a police officer brought back as a robocop cleaning up a corrupt city filled with violence and drugs. This third installment has nothing it holds back on everything that made it what it was no scenes that shocked you apart from the bad ones like the script lines some of them are really bad. Just avoid this it is that bad. Robocop changed a genre and a blockbuster was formed from a low budget movie but with this installment all that is broken and we are left with something that dose not deserve to be part of the robocop series. There are scenes that you wont forget only because they are that awful. If you like your hero destroyed and get though the boring unentertaining parts there are some fun to be had such as a flying robocop which can also been seen on the trailer for the movie. Robocop 3 just ruins a good movie its no wonder Peter Weller decided not to do this but he still will be Robocop in my eyes i hope he has a camero in the remake and i hope the remake can make up for this horrible mistake that is Robocop 3. "},{"Title":"Robocop 3 should be Robocop 3  The Joke","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I did not see this in the theaters I streamed it from a pay service, I am glad I am not charged per film, I would have wanted a refund.This movie is a joke, it starts off as a joke. You are presented with a family living in an apartment with a young girl working on a monochrome screen child's toy of a laptop computer. Shortly after the girl asks if they will be all right in their apartment a wrecking ball is put through it with them there. They are then forced to go to resettlement buses where she is separated from her parents.The small girl runs into a resistance group. They are breaking into an OCP police weapons depot. Where an ED-209 is stationed. She some how evades the detection of the ED-209 and she crawls under it between ED's legs. This young girl somehow knows the inter-workings of the ED-209 and magically knows they access point is on his lower right leg. She also carries wires, not the D pin connections that are present there, but 2 wires. By using these jump wires she has with her she can magically access ED-209s programming. The script is bad, she tells the resistance group he will be as loyal as a puppy and by merely typing this in ED-209 is under her control. She then directs ED-209 to fire on the weapons depot garage door, which is made out of wood which is an odd choice.I could not watch it after this point I turned it off. Do not waste your time with it. "}{"Title":"Money back not enough","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I wish I could rate this movie lower than 1 star. A waste of a few hours and the money spent to see it. Many people walked out yelling abuse at the screen and throwing the odd item. Everyone involved in this movie should hang their heads in shame and never work on another movie again.... Lost for words to express the complete and utter disappointment with what I sat through on that dark dark day.I loved the first two movies, a big fan, great concept and freedom to do what hadn't been done before. I guess the PG-13 rating allowed the movie makes to cash in on lunch boxes and drink bottles and a toy Robocop that had interchangeable arms. I mean, isn't that more important than making a good movie? Please don't associate the word Good used in my last comment as related to this movie. For this movie I would use the terms, dung, but then I don't want to offend any dung beatles, how about the dung of the bugs that eat the dung of the bugs that eta dung beatles dung.... "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"31 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't usually give only one star to a movie that's reasonably well-produced, but I have to make an exception for this one. They spent a lot of money making everything pretty, but they forgot to write a script, hire talented actors, and install a director who can tell when everything's going into the toilet and make some changes.For the premiere they had a stuntman in a Robocop suit fly in on a jet pack (actually a wire and some bad pyrotechnics). I should have known from there that it would be awful. The smell of desperation was in the air.If you liked the first two Robocop movies, do not see this movie. Like all the Highlander sequels did, this will soil your memory of the original. "},{"Title":"Not the Worst, but obviously and easily not the best","Date":"30 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I don't think Robocop 3 is by any standard, a bad movie. I just think it has earned a bad rep. So to start off, I'm going to assume that 95% of the people that watched Robocop 3 saw and enjoyed Robocop 1 or 2. So let's actually see what 3 has in common and not with 1 and 2.-3 does have the absence of Weller, which made all fans upset. -It is PG-13, and one of the things that made Robocop so fun was the dark violence. -This one has random ninjas and Asian children named Nikko. -This one does have an unrealistic plot, but not entirely. (I'll touch upon that later). -Characters, at least for me, weren't so likable and you definitely didn't care about Robo as much as you did in the last 2 films.-3 does try and somewhat succeed in being like Robocop with the news reports and the opening scene that doesn't pertain to the plot. -The quips Weller delivered that Burke does fairly well. -Although PG-13, still a fairly gritty movie. -Brings back some of the humor and wit that was noticeably absent in Robo 2. -Has DECENT CGI, but if you want to argue about bad CGI, take a look at the scene in Robo 1 when Dick falls from the OCP building.So, when people complain about the unrealistic plot about OCP breaking down people's apartments and sending people to camps, its a lot like Sin City (another Miller movie). The government and all courts and stuff are most likely corrupt and could care less about what happened here.So all in all, definitely not a good Robocop movie, but you won't suffer from watching this. Hell, you might even enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Masterpiece?  Of AWFULNESS maybe!!!!!","Date":"24 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Crap story, crap cinematography (it looked like a made for t.v. movie), unbelievably crap special effects (as bad as the original series effects on the BBCs Dr. Who), I'm surprised anyone involved in this no-effort production ever worked again. At least one major players character got killed so the poor thing wouldn't have to be involved in any more of these (good move there, lady!!!!). I was honestly surprised at some of the people involved in this, including CCH Pounder, Stephen Root, Rip Torn, and a few others. Save your time. See the original and leave it at that. Stop watching these things, and maybe they will stop making them. "},{"Title":"Downtrodding the franchise","Date":"27 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" RoboCop 3 is one of the best attempts I've seen at laying waste to a good franchise - only bested in that regard by the infamous Batman & Robin and Batman Forever. It lacks pretty much everything that made the first two films good (and yes, I considered RoboCop 2 to be a good movie).Firstly, the new guy just isn't RoboCop. Sure, he does the movement part quite well, but the face, the voice... it just isn't the same. This shouldn't reflect badly on his ability though, but it's just the way it is.Second, I could spot many, many parts where to movie tried to be funny. Where the original and the first sequel managed to mix humor into the mix, this installment just fails to be funny no matter how much it tries. It ends up being simply embarrassing.Then there's the whole deal with Lewis. I'm surprised Allen took any part in this. Her character is effectively thrown aside in the middle of the movie like a used... erm, well, you get the point. Since she apparently insisted her character has to die early, I guess she wasn't too happy about the whole project either ;)The new head of OCP is also just plain bad. He also attempts to be funny I guess, but he's just pathetic and annoying.The theme of the story has potential to be decent, but it is just simply very poorly executed. Overall the characters are boring (and RoboCop much weaker than in the previous movies), which doesn't help the story at all.Oh, and don't even get me started on Otomo. Good grief. Not only does he change his facial appearance to something completely retarded every times his face is damaged, but he's in general a pathetic thing in every way. On first seeing him you expect him to be a badass, but boy, how wrong that assessment is.Long story short this movie is just one long anti-climax that never should have seen the light of day. "},{"Title":"Softened version for the PG-13 market","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 1 was a masterpiece of science fiction that really created a great world and great characters, all bolstered by some very solid acting and direction. It's more ignored by some people than it deserves, and if you've never seen it, then it's probably a lot better than you think it is.That theory counts double if you've seen Robocop 2 - which was about what you'd expect for a spin-off sequel, really, a movie that had some of the first's sense of humour but lacked its edgy quality and had a lower quality of supporting cast. But if your introduction to Robocop was this nightmare of a movie, then it goes about a thousand times more.Robocop isn't Robocop anymore in this movie. Oh, he looks like him, but all his attitude is gone, sacrificed to the god of TV and PG-13 political correctness. And that means that with it has gone the ruthlessness of the world he was within. In Robocop, cops are killed frequently, crime is rampant and the world is falling apart - a ruthless, tireless policeman who can shoot with computer-aided accuracy to kill is a solution to the problems of the world, and he meets a brutal world with the brutality needed to break it. But if you dropped the Robocop from THIS movie into the world of the first one, the cop killers would only have died laughing.Do yourself a favour, give this movie a miss and watch the original. Unlike this one, it won't disappoint. "},{"Title":"Disappointing in all departments!","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Lacking the gritty over-the-top violence and dark subversive humor of the first two Robocops, this third installment disappoints on pretty much every level. Horrible dialogue and acting litters every minute of Robocop 3 - that's not too say the first two were better, but at least they made the viewer smile rather than cringe. Most disappointingly of all, Robocop 3's PG-13 rating also fails to deliver heart-pounding extravagant action that was always present in the first two films.The movie moves slow - it doesn't bother to excite the viewer by providing fast paced story telling or explosive action. Severely lacking in this department, you shouldn't expect any exciting firefights or boss battles. In fact, the Kanemitsu cyborg which is sent to destroy Murphy in what we expect to be an exciting and action-packed finale ends with no cathartic explosive climax, but rather a whimpering premature ejaculation of listless fighting scenes. Murphy spends half the movie disabled from a fusillade of gunshots that have never left a scratch on him in the past. No fake commercials or newscasts that touch upon our cultures corrosive mentality makes you nostalgically pine for what you remembered to be a whacky, funny and ridiculously over-the-top movie franchise.The terrible story, the boring unfolding of the events, the lack of action and violence, and the missing element of subtle humor and comedy makes Robocop 3 an epic failure in all departments. "},{"Title":"Easy now","Date":"10 December 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think you guys are all being a little too harsh, Robocop 3 was way better than Robocop 2. Now, i'm not saying it was a GREAT movie, but it was far more captivating than Robocop 2. Robocop 2 was filled with a bunch of no name, terrible actors lacking any shred of talent, Peter Weller and Nancy Allen aside, and an absolutely horrid script. In robo 2, it's as if they blew the whole budget on Cain-bot, and casting Peter Weller and Nancy Allen. On the contrary, Robocop 3 was filled with a bunch of, what I consider, great TV actors (I emphasize 'TV'), whom were able to hold it together. I thought Robert Burke did an outstanding job playing Murphy. I could slam Robocop 2 in so many ways, but with Robocop 3, I really can't find as many things wrong other than being the third movie in a trilogy that should have not continued past Robocop 1, unless of course the film company followed these prime directives1) Obtain a big enough budget to avoid it looking like a made for TV movie 2) Only use classic villain actors of the era (Ronny Cox, Miguel Ferrer, and Kurtwood Smith rocked!) 3) Make no attempts at political correctness 4) Have a captivating boss fight at the end 5) Have Paul Verhoeven directing "},{"Title":"It could have worked .... but noooo","Date":"10 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I have just seen the two Robocop movies before I saw this one. My hopes were high before I saw number 3, and I was really disappointed. Robocop 1 is a classic. Robocop 2 Wasn't a bad movie. And Robocop 3 was just awful.But it could have worked, because the plot isn't that bad. I think that the movie could have been okay, if they 1. Didn't replace Peter Weller in the leading role. Robert John Burke's performance was awful.2. Didn't have the ninja robots in the film. A robot ninja just didn't worked in Robocop. It just was lame.3. Didn't put Robocop in the air. Suddenly Robocop can fly, it was just stupid.4. Could have the last moment of Bertha in some other way. I mean, after she is been shot, she is leaning forward and holding her thump up, and acting like there is nothing wrong with her, and then suddenly she just jump backward and she is death. A bad performance for that scene.5. Didn't remove almost all of the action, violence and spirit form the others movies. It went from rated R to PG 13, Com on Robocop wasn't meant to be a children's movie.That's my opinion, if they didn't do all the stuff that I have mention, and some other stuff that I didn't mention, I think that the film could have worked.I give it 2/10. "},{"Title":"Not good, not bad, but it's not right.","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 3 is called the worst sequel in history along with fans calling it the worst Robocop movie ever made where they compared the two first films as classics. I grew up with all three films as a kid where only I'd admire the first two because they had Peter Weller playing the cyborg hero where I was used to him and not anybody else donning the outfit.It's not a good film, but some parts aren't bad at all.The film itself is like the first sequel where the city of Detroit is nothing but a big pile of crap with crime on the horizon, but this time around the cops are back on their feet. In the sequel, developers want to kick the people out of the city to make a better Detroit (gee, wasn't this like Robocop 2?) while at the same time killing a bunch of freedom fighters stopping them from the idea. Yet, it's up to Robocop (Robert John Burke) to do what he can with innovated weapons to save the city.The Good Only certain action sequences make you want to see the film before changing the station. Trust me, there aren't any good performances nor is there a villain to cheer for. Plus the background music is worth hearing.The OK It was nice to see Nancy Allen as Anne Lewis, Robert De'Qui as Sgt. Reed, Mario Machado as the male reporter from the two previous films and Felton Perry as the kiss ass Johnson while seeing a surprise list of celebrity guests from Rip Torn, CCH Pounder, Eve La Rue, Mako, Daniel Von Bargan, Bradley Whitford, Stephen Root, Jeff Garlin and others. I also like the freedom fighter characters. Robert John Burke wasn't that bad as the robot; it was a good thing he was in the suit the entire time without having to see his face, but I was embarrassed by the lines they fed him unlike Peter Weller.The Bad Where do I begin? First of all, why did the film had to be PG-13 compared to the R-Rated films? Just because Robocop was liked by both kids and adults, doesn't mean you have to tone down the violence since it was the heart and soul of the franchise with all media, including kids shows making reference to it. I hated the little kid as well since the producers wanted to make it more family friendly where her character saved more people than any one else. The villain McDagget was a worthless P.O.S. compared to Cain and Boddicker where their crew would've wiped him out. The Japanese robots were funny and hideous while not being scary.Overall Review Music is good, love seeing the cameo appearances, some action sequences were good, but it's not good enough. I prefer the first two movies.Sorry. "}{"Title":"Still bad, but not as bad as your friends have told you.","Date":"6 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Okay, when I first viewed this movie, I was expecting a B-movie performance from the many comments I have read. I was not whole heartedly let down by this movie. It does include a lot of the things you have most likely read or heard about a Campy Story, Cheesy Acting and delivers that Made for TV feeling. However, this movie also delivers viewers a fitting closing, with that right Robocop feeling.This movie achieves what Robocop 2 tried to do but failed for numerous reasons, but still leaves me wanting more. More from the actors, more from the special effects, more from the story. I am just left with the feeling that had everyone from the first Robocop been involved in it. The Robocop feeling is here, but its really lacking in a lot of facets.Overall, just watch this movie. Its classically bad, but it isn't BAAAAAAD, if you know what I am saying. "},{"Title":"Not as good as RoboCop and  RoboCop 2","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" RoboCop is a classic and RoboCop 2 is a more darker sequel but it seems when making Robocop 3 they wanted a more tame film (Hint the PG-13 rating) but there's only one problem. You can't turn a violent and gory film into a film for the family, it doesn't work.Another problem with this film is RoboCop is too polite and comes out with the most embarrassing one liners You may want to call the fire department Go home young lady, you're in violation of curfew. RoboCop 3 does have it's good points. It was great to see ED-209 and some of the action in the film was good also the jet pack was neat. The arm weapon that RoboCop had was a nice touch.RoboCop 3 is an okay sequel that's definitely cheesy, the only main problem is that the whole PG-13 idea doesn't work. They should have stuck to an R-Rating. "},{"Title":"Good attempt at extending the plot line. Some flaws do prevent it from scoring more...","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 3 is clearly aimed at a younger audience with the addition of a child, as well as the weapon attachments for Robocop. Such weapon enhancements include a repeating submachine gun, a smart bomb and flamethrower. Though impressive at first it fails to make an entirely good impression as they aren't used very often. For instance when Robocop raided the OCP office at the Detroit Police Station he used his flamethrower against the map and various other bits but doesn't actually kill any of the Rehab soldiers.Which brings me to another point, the violence in this film has severely been toned down compared to previous movies. Even Robocop Prime Directives has more violence than this. To a certain degree there is a theme of darkness in Robocop 3. OCP wants to finish Delta City but the residents refuse to move out so instead they are forced out through heavier and tactical means. As others have mentioned before Robocop has become extremely weak. I thought Robocop was impervious to bombs and bullets? When he suffers a direct impact from a M203 grenade his system efficiency drops substantially, around 53%. The typical theme of avenging a downed officer (Lewis) almost works well, until the end.The animation used when Robocop flies around is extremely... crude. I suspect that getting Robocop to fly would've cost less than him being on foot to actually help the Detroit Police against the Rehab army. Such a battle would've been far more impressive. Come to think of it, I don't recall Robocop actually killing any Rehab soldiers at all except until the end. Compared to Robocop where the kill count was extremely high with blood everywhere... well... you know.On a more positive note, the excellent soundtrack from the first Robocop movie is back. It's used quite well. 6/10 because of the soundtrack and a good attempt at extending the plot line. Some flaws do prevent it from scoring more, such as some of the things he do. E.g. him shooting the top of his Police Car in a circle in order to break through it and say Police officer, no loitering. That's just cheesy. The same silly shooting tactic appears when he breaks down a door by shooting a rough outline for him to break through. What a waste of ammo... then again it seems as if his Type-9 handgun has unlimited ammo. "},{"Title":"Pretty good story but little else","Date":"1 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I saw this movie on Showtime a week back and it wasn't all that good. The story is OK and the effects are pretty good for the time, but John Castle does not make a good villian campared to the other villians. Otherwise, why did they trade the tough Peter Weller for the wussy Robert John Burke? No offense, John, but I think you would have been better off avoiding this type of movie. Director Fred Dekker did somewhat of a good job as the writer of the script of the movie, but I think he should have just remained a script writer. Otherwise, if they plan to make a third sequel, they had better find a good director to clean up the mess made by RoboCop 3. 2 1/2 out of 4 stars "},{"Title":"cool","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  whoever it was that said this movie should never have been made is insane! both of the first RoboCop movies left room for sequels, and this movie was a great ending to them. so it wasn't the same actor playing RoboCop. big deal. he's still RoboCop, plain and simple. and so what if there wasn't as much gore? if you want gore, watch a horror movie like Urban Legend. this movie has a great plot, great characters, and plenty of non-gory action. it's undoubtedly one of the best movies ever made. i highly recommend this movie to everyone, including children, which isn't true for the previous two RoboCop Movies. while they were great in their own ways, RoboCop 3 is good for all ages. this movie is great!  "},{"Title":"Interesting way of killing Robo..","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok people, lets be realistic for a minute. Do you honestly believe that MGM released this film in order to continue the legacy of Robocop and finish the series, OR do you perhaps think that maybe MGM just wanted to get a few extra bucks from Robocop fanatics. But the film itself wasn't all that bad. it wasn't a Batman & Robin type film (which really was bad). Kinda makes you wonder that this film was going to bomb with or without Peter Weller playing Robocop. but anyway that's my analysis "},{"Title":"oh my god","Date":"2 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  true this movie wasent as bad as i thought it would be but in comparison to the other 2 its sucks. number 2 was much better than this one because of 2 things the plot and peter weller. the actor that played robocop in this one wasent bad but cant compare to peter weller at all.  "},{"Title":"Was Okay. Where's Peter Weller?","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Third outing of the RoboCop trilogy. In this one, OCP begins destroying the city, but a group of rebels try to save it.Robert John Burke is Robocop in this movie. He's okay, but I guess we're all used to Peter Weller. I wonder why he didn't want to do this one.           Robocop can also fly in this movie. He has a jet pack which comes in handy when the Rehabs come to battle the rebels. I also likethe scene where some rebels accompanied by a little girl, Nikko, who's just lost her home, try to get into an OCP compound and meet ED-209, but Nikko reprograms him with a computer book she carries around. Kind of like the computer book Inspector Gadget's niece has that prevents him from doing something stupid. Most of the time.          Another funny scene was where an executive (Bradley Whitford) walks into the office saying piece of sh*t Katamitsu corportation, not knowing a Katamitsu representative was in the office. Funny!           There's this scene in the opening that annoys me. See, the cops leave a doughnut shop (typical) to go after the rebels. There's Anne Lewis in one car and two stupid cops in another, now the two stupid ones don't look where they're going and crash into another guy, who blames Lewis, but he should've blamed those two stupid cops.         In conclusion, this film isn't really as violent or as good as the first two. But it does come recommended. Thank you.ROBOCOP My friends call me Murphy, you call me Robocop.-- "},{"Title":"Slightly worse than RoboCop 2.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Just when you thought they couldn't make an even worse RoboCop sequel than the second one, THINK AGAIN.  This one is almost complete c**p.  They killed off Ann Lewis(played by Nancy Allen) from the previous RoboCop movies, Peter Weller is replaced by Robert John Burke to play RoboCop, and the violence and language was toned down CONSIDERABLY (this was Fred Dekker's contribution.).  There was more plot in this one, but it is worse because of poor acting and idiotic robot ninjas as villains.  Even the crack robot in the second one was more hideous and cool!  The only saving grace of this movie is the excellent music score by Basil Poledarius (who also did the first one), which is ten times better than Leonard Rosenman's score for RoboCop 2. "},{"Title":"Good Movie But...WHERE IS THE GREAT GORE?","Date":"25 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  ok..ok..ok..This movie is good enough but...paul verhoeven create robocop with gore,extreme violence..this is the most important..and the history too,sure..but we can't see a robocop with no gore,no violence..nothing...And the new cyborgs are very stupeds...Japanese Cyborgs...Cain's(Robocop II) and ED-209(Robocop I) are more terrible,more dark than this robots..I Give 6 / 10 "}{"Title":"Not good as the first two films but good none the less.","Date":"9 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop 3 could have been better if it had the overkill and R rating of the first two films.  I liked it more then most people i know but the fact that they entered more comedy into the film to replace the overkill dont make sense at all how does comedy replace overkill.  It has a good story though. It is somewhat disappointing but not half as disappointing as aliens 3 now that was a bad third film.  "},{"Title":"At least better than RC2","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  After such a s***movie like ''RoboCop 2'' i was preapered for the worst. And RC3 had NOTHING a sequel should have. That the limit of age was 11 really bothered me. But although the movie isn't as brutal as the other two this one is at least a bit better then the first sequel. Nr. 2 was crap. Nr. 3 is only lousy. "},{"Title":"Return of the Soryline and Black Humour","Date":"15 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop had a sense of black humour, Robocop 2 had nothing but violence and a bunch of special effects. Now, with the budget completely zero and the cast limited to Nancy Allen and a few familiar faces, we return to some old routines. We have John Castle as a slightly amusing villain, similar to that of Kurtwood Smith's in the first film. We also have the familiar music returning to the screen, although it didn't save the movie. Much better than R2, something to watch when theres nothing else on. "},{"Title":"The greatest cinematic achievement in film history","Date":"19 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Let me start off by saying, right off the bat i was taken by surprise as to the appearance of a person who was half-robot, half-cop. I was like whoa who is that?? I later started thinking this may be the robocop the film was named after! Besides that, then there were ninja robots, besides which i cannot possibly think of a more plausible idea. If I had the technology to build such a robot, a ninja one that can be easily hacked that turns on a self destruct when it is hacked would be the logical choice.Really, bravo writers, I salute you!The writers of this movie should go down in history along the greats like Shakespeare and the guy who writes the geico commercials. The only movie that could possibly top this movie would have to be Sharktopus. to sum up, see this movie. "},{"Title":"Spam in the Can","Date":"6 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Remakes and sequels provide me with a playground. What can you do with the same world, the same characters?Sometimes the results are world-changingly insightful. They were for me in any case with the original Frankenstein trio and the Aliens trilogy (which incidentally follows the same pattern). Rocky? Well, let's let that one pass.This has some interesting features. The movies themselves are trivial, even for the intended kiddie audience, and this is the weakest. But the evolution is rather solid.In the first, the scope had to do with ambiguities and issues of self. Identity is set up as the main thing. As in all of them, it is blunt, obvious, overdone and the resolution is childish. But the identity of self concept is at least worthy.The second expands that to identity of the family. Here it is a simple fabulation Mom, Dad and teen son. The mechanics of description and resolution are similar. They involve the same situations. All of the key characters are the same. All those that are not are based on the same prototypes of the earlier film. The machinery works the same, only the identity questioned is larger.Where the first is self, the second is family, this third is community. As before, the same tropes, characters, plot arc. As before, the examination is blunt and worthless. But the point is that it is the same. Same machine parts. Same basic problem. Differently shaped sausage.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"A Pile of Robocrap","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 3(1993) Wow. After a excellent beginning in 1987, Robocop was born. However Robo's sequel was damn bad. So what do you do when after that? Make a third installment? No. But they did it anyway.The is a very bad movie. I do not even need to tell you of the story. It's not even worth it. All I know is that this is not rated R. Nope this is Robo-friendly. That's not cool. The action here is just dreadfully awful. I was too bored with this. One scene to the end is Robo is in direct combat with a clich Japanese cyborg all down to the swinging sword and kung-fu. I gets worse. Robo's arm is cut off and his cannon is next to him, like a few inches away. While Robo is going to reach for it, the enemy cyborg is just swinging it's sword like an idiot and not going to dispatch Robocop at the drop of a hat. This was so stupid, it can hurt your brain. The dialog during this combat scene is inane. Trust me. Robocop's voice is inane. He sounds so lame. It's like a megaphone to a dull robot. Peter Weller is not here. That also sucks. The acting is weak. Man, how this franchise has fallen so far from the first installment. This is the even dumber brother in the family.The Last Word Sucks. Robocop 2 was bad. Robocop 3 is awful. If you want a good movie, stick with The first Robocop. Robocop was not to have sequels. This is proof. Avoid. "},{"Title":"The silliest of the three movies.","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This movie totally killed the trilogy with it's silly PG-13 feel to it, and loss of great violence that made the first two movies watchable. There are too many funny scenes in this movie aimed at kids. The violence has been toned down to the point where it is not exciting. Peter Weller is absent in this movie, and we're stuck with somebody who doesn't have the character edge that Weller had in the first two. The villains in this movie feel like something taken off a cartoon show. Johnson is reduced to a role that symbolizes Mr.Smithers off the Simpsons. Do yourself a favor folks, don't watch this movie, and pretend that the series ended with Robocop 2. "},{"Title":"Funny and enjoyable","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" The third movie of the popular RoboCop series is probably the most entertaining of them all. I know that fans of the original movie bash this one because they consider it childish. But then again, when I'm watching a movie about a character named RoboCop I want a popcorn fun - and popcorn fun I get. In this movie there is a lot of action, fight between robots, car chases and a lot of jokes and it is really enjoyable. Robo himself is very cool and his human friends are likable. The bad robots are stupid really (this ninja thing kinda sucked), but Robo beated them, so everything is OK. In conclusion I must say that this is no masterpiece, but it is an enjoyable action scifi film. "},{"Title":"Undoubtedly the worst of the series","Date":"21 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" RoboCop (1987) was a hard action picture with brains, heart, social satire, and wit - mostly thanks to Paul Verhoeven, the eccentric filmmaker responsible for Total Recall and Basic Instinct.RoboCop 2 (1990) lost the heart but still had the violent edge. It seemed somewhat geared towards children, the plot was tired and recycled, the violence still packed a punch but lacked the seriousness and dramatic flair of the first film. In a sense, all humanity shining through the RoboCop character from the first film was gone.RoboCop 3 (1993) has none of the above. It has no heart, it has no brains, it has no sly social puns, and it has no hard violence. It's goofy and stupid. Over-the-top and obnoxious. Some qualities are redeemable. Most are not. It's undoubtedly the worst of the series.Filmed in 1991 and delayed for two years due to film company Orion's pending bankruptcy, RoboCop 3 centers around Murphy, a.k.a. RoboCop (Robert John Burke), joining forces with evicted squatters who are opposing Omni Consumer Products, the new conglomerate company running Detroit, which is kindly referred to by the homeless citizens as Opposing Capitalist Pigs. (Oh, how clever!) OCP is no longer run by The Old Man (Daniel O'Herlihy), but rather The CEO (Rip Torn), a character played over-the-top for laughs that never come; he is an annoying miscalculation and, in fact, almost a characterized representation of the flaws of the entire movie. He is in cahoots with the Japanese to throw citizens of futuristic Detroit out of their homes and onto the street so that he can level their homes and build big money-making skyscrapers.RoboCop doesn't like this one bit, and after seeing a lone child named Nikko (Remy Ryan) run across a street and into the arms of squatters, he decides it's time to protect the innocent and delete his fourth directive, which instructs him to not oppose a member of OCP. After Lewis (Nancy Allen) is killed my a corrupt OCP employee, he swears to take vengeance and uphold the law.What a digression the RoboCop series made! It started as a biting social satire and a hard action film with heart; watching RoboCop 3 is like trying to focus on a Saturday morning cartoon serial with an invincible hero defeating uncountable foes amidst a very, very unfocused backdrop. It's hard to do. Co-characters extended in this film were made clearer in the first installment when they were given less time on screen. Johnson (Felton Perry), the black man who gave Robo the thumbs up at the end of the first film, is now partly a bad guy. He was supposed to be a fairly good guy in the first two. What's happened to him in between the first and third film that would cause him to cross over to the dark side? His evolution is as understandable as O'Herlihy's change from being a good guy in RoboCop to the villain in RoboCop 2.Peter Weller, who said making the first two films in this trilogy was the worst experience of his acting career (the suit was heavy and hot, shedding some number of pounds off his body on a daily basis), has left the series for more attractive projects, leaving John Robert Burke to fill in his shoes. Burke is okay in the suit, but his voice sounds too robotic when he speaks, lacking the monotone calmness that Weller possessed without any type of digital alteration. Burke just sounds like a robot, leaving all sense of humanity at the door. And with the mask off, his facial features look splattered with too much makeup and plastic, probably an ill-fated effort to cover up Weller's disappearance. It's not a biggie, as RoboCop himself is barely in this film at all.Yes, that's right, RoboCop is not really the subject of this movie at all. Perhaps because Weller left they decided to keep RoboCop off frame for as long as possible. He is introduced some fifteen minutes into the film during a heated (and ridiculous) car chase, he gets injured and disappears throughout most the film, comes back for a bit, then saves the day. It's like when they tried to cover up Crispin Glover's absence in Back to the Future Part II--only Zemeckis knew how to do it right. Fred Zekker, the director of RoboCop 3, does not.Paul Verhoeven was a great director at one point in time. He got away with over-the-top action because he had a way of making it brutal, gleeful and downright excellent, while managing to insert levels of humanity (remember Quaid's background in Total Recall? The flashback sequences in RoboCop?). Zekker's over-the-top style is different. It's obvious that he knows how to blow stuff up in between long passages of cheesy dialogue, but not much else. "},{"Title":"What the hell were they thinking","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Not sure if you have ever seen this movie or not but don't worry you aren't missing much at all. I have seen robocop 3 several times and each time i see i fell that all i have done is just wasted valued time. The first 2 robocops were were good because one they were rated R and two they had big killing machines. In robocop 3 OCP was at it again by throwing people out of their house and then what was really stupid is that these killing ninja guys. What was worse is that they soften up and rated the movie PG-13, it became more for younger people than older adults. I really think they screwed up somewere and thats to bad. Sometimes these people just can't get the 2nd or 3rd movie right maybe because they are just greedy. Just a word of warning don't bother watching Robocop 3 if i were you i would just stay with the first 2 this shouldn't even be a trilogy. "}{"Title":"* OUT OF FIVE","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robert John Burke takes over for Peter Weller as the cyborg policeman who this time joins the rebellion against OCP who are throwing people out of their homes in this toned down and brainless sequel.  Uninspired sequel lacks the power,satire and creativity of #1 and the action and excellent special effects of  part 2.  Robocop 3 is a far cry from the greatness of Robocop 1. "},{"Title":"They saved the worst for last.","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I think all can agree this was the finale to Robocop's theatrical tour of duty. First the company that distributed these films Orion Pictures is now bankrupt and defunct. That doesn't help matters any. Secondly this is a bad film. No let me rephrase that. Robocop 3 is a really bad film. Too much change has killed Robocop.Peter Weller as Murphy/Robocop has now departed and Robert John Burke has taken his place. They've tried their best to make him look the same - I'm talking specifically about those scenes with Robo's face plate removed and might I add what a good makeup job they did - but it's still not Weller. I think they choose Burke because of his lips. They look good and that's about the only thing you see with the whole getup on.Since we're on the topic of departures, where's the Old Man? You know the guy who ran OCP. We're given this little morsel, You remember what they did to the old man? by his replacement Rip Torn who deserves better. As for Robocop himself, well, he's been upgraded. I can only assume because these upgrades were needed to mask the seriously weak story and perhaps to sell a new line of action figures. Was Robocop with only his pistol no good anymore? Did he really need a machine gun hand or a high flying jet pack? Come on. What else is there to say? We went from a R-rated franchise with dark humor and violence to downright boring PG-13 formula.The third time out finds Robocop trying to defend the poor, sick and beaten masses who are being driven out of the way by OCP forces who naturally want their land. Wait until you see the robot ninja nemesis too. Desperate or what? I guess it gets harder and harder to find adequate story lines for a metal law enforcement butt kicking machine and that's the breaks. Because for all intense purposes Robocop is done, finito. We got this hack job they called a sequel and then there was a Robocop television show. No doubt it died a quick death and the last I seen of Robocop he was appearing in commercials for office equipment. How the mighty have fallen. "},{"Title":"Not Bad, About As Good As Robocop 2.","Date":"11 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This isn't a bad movie considering it's PG-13 and the first two were R. Burke does a decent job replacing Weller. I don't care for his voice though. Sounds too mechanical. But, on the plus side, it moves faster than Robocop 2. Plus, it has a lot of action and the score from the first one makes a welcome return. Overall, a good action movie, but nowhere near the level of the first one.      "},{"Title":"Murphy goes from cop to kiddie super-hero","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop was a smash hit because there was more to the character Robocop than `Robot Cop.' ED-209 and Robocop looked and sounded cool, eye (and ear) candy.  But this did not assure success. Murphy the man, finding his humanity even after being sentenced to the iron suit, made the audience care about him, and gave Robocop a loyal fan base.  That was what made Robocop more than your average sci-fi shoot-em up. Robocop 2 was received with less enthusiasm, but most Robocop fans and the general movie going public liked it.  It was violent and dark, like the first, and the effects while somewhat dated today were unbelievable then. Then came Robocop 3.  First Orion rushed the film into production before Robocop 2 was out of the theaters, then was forced to delay the release by two years after being bought out by MGM. When it was released in 1993, Robocop 3 was a spectacular disappointment. The dark violence from the first two films was dropped in favor of a more kid friendly version, infuriating fans.  But worse, Robocop was no longer Robocop, police officer, he was Robocop Super Hero. The idea of giving Robocop a gun arm is an obvious toy marketing ploy, as was the ridiculous jet pack.  The goal of these things was to make Robocop a super hero, but when you do that you lose Murphy the man, the most important element to the movie.  Trying to make Robocop into a whole new character but make up for it by having him sympathize with a little annoying kid, have overdone memories, experience sexual attraction (?!?), and make him highly talkative (Robocop is the strong silent type, but in Robocop 3 he says things like `I am fine, thank you.' and, `I don't have many... friends.') was the final straw.  Robocop fans were stabbed in the back, and Orion forced a real piece of kiddy friendly trash on us. Robocop also started destroying OCP police equipment, for no reason.  He destroyed the police car, something Robocop from the first two movies would never do. His partner (Nancy Allen) hardly gives her best performance, and at what should have been her best, most moving scene, was just overdone and stupid. The show made all the same mistakes, and I hope the new Robocop Prime Directives will make up for this. "},{"Title":"An Underrated Sequel","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Robocop 3 has been given a really bad rap that it doesn't deserve.  I feel that this film surpasses Robocop 2, and while it isn't as clever or original as the first in the series, it is fun and entertaining.  There are a few places where the low budget can be seen (i.e. the flying Robocop scene), but all in all, it's a pretty good action/sci-fi film.   "},{"Title":"Actually, quite a decent movie","Date":"6 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I first saw robocop 3 on TV and thought it was really good and entertaining so i bought it on DVD. This is probably my favourite Robocop film, although Peter Weller is a better actor in Robocop/2. At least the violence and swearing has been reduced. Movies aren't just good because of violence. At least it can be watched by slightly younger audiences like the TV series. The one bad part perhaps is Robo's jet pack near the end. It looked really fake. Nonetheless, definitely a must see if you've only seen the first film. Would have been better to have a more famous actor, or keep Peter Weller. Also, was good that at least some of the characters were kept the same for the trilogy. "},{"Title":"Words fail me","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaarrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrggggggggggggggggggghhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Words fail to describe the horror that is RoboCop 3. By far one of the worst movie ever made. The first one which was Dirty guilty little fun had a charm that this one lacks. You know what else this movie lacks? Just a few things really. plot, acting, good special effects, direction, directing, writing, a reason to be made, someone to set it on fire.  Isn't it kinda sad when the original of a series that is somewhat known for its special effects is better than a sequel that actually made it to the big screen? Speaking of which, why was this a theatrical release. I mean If if was direct to video, I would be a little more lenient, but I made my dad drag me and my friends aged around 13, ex-friends now you do the math, to a sneak preview of the this monstrousity. Oh well at least I got to see it free and a free shirt to see this movie and all it cost me was my eternal soul.Rating 1Disclaimer not nearly as bad and ManosHands of Fate or Hudson HawkP.S.I still have the shirt in case you were wondering. "},{"Title":"Insulting... just plain insulting...","Date":"27 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" RoboCop 3 is aimed at children say some. These people want to tell you to ease up on RoboCop 3, obviously compensating for the fact that they are simply too insipid to get the tone of the unequaled original. I was but a nine year old boy when I saw the first RoboCop, which has taught me valuable lessons about the difference between what people say and what they mean, along with the consequences of violence. Granted, I enjoy RoboCop even more as a young adult because I understand more what Neumeier and Verhoeven were saying about Christian America, but the point is not that RoboCop was aimed specifically at adults, but rather that it was aimed at people with a brain in their head.By comparison, RoboCop 3 has obviously been aimed at special education classes. Is there some kind of requirement for commercially viable screenwriters that they confuse the word underage with retarded? There must be, given the commercial success of garbage like Barney et al! I would not have been surprised to have seen a scene from this mess in which RoboCop tells a behind-the-camera ally that they are not good if they don't have good feelings.I won't even go into how the ultra-violent, ultra-sarcastic feel of the original has died in favour of a He-Man like marketing style. Some people claim that the problem with RoboCop 3 is that the story is underwritten. That is a significant part of the problem, but compared to others, it is minor. The real problem with this film is that the dialogue and special effects are utterly dreadful. Anne Lewis' final words to Murphy were so pathetic that I honestly wanted to take a hatchet to the cassette I was viewing the film with. For such a wonderful and fulfilling character to go out like this was truly heartbreaking to watch, for all the wrong reasons.Peter Weller was the sensible actor, turning down the chance to reprise his most famous role a second time. He made the right choice, although his career has never so much as eyed the mild peak that the original RoboCop brought. Regular cast members such as Robert DoQui really made me wonder why they were in this piece of crap. Their characters have little to do, and their dialogue is so abysmal it makes one long for the subtleties of a Police Academy tour-de-force. After the way in which inflection turned three simple words into a bolt from the heavens during the original RoboCop, calling the dialogue here a disappointment is being overly polite.Then there was the main villain of the story. In the original, RoboCop battles a gang of hardened criminals, a poorly-designed battle droid, and his memories. In RoboCop 2, he battles with a drug lord who is used to create a new and improved cyborg. In RoboCop 3, he is battling a faceless bunch of wimps from the corporation that created him, and a Japanese cyborg called Otomo. The one ingredient that made RoboCop's enemies as compelling as they were was their personalities. Clarence Boddicker was an angry, hate-filled killer whose manner of behaviour and relating to others made one wonder if he was abused as a child. He was a match for RoboCop because one could feel an equal amount of fury coming from him whenever he was on-screen. In RoboCop 2, the main opponent for most of the film was a drug lord called Cain. This was a slight falter because Cain had all the personality of a squashed gnat, but the error was reversed when he was turned into RoboCop 2, a cyborg that took the Iron Man syndrome (listen to the Black Sabbath song of that name while watching parts of the original and you'll get what I mean by that) to new heights. Otomo had about ten minutes of screen time at most, and would have been ripped limb from limb by the RoboCop of the first film.RoboCop was one of the films that made my early life worth living, and I credit it with making me want to write scripts for films and television among other things. RoboCop 3 is basically one studio's effort to take everything that I hold near and dear, then basically insult and rape it for a few bucks. I utterly loathe and despise all who were involved with its production without being involved in either of the other two films. To those who did take part in the other two films, and then signed on for this pile of crap, all I have to say is why?... "},{"Title":"3 great movies, one great Cyborg!","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Once again Robocop saves the day! This movie has it all and the pink pimp Cadillac was a nice touch. Fast paced action as usual and lots of stuff exploding! This movie is packed with humor which has remained from the first two masterpieces. This ones got a few more gadgets for Robo including a flame thrower. The scene where he torches the police station was awesome as was the scene where he torches the brothel. Awesome stuff!! "},{"Title":"Not at all bad...","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I expected the worst I got something watchable and entertaining. Robocop 3 is a fine sequel - it certainly fails to be equal to the all-time classic original, but it works well enough on its own terms. The story is interesting (about a privatized police force), there is a strong orchestral sound-track (one of the key success factors of the original), and the way-out weaponry and awesome destruction is all present and correct.Where it falls down is with the unnecessary insertion of action film cliches the cute kid, the sexy female scientist etc. Worst of all is a pointless showdown between Robocop and an oriental kung-fu android, which is completely irrelevant to the plot at hand.The negative reaction is greatly undeserved its no masterpiece, but it does its job. The main point is that Verhoeven's vision of a capitalist society gone mad is retained this is such an inherently interesting concept, setting anything in this milieu is still fascinating viewing.  "}{"Title":"Robocop 3 is better than 1 and 2!","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Even the commercials are better, and you have the squatters being evicted by OCP Police! You have Robotic Ninjas! You have a Robocop flying! Its great! The only bad scene is the showdown at the end of the movie didn't end with more shooting, and compared to Robocop 1 and 2 it is a lot more family friendly (read not enough blood).Robocop 3 was the best movie I saw in 1993.And Now you can get Robocop 1-3 in a DVD Collection box! Get it now! "},{"Title":" If you're a 9 year-old why not. If above that only good for a few laughs... really few.","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"11 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Ok, so I was bored out of my mind. ;) But since it happened to be on TV and I hadn't seen it before (what a loss!) and I really had nothing else to do, I thought what heck I might as well give it a chance. Well now I've seen it and yes, it honestly stank all the way thru.While the original 'Robocop'-flick had some idea, this 3rd one (and hopefully the last one!) entertained me as much as seeing a real bad mime act. Really, I thought I had seen all the thrash there is. Well... Obviously I had missed this one.Not quite dumb enough (altho very, very close to that) to be funny, just embarrassing really. But then again, I'm pretty sure that most 6 to 9 year-old males will find this movie to be way cool!. So, if you don't fit in that criteria, I suggest passing this film. Dead or alive... Brings absolutely nothing new to the genre.  "},{"Title":"Masterpiece isn't the right word, but it's the first that comes to mind","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"14 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" What can one say about perfection? How can you critique Leonardo di Vinci? How is it possible to to describe the taste of the most extravagant fine wine? I've seen many movies in my life, many great movies, but none as spectacular as RoboCop 3.Robert Burke gives a tour de force performance as RoboCop that rivals the works of a young Marlon Brando in The Godfather and Streetcar Named Desire.What is it called when all the right pieces fall into places and perfection takes place? I don't know, but RoboCop 3 can best describe that. 1993 was a great year for movies, but sadly RoboCop 3 was not recognized at the Academy Awards. What an absolute shame! "},{"Title":"Robocop fights against inconvenience?!","Date":"3 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I can never understand these movies and TV programs where inner city people fight their landlords tooth and nail over the right to stay in their rat infested, hellhole, tenements. Just because they live there does not mean they own the property. Are they too lazy to collect their meager possessions and find another cheap building?Robocop has kind of always been a liberal series but this is ridiculous! This is the kind of crusade best left to J.J. and the rest of the cast of Good Times.Having Robocop go renegade to stop the inconveniencing of others is beneath contempt and stupid. What about my inconvenience? I was stuck watching this crap. Is Robocop going to save me and stop the Sci-fi Channel from airing this ever again?! "},{"Title":"now,thats more like it","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" after seeing how disappointing RoboCop 2 was,i did not have high hopes for this one.however,i was pleasantly surprised.while i didn't feel it was quite as good as the original,it was pretty close.it had a different kind of storyline than i was expecting.this story was pretty coherent,and had some unpredictability about it,which i liked.it also had some depth to it.there was a good mix of action,drama and humour,and the humour worked here.this movie has some genuinely funny moments.the movie is certainly less violent than the previous 2,but that doesn't matter here.there's still plenty of explosions and car chases.the special effects in this one were pretty good,in my opinion.this movie is the most fun of the 3.i believe most of the laughs were intentional,at least they came off that way.the series redeems itself with this installment.for me,RoboCop 3 is a strong 7/10 "},{"Title":"One RoboCop is enough","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" They should have just stuck with one RoboCop. After the first one, it all went downhill and really got stupid. I liked the first one. The reason why it is awful because of the plot is very slow and bad acting.I would only recommend this if you are totally bored. The first one was an original idea and not so boring as the sequels. Probably it is only good to watch these sequels at least once but never more than once just to let you see what I am talking about. I think they made the sequels more childish than the first one both the plot and the acting. "},{"Title":"Bad, but better than 2","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I can agree that this is by no means a good film, well maybe a few means provide it as such.  The third installment is much more faithful to the spirit of the first Robocop, with better irony and less mean-spirited nastiness which the 2nd film possessed.  Having said that, this is still a turkey of a film.  It takes 20 minutes to introduce Robocop, the central kid in the film is always onhand to save the day with her laptop (!) and the acting from everyone is pretty hammy and hard to swallow.  There is a comic book energy that the first film had that all of the sequels failed to garner.  I am a HUGE fan of Robocop1 and prefer to remember the movie that way.  I only saw this because it's been on cable all weekend. "},{"Title":"Almost Redeems RC2","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The third (and final) in the series almost redeems the faults of the second movie.  At least the producers realized that if you're going to waste an actor of Peter Weller's caliber in the title role, you might as well get someone else.  Robert John Burke does the best he can.  No one from the previous two movies is present.  Basically, an enjoyable little action flick, that is entertaining for a couple of hours.  Overall, however, you 're best off watching the original movie, and then the TV show. "},{"Title":"The Robocop series took  a huge nosedive with this rubbish...","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 3 is again set in Detroit in the near future where OCP are in partnership with a large Japanese corporation to build Delta City, unfortunately OCP & this Japenses lot want to build it on a rundown ghetto called Cadillac Heights but the residents of Cadillac Heights have other ideas & refuse to move. OCP decides to play dirty & hire a team of mercenaries lead by Paul McDaggert (John Castle), the future of law enforcement the cyborg Robocop (Robert Burke) becomes caught up in the conflict when he protects an innocent group of people against McDaggerts men. Robocop decides to join the Cadillac Heights resistance & protect the innocent residents & their homes against OCP & the demolition crews...Co-written & directed by Fred Dekker one has to say that the original Robocop (1987) is one of the greatest sci-fi action films ever, Robocop 2 (1990) is right behind it as another great film which brings us on to Robocop 3 which in my humble opinion is simply terrible. The script by Dekker & graphic novel artist Frank Miller (Sin City, 300, Daredevil) is absolutely awful, everything which made the original Robocop so brilliant is gone, everything that made Robocop 2 such an entertaining sci-fi romp is gone & we are left with some kids film without any intelligence or trace of a meaningful plot. The biting satire, the cold hearted cynicism of big business, a really evil bad guy, the convincing portrayal of a future time & all the conviction from the original two Robocop films is sadly lacking. What we end up with in Robocop 3 is that the makers have tried to turn Robocop into some comic book character with the embarrassing climax where he gets rocket powered jets so he can fly, they give him some awful one-liners & have him team up with some annoying 'cute' kid to save the day & avenge the death of his partner. Which neatly brings me onto the clichs, the often used scenario of a cops partner being killed who then seeks revenge is here, the freedom fighters who live in sewers, the big business bosses who don't care about the 'liitle people' & a horribly sentimental ending in which Robocop saves everyone, he gets his revenge & the residents of Cadillack Heights get to stay in their homes. Did I mention it was very predictable as well, I didn't? Well, I guess I just did.Director Dekker ruins what was a great series of films & Robocop 3 undoubtedly killed the franchise off. I have no idea why but the violence is toned down to such a level Robocop 3 is pretty much PG stuff all the way, there are a few minor swear words but nothing to offend & not a single drop of blood. This just isn't a Robocop film as far as I'm concerned. The special effects are terrible too, the sequence at the end when Robocop flies is truly embarrassing to watch these days it really is. There are several continuities between this & the previous Robocop films, the company OCP, Johnson the executive, the 'I'd Buy that for a Dollar' advert, the SUX car, ED209 gets a small cameo & Sgt Reed is back as well. But while there are elements from the other Robocop films the tone is all wrong & it just comes across like a kids comic book superhero film. There are a couple of OK action scenes including a silly car chase when Robocop commandeers a pimps pink car & a few alright explosions. Certainly nothing to get that excited about.With a supposed budget of about $22,000,000 Robocop 3 opened with a disastrous weekend box-office take of less than four & a half million dollars, I guess the plan to get more people to watch it by toning down the violence & language didn't work. I wonder if Robocop 3 would have done better if it has been 'R' rated & featured lots of violence? I doubt it could have done any worse. Filmed in Atlanta, Georgia. The acting is awful from all concerned.Robocop 3 is an awful film, a film which I like to blank out & consider it not as part of the Robocop franchise which for me stopped after Robocop 2. Followed by the TV series Robocop (1994 - 1995) which ran for twenty three episodes & then the Canadian TV mini series Robocop Prime Derectives (2000) which has a running time of almost 400 minutes. "},{"Title":"Shows Potential","Date":"27 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop was a brilliant movie. Action packed, satirical and with strong characters.Robocop 2 was evidence that less is more. Not very good at all.Robocop 3 is stuck in the middle. Whilst it's not up to scratch when compared to the first film it's a vast improvement on the second offering.OCP taking their Delta City plans to almost Nazi like extremes makes for a strong emotional point and Burke makes a solid replacement for Weller in the lead role.It's well directed and Basil Poledouris makes a more than welcome return to the musical score (after the camp effort that we were treated to in the second film).Murphy shows some signs of the humanity he'd regained by the end of the first film and seemed to have completely lost throughout the second film. And McDaggart is a great foil for him to do battle with (he's still no Clarence Boddiker but a mile better than Caine) Perhaps the film gets a little too carried away with toys for Robocop such as the jet-pack (Clearly designed to be action figure merchandise) and the computer genius kid soon gets on the nerves.But had the studio been aiming for yet another adult action movie and increased the gore and bad language this wouldn't be far from the heights reached by the original.Even as family entertainment it's decent and has a strong storyline above all else. "}{"Title":"Not As bad As People Think","Date":"22 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Well This Movie isn't on the levels on Robocop 1 or 2 but still is a pretty good movie overall. Weller doesn't return to play Robocop in this movie, but they still do a nice job. I mean the only thing I can complain about is the violence. PG-13? The 1st movie had no rating and 2 was rated R. Robocop isn't made out to be a kids movie. It needs blood and gore in it. Again 1 is the best by far and number 2 was a very good and underrated sequel. 3 is not up there in terms of the rating or story,Yet I still enjoyed it. The story wasn't bad. I love Robocop and the movies never get old I can watch them over and over again. Robocrap????....How about not. Robocop Rules!!!! Thank You MR4 "},{"Title":"The death of great potential","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I've got a great idea? Let's take one of the best movie franchises there is, make a crap sequel starring a new actor in the lead role, take away all the ultra-violence, dramatic irony and tone it down to make it appeal to kids. Oh and chuck in some pathetic SFX for good measure.This movie should not have been made. Plain and simple. Robocop 2 was unfairly panned on its first release but this junk deserves every bad comment it gets. The direction is terrible, the budget appears to have been about $5.63 and the story has NO redeeming qualities. It's not even entertaining accidentally. I'm not kidding, it is so bad you can't even laugh AT it.The attempts at turning Robocop (more like Hobocop) into some kind of comic book superhero fail horribly. Just what the hell was the deal with the jetpack? It also looked embarrassingly fake. John Castle made a very poor villain. He was hammy instead of scary and campy instead of evil. Man, even ED-209 was tame. This is a film that you should ignore, no doubt. Robocop Prime Directives went on to become even worse. Poor Murphy. "},{"Title":"RoboCop!","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" If you liked Parts 1 and 2, then I am totally 100% sure that you will like Part 3, or just simply RoboCop 3. I mean, the RoboCop movies were all excellent; the image of the RoboCop help define the way we watched futuristic cinema forever! Whenever we talk about such types of films, RoboCop is the very first thing that comes into our movie minds! This is a great trilogy; there is no reason why these movies have to be missed out on! I sure hope there will be a possible 4th installment of RoboCop coming in the neat future; I've never seen these movies yet, but they do sure sound good! These movies are A-plus!!!!! Yes, they are! "},{"Title":" Mind Your Languge . There's Children Present ","Date":"6 January 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Paul Verhoeven,s ROBOCOP is quite rightly considered an 80s genre classic that successfully coupled violent visuals with a human story and biting satire . Audiences weren't bowled over by Irvin Kershner's 1990 sequel but is nowhere as bad as is often made out . Likewise ROBOCOP 3 has a very poor reputation but didn't deserve to spend several years in the IMDb bottom 100 Movies list. It's by far the least of the trilogy but its reputation lies not in the fact that it's a terrible film from a production point of view but more that the way the studio seem hell bent on making the franchise family friendly The bottom line is if you enjoyed the comic book graphic violence of Verhoeven's classic then you'll find this version totally lacking what made the original so enjoyable . Everything here seems to be produced to cause as much inoffence as possible . In fact if the producers had cut out several infrequent uses of the  S  word then you could actually class this as a family film . When people saw the original ROBOCOP did they envisage that a short time later they'd be watching a family friendly film franchise ? From the opening shot of a sweet innocent child who looks like she waltzed in from a Disney film down to the way it's only bad guys who get killed in a laughably bloodless way you realise you're watching something that jars with the other previous two movies . It's almost like watching an inversion of a STAR WARS sequel where Hans Solo snorts cocaine from Princess Leila's naked breasts before engaging in unnatural sex acts with her The story itself is very simplistic and plot wise it's no different from what you've seen in countless , forgettable B Western where cattle barons drive out the homesteaders from the territory . Substitute cattle barons for OCP and homesteaders for Detroit citizens , set it in the Mid West in the 19th century and you'd hardly have to change a word of dialogue . Even the climax of Murphy having to take on an android ninja seems culled from these corny movies of men in stetsons doing what a man has got to do . The fact that the protagonists are metal men doesn't make it less obvious I don't want to sound like I'm saying this is a great film - it's not - but neither is it one of the worst films ever made . It certainly deserves the tag of  Worst film featuring ROBOCOP in the title  . It probably wouldn't have such a poor reputation if it wasn't part of a franchise , one of which is considered a classic genre piece . I've certainly seen worse films featured on the SyFy channel this week "},{"Title":"Best of the Robocop Trilogy","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This third installment of Robocop in my opinion is the finest of the trilogy, because it hits home in the most accurate way predicting the future.Detroit is now a police state owned by a private corporation OCP. Everything is now the property of OCP including the private residence of an individual, and if you resist eviction, police will come in with a wrecking ball, and full military assault weapons. Humans are reduced to property as well, and anyone who fall out of the system, and resist the tyranny of OCP and the police is labeled Terrorists.This is extremely close to the current situation of our country in that over half a million foreign troops are in United States because the US military has refused to shoot at American citizens. One executive order from the president can declare martial law, suspend constitution and privatize communication, transportation including cars, and property. It's amazing that this movie accurately predicted the future of the country 20 to 30 years before its time, and excites me to watch the take the producers had at the time the movie was made. The movie is well made, and contains irony as well as humor in the mix.For these reasons, this Robocop movie is the best of the three that's made for me. "},{"Title":"This Movie Was OK But They Could Have Did A Better Job","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Like This Movie Was OK Not A Cheap Movie But They Could Have did a better job. Like Instead Of It Being A Regular Robocop Movie. They Could Have Made It Into A Robocop Vs Terminator Movie. That Would Have Been Really cool. And MAybe Peter Weller Would Have Came Out in this One. Like He Did In the Other 2. And Arnold Could Come Out 2. That Would Have Been A Box Office Hit!!! And Then That Could Have Answered People's Question. 2 See Who would Win. And There Wouldn't be A Bad Review On Robocop 3 because there wouldn't be One )And It Would Also Make A lot Of Money because the Original Stars would come out. & They Wouldn't Have 2 Kill Of Officer Anne Lewis which was the gay part of Robocop 3. "},{"Title":"Ain't so bad!","Date":"3 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is is TRUE sequel to the classic original.  Forget 'RoboCop 2', which was a nasty, shallow affair.  Although hampered by a weak storyline, this second sequel does at least try to recapture the atmosphere of Paul Verhoeven's masterpiece.  As in the first movie, most of the action takes place at night, Basil Poledouris' score sets the mood nicely, and even RoboCop himself walks properly again, rather than flaying him arms around as he did in the last film.The first 20 minutes or so of RoboCop 3 are really quite good (well, apart from the bit where the Cute Kid reprograms ED209 by connecting her laptop to its foot  -  in an increasingly computer-literate society, why does Hollywood insist on insulting our intelligence like this?).The only downsides were  Firstly, RoboCop is a total wuss!  After the beatings he took in 1 and 2, in 3 he's almost killed when a grenade bounces off his chest, and then nearly passes out then the Ninja cuts off his fingers.  As if!  The other main letdown is a very weak final 30 minutes. Flying robots and duelling ninjas belong to straight-to-video cheapies, not major studio releases.I would recommend this film to anyone who liked the 1987 original, and warn them to steer clear of RoboCop 2.  "},{"Title":"RoboCop 3","Date":"28 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" I liked the first two films, the first the most, but this third instalment is just a waist of time. Why did they have to change a really well cast Peter Weller as the cybernetic cop, to a rubbish Robert John Burke. I can't remember any of the story apart from RoboCop going into some kind of sewer or something to live for a while. That's about it. It's obviously Robert John Burke that makes this film the most stupid of the three. I can't remember seeing any good fight or gun scenes, and no good special effects like Paul Verhoeven's film. You remember the guy melting! Also starring Men in Black's Rip Torn somewhere. Adequate! "},{"Title":"Robocop 3 The Series Killer","Date":"23 May 2011","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" Robocop 3 (1993) * 1/2 (out of 4) The third and final film in the original trilogy has Robocop (Robert John Burke) back on the streets but this time he's trying to help some poor people who have been evicted off their land. A large company is pretty much pulling people from their homes and putting them into camps so Robocop decides to help them out. Director Dekker has become a cult favorite thanks to films like NIGHT OF THE CREEPS and THE MONSTER SQUAD but sadly this film misses the mark on just about every level and a lot of the blame has to go to the screenplay by Dekker and Frank Miller. I'm really not sure what the two were thinking or perhaps their original vision was shot down by the studio? I'm not sure but they've pretty much taken everything that worked in the two films and destroyed them. We do get quite a bit of social commentary here but it's all pointless because there's not a single scene where you actually think this could happen in the future. The idea of picking people up and throwing them into camps will remind some of what happened in WWII and how it plays out and is executed here just isn't believable and there's not a single second where a common sense question isn't punching holes in the story. Another problem is that the studio (or filmmakers) decided to go all safe and cut out the violence and give us a PG-13 rating. Again, I'm not sure why this was done but it did happen to a few 80s series including MAJOR LEAGUE, which had a raunchy R-rated movie be turned into a watered-down kids flick. This film here is still too dark for kids and with all the comic tones and childish nature the filmmakers pretty much ruin it for the adults as well. Even worse is the decision to turn Robocop into a comic book hero with all sorts of bad action scenes, silly dialogue and a god-awful idea of giving him a rocket pack to fly around with. Robert John Burke replaced Peter Weller in this film but he's really not able to bring any life to the character. Nancy Allen is back briefly but her role just becomes even more thankless. Rip Torn does a good job as the evil CEO and we also get CCH Pounder as the leader of the people. ROBOCOP 3 was laughed out of theaters when it was released and the only thing time has done to it is make it even more embarrassing. There were elements that could have made for a good movie but there's just too much kiddie material that rises up and ruins everything. "},{"Title":"best movie ever","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Sci-Fi","Review":" This was an amazing eyeopener for me...extremely realistic...characters were really believable and easy to relate to and believable. I love you RobocopThis was an amazing eyeopener for me...extremely realistic...characters were really believable and easy to relate to and believable. I love you RobocopThis was an amazing eyeopener for me...extremely realistic...characters were really believable and easy to relate to and believable. I love you RobocopThis was an amazing eyeopener for me...extremely realistic...characters were really believable and easy to relate to and believable. I love you Robocop "}]