[{"Title":"One of Brad Pitt's most memorable roles.","Date":"8 December 2004","Score":"58 out of 68 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" In the same vein as Natural Born Killers, another movie that was not so popular with critics because of its excessive violence but that I also loved, Kalifornia is a movie that clearly glamorizes violence, but I like to think that it turns that around in the final act. Kind of like how The Basketball Diaries glamorizes drugs at first, but shows the bad side by the end of the movie, which is far worse than the good side is good. David Duchovny plays Brian Kessler, an artistic yuppie with an even more artistically yuppie girlfriend, who is into that violent sexy black and white photography generally reserved for, I don't know where, places where nudity passes for art. Maybe it really does and I just don't understand it. At any rate, Brian and Carrie (Duchovny and Michelle Forbes, who fits the role flawlessly), make the perfect couple to go on a documentary tour of famous murder sites. Brian, the writer, will write the book, Carrie can take the pictures.Being artistic types, Brian and Carrie are not quite financially prepared for such a trip, so they put out an ad for someone to share gas and travel expenses, and are contacted by Early Grace and Adele Corners (Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis). Early is on parole and assigned to janitorial work at the local university by his parole officer, sees the ad on a bulletin board, and decides to leave the state for a while, violating his parole but also leaving the scene of his landlord's murder so he won't have to deal with a pesky murder investigation. Two birds with one stone, you know.The movie has a curious ability to portray two stereotypes, the artsy yuppies and the greasy trailer trash, without resorting to clichés or even ending up with caricatures of either type. Brian and Carrie are artsy liberals, but while Carrie catches on to Early and Adele, Brian is fascinated with Early's status as an outlaw, as seen in the scene where Brian shoots Early's gun. Never having fired a gun before, he's as fascinated as a little kid. While Adele and Carrie are back at a hotel and Adele reveals such things in her childlike way as the fact that Early broke her of smoking and that she's not allowed to drink (Early doesn't think women should), Early and Brian are out at the local bar. Brian reacts nervously to a drunk trying to start a fight with him, and Early first gives advice to Brian on what to do and then steps in and dishes out a quick lesson for the guy. Hit him, Bri, it's comin'. This is one of my favorite scenes in the movie, partly because it's so funny what Early gleefully says as the guy's friends drag him away, bloodied and battered, but also because as it is intercut with the girls back at the hotel, we learn so much all at once about the two couples, their differences, and the conflicts that are likely to come up because of them. And besides that, because Brian benefited from Early's actions and Carrie is appalled by what she hears from Adele, it also illustrates the different way that Carrie and Brian react to Early and Adele.Clearly, by now, you can tell that this is not your typical odd couple type of thriller, where the city folk run into the country folk and all sorts of stereotypical mayhem ensues. On one hand it seems a little too convenient that Brian and Carrie go on a tour of murder sites and just happen to be accompanied by a real life murderer, but on the other hand it's a great way to counteract the glorifying of murder that is inherent within a cross-country trip designed to bring fame to murderers and their crimes. While studying the actions of past murderers, Brian and Carrie ultimately find themselves face to face with the very material that they are studying, and realize that murder is not as pretty or morbidly fascinating when it's in your face as it is through disconnected studies of murders past.I am constantly amazed at Brad Pitt's versatility as an actor. Consider, for example, his roles in movies like Kalifornia, 12 Monkeys, Fight Club, and Ocean's 11 and 12. Pitt is like Tom Hanks in that he can change his appearance drastically or just enough to fit a given character, and is completely believable. Incidentally, I tried in vain to be Early Grace for Halloween this year, but just couldn't get the hair and beard right. I even got the hat right, which initially I thought would be the hardest part.It's easy to understand why a lot of people disliked Kalifornia or why they think that it glorifies violence and murder, but I think that whatever glorifying it does is done with the intention of clarifying the audience's understanding of its subject matter. A film that didn't glorify violence, at least initially, could never be as effective as Kalifornia, but the movie structures it perfectly. The glorification is all embodied in Brian's and Carrie's fascination with the idea of murder and the auras of the places in which is happened, but their realization, and ours, is embodied in the real thing, which they encounter with Early and Adele. The movie's very purpose is to describe that difference between idealizing violence and seeing the horror of it up close and for real. "},{"Title":"Killer On The Road","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"58 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" It's a road movie, with a killer on-board. Brian Kessler (David Duchovny), a sophisticated, urbane writer, wants to conduct field research on American serial killers. But, neither he, nor his girlfriend, Carrie (Michelle Forbes), has the money for a cross-country tour of murder sites, so they advertise for someone to share travel expenses. Who they end up with is a young couple, Early Grayce (Brad Pitt) and his girlfriend, Adele (Juliette Lewis), two better examples of poor white trash you will never find in all of cinema.Indeed, Early and Adele are what make this film so entertaining, as they babble, cackle, confide, muse, speculate, drool, and otherwise behave in ways I haven't seen since reruns of The Beverly Hillbillies. Early's idea of California People think faster out there, on account of all that warm weather; cold weather makes people stupid. That's enough to convince Adele I guess that explains why there are so many stupid people around here. To which Early responds proudly It sure does. Early continues to instruct Adele about California You never have to buy no fruit, on account it's all on the trees ... and they ain't got no speed limits, and I hear your first month's rent is free, state law.But poor Early has some, well, mental problems, which become ever more obvious to Brian and Carrie as the four travelers proceed west across the U.S. As they enter the desert Southwest, with its beautifully stark landscape, Kalifornia starts to look more and more like The Hitcher (1986), and Early starts to act more and more like John Ryder, everyone's maniacal hitchhiker, whose terror seemed so unstoppable.In Kalifornia, the acting is uneven. Duchovny's performance is flat. Brad Pitt is surprisingly effective, despite his overacting at times. Michelle Forbes is great as the avant-garde, photographic artist. But my choice for best performance goes to Juliette Lewis. With her nasal voice and heavy-duty Southern accent, she is stunning, as the naive, highly animated, child-like Adele.Toward the end, the film takes on a Twilight Zone feel to it, as our travelers enter a Nevada nuclear test site with a dilapidated old house full of test mannequins. The plot dissolves rather messily into unnecessary and preposterous violence, an ending that was somewhat disappointing.Overall, however, Kalifornia is an entertaining film, thanks to a clever concept, great scenery, especially in the second half, good cinematography, great dialogue, and that wonderful performance by Juliette Lewis. "},{"Title":"a dark and disturbing psychological thriller.","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"50 out of 72 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  it's amazing that so many people that i know haven't seen this little gem. everybody i have turned on to it have come back with the same reaction WHAT A GREAT MOVIE!!i've never much cared for Brad Pitt (though his turns in 12 monkeys and Fight Club show improvement) but his performance in this film as a psycho is unnerving, dark and right on target.everyone else in the film gives excellent performances and the movie's slow and deliberate pacing greatly enhance the proceedings. the sense of dread for the characters keeps increasing as they come to realize what has been really happening.the only thing that keeps this from a 10 in my book, is that compared to what came before it, the ending is a bit too long and overblown. but that's the only flaw i could find in this cult classic.if you check this film out, try to get the letterboxed unrated director's cut for the best viewing option.rating9 "},{"Title":"Haunting","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"36 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Kalifornia is one of my all-time favourite movies, and it easily could be labeled as one of the best psychological thrillers of the 90`s. The film has a very stylish surface to it, but behind that are a lot of disturbing and honest depictions of homicidal maniacs and the terrifyng violence they inflict upon others. One of the film`s strongest aspects is it`s performances, Brad Pitt is startlingly great as a trailer-trash psycho named Early. Pitt potrays his frightening character almost flawlessly. Juliette Lewis is equally as good playing his naive girlfriend, her innocence is almost heart-breaking. Kalifornia has a very simple plot to it, that goes steadily and slowly forward for about an hour, but it suddenly plunges into a harrowing spree of murder, as Pitt unleashes his psychotic personality. There are alot of shocking scenes, and it all mounts to a power-house climax that will haunt you for days. Kalifonia is a film that should really be watched for it`s intense look at how monstrous a human being can be, and not only for it`s violence and gore. "},{"Title":"This is a very impressive psychological thriller","Date":"26 February 2005","Score":"33 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I had seen 'Kalifornia' before (must be about 10 years ago) and I still remember to be very impressed by it. That's why I wanted to see it again and all I can say is that it still hasn't lost its power, even though I'm used to a lot more when it comes to movies than that I was ten years ago.'Kalifornia' tells the tale of the writer Brian Kessler and his girlfriend Carrie Laughlin, a photographer, who want to move to California. But instead of stepping on a plain and flying right to the state where they say it never rains, they choose to make a trip by car. He wants to write a book about America's most famous serial killers and she will make the matching pictures. But because their car uses an enormous amount of petrol, they decide to take another couple with them, so they can spread the costs of the trip. Only one couple has answered the add, so they will automatically be the lucky ones. But they haven't met each other yet and when seeing the other couple for the first time, when their trip has already started, Carrie is shocked. Without wanting to be prejudiced, she can only conclude that Early Grayce and Adele Corners are poor white trailer park trash. She definitely doesn't want them in her car, but Brian doesn't really mind to take them with them and decides to stop and pick them up anyway. At first the couple doesn't seem to be that bad after all, but gradually Early Grayce changes from a trashy hillbilly into a remorseless murderer...Not only is the story very impressive, so is the acting from our four leads. Brad Pitt is incredible as Early Grayce. His performance in this movie may well be his best ever. The same for Juliette Lewis. She plays the childish and naive girlfriend that doesn't want to hear a bad word about her Early and does that really very well. But David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes are a surprise as well. They both did a very good job and I really wonder why we never heard anything from Forbes again since this movie, because she really proves to have a lot of talent.Overall this is a very good and impressive psychological thriller with a very powerful story, but because of the graphic violence, I can imagine that it may not be to everybody's taste (although I don't really see another way how to portray a serial killer in a believable way). Personally I really liked this movie a lot and the violence never bothered me (it's a part of the story that's too important to be left out). I reward this movie with an 8/10. "},{"Title":"To the actors of Kal-ee-for-nee-a, I say...","Date":"30 October 2003","Score":"42 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Nicely done! (pardon my Arnold Schwarzenegger)...This movie was completely ignored when released back in '93, and that's a shame.  It's a great, suspenseful two hour road-trip that certainly opened my eyes to see that Brad Pitt was indeed an actor.  He looks like he took took the 'method-acting' thing seriously, as with his appearance in TRUE ROMANCE, I doubt he took even one shower in 1992.Duchovny & Forbes were also fine as the normal half of this ride share from hell, but I'm guessing Juliette Lewis' naive jailbait turned off a few people (see NBK or CAPE FEAR for further proof).  Just ignore her grating & whiny delivery, and go along for the wild ride all the way to KALIFORNIA.  "},{"Title":"Between the huge flaws are some huge talents, and amazing moments","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"20 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Kalifornia (1993)Juliet Lewis rules on this one, and Brad Pitt is right behind. The two of them make one of the most memorable outlaw couples ever, believe it or not. Lewis is the clueless girlfriend, willingly abused by Pitt, the knee-jerk killer. The two have to leave the state and they get a ride in a big old convertible with another couple, smart and styling and at first disdainful of this hick pair they are suddenly driving cross country with.This could have been a great movie, a classic. Lewis and Pitt are so convincing, and so original, really, playing with humor and without grandiose notions, which inflate so many other films. Individually they carve out chilling, and yet also warm, pictures of who they are, real people, and unexpected ones. The mannerisms that Lewis pulls out in every scene, her dumb looks, her surprise, this is all virtuosic. What drags them down is the other couple. David Duchovny is especially wooden. You can feel him wanting us to think he's a likable, even-keeled, handsome hunk. But he's just plain dull, and he is ostensibly the main character. It's his voice that comes in like a bad bad film noir narrator now and then, giving some perspective to the events. It's unnecessary monologue, to boot, and straight out of screen writing 101. For some reason Duchovny's character, a struggling writer working on a book about psycho killers, is given the most mundane and overused lines. His girlfriend, a slightly touch looking photographer played by Michelle Forbes, has to work through her part at first, but eventually comes into her own, with knowing glances and a growing sense of fear.The other true star, beyond Pitt and Lewis, is the cameraman, Bojan Bazelli, working with some great sets and with a director who sets him free. In some scenes, the arrangement of characters just talking, is filled with such space and layer and light, or with such audacious rain, you want them to hold it longer so you can get it all. For all the ugly things that happen, this is a beautiful movie. The director? Dominic Sena, a music video shooter. That's probably why it looked so good and had some stumbles in the bigger vision.If you go into this expecting something profound, forget about it. But the two performances are worth the admission alone, and even though it gets increasingly violent, which I'm not into, it gets increasingly interesting and gripping as it goes. The set up in the first half hour is groaningly bad at times, but once the four of them hit the road, look out. "},{"Title":"Kalifornia - Dark diamonds in the rough","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Kalifornia came out in 1993, just as 3 of the 4 lead characters were up and coming to the levels of fame they now possess in 2006. This is a nice psycho-thriller that should appeal to all David Duchovny fans because of his dry and intelligent narratives that find their ways into his work, like with most of his episodes of the X-Files, Playing God, and Red Shoe Diaries.People who were put off by the heavy southern accent from Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis' characters obviously have never spent much time in the south. For every Brian and Carrie in the south, there is an Adele and Early and in 2006, that's the real horror of this flick.Aside from that, I think the film was written with a cult film intention - like with Carrie's photography, it's not suitable for mass consumption. But if you have a copy of this in your personal library, I think it says something positive about your tastes for freaky movies. "},{"Title":"A disturbing and intriguing film.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"27 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Kalifornia is the story of a writer and his girlfriend photographer who are looking for someone to help pay gas money and take turns at the wheel for a cross country road trip to famous murder sights.  Ironically a serial killer and his girlfriend answer the post.  Kalifornia is a diamond in the rough and a very intriguing journey with a serial killer.  Great performances all around by the leads with Pitt in particular being exceptional.  Check it out!! "},{"Title":"a dark and disturbing psychological thriller.","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"28 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  it's amazing that so many people that i know haven't seen this little gem. everybody i have turned on to it have come back with the same reaction WHAT A GREAT MOVIE!!i've never much cared for Brad Pitt (though his turns in 12 monkeys and Fight Club show improvement) but his performance in this film as a psycho is unnerving, dark and right on target.everyone else in the film gives excellent performances and the movie's slow and deliberate pacing greatly enhance the proceedings. the sense of dread for the characters keeps increasing as they come to realize what has been really happening.the only thing that keeps this from a 10 in my book, is that compared to what came before it, the ending is a bit too long and overblown. but that's the only flaw i could find in this cult classic.if you check this film out, try to get the letterboxed unrated director's cut for the best viewing option.rating9 "}{"Title":"Kalifornia with a capital K","Date":"22 February 2002","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I just got done watching Kalifornia on Showtime for the fourth time since I first saw it back in July of 2001.  You would think that with the recent wave of serial killer films, that Kalifornia would be amongst some of the earlier films worthy of mention but hasn't.  Perhaps if this film had been released sometime between like 1996-1999, maybe it might have been more successful.  In my opinion, Kalifornia is much different from most serial killer films released during the late 1990s.  It has an almost completely different atmosphere from most of today's serial killer films like Seven or The Bone Collector.  Many serial killer films have shown a killer but that person is always behind a mask or we never see enough of them to actually learn anything about them.  Kalifornia is a film that actually tries to break through that barrier and actually understand the criminal mind.  It tries to answer questions like why do they do the things they do?  Is it because of something that happened in their past?  Does it make them feel superior or powerful?  Or do they do it because they like the thrill of the kill?  These are some of the things that Kalifornia tries to answer but also leaves room for us to try and figure things out for ourselves.  Brad Pitt makes an everlasting impression as Early Grayce.  When we first meet Early in the beginning of the film, we see that he is obviously one disturbed individual.  When we first see him, it's late at night.  Early is possibly drunk.  We then see him pick up a rock, throw it off a bridge, and it later lands on the windshield of a passing car.  Pitt is fierce in this film.  It is always good to see him when he plays psychos or really bad people.  It's funny that this would later lead him play a true loon like in 12 Monkeys and that he would be on the other end of the spectrum in David Fincher's Seven. "},{"Title":"Gripping and disturbing.","Date":"25 September 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I had seen this film many years ago and it had made a lasting impression on me. Alas, I have hardened to many films over the years and did not expect to be impressed by 'Kalifornia' upon watching again recently. I am pleased to say that it is every bit as unnerving and watchable as it was ten or so years ago.There are two things which really give this movie its power. The first is its cast. We have a staggeringly disturbing turn by a young Brad Pitt as Early Grace. Knowing Pitt, as we all do, as one of the most enduring heart-throbs Hollywood has ever had, it is refreshing to see him play such a vile, unattractive character. Pitt pulls the show off without resorting to white-trash cliché or parody, and manages to remain genuinely terrifying throughout the movie.Juliette Lewis is equally impressive as Grace's tragic girlfriend, playing the character like a ten year old girl with a forty year old's life experience. Lewis manages to evoke pity (for her character's station in life) as well as contempt (for her naivety), but she underpins her performance with the kind of subtlety rarely seen by an actor so young. Personally, I think it's a tragedy that neither Pitt nor Lewis were nominated for any awards for their performances here.David Duchovony and Michelle Forbes are both perfectly cast as the yuppy couple who unwittingly end up travelling across the US with Pitt and Lewis. Duchovony is aptly geeky and naive, and Forbes seems emphatically cynical and shut-off, but both actors manage to convincingly portray their characters' changes as they are equally intrigued, repulsed and strangely attracted to Pitt.The fine casting and uniformly brilliant acting aside, this film really grabs us by the proverbial balls through its flawless pacing. At the time 'Kalifornia' was released, Hollywood was releasing a slew of nice-character-turns-out-to-be-psychotic movies ('Single White Female', 'Pacific Heights', 'The Hand That Rocks The Cradle', 'Deceived', 'Sleeping With The Enemy' etc). Most of these movies followed the same formula, the only variation being the nature of the relationship between good guy and bad guy. 'Kalifornia' doesn't really stray too far from this territory, but its first two acts are the perfect example of the slow-boil thriller, and we are kept on the very edge of our seats waiting for the tide to turn.When the penny does drop, and Pitt is let loose to play the maniacal bad guy, the film shifts gears completely and the last twenty minutes don't quite live up to rest of the movie. That said, the action is thick and fast and the resolution is suitable cold. The fight is over, but the scars will always be there.Much of the narration (provided by a somewhat whiny, pre X-files Duchovony) is a tad contrived. Of course, it's meant to be from the book the Duchovony's journalist character has written, so one could argue that the self-conscious narration is meant to be a nod to the kind of sensationalised style in which most journalists write.The film is largely a success and is certainly a cut above 90% of the thrillers of the past twenty years. Highly recommended, but not for the weak of stomach or mind. This film is disturbing on more than one level. But then, it's meant to be. "},{"Title":"Fascinated With Amorality","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" In 1990 Brad Pitt and Juiliette Lewis did a TV Too Young To Die where both played the almost the same kind of parts that they do in Kalifornia. I have no doubt that is what led to their casting in this big screen film.Kalifornia finds aspiring writer David Duchovny and his girl friend, art photographer Michelle Forbes on a rocky relationship of sorts due to Duchovny's obsession with writing a book and getting in the minds and souls of serial killers. In fact he's got a most unusual odyssey planned, he wants to go cross country and visit the sites of several famous serial killers. But he and Forbes are flat broke.Fate intervenes in more ways than financial with the arrival of Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis a pair of strange southern types who agree to split the cost of gas on this cross country trip. It turns out Pitt is a serial killer himself and he decides to do a little research on his own, delving into the mind of someone who is fascinated with amorality.Kalifornia is not the type of film I usually go for, but in fact the acting ability and charisma of Brad Pitt make it work to a large degree. Pitt is the walking definition of an inbred Gothic refugee from Deliverance. But better than he is is Juliette Lewis who once again is playing these low self esteem types which she seems to do well. Watch her scene with Forbes as she does her hair and Lewis describes her sad and pathetic life. Lewis's dialog and Forbes's reactions ought to be shown in acting classes around the country.For those who like their slasher flicks, they don't come better than Kalifornia. "},{"Title":"quite satisfying","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I bought this a while ago but somehow neglected to watch it until last night. I do like Juliette Lewis although I'm indifferent to Brad Pitt. After this viewing I have to admit he's a perfectly fine actor - his character was entirely believable, and I didn't think Brad Pitt at all.Unfortunately I can't say the same for David Duchovny. I'm an X-Files fan and I had to look twice to confirm the date of this movie, as I'd thought it was made a few years later. I like Duchovny but found his character a little two-dimensional here, except where he's doing voice-overs. That part was strong, seemed in character, good intonation, etc. Otherwise I kept thinking Agent Mulder, which is a pity.Michelle Forbes was a treat. Why haven't I noticed her before? (I'll be looking up to see what other roles she's done and seeing those asap) I am slightly concerned about stereotyping re Lewis, this film, and Natural Born Killers (a firm favourite). Interesting though to see a contrast of characters - in NBK she's a willing accomplice, whereas here she abhors the violence and tries very hard not to acknowledge Early's dark side until it's thrust in her face.I enjoyed this film almost unreservedly. Apart from Duchovny's character not seeming fully-formed (and perhaps being washed out somewhat by Pitt's), it was perfect. I was also pleased with the ending - glad that the innocent heroes did not die, yet they had to suffer first. It was realistic, tense, disturbing.If you like NBK you may well like this movie, and vice-versa. "},{"Title":"Good start, good acting, but it loses its way","Date":"7 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Marvellous cat-and-mouse game between Duchovny and Pitt/Lewis.  And, the chemistry between Pitt and Lewis is sizzling.  And, their characters are fairly involving.  But, once the table is set, the director totally loses it and is far more interested in deluging us with nightmarish scenes in a sort of Bergman-meets-Tarrentino pastiche.  From this point on, the plot takes a back seat to constant reinforcement of the horrible nature of Pitt and Lewis' deadly spree.  And, it all gets repetitious rather quickly.  So good performances and intrigue are wasted. "},{"Title":"This may contain spoilers.","Date":"28 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Kalifornia is a movie about lost ideals. A journey on the darkest road ever. The road of no return. The plot is about a couple that set out to find a better life in California. The man (David Duchovny in his best role up to now) wants to write a book about the famous crimes that have happened in America and his girl - who is a photographer - is going to take the pictures. So they set out on a trail of famous murders not knowing what awaits them on the way. To share the journey expenses they decide to find another couple and they put an ad. But the couple that answers it is not just ANY couple. It is one of the strangest couples ever. The girl is a naive, frail creature that dreams a lot and loves cactuses. The man is exactly the opposite. A cruel ruthless murderer. We learn that early in the film and we follow him along the journey to Kalifornia (not with C as usual, but with K, presumably symbolizing the word killer), along his journey of betrayal, murder and finally defeat. All the leads, Duchovny, Pitt, Lewis and Forbes give really good performances and you have to take into consideration that when  this movie was filmed not even one of them was a star. The photography is amazing, with darkness covering the greatest parts of the movie, and the music suits the dark character of the film. On the whole this is a really good movie. Don't miss it. You'll think again before taking some stranger in your car to share the gas with! "},{"Title":"Technically good, but astonishingly exploitative.  (MINOR SPOILERS WITHIN)","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Kalifornia showcases a lot of talent on the part of the director and his cast; but some (and I would be one of them) might argue that this obvious talent would be in vain if the audience are disgruntled by the insensitive treatment of the film's subject matter.In my eyes the film seemed to be needlessly sensationalist, recycling often heard snippets of serial killer lore and dressing them up as insightful social commentary. I never found Early and Adele to be interesting characters, merely stereotypical members of the underclass (this the film cheerfully admits) with the characteristic dynamics of serial killer relationships grafted on rather crudely. One imagines that the producers thought they were being oh-so ironic and incisive by covering events from a journalistic pretext. They weren't, they were just doing what numerous movies have tried to do before or since, the most notorious of them to approach from this angle being Natural Born Killers, also starring Juliette Lewis. Oh, how wonderfully intertextual... (sigh)As a useful method of creating instantly disturbing films, exploring the serial killer subject seems to work well. The film might only leave a good and lasting impression however if the makers have something original to say, instead of producing a composite of a hundred other such films and attempting to disguise the plagiarism with the aid of a talented and popular young cast.This film gave notice that Pitt can actually act, but it's hardly one of his most polished (or subtle) performances. Lewis is good, but as with most things in this movie, many of her mannerisms are ones which we have seen her employ once before (in Scorsese's barely better Cape Fear) Of the other 'names' in the cast, Duchovny is adequate, but with nary a note of embellishment in his performance.The balance between the two relationships that the movie explored I also found uneasy. Forbes and Lewis play their scenes together perfectly, providing the movie with one of its only plus points. Instead of intelligent dialogue used to dissect the relationship between Brian and Early, what we get is them being thrown into a bar room brawl and suddenly appearing to 'bond'. Amateur psychology if ever I saw it...There were more instances like this where the film struggled to convince me it was 'genuine'. This flaw could perhaps be overlooked in a mindless action film, the purpose of which was just to entertain, but it ultimately becomes Kalifornia's biggest downfall. For, if this was just an exercise in entertainment, who in the world thought that such a dark treatment could be entertaining? If however, as I suspect, it was trying to compete with the 'big boys' of the genre, it's left glaringly exposed by a lack of true feeling for its subject that transmits itself to the audience. I feel that the film-maker's genuinely didn't want to provoke reflection or debate, they just wanted to pore over the gory details; much like Brian Kessler, the main character, does in the film. "},{"Title":"Scary and good","Date":"8 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" It was a good movie, but also scary, because there are people like that serial killer Early Grayce (Brad Pitt). It started out, when Brian Kissler (David Duchavny)placed a flier on a Pennsylvania state College bulletin, about someone going to Kalifornia (California) with him and his girlfriend Carrie (Michelle Forbes). The serial killer Grayce saw that ad on his way to an interview for the janitorial position there. Grayce quickly answered the call. Kissler took him and his girlfriend Adele (Juliette Lewis)in. Carrie was not thrilled about picking up those two without doing a background check. Soon dead bodies start popping up. Will any or all of three heading to California become murder victims themselves? Watch it to find out! "},{"Title":"Brad Pitt stand out performance","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Brian Kessler (David Duchovny) writes true crime stories. His girlfriend Carrie Laughlin (Michelle Forbes) is an edgy photographer. They consider themselves liberals and decide to drive cross-country visiting crime sites. Sharing the ride to California are criminal type Early Grayce (Brad Pitt) on parole, and his waitress girlfriend Adele (Juliette Lewis).Juliette Lewis is playing her traditional flaky white trash girl. David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes are playing straight characters. Brad Pitt plays the more volatile unstable Early. It's Pitt's performance that stands out. It's his best early work. Lewis' innate innocence actually raises the tension. Everybody does good work here. It's a tense suspenseful thriller that we know will come to no good. "},{"Title":"Almost as good as  Seven . Brad Pitt before his usual bigger roles, surprisingly good...","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Don't avoid this film if you think it's just another violent gore fest with no story behind it. Directed by now famous Dominic Sena, this film is shown on IFC channel quite often and is worth seeing more than once.Naturally the fact that Juliette Lewis was in this and also Natural Born Killers (see my review on that one also) as she plays a lost rag doll, poor from Kentucky; accompanying boyfriend Brad Pitt Early Grace- classic character who has many twists.Michelle Forbes is also good here as Carrie and Brian are trying to start a new life, move to California where her edgy photography is more appreciated and Brian can write his serial killer book. The research is done on their road trip, two couples, one looking to escape, one looking to start over. Good concept.Each area they visit is named to some degree after the players, (There is no Forbes, Tennessee or Mt. Juliet, TX) But the atmosphere and simmering violence are just below the surface. Anyone who has traveled cross country America will feel it.As they get further west the violence escalates. Juliette Lewis is, while playing a virtual learning disabled discard, believable here in a scary and sociopath's way. Pitt is good as the volatile and damaged Early Grace.Even David Duchovny, usually superficial and typecast by now, has a good role here as a writer trying to discern the why of serial killers....Is it a reason, or are they just evil?.Anyone interested in the subject matter may also want to watch the series Most Evil On Investigation Discovery, where Dr. Park Dietz describes the fact of sociopaths, they do not live life as it is but how THEY truly see it.This film depicts cross country America through the view of the serial killer...It is as good as the film Seven, The classic suspense directed by David Fincher, also starring Pitt and Morgan Freeman. A must see. 9/10. "}{"Title":"How are you going to write a book about something you know nothing about?","Date":"6 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Kalifornia (1993 which is a road movie that turns into gripping, chilling disturbing, darkly funny thriller, focuses on four main characters. Two East Coast intellectuals, Brian, an aspiring writer who is researching the materials for the book on the famous American serial murderers (David Duchovny) and his girlfriend Carrie (Michelle Forbes), a photographer whose inspiration could've been the works of Robert Mapplethorpe, take a car trip from coat to coast to visit the famous murder sites. There is another young couple in the car with them, their complete opposites in any way imaginable, Early Grace, out on parole (Brad Pitt) and his girlfriend Adele with the mentality, outlook, mannerism, and one and only Alabama accent that Forrest Gump made so memorable. The dark irony is in the fact that while visiting the the sites famous for the gruesome and terrifying murders committed by infamous serial killers, Brain and Carrie don't realize that the man who shares their car is in reality a serial killer himself.While watching it I kept thinking what took me so long to see it and how could I miss it in the first place. Kalifornia, the first feature from Dominic Sena (and certainly the best he has made so far) is the film that overblown, overloaded and heavy Natural Born Killers wanted to be but never was. Both films explore the similar themes, and Juliet Lewis stars in both. Unlike Oliver Stone's movie, Kalifornia tells a lot about nature of mass murderers and the interest and fascination with the them but it never glorifies them. I saw it for the first time couple of days ago, and I could not take my eyes off the screen even though it was difficult to watch at times. I always knew that Brad Pitt was much more than sex symbol but I did not expect him to be THAT good playing a white -trash psychopath mass murderer with very short temper, perverse sense of humor, and undeniable charisma. That's how Brian describes Early, The man who lived in the moment. He did whatever he wanted whenever he wanted. I don't know if I was fascinated or frightened by him. Early Grace is one of the best performances by Brad Pitt which he gave in this often overlooked but brilliant movie in 1993. Juliet Lewis was also very believable as a childishly naive young woman in denial of the obvious vicious signs in her tough boyfriend to whom she had turned after tragedy in her teenage years. "},{"Title":"A hard hitting and disturbing thriller with a nicely done climax","Date":"29 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" when i saw the trailer of this movie i was really interested in watching it . It seemed perfect . The plot sounded amazing, seemed like a promising psychological thriller and it had Brad Pitt in it. But the only thing that works for this film is Pitt . He is simply terrific playing a cold blooded serial killer who lives in a world of his own and has little concern about other people. His creepy look is superb. A writer(Brian) investigating the lives of serial killer for his new book with his girlfriend(Carrie) ends up with serial killer Early Grace(Brad Pitt) and Early's girlfriend Adele(Juliette Lewis) who is a retard. They are on a road trip to California , a place where all dreams come true , through the places where Americas infamous murders took place by century's most prominent serial killers. The film begins on a very promising note with a nice narration but somehow loses it during course of the movie. It strives to capture the mindset of a killer but sadly isn't very successful there too.It has a lot of nudity and some very disturbing scenes . It gets quite boring at parts where you start wondering what went wrong. But to compensate for all this it as a beautifully done climax. Watch it for Brad Pitt and his mind blowing performance. "},{"Title":"Gritty, Disturbing, and Brilliantly Acted","Date":"7 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I saw this movie back in '96 around the time of The X-Files and I was (still am) a David Duchovny fan. I was absolutely startled and in awe of the sheer terror of this film and blown away by Brad Pitt's performance. David Duchovny plays Brian, a struggling journalist writing a book about serial killers and their victims. He lives with his art photographer girlfriend, Carrie (Michelle Forbes), and both decide to take a trip to California to document and research the book. Unable to afford the gas and lodging Brian puts up an ad to get travel companions to share the costs. Unfortunately the ad is answered by white-trailer trash Early Grayce (Brad Pitt) and his child-like girlfriend, Adele (Juliette Lewis). As the trip goes on, Carrie becomes increasingly suspicious of Early and has every right to be. Early is a sociopathic, dirty serial killer leaving a trail of bodies along the way and under the noses of Brian, Carrie, and Adele. The film builds up with increasing speed to a violent and frightening climax that has our two characters, Brian & Carrie along for a ride to hell. There is a moment in the film when Brian asks Early why he kills and Early never answers and continues to toy with Brian. Brad Pitt, an actor who continues to sacrifice his good looks for the grittiest of roles and although Duchovny is a good actor, Pitt can act circles around him. He is so frightening and the nightmare for any woman. Early is unyielding and unflinchingly real. We see what really makes his character tick and how he reacts to his violent urges. Earlier in the beginning of the film we see his treatment towards Adele he controls her with violence and tenderness. Adele who is touchingly played by Juliette Lewis is vulnerable, naive, uneducated, and a true victim of men's violence. Adele is the victim that Brian fails to notice. It is also startling to see her in this film and that a year later she would portray a violent female prototype in Natural Born Killers. Michelle Forbes' Carrie is the opposite of the naive Adele. She is liberated, educated, and not at all blind to the brutal animal that Early is. Carrie is the true observer compared to the optimistic and analytical Brian. I was more in tuned to Carrie's character and I was fascinated by the compare and contrast of Carrie and Adele from a feminist perspective. By the end of the film, Carrie becomes the victim to Early's violent nature and Adele while meeting a tragic end becomes strong and stands up to Early no longer blind by her own naiveté. Kalifornia is quite the psychological character study. "},{"Title":"I just took a dump, it's wall to wall stink in there. Dark psychological serial killer thriller.","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Kalifornia starts in Pensylvania where serial killer expert & author Brian Kessler (David Duchovny) decides to gain inspiration for his current book by taking a road trip through Arkansas & Texas to California with his photographer girlfriend Carrie (Michelle Forbes) stopping off at the sites of famous murders along the way. Low on money & gas Brian advertises for a couple to go with them & share the expenses, the advert is answered by real life serial killer Early Grayce (Brad Pitt) & his child like girlfriend Adele (Juliette Lewis) who wants to escape the state because Early has killed his landlord. At first things go alright but as Early leaves a trial of bodies behind him Brian discovers the truth at which point instead of writing about serial killer victims he looks likely to end up as one...Directed by Dominic Sena & coming after The Silence of the Lambs (1991) but before Se7en (1995) this is another film to focus on America's morbid curiosity about serial killers & is a hard film to categorise, is it a drama, is it a thriller, is it a road trip film or is it a horror? I suppose it's all of those things, Kalifornia is an unconventional film with an interesting premise that works very well & draws you in but the script by Tim Metcalfe is a bit long & certain sections of the film run out of steam. The majority of the running time of Kalifornia is an absorbing & brilliantly written character study of a serial killer & an author who writes about them, it's a great concept that makes for a great film & I really enjoyed it. It's over an hour before Early is exposed as a serial killer & up to that point Kalifornia had been a bonding type film as two seemingly mismatched couples travel across the isolated desert highways, then it turns into a dark thriller as Early holds Brian & Carrie hostage at which point all the character development becomes worth it as you can really feel where all the character's are coming from, what they must be feeling & actually sympathise with them. The character of Adele is brilliantly written & portrayed as it Early with Brian & Carrie also excellently developed as people. However despite trying to be very clever & say something about the fascination we have with serial killers the film in the end offers very little in the way of motivation & doesn't really come to much, in fact the overriding feeling I got was that Early was a serial killer because he could be & because it felt good as he actually says at the end. Kalifornia is still a great film though, an absorbing, offbeat & fascinating film that I enjoyed although at almost two hours in length it's maybe a bit long, maybe not quite enough happens & I seriously doubt it's a film I'll ever want to see again despite liking it.Director Sena does a great job here & together with cinematographer Bojan Bazelli gives the film a really stylish look, the scenes in the rainy Pensylvania at the start are darkly lit by shafts of light & look very moody & atmospheric. The scenes of Brian & Carrie walking around the old factory as it pours down outside look wonderful, there are plenty of cool angles & shots & they give the film a really harsh isolated feel once it hits the desert. In short Kalifornia looks fabulous. It's not what I would call scary (although it can be chilling at times) & there's not too much violence, someone is stabbed in a toilet, there are a few gunshot wounds & Early is badly beaten at the end otherwise this is pretty tame. There's a couple of sex scenes as well although nothing anymore graphic than in other Hollywood flicks.With a supposed budget of about $9,000,000 this had a decent amount of money spent on it, it's certainly well made with good production values. The acting is superb from all involved & they really bring their character's to life with all sorts of little mannerisms so you actually care for them, Brad Pitt is fantastic in this & was paid $500,000 apparently & he is virtually unrecognisable under a thick beard & Southern accent before his role in another excellent serial killer film Se7en, Lewis is amazing while this was an early role for David Duchovny just before he played Agent Fox Mulder in the hit sci-fi series The X-Files (1993 - 2002), they all really carry the film & no-one else matters that much.Kalifornia is a great serial killer thriller, it's a little offbeat & maybe not for everyone but I found it both fascinating & absorbing with some terrific performances from the main cast & it's got bags of style too. Maybe a bit long & a bit slow at times but still great in my opinion & well worth a watch. "},{"Title":"Ode to The Badlands","Date":"12 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Kalifornia can be compared to Malick's '73 masterpiece The Badlands in several ways. First, it came out 20 years after. Second, its placed in the same kind of desolate surrounding. And third, it's about serial killers. David Duchovny plays a writer who is fascinated by serial killers and wants to get a better insight into them by visiting places where the most famous and most grizzly killings took place, places which have been made into a sort of mini-museums or historical amusement rides, which is a metaphor for American fascination with violence. Enter Brad Pitt in his scariest and perhaps best incarnation as EARLY GRAYCE.Pitt's performance is at once shocking, scary and pleasing because it's entertaining. It's like watching a mad dog or a hungry wolf running loose and you don't want him to get killed because he's too damn fascinating to watch. Pitt deserves all credit for that. Many have praised Juliette Lewis and Michelle Forbes over him and although they too help to bring the film to greater dramatic heights, it's Pitt that really steals the show. Duchovny is not as bad as many have pointed out, but in comparison to Pitt he is definitely upstaged.This is a film that just grows darker until the very end. It never gets dull. I don't know how realistic the ending is, but after so much killing amends had to be made. It's a Hollywood movie after all. Still, it deserves praise for making a compelling character study, with artistically satisfying results. Kalifornia is a dark classic and a semi-masterpiece which asks to be taken seriously. "},{"Title":"even among the most violent of us, there may have to be hope","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Having seen most of the rest of Brad Pitt's movies, Kalifornia really shocked me. Rarely have I seen a film so willing to show this kind of violence (but don't get me wrong, they don't go overboard with it).Brian (David Duchovny) and Carrie (Michelle Forbes) play a couple who decide to go on a road trip to see famous murder sites, and they want people to accompany them. So, white trash couple Earley (Brad Pitt) and Adele (Juliette Lewis) join up with them. But as it turns out, Earley doesn't give a second thought about killing people. He's like Alex the Droog in the sense of almost taking pleasure in committing the most vicious acts. And when they take up in the house of a nuclear physicist, everything takes a turn for the ugliest.Though Earley one of the nastiest individuals whom you could ever imagine, you can't help but admire something about him. Maybe how he always knows how to take control of a situation (albeit through coercion). Truth be told, Brian comes across as a wimp. Meanwhile, the women seem more like conduits for the plot.But overall, I really liked the movie. Granted, this is not one for the fainthearted (unless the fainthearted in question are masochists). Otherwise, I recommend it. "},{"Title":"Brad and Juliette were quite good, unfortunately the movie itself was quite bad","Date":"17 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" For a start the writers needed to look up the definition of serial killer before they started because the main character that is referred to in all the bi-lines and plot summaries may be a murderous psychopath but he is not a serial killer. Killing more than one person does not make one a serial killer. Serial killers are driven by an obsessive psychotic fixation and kill people that tend to share specific characteristics, which may be physical, social, etc. Since there were two writers you would think at least one should know what he's talking about but unfortunately usually the more the writers in Hollywood the greater chance it's going to be bad. They were efficient in this movie, they were able to make a bad script with only two. It's not really nitpicking when discussing definitions because the basic ignorance of the writers also shows through in way too many other poorly conceived clichés and weak character motivations. It's a real shame really, because both Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis are excellent in their roles and they were the only reasons I was able to watch it through. But this lazy script and contrived story insults the performances and badly wastes their talent.I liked David Duchovny in the X Files and really wanted him to have the substance and material to succeed on the big screen but either he unfortunately just doesn't translate well and/or has not gotten the script that'll be his break through role. He's passable here but his performance appears particularly flat and meek when he shares the screen with Brad, who really captured the red neck/trailer trash creep.On the other hand, the character Michele Forbes played was not passable, and rather irritating. You know you're watching a film made from a poorly contrived script and a not particularly substantive performance whenever the female lead expresses herself strongly she always resorts to bitching. Since when is complaining a character strength? A strong character, male or female, needs to use intelligence and some semblance of emotional control to not only be likable but believable as someone capable. The cliché Hollywood, reflected way too often in this screenplay, almost always draws strong female leads as two dimensional at best, usually cutesy girls who think their physical appearance and using emotional blackmail whenever they need to really express themselves is enough. Maybe it's not solely the script to blame here, Juliette Lewis is superb here and her role in the hands of a lesser actress might have been as annoying as Ms. Forbes.No point in listing spoilers to demonstrate how silly and not very credible the story is, just suffice it to say that it would be nice if Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis get opportunities to work their acting chops on the characters they created in a substantially better film, because they're sadly wasted in this dog.6 stars and every one of them are for the excellent Mr. Pitt and Ms. Lewis. "},{"Title":"gritty noir-cum-western, with some deceptively brilliant acting","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Kalifornia could have been just a rote exercise in serial killer self-consciousness, but director Dominic Sena doesn't allow the material to dip too far into much contrivance past some given conventions. It's a lot smarter than one might expect given its 'B-movie' premise, but it has as much to say in a smaller respect as Natural Born Killers did a year later in how the consciousness of a serial killer works (if, of course, not with the same wicked hyperactivity, satire or deranged and ambitious as Stone went with it). Brad Pitt plays Earl, a stone cold killer and just all around trailer-trash slug with a scraggly beard and a beer usually in his hand. At first he, much like Juliette Lewis, seem one-note and not without much to present. They're hicks, right out of a trailer that isn't paid off and less than 100 IQ points between them. But as the movie goes along there's actually a lot more going on it takes a lot of guts to stick this truthfully to the parts (albeit Lewis's role does veer into just being retarded), and there's an air of uncomfortably that the audience has when every time Earl pops up on screen. With his snarl and loogie hock-up and confederate cap on, Pitt digs in (sometimes hysterically) much like he would in his role as Jeffrey in Twelve Monkeys, and it's a pure showcase for him shedding away star power and digging into the sort of nothingness that pervades his free-will.There's other strengths to the film, to be sure, than just Pitt and Lewis. Duchovney, as a writer tracking down serial killer sites across the southern US, gives a kind of immediate pre-cursor performance for the X-Files, if meaning here to also be a bit of a yuppie, and Forbes is equally good (if, ironically, without as much range as her hick character counterparts) as a photographer with a strong moral center past all the artsy photos. Sena, through the writers, also strongly leads ahead the road movie as it should, with the road and its locations acting as other characters. The ambiance is downright malicious at times, going between abandoned farms and butcher-rooms, gas stations and motel rooms with enough dirt to kick up a storm, and even a nuclear test site with mannequins still lined up in one of the houses. Only a stop off at some house in the second half with two old folks- one of whom doesn't quite know when to look away from the telescope until it's too late- doesn't feel quite right in the narrative, even as it's a must-have scene for the plot.There's a tendency in serial killer movies to make it simply about the investigation of the killer by professional detectives or criminal psychologists in the film (and coincidentally enough Pitt co-starred in Se7en, the first of these kinds of films), and the real meat and bones of the villains are lost. Knowing that Earl is scum from the start, and peculiarly enough from Brian's own narration (a bit of a spoiler but pay it no mind) makes it more fascinating than usual, especially since his girl Adele is nearly the opposite of him when it comes to making choices he doesn't think about what he does, and she doesn't think about what she doesn't do. And the physical presences of the actors, the more urban Brian and Carrie and the rural Earl and Adele, add to the tension right away. The edginess can't be all from the actors though, no matter how much they try in getting into their roles, which is why director Sena's work here matters as much as it does. Through the material he maneuvers out the better parts of a neo-noir and a B-western, going between all kinds of settings and wavering between hot sex and gruesome (and gruesomely indifferent) violence. Only the climax, inevitably so, comes around to being typical of mano-a-mano logic.It's the kind of flick that will pop up time to time on Cinemax late at night, with Pitt's occasional Kubrick stare a good little jolt to have right then. It's thought provoking and with a solid message, but also creepy and funny as a genre picture. A shame Sena hasn't done better since. A- "},{"Title":"First two acts were great, but the third let it down. Badly.","Date":"21 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  For its first 90 minutes or so, Kalifornia looked to be one of the best character studies ever committed to film. I was almost breathless in admiration to as how the filmmakers had captured so vividly the social and mental divides, summing to a world of difference, between the two couples sharing a road trip with the theme that united them being serial killing. And then in the last thirty minutes, it's as if they let Beavis and Butthead write and direct. I have never seen a film promise so much and deliver so moronic, so idiotic, so bitterly disappointing a finale. Imagine if The Godfather was true to Francis Ford Coppola's vision for the first 2 1/2 hours ... and then the Corleone family morphed into super cyber soldiers and flew around the city with jetpacks and machine-guns, shooting all the rival families and then blowing up the White House and declaring themselves rulers of the world. It's that stupid. Don't say you weren't warned. "},{"Title":"Unintentional dark comedy","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Kalifornia will forever be filed away and dismissed by most critics (who take themselves and film too seriously) as a genre film about serial killers, a theme explored and re-explored in the retro-centric 1990's. What these cynical viewers are missing when it comes to this particular film, though, is the simplistic elements of dark humor and irony. The surprise of Kalifornia (after repeated viewings) is the discovery that this film is actually a device of dark comedy, complete with stereotypes of yuppies and white trash and the underlying terror that one of these archetypes (white trash Early, played by Brad Pitt) is a mass murderer.In a society and culture of passive movie-goers who mass-consume stories about murder and crime (OJ Simpson court tv trial, i.e.) like cheap boxes of cereal, Kalifornia could be at first catagorized as just one more film about kooks who murder for thrills. What this movie actually is, rather, is an experiment of terror, mixed in with social commentary about class structure and the deep-rooted psychological nature of the mass murderer.This dark road story succeeds at pulling in fans of the serial killer genre, but more intriguing than the violence and actual killing depicted in the plot, are the unexpected mixture of unlikely characters who interact and make discoveries, revelations really, about yuppie psychology verses poor white trash psychology verses pyschopathic killer psychology.Yuppie intellectuals, Brian, (David Duchovny) and Carrie (Michelle Forbes) make plans to travel cross-country. The destination - California-bound. The theme of their road trip is a somewhat pretentious one - to visit, experience,  and photograph landmark sites where legendary murders took place. Plans to write an illustrated book about mass murders is the ultimate objective.  To save on expences, the couple advertises for travelling partners. Brian and Carrie get more than they bargained for when they end up with white trash couple Early Grayce (Brad Pitt)and Adele(Juliett Lewis).The fascinating part of the plot is the interraction between the contrasting couples. While Brian and Carrie are stylish, intellectual snobs, Early and Adele are crude, simple-minded survivors. The culture clash that exists and raises it's very ugly head is certain to reach a horrific climax. The audience can feel the danger heating up, for these travelers are as opposite of each other as night and day. One particular(and well hidden) fact is - one of the travelers is a certified mass murder! What irony, what coincidence!We see the unfolding events from Brian's vantage point. His narrative voice-over tries to make rhyme and reason of the psychopath killer mindset what makes it tick, how the killer's psyche evolves to such anti-social proportions. All the while Early is along for the ride,(ironically) his own identity is ignored, dismissed. It doesn't occur to Brain - until too late- that one of his travelling partners is a prime source of study. This irony is deeply disturbing, scary and yet humorous, for if it weren't for the snobbish pretentiousness of Brian and Carrie, we get the feeling they wouldn't have wound up in this horrific predicament in the first place! (It makes you want to yell at the screen, Pull your heads out of your asses and take a look at the real world!)Juliett Lewis' character has been described as mentally retarded, dim-witted, stupid. I see Adele as an innocent, needy, victim who is unsure of the world, her own boundaries and what is acceptable and otherwise. She is goofy, insecure and absolutely dependent on Early's leadership and approval. One of the most touching parts of the film occur when Adele and carrie bond, with Carrie helping Adele cut her hair to look like her own hair, a stylish precise modern bob. Adele reveals to carrie that she has a history of being a victim - how she was raped by three men and how Early had protected her, made her feel safe. Also revealed in this female bonding session - Juliette reveals to that Early is physically abusive to her. But only when I deserve it, she blurts out as an attempt to rationalize his brutality. Juliett looks up to Carrie, admires her like an older smarter sister, and is thankful for the hair cut. It looks real professional, she tells her newfound friend.While Adele and Carrie share a special moment, Early and Brian go out for a night of pool playing and beer drinking. Early reveals an eery part of his psyche to Brian, how he had, on occasion,  experienced doors that open to another dimension. This is the only time we are witness to explanations for Early's mentality, why he is so ruthless, filled with a lack of humanity. Early is not in sync with the real world, he is an alienated, under-educated sociopath without any emotinal linkage to the rest of human kind. Just as we are ready to fear Early and suspect he might hurt Brian, he surprises us by defending and ultimately beating to a pulp a drunk biker bar patron who questions Brian on his sexual orientation. Early is a hero, but still the quick-to-the-point violence utilized in putting down the attacker is disturbing, revealing, foreshadowing.Slowly but surely, Brian and Carrie begin to suspect their traveling partners and their true identities as possibly dangerous. The revelation is made when violence erupts and Early makes ruthless killings. The road trip now becomes a truly sick joke of the most terrifying kind. The pretention comes to a halt, real life takes over and the results are tragic.  "}{"Title":"More of a drama then a thriller.","Date":"27 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  **** = A masterpiece to be recorded in the books and never forgotten***1/2 = A classic in time; simply a must see*** = A solid, worth-while, very entertaining piece**1/2 = A good movie, but there are some uneven elements or noticeable flaws** = May still be considered good in areas, but this work has either serious issues or is restrained by inevitable elements deemed inescapable (e.g., genre)*1/2 = Mostly a heap of nothing sparked by mildly worthwhile momentsBOMB = Not of a viewable quality- Kalifornia = ***- Unrated (for strong violent material, considerable sexuality, and language)I rented this film expecting an in-your-face summer-Blockbuster-quality celebration of Brad Pitt's face, but was happily surprised and disappointed.  This really is more of a drama, and very grim at that... I remember some emotionally intense Duchovny voice-overs.Pitt plays out his possibly un-sexiest film ever with startling talent.  Who started out as a hopeless yet harmless white trash husband became realized as a violent, disturbing alcoholic with a messed mind.  During some of the latter stages in the film, I found it hard to keep watching him - he was unpredictable and scary.  This proves very good writing and acting.The whole movie is filled with bizarre, sensational scenes that made me hold my breath not fewer than once, and I don't mean action scenes.  I mean dialogue scenes so brilliantly crafted I actually winced and gasped at what I was seeing.  It was like watching a rhino and a lion put in a cage and watching as they gnawed each other to death.  Again, I am very impressed with the screenwriter(s); whoever they are did the impossible mixed oil and water.I also very much enjoyed Juliette Lewis's performance.  It is so rare for this talented young actress to make an appearance these days that when she does it is such a joy.  Some of her moments in this film brought me to tears.  I mean that.  The emotions this girl can arouse in your head are incredible, and I clearly remember getting blurry-eyed on a few occasions.I almost feel like I'm cheating the quality craftsmanship the film makers have displayed by only giving KALIFORNIA a *** rating.  But the dark feelings that it stirs are too potent and depressing to raise it.  I do believe that everyone should see this movie though.  I truly do. "},{"Title":"Saved by Juliette Lewis's performance","Date":"12 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Kalifornia is an entertaining serial killer movie, but what spoils it is the implication that the well off, middle class couple are the heroes, and Brad Pitt's working class, white trash character is the bad guy.  Not a patch on the similar Natural Born Killers, but Juliette Lewis's performance pushes it up a notch, as she is amazing as Pitt's naive girlfriend. "},{"Title":"Brad Pitt can act . wow.","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Before his angelina Jolie banging days , Bradf Pitt was actually a very good actor and to honest with you people here is the proof . His take on as a mentally unstable killer is GREAT !! and lets not forget the accent which was also great . Ms.Lewis also puts on a great performance as Pitt's rather disturbed girl-friend and David D shows us how good he was also before his X-files days . However the film has several flaws in it and i found my-self comparing it to natural born killers a bit and i found it also to be a bit tight and rushed in some places . I mean it would of been great if we could of been told how Early Grace came to be the madman that he was . All in all a weird and scary road trip into hell and i would recommend people to check it out . "},{"Title":"A slick trunkful of sleaze.","Date":"23 September 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Journalist and photographer wife embark on a car road trip for research on a planned book about serial killers; to cut down expenses they advertise for travel companions, only to end up with a white trash couple who, from the start, gives off all the wrong vibes...Nigthmarish road movie/thriller has flashy stars (Pitt is good but SO over the top) and is drenched in flamboyant, rock-video camera-work. But that can't cover up overall sheer unpleasantness and contrivance of THE coincidence of the set-up. It just also might be in retrospect of the plethora of TV series and movies to have come along in the same vein, that I eventually find the ride simply non-original and protracted, packed with a slick trunkful of sleaze. And think about it - Duchovny's voice-over narration gives away so much PLUS the very final outcome in advance! Where's the suspense in that?4 out of 10 from Ozjeppe "},{"Title":"Man Bites Dog","Date":"15 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" A film that follows a writer and his photographer wifes predictable journey into their low-life obsession with making fools out of the poor.The sophisticated couple seek to cleanly contextualize a psychopath and his simple teenage girlfriend as an artistic object for their peers approval, in this instance - into a book.Brad Pitt is strangely glamorous in this role, and David Decovney lacks charm. Yet I am not at all convinced with the unrealistic choice of partner for either man... And the films comeuppance is mere fluff.Apparently one of British advertising genius Charles Saatchi's favourites. "},{"Title":"Not quite as great as it could have been, but still very interesting","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Dominic Sena's feature debut was this film, Kalifornia, from 1993. It tells the story of two couples, which are very different together. David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes play a studying couple, which decides to get out of their university for a while and start to build their common project to write a book about serial killers and thus try to study the minds of those killers and their motivations. He would do the writing and she would take important photographs. Their plan is to visit the most famous murder scenes in America (and to end their trip to K/California, her long lasting dream place) and take pictures, make interviews etc. Only problem is that driving so much would cost too much money for them, so they have to get some financial help by taking another couple going to K/California (Pitt and Lewis) with them and thus share the costs. Soon something more than surprising and threatening is about to reveal about the identities of this mysterious Pitt/Lewis couple...No more about the plot. The film is about the psyche of serial killer, a person who is capable of killing another man without feeling any guilt or pain. The film tries to find some answers for that important question what differs us from those serial killers, and how someone is able to do such a horrible acts of violence. *minor spoiler ahead* The film ends in the Duchovny's character's conclusion that deep inside, there is no huge difference between normal people's abilities to kill and serial killers' abilities to do that. *no spoilers* A human being is a beast deep inside, we have instincts and things we don't like to talk about, it's only about what side of our nature is primary and what side is kept somewhere hiding and un-active. The film ends as the main protagonist is about to finish his job and has found some very dark sides of his own soul, too. The traumatic childhood is again one key reason for the birth of these disturbed minds, and the film tells once again the importance of safe and peaceful childhood. The main theme of Kalifornia is the psyche of human being, and many aspects of it. Whether we want it or not, admit it or not, what the film says about our many sides of nature are totally true, and the main character learns that in the most violent and nightmarish way.Technically this film is brilliant! Kalifornia is shot by Bojan Bazelli, a guy who has made many Ferrara films look as fantastic as they look, and the beginning of Kalifornia is almost as fantastic as the rain scene in King of New York, one of Abel Ferrara's most important films (which are plenty!). The beginning of Kalifornia is very intense and gorgeous looking and proves that this film is something very special. The photography is throughout the film very professional, and also the editing is as great as possible. Fantastic camera work once again, Bojan! The actors do wonderful jobs, too, and there are only couple of flaws I found in this film and these flaws make me give the film not as high rating as I wanted.First of all, I think that the characters are too shallow in some cases. For example, I don't think Duchovny's and Forbes' relationship is presented too warmly, even though they are meant to be in love and care about each other. There should've been more depth and love visible in their relationship. The one reviewer here (Mr. Rogers) said that the characters are very well built in this film, but somehow I think they are occasionally too shallow and have no depth and interest they should have. But at least the piano escape (!) scene at the end shows that there is caring between these two lovers..But still there should've been more between them, and also between other characters in the film. The other thing about the characters is, that occasionally they act very stupidly and like cliches that need not to be explained. The characters in Kalifornia are not as multi leveled and well built as they should have been. The other (minor) flaw in Kalifornia is that it runs slightly too long and there are scenes that are not too necessary and give nothing important to the film. But once the end scene comes, and we learn what kind of a conclusion Duchovny comes, the film is very rewarding and gives interesting philosophic thoughts, and I think a film this difficult to understand and for mainstream audiences to like, would not come out too easily from Hollywood these days, and that is very sad. All Hollywood seems to be able to do nowadays is stupid entertainment for pop corn loving people. But fortunately there are many exceptions, too.Usually these kind of films are not liked because of the content, violence and sex for instance. But gladly I can say that even though the violence is pretty disturbing (and the film had to be cut in order to get R rating), the violence is never too excessive or gratuitously brutal, and the scenes of violence are shown with taste and style. The one love making scene was, of course, too much for MPAA but nobody should be repelled for one sex scene, in my opinion. What I'm trying to say is, that even though the subject matter is serial killers, the imagery is not too rough and the film proves that director Sena has a sense of style and never wants just to shock the audience with blood and splatter and thus try to make the film noticeable.Kalifornia is very interesting and also rewarding film, and without those mentioned and pretty minor flaws, this would've get even higher rating from me. After all, this is one of the most interesting Hollywood movies of the 90's. 7/10  "},{"Title":"hicks with funny accents","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This film is never credible, not for one second. You never believe in any of the characters. You never forget that you are watching beautiful Hollywood actors giving performances. David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes are boring, generic actors, although they sure are good looking. Juliette Lewis is an interesting actor, but annoying, too. Brad Pitt is fun to watch whenever he is on the screen, but he over does the accent. So many holes in the plot. Brian and Carrie need to find people to share expenses? -- although they wear stylish clothes, have expensive camera gear and live in an apartment the size of a football field. Butts! You get to see two, both male Brad's and David's. But you will probably want to use the pause function, as there is just a flash in both cases. You get to see one single female breast.As usual in a Hollywood road trip, there are no interstate highways, no chain hotels and no chain restaurants. Everyone travels by back roads and eats at diners and stays at motels which appear to be from the 1960's.The only good thing about the film is the two white-trash characters. They can be funny, when the film doesn't try to make them dramatic. "},{"Title":"Nothing special","Date":"2 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  If this is supposed to be a portrayal of the American serial killer, it comes across as decidedly average.A journalist Duchovny travels across country to California to document America's most famous murderers, unaware that one of his white trailer trash travelling companions Pitt is a serial killer himself.Rather predictable throughout, this has its moments of action and Pitt and Lewis portray their roles well, but I'd not bother to see it again. "},{"Title":"WOW, this is another waste of time.","Date":"1 June 2000","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Okay, okay, so Brad Pitt is in this movie.  So what.  That doesn't make it a blockbuster, and it's not.  I think the only reason I rented this movie was because Michelle Forbes was in it, and she's usually not too bad.  She wasn't bad in this movie, either, but her performance couldn't save it.I found this movie to be extremely hideous.  This road trip came before Natural Born Killers, otherwise I could try and say that it was riding NBK's coat-tails, and that's why it was so terrible.  (To explain, I believe that movies which follow close behind other movies at the box office and have the same basic storyline, are usually terrible.)  But since that's not the case, I can't come up with any other reason why this movie was even released in theaters.  It only made just over 2 million, and it should have been a straight-to-video release.Juliette Lewis was SO annoying in this movie, that I vowed never to see anything with her in it again.  While I have seen a couple of movies she was in since (yes, I'm a glutton for punishment), she certainly isn't the reason why I rent any movie that might have her in the cast.  In her defense, she was pretty good in The Other Sister, but that role seems to be tailor made for her quirky style anyways.  But I digress...  In any event, I'm sure that if I had to hear her say, Earrrrlllyyy once more in this movie, or listen to that annoying laugh, I would have found the nearest bridge and dove off it.I have already mentioned that Michelle Forbes was pretty good in this movie, and David Duchovny was not bad either.  But those two couldn't carry this film if they tried, and I'm glad they didn't try too hard.  Brad Pitt can be excellent when he wants to (ie. Se7en), but he was simply awful in this waste. Don't bother, unless you are a huge fan of David Duchovny or Michelle Forbes.  My Rating  2/10 "},{"Title":"Shouldn't These People Be On 'The Jerry Springer Show?","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Boy, Juliette Lewis really played a bunch of sleazy characters in the 1990s. She's an actress that has kind of disappeared the last 10 years. She hasn't been in anything memorable since From Dusk Til Dawn. Earlier she played ditsy roles in Natural Born Killers, Romeo Is Bleeding and who knows what else.Anyway, she and Brad Pitt play trailer trash types here. Pitt, despite the pretty boy image, is good at playing that role (see Snatch) so the two of them are very believable in this film.Those two accompany two naive Liberals on a cross-country trip and troubles quickly ensue. None of the four people are likable in this movie and the language is extremely rough in spots. But for a one-time viewing, this is definitely worth checking out and will have you involved enough to stay with these low-life people. Then again, you can save money, stay home and watch these type of people on Jerry Springer or Maury Povich. "}{"Title":"Difficult to rate due to very inaccurate accents","Date":"29 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" It's hard to say whether the Pitt couple is good at acting, because their accents are so bad. Good gosh! Can't they hire real Southerners to play these parts? I'm amazed at how this issue keeps perpetuating itself. Over and over again, it's almost 100% bad in any movie that wants a Southern character in it. If they want a dialectal speaker, just have the actors speak in their own regional accents rather than 'newscaster English'! David Duchovny appears in stark contrast to the Pitt couple, if only for this reason (Pitt is ordinarily an excellent actor). Why didn't they make Duchovny have a Southern accent? He surely could have had one, so it seems pretty random if they have to have one couple with an accent and one without. Why do casting agents/directors/producers do this? Is it to make all Southerners look bad? Hm... "},{"Title":"Good Acting, Pointless Story","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Kalifornia is the story of two couples who set out on a road trip to the west coast together. One couple is a writer and his photographer girlfriend. The other is an ex-con freeloader and his psychologically damaged girlfriend.The writer, Brian Kessler (David Duchovny), intends to visit sites of various murders on the trip as research for a book. His girlfriend, Carrie Laughlin (Michelle Forbes) will photograph the sites for the book. But their main purpose, it seems, is to leave the area where they are living and head to California, like it is the promised land.Brad Pitt plays the role of Early Grayce, their passenger who passes through life with little intention. Juliette Lewis is Adele Corners, the girl who thinks she loves him. All four major performances are adept, but the characters of Early and Adele are so extravagantly drawn that they are the best things about this film.I am not a fan of this film, because it feels rather pointless. We might compare it to Sam Peckinpah's Straw Dogs--about another academic who was naïve to the threats that exist in the world, but Kalifornia wallows in the sociopathy of Early, where Straw Dogs is about Dustin Hoffman's character, who represents society as a whole and is a proxy for the viewer. "},{"Title":"A high class psychological thriller","Date":"23 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" It is a thriller about a psychology grad who goes with his girlfriend on a trip to write a book about serial killers and is accompanied by a couple that actually includes a serial killer.I am actually pretty surprised the movie bombed at the box office. It is one of the more intelligent thrillers on the topic and also keeps a very terrifying atmosphere.The acting in the movie is also first class. Brad Pitt is doing one of his strongest performances. And very successfully, I was just grossed out looking at Early, I never saw a Brad Pitt in there. Juliette Lewis also does a great performance as this sweet but incredibly dumb white trash girl. Michelle Forbes and David Duchovny don't get as much praise for their work in Kalifornia, which is not very fair. They simply have characters that are not normal people and not having mental issues, and they did it great. The four characters bring a good balance.The idea is pretty interesting. It is comparing the fascination about murder with the reality of it. It looks into the idea what drives us into doing it. What is the difference between them and us. Some republicans seem to think it is about a liberal who learned a lesson, but it is not, it is simply about complexity of the situation and humans.Again, too bad it bombed, Dominic Sena would probably be able to create more of these movies. I was very well done and always kept one worried. Great filmed scenes and scenery that all contributed to it. "},{"Title":"Performances fail to lift it out of mediocrity","Date":"9 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Revisiting Swordfish recently, also directed by Dominic Sena and which I thoroughly enjoyed despite its occasional shortcomings, I read a negative review which suggested that Sena hadn't made a decent movie since Kalifornia and which wondered why that was. As a public school educated Brit living in Los Angeles, I am oddly drawn to movies featuring white trash, trailer parks and all the other paraphernalia of the underbelly of America. The French have the same issue. Paris may be the only place on earth in which a Corvette is actually cool. Back to Kalifornia. I revisited the film the other day and was disappointed. It's not a bad flick. Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis act their socks off and they're well supported by David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes. But therein lies part of the problem. A stronger director would have reined in Lewis and Pitt, allowed for a better balance. As it is, their performances border on the comic. They stay grounded because they're both terrific actors but they sometimes distract from rather than add to the tension. The other problem is the central conceit. We're going on a tour of infamous murder sites... with a murderer. We know he's a psychopathic killer from the start but his companions don't. And that places us firmly in standard horror flick territory. DON'T TAKE THE SHORTCUT THROUGH THE WOODS!! But of course she does. And that's the issue here. It devalues the film. It might have been a much better film without the addition of the tour of murder sites. Less is more, people. Worth watching? Yes, but you'll have to deal with the frustration of missed opportunities. Try Swordfish instead. It's aged rather well. "},{"Title":"A much forgotten classic","Date":"15 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Back before David Duchovny became 'Mulder' in the X-files, he made this little film. Then again, many didn't really see it as 'his' due to the fact that it also starred the highly-bankable Brad Pitt and Juliet Lewis. And for a reason, both of the established Hollywood A-listers stole every scene. However, that doesn't mean that Duchovny didn't play his part.'Pre-Mulder' plays a writer who's working on a book about serial killers with his photography girlfriend and they decide to go on a cross country drive, visiting the sites where infamous killers struck (ending in California &#x96; with a C!). But, to share the costs, they agree to bring along Brad Pitt and Juliet Lewis &#x96; another couple, but from a very different background. And it doesn't take long before the two couples start to rub each up the wrong way &#x96; with some pretty fatal consequences.It's pretty hard to find a bad performance from any of the four stars. Pitt and Lewis naturally stand out because their characters are wilder and they have more to play with, but Duchovny is a sober 'ying' to Brad Pitt's manic 'yang.' Basically, if you like road movies, dramas, serial killer films, or thrillers in general, you should watch this. It really is all those and more, plus it contains some pretty awesome scenery to really add to the ambiance.http//thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/ "},{"Title":"Nice showcase for Pitt.","Date":"20 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" What goes on in the mind of a serial killer? What is it, really, that separates us from them? More importantly, what is with the fascination that so many of us have for true crime stories and deviant individuals? What does it take to change a persons' opinion on the subject? These are questions that this grim, stylish, intelligent drama asks as it plays out. It offers interesting roles to a talented quartet of performers, and is very straightforward with the way it portrays acts of violence.David Duchovny plays Brian Kessler, a writer with a fixation on serial killers who's gotten an advance to write a book about them. With his photographer girlfriend Carrie Laughlin (Michelle Forbes) in tow, he embarks on a road trip of research as he travels across America to visit the sites of various crimes. The two of them get closer to their subject matter than they could have imagined when they hook up with dirt poor trailer trash couple Early Grayce (Brad Pitt) and Adele Corners (Juliette Lewis). Early, you see, is a vicious sociopath who does some awful things without feeling any remorse about them.One major theme of the film is the evolution of the Brian character. He starts out as pretty liberal when it comes to the serial killer topic and is forced to realize the fact that - as he says near the end - that any one of us *is* capable of taking another humans' life if properly motivated. There's not really that much separation, after all.Kalifornia is one of those films that works on both the intellectually stimulating and visceral levels. It's fascinating to watch, even as it deliberately paces itself for close to two hours. Pitt is excellent, truly disappearing inside his role and enjoying playing the different aspects to this killer. Lewis is fine as a sweet, simple girl; this part of hers is intriguing when you contrast it to the one she plays in the next years' Natural Born Killers. Duchovny and Forbes are believable as they do the bulk of the reacting in this film.Hailed by some as a serial killer story for the thinking person, this is a ride well worth taking.Eight out of 10. "},{"Title":"Brad Pitt is Simply Outstanding","Date":"20 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is the first movie that I have seen that Erbert has given four stars. He raves about how well this movie was made and how realistic the characters are. I wouldn't give it a score that high, but I do agree that the characters in this movie are really well done. Atlantic Video (my video store, excellent place for cheap videos, and they have a huge selection) labels this as an action, and others say that it is a thriller. I would consider this movie to be a psychological examination of people. It exposes us to the harsh reality of life and is far for falling into the category of mainstream Hollywood. I first heard of this movie when it was advertised in the Mercury Cinema, the old alternative cinema in Adelaide.My gripe is the character of Brian Kessler (David Duchovney). There is nothing wrong with the character itself, but it reminded me a lot of agent Mulder. The twist between Kessler and Mulder is that Kessler considers himself a psychologist but he is not. His ambition is to write a book on serial killers and why the do what they do. Kessler knows that he cannot learn about serial killers by sitting in a library so he decides to go to California with his girlfriend, Carrie Laughlin (Michelle Forbes) and on the way there visit the sights of famous serial killers to try and uncover why serial killers do what they do. Kessler realises at the end of the movie that he has absolutely no idea as to why they do what they do. After his experience with Early he realises that some people do things because they want to.This brings us to Early (Brad Pitt). Brad Pitt's portrayal of Early is brilliant. Upon seeing this one comes to the conclusion that Brad Pitt does know how to act. Beyond this is the character of Early. Kessler does not understand why Early is the way he is but it seems to me that Early just does not perceive anything beyond his own experience. He does not see that there are repercussions for his actions. Erbert says that Early is intelligent, but I disagree. Early does things on the spur of the moment and never plans his actions. He needs money so he kills a man with lots of money. He just doesn't care that he just killed somebody, and this comes from a man who has probably done it a lot before.Adele Corners (Juliette Lewis) is a very well developed character. She is a character that lives in a dream world and believes everything that is told her. She is a child that was thrust into adulthood quite violently. She does not want to grow up so she remains a child at heart. She has a preconceived idea about who Early is and she does not want to believe that he is anything else, even if she is confronted by it.Kalifornia is a movie about reality. It is two couples from different backgrounds who have come together and are influenced by each other. Brian slowly becomes influenced by Early while Adele becomes influenced by Carrie. We notice something when Adele enters the restaurant with her hair cut, and slowly she becomes to look more like Carrie. The only differences are the clothes. Carrie dresses very dark and wears trousers while Adele wear scanty dresses. This is a movie about the way people behave and how some people are just evil. "},{"Title":"Good psychological thriller","Date":"3 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Kalifornia went unnoticed at the box office in 1993, but it's a quality psychological thriller starring David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes as a writer & photographer team who travel to California from Georgia, documenting a book on serial killers along the way. To help with expenses, they take on two have-nots as passengers, played by Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis. Unfortunately, Pitt's character may be a sinister killer behind his good ol' boy mask.The film's presumably spelled Kalifornia because Kali is the Hindu goddess of death, which is a creative touch. In any event, this is an effective psychological road movie, shot in Georgia, Illinois and California.Brad Pitt really shows off his acting skills in this one because he is completely convincing as a backcountry psychopath (just as he's convincing as the noble Achilles in Troy). Lewis is also effective as his naive and childish girlfriend. As the trip progresses Duchovny's character becomes increasingly intrigued by Pitt's animalistic power while Forbes grows concerned of his dangerous potential. The film's also an interesting look at the differences between the middle class and the poor, the educated and the ignorant.There's not much else to say. If you're in the mood for a serious road flick that examines the nature of the killer instinct and more, be sure to check out Kalifornia. The film goes on a bit too long at 118 minutes but, other than that, I can't think of anything bad to say.GRADE B "},{"Title":"Stylish, Violent & Fast Moving","Date":"29 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Kalifornia is a violent road movie that features two couples who, for different reasons, want to move to California to make a fresh start. The couples come from different social classes and are worlds apart in terms of education and sophistication. These differences and other tensions that exist between them as individuals, create a consistently strained atmosphere which becomes even more intense as they gradually start to learn more about each other.Brian Kessler (David Duchovny) is a psychology graduate who, having written a well-received magazine article about serial killers is given an advance to write a book on the subject. His girlfriend Carrie Laughlin (Michelle Forbes), who's an aspiring photographer, wants to move to California and so they plan to use their cross-country trip to visit famous murder sites to gather material for Brian's book. As they don't have sufficient funds to pay for their trip, Brian places an advertisement on the bulletin board of the local University for anyone who'd like to make the same journey and share the costs.Brian's ad is answered by Early Grayce (Brad Pitt), an unemployed ex-con who's just killed his landlord because he was demanding payment of rent money that was owed to him. When Brian and Michelle go to pick up Early and his girlfriend Adele (Juliette Lewis), Michelle's first impulse is to pull out of the agreement as Early and Adele look impoverished and common. Brian, however, is anxious to get on with the trip and persuades Michelle to put her concerns to one side.Brian is a man who likes to think the best of everyone and believes that murderers are victims of their backgrounds which have effectively made them into killers. He's absolutely fascinated by murderers and enjoys studying their motivations. During the journey to California, he slowly starts to become aware of the real nature of his travelling companions and things turn extremely violent and scary before he discovers why he has such an intense interest in killing and also has to re-think some of his long-held views.Brad Pitt puts an incredible amount of energy and drive into his role as the embodiment of pure evil and is completely convincing as a psychopath who simply does whatever his instincts dictate. Michelle Forbes does a great deal of frowning and scowling as the cold, pretentious Carrie who's a voyeur and can't help being fascinated by things that she also finds repulsive. She's hard and cynical and even her hairstyle is severe! David Duchovny is good as the naive and gullible Brian who learns more about his specialist subject than he could ever have imagined and Juliette Lewis is amazing as the tragic, undereducated young woman with a traumatic background which has left her so damaged that she sees the manipulative Early as being a well-meaning man who's dedicated to protecting her.Kalifornia is stylishly made, fast moving and beautifully photographed but certain passages are also uncomfortable to watch. Its real strength lies in its characters who make it compelling from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Worth a watch just for Pitt's performance","Date":"1 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Kalifornia would be just an OK movie, were it not for the performance of pretty-boy Brad Pitt. In this film, he is anything BUT pretty. In fact, he's so convincingly creepy, it makes my skin crawl just to think about this role.Whether or not he took on the role to battle type-casting is unimportant, because he does, in fact, show his acting chops amazingly well as the poor white trash monster. It's rare to see any actor take on the persona of a character so convincingly.The idea of this film is a good one, and executed fairly well, but could have been done better.In particular, Michelle Forbes character, Carrie, is extremely grating. Hers is a character who will fit into L.A. culture very well--bitchy, superior, and judgmental. I know I should sympathize with Carrie's correct assessment of the situation, but I just hate her too much to care. Of course, I could argue that without her bitchy superiority, there wouldn't be a story. On the other hand, Juliette Lewis' character, Adele, is charmingly endearing, and I found myself wishing for Adele and Duchovny's Brian to wind up together. Were it not for the cast, this movie would be unremarkable. But with the performance of the cast, I find myself watching it again and again over the years since its release. That must count for something! "}{"Title":"Brad gets his kicks on Route 66.","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Why the K? I don't know, but then I don't really understand who the intended audience for this film is either. It's not extreme enough to appease fans of disturbing cinema, not cerebral or cool enough for art-house types, nor is it mainstream enough to appeal to the general public; it's there, treading a fine line between all three&#x97;frustrating, because Kalifornia has plenty of potential, and if director Dominic Sena had just chosen one definitive route to take, the film might have been a great addition to the serial killer genre instead of an average one.The plot explores several fascinating themes&#x97;class divide, the allure of danger and violence, psychotic behaviour and the complexities of the brain&#x97;but Sena's indecisive approach means that he only lightly addresses each issue, and often in a trite and predictable manner. A dreary narration from David Duchovny's obnoxious yuppie is intended to make events seem more profound, but only serves to make the film seem highly pretentious. Sena's glossy visuals give an 80s music video vibe (not that surprising given his previous work with Janet Jackson) which seriously jars with the content.Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis' memorable performances ensure that the film isn't a total waste of time, both actors taking 'poor white trash' to a whole new (and sometimes hilarious) level, and there are one or two effectively shocking outbursts of violence, but this is an ultimately empty experience that says much less about its subject matter than it would have you believe. "},{"Title":"Dark","Date":"24 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Brad Pitt at his most evil. He is Early, an amoral human being who will destroy anyone for any reason whatsoever. Juliette Lewis is Adele, his companion in their world of woe. Early answers an ad to share a car ride with a journalist, Brian(David Duchovny) who has written a book about serial killers and is traveling to various sites of notorious crimes with his girlfriend,Carrie(Michelle Forbes), a photographer. The law abiding couple have no idea that their driving mates are completely insane.Even before the road trip Early had killed his landlord over a rent dispute and then did away with a gas station attendant during a robbery with his passengers unaware of the events. At one of the stops along the way, Carrie watches a television report about Early as a murder suspect. She and Brian become hostages and witness further mayhem, including a home invasion and police shooting. The four eventually have a violent last stand and the payoff is o.k. as far films of this genre go. "},{"Title":"Killer movie","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Interesting movie about a pair of people investigating serial killers but unbeknowest to them they're travelling with their very own serial killer.Brad Pitt totally pulls off the psycho redneck killer persona with Juliette Lewis as his white trash girlfriend and David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes as a pair of yuppies. The movie is definitely a departure for Pitt on his normal leading man roles where he totally transforms himself into a character that is very unBrad Pitt like.The movie is more then just your average serial killer movie with a mix of black comedy and satire. Movie while being a movie about serial killers also has a bit of road trip aspect to it. "},{"Title":"Kalifornia Exhibits Brad Pitt's Acting Talent","Date":"29 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This debut feature film from music video director Dominic Sena is a romp through the world of serial killing, which in its bleakness and moral bankruptcy looks backwards to Terrence Malick's Badlands and forward to Oliver Stone's Natural Born Killers. Kalifornia is a thriller/road film, directed by Sena, features Brad Pitt, Juliette Lewis, David Duchovny, and Michelle Forbes. The story focuses on an aspiring writer and his photographer girlfriend who are traveling cross-country to research serial killers. To help pay for gas, they take along a man and his childlike girlfriend,unaware that the man is a killer himself.Brian Kessler is a graduate student in Psychology and a journalist authoring a book about serial killers. His photographer girlfriend Carrie Laughlin persuades him to move to California; and, when his book project is accepted by a publisher, they decide to drive from Pittsburgh to California and visit infamous murder sites along the way. Short on funds, Brian posts a ride-share ad. Meanwhile, parolee Early Grayce has just lost his job. His Parole Officer learns of this and comes to the trailer park where Early lives with his young girlfriend Adele Corners. Early refuses the officer's offer of a job as a college janitor, saying he wants to leave the state. The officer informs him that, if he doesn't keep the appointment, he will be returned to prison. Early decides to go to the job interview; and, when he's on his way out, he is confronted by the landlord over non-payment of rent. Early grows violent and spins out in his car, chasing the man all over the park.On the road, unknown to his companions, Early murders a man in a gas station bathroom and steals his money. When they arrive at the first hotel, he cuts Adele's hair to match Carrie's. At another hotel, Early invites Brian out to play pool, leaving Adele and Carrie alone together. Adele reveals to Carrie that she is a rape victim and that she views Early as her protector, even though her mother didn't approve because Early had just been released from prison. Carrie is alarmed by Brian's growing fascination with Early and nonchalant response to the news that Early has been in prison. She gives him an ultimatum&#x97;either they rid themselves of Early and Adele or she will leave.At the next gas station, Carrie glimpses a newscast with footage of Early and the announcement he is a suspected murderer. Early kills the gas-station attendant and continues the trip with the couple as hostages. They encounter two police officers, whom Early shoots. Early orders Brian to finish off one of the wounded officers, but Brian refuses. They next come to the home of an elderly couple. Early beats the man to death, but Adele allows the woman to flee. As Early rushes to find the woman, Adele confronts him and says she wants nothing more to do with him. Early shoots Adele, strikes Brian on the head, and kidnaps Carrie.Brian regains consciousness, and the elderly woman gives him the keys to her truck. Brian arrives at an abandoned nuclear testing site and surprises Early, hitting him in the head with a shovel. Brian finds Carrie bloodied and handcuffed to a bed. Early, who was only stunned, attacks Brian and they struggle until Carrie hits Early in the head. When Early continues the attack, Brian shoots him dead.The movie ends with Brian and Carrie in a California beach house. It is an absolutely riveting movie that is visually stylish and thematically creepy. The movie begins extremely well before escalating into the inevitable confrontation, when the sensitive-intellectual man discovers that when push comes to shove, we're all brutes and animals.Brad Pitt's performance is excellent and crucial, and he rips into the character with a frightening sense of unhinged egomania, violently subverting the pretty-boy image with which so many wanted to associate him.This definitely made the viewer realize that he indeed is more than a pretty face but a talented actor as well.Watch it for his performance alone. "},{"Title":"A psychological thriller with the acting as its greatest strength.","Date":"27 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" A psychological thriller with the acting as its greatest strength. One of the first movies where Brad Pitt was in a leading role and could show his talent. And it is an impressive performance indeed. He is almost frighteningly convincing as the psychopathic serial killer without any limits or regrets. Also Juliette Lewis is very good as the dependent, childishly naïve Adele, and both David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes do well too.But the to be a real psychological thriller there must be more of an air of suspense, of suspicion but uncertainty. What the threat is here is by no means an uncertainty, it is just a question of when. And Early is not very subtle about it either. With his violence and aggression the suspense disappears. More of the suspense would have remained if Early wasn't so simple minded and set to killing. If he actually let some victims survive and showed more of a psychological turmoil, a battle within. Now it gets too predictable.As it developed it almost lent some characteristics from a horror movie, and that genre is not my favorite. So despite the impressive effort from the cast I wasn't fully convinced. Totally watchable for the acting, and to see Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis in fairly early roles (they were long from being rookies though), but not for the story. "},{"Title":"Shave her down and teach her to hunt! 9/10","Date":"10 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I'd only seen this movie once when it 1st came out, I remembered that I liked it but couldn't remember much else.Well i just finished watching it again and loved it, a very well deserved 9/10!Even though we've seen a lot of these scenes/road trip type movies before, I was still sucked in by it, mainly to do with the characters and the excellent acting.Quite a dark (and brutal in places) movie, good story and good pace and a nice touch at the very end.Brad Pitt was superb in this, up there with his best roles. Juliette Lewis was also excellent and made your heart go out to her character. Forbes was also very good in this, i'm surprised we don't see more of her! And although I'm not a fan of David Duchovny, he was OK in this too.A MUST for any Pitt fan, a MUST for any movie buff, GREAT MOVIE "},{"Title":"More melancholy drama than thriller, but a well told story","Date":"7 August 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Kalifornia is a gut-wrenching drama dressed up as a thriller. To describe the plot gives one the sense of a real suspense-style psychotic killer movie. And there are places where this film straddles the line between suspense movie and horror flick, but for the most part, it's an incredibly sad, character driven drama. Juliette Lewis's performance as the child-like young woman with abuse in her past, and no self worth at all, pathologically drawn to an abusive psychotic... well her performance is nothing short of outstanding. And Brad Pitt is very good as the abusive psychotic who's taking advantage of her weakness. But watching this movie is sort of like watching someone torture a puppy for an hour and a half. It's excruciatingly sad. David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes are good too, and the story moves along at a nice pace. It's well-written, and the story is well told by director Dominic Sena. If you have to stomach to watch this poor abuse victim being used throughout the whole film, then this movie is very, very good. If you can't stand to watch stuff like that, then stay away from it. "},{"Title":"Cold weather makes people stupid and that's a fact.","Date":"25 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" A Brad Pitt movie I haven't seen. What a surprise?It also has Juliette Lewis, and that's a big plus.As an additional bonus, it has Maryann (Michelle Forbes) from True Blood. Mchelle was also in The Killing as Mitch Larsen. She was also in three episodes of Waking the dead; episodes I have not seen yet.It was a fascinating film about serial killers and Pitt was dark and amazing as the one they never expected.Lewis was her usual funny white trashy self.Forbes was the real star here as the one that went from revulsion to fear.Mind blowing action. "},{"Title":"Not Sure How Great This Is","Date":"23 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" A journalist duo go on a tour of serial killer murder sites with two companions, unaware that one of them is a serial killer himself.As great as this film is, I have to say I found Brad Pitt more annoying than anything. Duchovny was great, Juliete Lewis was the same as always, Michelle Forbes was good, but Pitt... hmm. I consider him one of the best actors out there, and rumor is he even chipped a tooth for the role, but I just did not like his character. So annoying! Now, as a serial killer fan, I think this was a pretty good film. It was a good precursor to Natural Born Killers (also with Juliette Lewis) or Seven (with Brad Pitt). Was it a lead-in to X-files? Maybe, but probably not. And whatever happened to Michelle Forbes? "},{"Title":"Above Average Serial Killer Flick","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Serial killer flicks are like gangster or cowboy flicks, there are all levels of them to cheap horror slasher exploitation to procedural ones where the heroes are scientific minded detectives and all sorts variations in between. This is a character and psychological type with good style thrown in. Juliette Lewis and Brad Pitt play two poor whites who tag along with a split the expenses ride in an old Lincoln with suicide doors, from Kentucky to California with the stylish middle class yuppie couple of David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes, Brian and Carrie. The narrator writer main character David Duchovny, Brian Kessler, is a psych grad student writing a serial killer book by visiting various crime scenes in rural heartland America with his photographer girl friend, who's shooting art quality pics to go along with his screeds. They're trying to create a coffee table book about serial killers.So the poor white couple hitch along, and at first there is some bonding since there is some attraction between the jaded yuppies and the raw and somewhat endearing hicks. Brad and Juliette, as Adele and Early, steal the show with Early's rough and crude but not stupid violent felon persona with Adele as his childish abused over grown girl girlfriend. She is basically decent but weak and slow. The two really lay on the act very well and steal the show from the jaded yuppies, making the best of their limited stereotypical roles. I can understand how some blasé and not tough yuppie Brian can be attracted to some rough tough violent killer. The main problem is Juliette Lewis did such a good job at her role that she has been forever pegged in such roles as abused, potentially violent white trash killer. Because right after this, she did Natural Born Killers which was Adele's and Early's character fused together.It had a pretty good plot and enough violence to make it raw without over doing it. The cinematography was the best I've seen for the genre. It is an overlooked movie in a genre dominated by high end pseudo documentary frauds like Zodiac to low brow sado realism like the Henry series with interminable CSI police procedurals and slasher -torture types in between. "}{"Title":"Leaves You Trembling","Date":"10 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Once in a blue moon, I see a film that slices through the facade of movie violence, and imparts something not only of great consequence, but often overlooked and denied, about the vicious forces roaming freely in the social order. This is such a film, startling, very uncomfortable and gruesome, agreed, but also intrepidly sincere, and so well acted that for most of the film I discarded any compulsory spectator aloofness and purely gazed as if I were scrutinizing the lives of real people. This harsh, lingering peep into the human condition converges four people who are, by themselves, quite identifiable types. However, while a usual Hollywood treatment of this material would just hook them up to a plot, this film compels them to really contend with each other, so that we see a clash between watchers who are fascinated by violence providing it's at intimacy-excluding distance, and those who are indeed ready and willing to inflict it.This visually classy, thematically spine-chilling movie familiarizes us with two couples. Brian and Carrie are well-dressed, striving yuppies. Early and Adele are abject trailer trash. Brian is a writer with an concentration on serial killers. Carrie is a photographer of large-scale, highly stylized black-and-white close-ups of frank sexuality and brutal acts. She has a subdued, plain-speaking voice and an austere objectivity. They want to move to California, and Brian proposes a cross-country tour of the locations of famous killings. She can snap the shots, he can record the wording, and they can finally churn out a book. Early and Adele, played by Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis in two of the most traumatic and nerve-shaking performances I've ever seen, live in a disheveled rented trailer. He's on parole. She's a slack-jawed child-woman who replicates lines that feel as if to have been poorly gathered from TV. The property-owner is on their case about the rent.Pitt breaks this character open with an alarming awareness of deranged conceit, aggressively challenging the TeenBeat coverboy impression against which every heartthrob actor seems to have to prove himself. But it's Lewis who leaves you trembling after a handful of mesmerizing monologues, the descent of her character, and just the pure, tragic naivete she evokes in her use of her voice, face and body. There are even moments where she leaves the loudest silences between her line and the next character's, during a precious few of which I actually felt like I understood something about the harshest realities of the harm society's dregs and failures inflict on themselves.Brian and Carrie need someone to go halves with for their trip. They put up a bulletin. Early sees it and resolves it's time to take off for Cali with Adele. Needless to say, that's a parole violation, but no matter. Most of the film is set on the road, as the writer and photographer little by little become alert to the temperament of the people who are splitting the drive. It's here that the movie shows its magnitude. A lesser film would probably be a thriller in which the protagonists would frantically plot to flee the killers in their company. This genuinely shocking voyage into psychosis is much more shrewd. It's about the extraordinary attraction that we feel for those who appear tougher and more real. Generally we who idealize in that manner have never had to confront anyone who harms others merely for amusement.There's a profound class disparity between the two couples, between nouveau riche activewear and oily hair, slapdash tattoos and reeking socks. And between a feminist a girl who remarks peculiarly that she's not allowed by her man to smoke, drink or curse. The conspicuous consumers, however, with their noninterventionist' disinclination to demonstrate incivility, attempt to tolerate these two outsiders and to make concessions for their actions.A particular attachment even develops between Brian and Early. Brian, for instance, has never shot a gun. Early has. Brian is spellbound by Early's gun, Carrie petrified. Early lets him shoot out some windows in an derelict factory, and Brian is like a kid with a Tonka truck. It's also exhilarating when the two guys go out drinking one night, and when a guy in the bar picks on Brian, Early intervenes and kicks the guy nearly to death.The violent redneck is not slow, and has a better impression of the urban intellectual than vice versa. As Carrie steadily learns that Early hits Adele and is likely psychotic, Brian is being somewhat enticed by Early's anarchy. Not that he wants to join in, of course. But it's a high to be so near it. Increasingly, by measured, plausible steps, director Dominic Sena and writer Tim Metcalfe expose to Brian and Carrie the complete actuality of the circumstances they've gotten themselves into. Here's a bourgeois couple who thought it would be a kick to re-examine the scenes of murders, and of all the darnedest things they find themselves with a real murderer, right in the same car, and it isn't pleasurable. Not by any means.Sena went on to helm the very sorts of empty-calorie ultra-modern Hollywood kitsch to which this film is a refreshing exception, but he demonstrates the sort of powerful skill with material here that we see in other breakthrough films such as Lumet, Friedkin and Scorsese's early work, McNaughton's Henry Portrait of a Serial Killer, Aronofsky's Pi or Requiem, Clooney's Confessions of a Dangerous Mind, Mendes' American Beauty. The tension and anxiety remove the seeds from a jalapeno. The characters stay convincing; we have a divergence of personalities, not pigeonholes. The action synchronizes impeccably with the implications.It's overall too self-deceptively reassuring to accept as true that people require encouragement to maim and murder. Some people, the movie imparts, are just malicious. They deficient in all moral compass and intrinsic compassion. And nobody's whispering in their ear or twisting their arm to do what they do. "},{"Title":"Highway to Hell...","Date":"26 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" New on Blu-ray this week is 'Kalifornia'. Brad Pitt stars, alongside Juliette Lewis, David Duchovney and Michelle Forbes. The plot is a stretch, but as good an excuse as any to unleash Pitt's portrayal of po' white trash maniac 'Early Grayce' upon the unsuspecting highway to hell. A creepy road movie (before Lewis rode shotgun in 'Natural Born Killers'), but one that solidified Pitt's rise as an actor playing unsavory roles. Duchovney, a writer researching a book on serial killers, offers a ride share to parolee Pitt on a cross country trip to California. For good measure, the respective girlfriends are along for the ride.The movie has some hilarious moments (a dinner scene with Pitt). A prerequisite I suppose for a two hour film fraught with murder. Lewis is a child-like possession Pitt picks up along the way on his crash course with infamy. Duchovney and Forbes, both grizzled veterans of New York City's art snob scene plan on visiting the sites of famous murders on the way to the golden state. Forbes in particular, is excellent. She provides a strong presence and matches Pitt's hopped-up hillbilly character step for step. Duchovney, while adequate is more the stereotypical wimpy liberal than anything else.If you're in the mood for a blood-soaked ride in a decent old Lincoln with suicide doors, buy-in. If not, take a detour and look for the hard to find 'Rain People' (American Zoetrope, 1969) from Francis Ford Coppola. Simply one of the finest, obscure road films of all time. "},{"Title":"Decent Serial Killer Film-Three Reasons To Watch","Date":"25 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" At the beginning of this film, it seems at best a b-grade serial killer flick. Three things elevate it above that 1. The amazing performances by Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis. Juliette Lewis is perfect as the abused woman here. Brad Pitt blew me away as the brutal Earl. Both are perfect.2. As the film goes on, philosophical musings pop up. While at first, it seems merely a 'forbidden fruit' film with Brad Pitt dangling the rush of killing in front of the journalist-in fact it grows to much more than that. See Earl's comments on reality outside of the bar.3. The surreal ending in the ghost town is still interesting. I was greatly interested by the conclusion.A decent film with occasional philosophical and surreal twists. Amazing performances by Pitt and Lewis. Passable by everyone else. "},{"Title":"Kalifornia is a cult movie!","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is one of my favorite thrillers of the 90's. Every time I see this, I love the part of Julliete Lewis, her way to talk. She is fine as in Too young to die (with Pitt too) Romeo is bleeding, Cape fear, Strange Days, What's eating Gilbert Grape. And I always thought Pitt was a good actor because of this film, and later I had no doubt when I saw 12 monkeys, Fight club, Too young to die, Seven, The assassination of Jesse James... David Duchovny is perfect as a writer fascinated for killers, and his partner is as good as they can be together, both credible as the urban couple. The plot is very simple, it puts us in a position of the 'vouyeur', and you can't help watching this four characters interacting with each other. It's the fact that Earlie has his predisposition for violence, and all of them are related to this violent world somehow. They go in a trip, it can only ends badly,... and that's why you watch it! If this isn't a cult movie for many, for me it is! "},{"Title":"hard tough road movie","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" On his way through some of the most famous murder places in America,a journalist reporter and his girl friend are accompanied by a psychopath(brilliantly played by Brad Pitt) & his girl.This is a dark & disturbing story because Early(Brad Pitt) is being shown as totally moraless & insane guy who is just not afraid to shoot anyone at any place whereas his counterpart Brain(David Duchovny) is pictured totally opposite and simple who just do no notice anything until is girlfriend is being attacked. For Juliette Levis,I would say that I love the style of her speaking, though she fits nicely in the roll of Pitt's girl.Overall a good time pass movie though the reason of Early's hard behaviour was not answered........ "},{"Title":"Very Different People.","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Red state meets blue state-hard.An intellectual couple meets the ultimate rednecks from Hell. Brad Pitt plays a redneck who is secretly a serial killer; David Duchovny plays a true-crime writer who is being changed by contact with him. The two, and their wives, are taking a car trip to California. And things only get worse as the story continues. Deaths, fights, screaming, abuse, and hostage-taking promptly ensues. It's like ''Planes, Trains, and Automobiles'' gone mad.Give Brad Pitt long brown hair, a beard, and an accent, and he is the scariest b@#+@&d you can imagine. Great movie. "},{"Title":"Great Character Development, Interesting Story, Superb Acting","Date":"9 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I recently rented Kalifornia on a whim, since I've been enjoying a lot of Brad Pitt's films recently, and I must say I was pleasantly surprised. I can't believe this film is so unknown. I am not even sure if it is a cult classic, but it should be.The story is original. David Duchovny is a struggling writer who plans to take a road trip to California, and along the way he has mapped out a number of stops where serial killers have committed murders. Michelle Forbes plays his yuppie girlfriend who also is a photographer.To cut costs, they agree to have another couple come with them. This couple turns out to be Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis, who are about as redneck-hillbilly as you can get.Pitt and Lewis steal the screen. Their acting in this movie is absolutely superb. This could be Pitt's best performance.Pitt's character, in fact, turns out to be a ruthless killer, who is ignorant, yet manipulative in his own animalistic way. Lewis is his antithesis, a really good person who is also extremely stupid and reliant on others.I don't want to give too much away about this film. At times it can be absolutely hilarious (Lewis and Pitt are really funny), amazingly sad, thought provoking, and it even has its sexy scenes. If you like dark comedies, you won't want to miss this. Yet, it is not really characterized as a dark comedy. A truly fascinating character study with a gripping story. Rating 10 of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Decent, entertaining road-movie with a memorable Pitt-performance.","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Kalifornia is the story of 2 couples who travel to California to start a new life. Brian & Carrie, writer and photographer, want to visit some infamous murder sites along the way to California and bring along the white trash couple Early & Adele to help pay for the trip. Everything turns sideways when it becomes clear Early has serious mental issues... David Duchovny proves again he does not belong on the big screen but the rest of the performances were OK to great. Brad Pitt carries the whole film on his own and does that splendidly. Juliette Lewis will remain an acquired taste but I think she was perfect for this part. I'm not a big fan but in 'Kalifornia' she provides a nice comical relief. Not that Brad Pitt's overacting wasn't comical but I guess you could say you can't overact when playing a serial killer. I like Pitt in his 'crazy' roles, he has a lot of fun doing them and you can see that on the screen. Remember his glorious performance in 12 Monkeys? Michelle Forbes gives the most believable performance, never for a second do I doubt her... She's a good, solid actress that hasn't disappointed me yet in any of her roles.The script is somewhat shaky, especially towards the end but that is made up for by the fun dialog. The end is largely disappointing but the first hour is great. The locations are stunning, the director does a good job and the dialog is solid. Every element for a good film is present.Kalifornia is a great road-movie, not one of the best, but certainly one that's very entertaining. You won't feel enlightened at the end of it but that's of course not the purpose of a movie like this. It's a great ride, to be enjoyed by any action/crime movie lover. Certainly worth a look "},{"Title":"Good role for Brad Pitt but couldn't top Twelve Monkeys","Date":"11 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie really hold my attention all the time and I like this sort of movies.Script is good but actors did good job and that is the main reason why this movie isn't like others.Brad Pitt is perfect for this role and all of you who consider him like only some pretty face,are making a big mistake.Pitt is good actor but he gets lost in wrong movies.Here he picked role that fits him fine but still my favorite movie with him is Twelve Monkeys.David Duchovny didn't had nothing much to act but I can't say that for two female roles.Juliette Lewis and Michelle Forbes.Juliette Lewis is great actress and she always delivers good performance so I knew she's gonna do just fine in this one.I have to admit that I've never heard of actress Michelle Forbes before(although I watched lots of movies,maybe I forgot her)but I like what I see.Also good role.So we've got three good performances and David Duchovny in a well made thriller of director Dominic Sena.Sena did good job because it isn't easy to direct this kind of movie.He picked some very good spots for camera that are a bit unusual but it turned out fine.Some scenes are better then the usual directing of most of the directors.Movie that I liked,although with few flaws,and movie that can pass in my book. "},{"Title":"the role a young pitt was born to play, a villain","Date":"23 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" All stars play one once in their lives, and get noticed for it mostly in a good light. Pitt does his role justice as the trailer trash hick you don't mind as a buddy for protection but your partner has different opinions on. His scenes with Duchnovys partner when they are alone are very eerie, and the two play off each other well to create a tense feel. The movie rolls quite slow and softly but kicks into a nice overdrive when we find out whats been happening behind closed doors. I believe it would be hard to recreate a role like this when he is the bad guy as his status in too lovey dovey currently and continues taking on safe roles. Duchovny on the other hand would love any role if given, I think I saw him in this type of character in playing god some years back. He even seems he was still on scully?/moulder? duty throughout this flick with his tape recorder investigating (no I never watched xfiles). Juilette does her thing, really type-casted during this era, funny to look back at her being brad pitts love interest. Nothing too graphic, which does dimmer the film overall especially given the name KALIfornia "}{"Title":"Good, Not Great, Far from Excellent","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is a good movie with lots of predictable but enjoyable thriller moments. It has some incredible acting in it (Brad Pitt especially) but does nothing to really capture positive attention.It may just be me, but I do not like Juliette Lewis as an actress... at all, and that drags down the entire movie. Through all her annoyances she does manage a few very well done scenes as the innocent, clueless little girl type character. But combined with the predictability of the story, the movie never really goes anywhere.Or at least when it starts to, it all falls down as Mr. X-Files comes in with a one-liner that seems either cheesy or ridiculously cliché.It's an interesting movie and is well-worth seeing if you are a Brad Pitt fan or like Juliette Lewis, otherwise this movie will come-off as a completely average film. "},{"Title":"Dark Slice of Americana","Date":"12 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie punches you right in the face with it's gritty viewpoint on a serial killer.It was just a movie I rented one day and it exceeded my expectations 10 fold.The 4 main characters all turn in outstanding work here, Juliette Lewis especially.It's a bleak film, that's what makes it work so well in my opinion. I realized while watching it, that death can happen anytime. When a movie makes me think like that, I know it is something special for it's form.It's not a happy film, but it's very well crafted, and it's in my top 30 or so. "},{"Title":"I liked it.","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I like the quirky style of this movie. Its good. Brad and David and Juliette all did a great job. I like Juliettes interesting part in it. Sh was perfect for for this film. Sure this movie many not be a mainstream favorite, but definitely a good cast, interesting story and certainly worth your time, if you like crime thriller type movies. The scary thing about this films is, it makes you wonder if people like this exist in America. Plus, when I first saw it years ago, I remember thinking, whoever that guy is, if he would just shave all that face hair off, he would be frigging gorgeous. I loved his eyes. I didn't realize it was Brad right away! The other characters did a fine job as well and I personally think it was an interesting and good movie. "},{"Title":"How I know why it's called Kalifornia","Date":"25 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I just saw Kalifornia tonight. I had never heard of it although I consider myself an avid film goer. I read the cast and was going to surf pass it. My phone rang, and when finished I was at the beginning of the film and was hooked.I am, like some of you, not a fan of Brad Pitt but his portrayal was excellent. He was a stone-cold killer but without the heavy handed approach of many like serial killers. He captured perfectly the sense that he really thought he wasn't doing anything really wrong until the end with his girl friend tells him that he is mean. Pitt does an insightful portrayal, first he murmurs 'no I ain't! and then he looks at her as if he sees her and himself for the first time. The viewer knows that he will kill her without a qualm.Pitt treats her killing as he has handled all the killings in the film, he killed because it was somebody else fault.His end, brutal as it was, was expected. Damn good job of everybody.I think it was called Kalifornia to show that we're not going to deal with the real California (Then what is real about Clifornia when his girl friend talks about going up the hill where the Hollywood sign we know it ain't going to happen like Of Mice and Men when you know they ain't going to get the farm.Also the K has a hard ring about it. Much like the 60's when America was spelled Amerika! Excellent film. I am glad my mind was changed by Brad Pitt's chipped tooth portrayal. "},{"Title":"Yuppies meet characters from the nether world","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Pitt and Lewis both give stunning performances in this movie. Pitt, playing Early Grayce, the hero/villain, is barely recognizable under dirty hair and beard, and Lewis as his incredibly trusting hillbilly girlfriend Adele is almost chilling in her portrayal. She seems to have subnormal intelligence. Lewis is so fine all the time. I particularly recall how she expresses doubt and panic, using only her eyes, when she thinks maybe she has revealed too much about her boyfriend's criminal behavior. This is great acting. The Duchovny character, Brian, a yuppie-type aspiring writer gets the whole story going when he decides to get extra riders to share expenses on the cross-country drive to California, stopping at various spots so his photographer girl friend can take the pictures he'll use in his book on serial killers. The girl friend, Carrie (Forbes), has negative feelings about the two riders right from the start, but is constantly overridden by Brian. The relationship between Brian and Carrie goes through subtle changes during the course of the trip. Viewers may wonder about the quality of the relationship anyway for various reasons, particularly after viewing Brian's violence when he makes love to Carrie. As a writer, Brian develops what might be considered a clinical interest in Early as a violent character and tries to be tolerant and also to reassure Carrie. He becomes attracted to Early and tries to be a buddy but everything ends in disaster. I agree with the reviewer who noted a change, a coolness, in the feelings between Carrie and Brian at the end. This movie was unpleasant but the mix of the four characters and the violence that engulfs them results in gripping entertainment. "},{"Title":"I ever tell ya 'bout them doors Bri'?","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Kalifornia is one of my favorite films. Being from West Virginia, I have heard the hillbilly accent plenty, Pitt and Lewis nail it. If you get the uncut version on DVD , you get to see Duchovnys butt. This film holds no punches and it is gritty and real. Pitt gives a memorable performance as well as the rest of the cast. The film is all about what drives a serial killer. And while we may leave still questioning this, it does shine some light on the social barrier in the US. We see the wall that has been built between the socialy elite, who are desperatly trying to find a purpose in life and the poor white trash who are just trying to get by. Being made in the early 90s when the womens movement was at it's pinnacle, we also get a glimpse of reality in geography. Some women needed to be powerful, to be contaversial and to be in control. Some women just wanted to be protected and not alone. This film is disturbing in it's realism and the acting is as good as it gets. We also get to see the birthing of Mulder. You will see that Duchovnys character Brian in this film is not so much different than the X Files character Mulder. I imagine that Chris Carter saw this film before he cast Duchovny in the role of Mulder. Or perhaps Duchovny brought a little bit of Brian into the role. One bit of trivia for X Files fans, Mulder had written a paper on serial killers while he was in college, this paper was read by authorities in the FBI which led to him becoming an FBI agent. Strange coincidence? If you haven't seen Kalifornia, go out and rent it. "},{"Title":"Disturbing.","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  It's the road trip the Devil mapped out and put together.There are two kinds of mindsets with this film....the way it was filmed..and then the story.(Spoilers)The story is disturbing. A male writer with an idea of writing a book about serial killers decides to combine the experiences of moving to California, going on a long distance cross country drive by car and working on his book. He brings along his snobby little girlfriend who is an artist and can help with the book, and they get an idea. Find another couple who is going their way so they can split expenses. Great idea until they meet up with the culture clash couple of the century and a serial killer in his own right.The filming/direction of this work is rich, it add on to the telling the story. It's dark and light, grainey and sharp, colorful and gray all in the right places to build suspense, shock and show unflinching violence. This is a violent feature because it deals with a violent subject and Sena tells the tale well. The acting performances by Lewis, Pitt, Duchovny, Forbes are as equally dark and disturbing...each you can feel crossing over into the others shoes to their chagrins....as you watch the psuedo-yuppies on the road get a lesson about others in this world they will never forget.Not for the kiddies, it's an adult themed film and even then not all adults can stomach this. "},{"Title":"Almost there...","Date":"2 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Dominic Sena's Kalifornia - it's almost there.  It's a fine line between the good, acceptable thriller and the truly memorable classic, and Kalifornia so damn nearly makes it into the latter category, it'd be unfair of me to dwell on its minor shortcomings.  For the record, these are mostly down to some slight reservations concerning Brad Pitt's performance as Early Grayce, and a general feeling that the ending wasn't quite as punchy as I'd been hoping... but we ought to set against these minor points a whole bunch of pluses.Don't get me wrong - I do like the Pittster, he was fine in Twelve Monkeys, Se7en, etc; it's just that here he seems just a trifle mannered - as if he can't really let himself loose in the character of the ultra-psychopathic Early.  Perhaps it's a fault of the part as written... can't make my mind up.  Duchovny is fine (interesting to see him waving that torch around, Mulder-style...), and both the women leads are very good indeed.  Elsewhere among the pluses an absorbing plot, sharp & simple; nice script; that much-beloved Propaganda Films sense of noir style about the production; and, less definably but quite importantly, just the sense that the people who made this movie like the sort of movies you like... which is always pleasant.  You get it with Mark Pellington; you get it with Shyamalan; you get it with most of the good guys, and I'd include Sena in that category. A superior, thoughtful and provocative thriller - now will someone please give Duchovny another movie role even half this good?!  'Cause he certainly needs one, after Evolution... "},{"Title":"A Trip Into The Darkside","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie shook me, as I realized there are people like Early Grayce (Brad Pitt) in the world around us. In this disturbing film, he takes the ignorant Adele(Juliette Lewis)as well as the well educated, intelligent Brian (David Duchovny)and Carrie (Michelle Forbes)into his psychopathic world.Using the unsuspecting, other three as mere puppets, he goes on about his life as he has always lived it...Violently and without the least hint of mercy or regret. "},{"Title":"i just feel","Date":"6 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  i thought that kalifornia was a very good movie - i just did not understand why it was not really a big hit and why it was not nominated for any awards - i even thought that brad pitt did an excellent job in his role (he should play that type of character more often) "}{"Title":"Graphically violent depiction of changing attitudes.","Date":"25 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is an excellent film well worth seeing, especially if you like 'road' movies and are not put off by graphic violence.  The film begins steadily enough, friends discussing the merits of the death penalty and whether it can be justified or not. Should we on the other hand study why people become serial killers and try to understand and help them?The four main characters in this film all play their parts admirably but I must give special mention to Juliette Lewis and Brad Pitt; Lewis in particular is superb.The climactic finale is a fitting end as Duchovny re-evaluates his beliefs. A truly moving film which evokes great empathy for the characters involved. 8/10. "},{"Title":"a search for better things, or maybe not...","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  First of all I want to say that I was ecstatic when I found this film because I hadn't seen anything Duchovny had don prior to the X-Files. After watching this film I must admit that I was just sitting there stunned. A young couple, a writer and a photographer, want to get out of the small town where they live and move to California where everything will be better and if it isn't better there it won't be anywhere. They find as an excuse to make this trip a book Dunchovny has started to write about serial killers. They decide to take with them a young couple that agrees to pay half of the trips' expenses and that's when heaven breaks loose. I honestly don't think many films have approached in a better way matters such as the differences that occur when people with a different educational and social background meet, the guilts we have or we don't have when we do something that is wrong and how we all search for a place where we will feel right at home.  "},{"Title":"Excellent movie, lots of action and angst","Date":"6 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Kalifornia is an excellent film. Rather violent, with some lighter moments, but well-written and acted by all involved. Duchovny plays a writer who has a contract to write a book about serial killings, so he and his live-in photographer girlfriend, Michelle Forbes, decide to go on a cross-country tour of sites of serial killings. They take along two Tennessee hicks (Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis) to help share expenses, not knowing that Early Grayce (Pitt) is a serial killer himself. Everyone involved really gets to show off their acting prowess. Pitt is surprising believable as the conscienceless dirty hick. Lewis is impressive in her role as the simple young waitress craving for love. Duchovny is great, too, as the naive writer who comes to experience violence first hand. Forbes is excellent as the not-so-naive young woman with real concerns about their involvement with Early Grayce. "},{"Title":"Wanted to rate it higher but.....","Date":"3 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is a good movie - if only those doggone southern accents hadn't sounded so contrived, it really detracted from the finer points of this movie.  I think most of us can say we've known someone who, at least a little bit, remind of us Early Grayce - some that have come oh so close to dropping that penny.  One of the things I really like about this film is the relationships that occur between Early and Brian, and Adele and Carrie.  Movies often focus on one or the other, but Kalifornia manages to take on both, AND make them both believable.Ignore the obviously contrived accents and focus on the characters themselves and I think most people (who like the genre) will find this a worthwhile film. "},{"Title":"Brad Pitt is better dark.....","Date":"17 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie was on my To see list for a while. It has some excellent performances from Juliette Lewis and Brad Pitt. Pitt seems to prove over and over that he is better when he plays the darker character i.e. Tyler Durden, Geoffrey Goines, from 12 monkeys, and Early Grayce in this movie. He is so convincing and disgusting that sometimes you forget your watching pretty boy Brad Pitt. I now have a new found respect for Juliette Lewis as an actress because of this movie. The story isn't the best ever but entertaining enough to keep you interested, and there are enough cool lines, i.e. When you first meet people you only notice the differences. After a while you start to notice similarities. I guess that's how all friendships start. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Driving to California, studying serial killers along the way, and with one in your car, good movie.","Date":"18 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  CAUTION -- SOME SPOILERS MAY FOLLOW --There are only 4 characters who matter in Kalifornia - the good couple, Brian (David Duchovny) and Carrie (Michelle Forbes), and the bad couple, Early (Brad Pitt) and Adele (Juliette Lewis). Brian is a writer who wants to travel cross-country with his photographer girlfriend Carrie to get information and photos in Tenn, Ark, Tx, and Nev for a book he wants to write on serial killers. Short on funds, Brian puts an ad for ride sharing and he spells the destination Kalifornia to grab attention. Early is showing up for his first day on the job as a janitor at the university and that is how they hook up quite accidentally.Early is a convicted felon out on parole, and anxious to get out of state with his girlfriend, Adele, who is completely subserviant to him and who acts like she has an IQ of about 85. The film actually starts on a rainy night, an anonymous man picks up a girl looking for a ride then they wreck when a large rock is thrown from an overpass onto their windshield. Early did the deed, just for fun, with no remorse, and that sets the tone for the rest of the film.Brian and Carrie are educated and refined, Early and Adele are the epitome of uncultured hillbillies, rednecks, whatever you want to call them. From their first encounter when they were picked up at the local bus station we know this will be a strange road trip. As he is leaving town, Early kills his landlord and burns his home.At the first stop, as Brian tries to talk the owner to letting him photograph inside the house, Early is stealing a purse thorough a side window. Later, at a gas stop, Early kills a customer in the mens room and steals his bankroll. Eventually at another gas stop, Carrie sees a news broadcast that reveals the murders Early has done, and she become very fearful. She and Brian get tied up and handcuffed. At a mine in Nv two cops show up and Early kills them, saying, Got 'em both on the dead run, and smiles. In an older couple's house, he does in the man with a golf club, turns to the wife and says, Now you're a widow, after she had tried to hide the fact that her husband was upstairs.  Eventually, on the Calif border at a nuclear test site, Brian gets the upper hand and puts out Early's lights.During one conversation along the way, Adele tells Carrie,Early don't think a lady should smoke or drink or use bad language, so I spell all my cuss words. And, He only beats me when I deserve it. Early is definitely mentally disturbed, and Brad Pitt's characterization is a great acting job. Likewise Juliette Lewis' portrayal of the dimwitted Adele. Duchovny and Forbes don't have to act much, because their characters really are the straight men in this film which showcases the relationship between Early and Adele, and seeks to show that a seriel killer doesn't need much of a motive. In Early's case, it was usually to either get money, or in the case of the landlord, to erase debt. Killing for survival much like a wild animal would, with no thought at all about the rights of others.The film ends with Brian and Carrie in their beach home in California, musing about the strange experience they went through, and looking forward to their lives together and their careers, with an outlook that is forever changed by Adele and Early.Unfortunately I saw this film on TV, and probably 20 or 25 minutes were cut out to accomodate comercials and perhaps delete some R parts. I may see the DVD version some day. Anyway, I rate it 7 of 10 and a good film to watch if you like this sort of subject matter. "},{"Title":"A genre movie with more depth than expected","Date":"16 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  True Romance came out about the same time as Kalifornia and due to TR's more stellar cast, it received much more attention.  Kalifornia, however, is the superior movie.  I know you think with Brad Pitt, he has to be a pretty boy killer--he's not.With a small cast, two artist-types, (Mchelle Nelson of Star TrekTNG as Carrie, a photographer and David Duchovney as Brian, a psych grad student), and two trailer trash types, (Brad Pitt as Early Grayce and Juliette Lewis as Adele Corners) decide to carpool from Kentucky to Kalifornia, this movie allows us to see the two couples move closer together as they find they have more in common than is comfortable.I don't want to reveal too much.  I should add that I am not a big fan of killer movies like True Romance and Natural Born Killers, but this movie is artistically made and has more depth than I'm used to seeing in this genre. "},{"Title":"A very good movie that proves serial killers don't need a reason to kill - just an opportunity.","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  * Warning * This is a strange dark comedy/tragedy type of movie - it is NOT for the squeamish! The plot is quite interesting yet simple.  Imagine having to drive across the country with another couple that you have absolutely nothing in common with. A young grad student, Brian Kessler (David Duchovny) does just that when he decides to take a trip to California and tour various murder sites along the way. To help he and his girlfriend Carrie Laughlin (Michelle Forbes) finance the trip, he picks up a redneck couple - Early (Brad Pitt) and his girlfriend Adele (Juliette Lewis) for a share the ride experience.  The culture clash happens to be the least of their problems because Brian just happens to be writing a book about serial killers and Early just happens to be one!For those that get it, this movie is very well done! The performances are excellent. In particular, Michelle Forbes is very sexy, stuck up and armed with an endless variety of condescending facial expressions. Juliette Lewis is wonderful as the young woman with the mind of a 12 year old. She uses her child-like reasoning to block out an abusive relationship and even murder at will. Brad Pitt is simply superb as the redneck-killer-from-hell. If you have ANY questions about what a redneck is - simply watch Brad Pitt's mannerisms throughout this movie! Finally, David Duchovny is... well... dead pan dull, which makes him a great straight man.I highly recommend the unrated cut from the DVD to get the full impact of this movie. Enjoy!!!  "},{"Title":"Final Verdict 7 out of 10","Date":"14 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Highly atmospheric, ironic, dark, mean-spirited, gripping thriller variation on the popular serial killer phenomena builds a unnervingly unfolding plot on a simple and almost foolish premise, which only provides the basis for a quite superficial, but compelling exploration of the fascination of evil and its disturbing consequences. Novelist David Duchovny and girlfriend-cum-photographer Michelle Forbes head out for California and visit the sites of famous mass murders to make a book. To keep the costs down, they take a white-trash-couple with them Juliette Lewis and Brad Pitt, who turns out to be a serial killer himself. Stunningly shot, enjoyably cruel and brutal road movie, might be flawed story-wise, but boasts four strong performances in the lead, especially from Pitt in a ugly change-of-pace as sleazy, disgusting villain, Forbes being stunningly sexy and smart, Lewis perfectly cast as dumb, naive, but good-hearted girlfriend and Duchovny's underplaying a good counterpart to Pitt's maniac-on-the-loose. Looses strength and conviction towards the conventional finale, but holds attention until that point and offers plenty psychological confrontations, steamy sex scenes and sudden acts of violence. Not for all tastes, not a flawless movie, but a little gem. "},{"Title":"Dark side of Brad","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Loved this movie, still do. Brad not really recognizable as THE Brad Pitt. His edgiest role, even better than Fight Club. He outdid Juliette Lewis, the queen of the alternative film in this one. Hard to think of a character so convincingly played as so evil. I recommend it to whomever I can, still. Yes, I know this is late, but I just decided to submit comments. "}{"Title":"Natural Born Kalifornians","Date":"4 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Kalifornia is a breath-taking and ironic thriller about violence and serial killers, and also the obsession with violence and serial killers.  It has Brad Pitt (amazing how the pretty boy always does best in his grungiest roles) as Early and Juliette Lewis (completely believable and sympathetic) as his child-like, traumatized bride.  The psychotic couple hook up with a pair of cultured yuppies (Brian an author, Carrie a photographer) on a cross-country trip to California, stopping at infamous murder sights to help Brian write his book about serial killers.  Irony prevails as is so happens that the white-trash Early is himself a serial killer.  Brian and Carrie enjoyed hearing about violence and Brian especially wanted to understand what drove someone to kill.  They get what they wanted (earlier in the movie Carrie makes a comment about karma to confuse the disdained trash couple which turns out to be prophetic).  The movie would suffice as a frightening thriller but yet the movie also rises to an insightful portrait of serial killers and the causes (or lack thereof)of their violence. "},{"Title":"A smart flick","Date":"7 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  There are meaningless movies about violence and then there are quality movies about violence. Kalifornia is a fine film that fits under the latter category. The movie explores the fascination with serial killers and focuses on one criminal's nature and behavior.Brian (David Duchovny) is a writer in search of inspiration for a novel about various serial killers. He appears to be a simple wannabe who does not even know much about the nature of murder. His girlfriend Carrie (Michelle Forbes) is similar with her artsy character. She is a photographer. The couple constantly dresses in black. One day they decide to move to California in search of stronger appreciation for their talents. They plan to take a long road trip where Brian will make stops at all the famous killing sites to search for material. Carrie will be his photographer. However, the two need someone to come along with them to split the costs of travel. Meanwhile, at the other side of town in a trailer, Early Grayce (Brad Pitt), a criminal, is beginning to get a little itchy to leave the state. Pitt plays poor white trash so well, it's scary! Juliette Lewis plays his trashy girlfriend Adele equally well. Adelle is similar to the character Lewis later played in Natural Born Killers except that she is not at all a killer, but rather an innocent person. Early hears about Brian's road trip and decides to break his parole and leave the state with Adele. When the two couples first meet, it is a tremendous clash of personalities. While Carrie is disgusted by Early and Adele, Brian remains enthusiastic and very open minded. And so the four of them are off.Everything is captured by excellent cinematography. The movie has a nice, mysterious, and slowly-developing tone and feel. Kalifornia progresses in a very intriguing way. It's not just a simple thriller where a couple finds out they are riding with a killer and try to escape from him somehow. Instead, the personalities of the four start imposing on one another. Early begins to kill people at several stops without anyone knowing. Carrie begins to learn about Early's character from Adelle, and starts complaining to Brian. Meanwhile, Brian becomes buddies with Early and is more and more interested in his bizarre and offbeat behavior. He likes Early so much that he neglects any warnings from Carrie. His wannabe character begins to wander and Brian starts becoming more like Early. Their opposite worlds come closer together. At the same time, Early is revealing more and more about his character. While Carrie is frightened, Brian is intrigued. At one point Carrie finds Early's gun, but is surprised at her boyfriend's reaction. Brian, who would have never touched a gun before, is taking lessons from Early and firing the weapon at an abandoned building. As Carrie becomes increasingly terrified, she lets Brian know that she will not continue on this trip. At this point, Early explodes and reveals all there is to him. Brian is no longer as fascinated as he was. The couple experiences for themselves what it's like to be in the company of a serial killer.Kalifornia is not perfect, but it is very good. The acting is strong and the plot is smart. The film is very well made. If you liked Natural Born Killers you will probably like the less successful Kalifornia. This movie is very underrated. Overall, an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Juliette Lewis is outstanding","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie for the first time a couple of days ago.From the opening scenes with the barely recognisable, hirsute Pitt and the narration you could argue that the film was going to be predictable. It could have been a turkey but great acting and well written dialogue set against stylish and beautiful camera work combined to make the next two hours very gripping.Pitt personifies the white trash, psycho killer with a powerhouse performance, but for me, Juliette Lewis quietly steals the show as the naïve and ignorant girlfriend. Forbes is good as ultra liberated photographer but Duchovny was curiously flat as the writer. He seemed to be acting the same throughout the film when mixing cocktails for his boring buddies as when he was when taunting Pitt in the mine. Perhaps this was deliberate; to create a foil against which Pitt could rage. Perhaps not. (I have not seen any X-Files yet. I wonder whether he plays the same as in this? The X-Files are on my list.)All in all the movie gets an 8. Good enough for me to put the tape back into the video player and watch over again.  "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"5 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  My comment comes a little bit late, but I've seen this movie two days ago for the first time. It's a pretty good road movie type thriller. Duchovny and Pitt playing well, also Lewis's acting like always. If it would have had some more action, it could have rated between 8 and 9, but I'll give it a 7. "},{"Title":"Cool","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Very nice movie. Interesting story and very good actors. You don't see Brad Pitt in a role like this these days. "},{"Title":"I really liked it!!!","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I think that Kalifornia is an extremly good movie.Brad Pitt is one of my favourite actors and I think he played the part of Early Grayce very well. David Ducovny is also very cool.Some of my friends found it disturbing, but I just treat it as entertaining fiction.I would give this movie 9/10 stars!!!  "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing...","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  The seductive tension and accurate performances make Kalifornia a worth-while rental. Juliet Lewis steals the show as Brad Pitt's innocent, child-like girlfriend. Wasn't she born to play just this role? As for Pitt, he convinced me with those steely blue eyes that his character was certainly capable of mass murder. Duchovny is really a one-note actor, but he's ok here. Michelle Forbes is adequate as his twisted photographer girlfriend.The direction, camera angles, mood, music and underlying menace are all well done here. The DVD contains the unrated version, which is worth the watch, though less sensational than one might imagine. Still, Kalifornia is a mesmerizing experience. You may want to look away. But, how can you? "},{"Title":"A twisted Heart-of-Darkness pastiche with a bitter-sweet ending","Date":"22 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  For a former music video producer this is a thematically successful movie.The interesting psychological aspect of this movie-of-travel-and-quest is not the outcast Natural-born-killers couple (Lewis and Pitt), whose identity is in their violence towards people.Far more interest is attached to the development (or perhaps lack of such) through out the story of the middleclass hero couple, who set out to what they expect to be a museum visit to famous serial-killer attractions. But it turns out they have unexpectedly embarked with two first-hand museum guides to the scenary.The movie deals with - as Heart of Darkness - whether the hero couple at the end of their quest and trials have come out with more insight into themselves and human nature.It can be argued that the very short closing scene is too short to form a basis for any interpretation.The movie does not hold it against the hero couple as such that they start out with no knowledge of themselves and the real world. This is a situation everybody experiences. The problem for the couple is that they do not learn from their experiences.Apart from being thematically interesting, the movie also produces fine castings, locations and dialogue that all together splendidly form the foundation of the hero couple's trials through out the movie.These instruments - plot, location, casting and dialogue - can't however do the job for the hero couple. The ultimate trial is solely within themselves - like Marlowe - to go to the border of your own soul and face the dark powers within yourself, reject them and return to life as a whole and wiser person, who must never forget his own latent capacity for evil. Here they fail. In a hypothetic Kalifornia II, the serial killers are, of course, the hero couple. "},{"Title":"Way underrated...","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Kalifornia is the story of two yuppies (David Duchovny...before he was famous...and Michele Forbes, who undeservedly seems to have disappeared after this) who are attempting to write a book on serial killers.   To get inspiration, they plan to stop at famous murder sites on a road trip to California.  To save money,  they post an ad to find a couple to join them (and help pay for the gas).  They get more than they bargained for with Early (Brad Pitt) and Adele (Juliette Lewis).   Early is a murderer and Adele is his depressingly infantile girlfriend.  You'll have to see the rest to find out what happens...Brad Pitt gives his best performance to date and Juliette Lewis gives the best performance in the film (its as good or better than her outstanding performance in NATURAL BORN KILLERS, and very different).   You have to feel sorry for her because she barely knows what's going on (and what she does know she tries to block out).   David Duchovny's character is fascinated by Early and almost looks up to him,  these characters develop very realistically.  Michele Forbes is also wonderful,  her character (literally the exact opposite of Adele, which makes their relationship very interesting) practically goes crazy when she learns more and more things about Early's telepathic personality from Adele and unsuccessfully warns Duchovney.  The movie (whic his enhanced not only by its performances, direction, and screenplay but also by its cinematography) is not only a suspenseful thriller but also an effective character study.   See it in widescreen to get the full effect! "},{"Title":"Disturbing, but a must for fans of the genre.","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  It is too bad that Pitt stopped playing maniacs - he has quite the propensity for it. Although Kalifornia is a low-budget psychological thriller that predates Silence of the Lambs, Seven, or Copycat, this movie offers much for the fan of the major actors or for the genre itself. Duchovny plays a writer who decides to visit major serial killer sites along his way to Los Angeles (sense trouble already?). Pitt and Juliette Lewis come along for the ride and offer Duchovny the live version of what he is trying to capture. Although the psychology is simple compared to later trips into this area (and the plot is relatively predictable), Kalifornia remains a disturbing production - the fear that our macabre interests may fulfill themselves....  "}{"Title":"Not bad, and definitely worth watching.","Date":"12 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This could heve been the best movie I have seen in a long time, but alas, it was not.  It is based on four main characters, all of which must be equally developed and important for the movie to be its strongest.  Duchovny and Forbes give good performances as Brian Kessler and Carrie Laughlin. Juliette Lewis does a very good job as Adele Corners, who could have easily gone from the simple-minded girl she was into an idiotic and unbelievable woman.  Pitt, however, outshines all three of the other characters.  The has thoroughly explored the character of Early Grayce and made him just as evil and unfeeling as the role calls for, and even goes farther than necessary as establishing his character as an insane redneck.  Unfortunately, this overruns the other characters and makes Grayce the main character.  It is somewhat difficult to accept a psychopath as a main character, and this also takes away from the movie some.As for the directing and cinematography, both are phenomenal.  Sena's experience in commercials and music videos makes itsef apparent in his masterful use of light and sound.  I knew that it would be a good movie, or in that sense at least, starting with the rain in the opening sequence. Some say that Kalifornia is so absorbed in its artistic creation (how the lighting, music, etc. are put together), that the plot is only a vehicle to carry the images.  I have to agree.  At times it does seem this way, but I would also add that the images are what make this movie worthwhile.  They are what carry its meaning, so they should also lead the plot somewhat.  The difference in style between most shots of Early Grayce and Brian Kessler serve to always remind the viewer of the difference between Kessler's easygoing blandness and Grayce's psychotic fury.  The occasinal juxtaposition of upbeat music with the solemnity of death also provides a great irony and a possibility for dark humor, which I enjoy very much.Though it does have a few problems, this is a very good movie.  I would reccomend it to anyone who is looking for a good thriller and has been through all of the standard fare. "},{"Title":"Well, a good movie","Date":"10 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  A bit too late to state my opinion on this movie, but since I'm the only one anyway, why not! A ok movie, Duchovny's fans will definitely find it nice, besides there is also Brad Pitt, I suppose just that makes the movie alright. (Good actors always do ;)) A Pulp Fiction and Born to Kill type of movie... I liked it. The actors' play is very good. I'd give it an 8 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great acting, but poor character development","Date":"26 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Sadly, this one fails the Leonard Maltin test for a good movie.The characters are either unbelievable or obnoxious, but either way we have no feelings for them so we don't care what happens to them.The dumb hillbillies are way over acted. Pitt is funny as a psycho, but not very realistic. Same with Juliette Lewis. I mean come on... no one talks like that outside of the Beverly Hillbillies show.And the good couple are so stupid you wish someone would just shoot them and put us out of our misery.I'm glad the good couple won in the end, but like I said, they were so stupid I really didn't care by then. "},{"Title":"Impressive acting, disappointing story","Date":"26 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Recap New journalist Brian seeks inspiration for his first book, one about serial killers, and his girlfriend Carrie has grown tired of getting her photographs refused. Together they decide to head for a new life in new territory, Kalifornia, and seek inspiration by visiting homes and sites for serial murderers. But they need someone to share the expenses for the trip, so they post an ad. Their only answer is from Early and Adele. They are the stereotype for white trash, and Carrie grows suspicious at first sight. And she should have listened to that feeling, for Early is just recently paroled, not really allowed to leave the state, and with a great problem dealing with his aggressive side.Comments A psychological thriller with the acting as its greatest strength. One of the first movies where Brad Pitt was in a leading role and could show his talent. And it is an impressive performance indeed. He is almost frighteningly convincing as the psychopathic serial killer without any limits or regrets. Also Juliette Lewis is very good as the dependent, childishly naïve Adele, and both David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes do well too.But the to be a real psychological thriller there must be more of an air of suspense, of suspicion but uncertainty. What the threat is here is by no means an uncertainty, it is just a question of when. And Early is not very subtle about it either. With his violence and aggression the suspense disappears. More of the suspense would have remained if Early wasn't so simple minded and set to killing. If he actually let some victims survive and showed more of a psychological turmoil, a battle within. Now it gets too predictable.As it developed it almost lent some characteristics from a horror movie, and that genre is not my favorite. So despite the impressive effort from the cast I wasn't fully convinced. Totally watchable for the acting, and to see Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis in fairly early roles (they were long from being rookies though), but not for the story.5/10 "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good, entertaining and interesting. A real life research journey turns into a real life nightmare!","Date":"16 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Kalifornia yes spelled with a K is without a doubt a cult classic. A film that uses the serial killer intrigue and wonder as it's guiding theme. Yet it's raw and interesting and overall a pretty good movie of character interaction that feeds off the personality differences of human nature. Showing that the darkness and horrifying side of human life can be real.Featuring a now well known cast before they graduated to more and bigger better roles. It centers around an elegant and yuppie educated couple Brian(David Duchovny)a research journalist and his artist girlfriend Carrie(Michelle Forbes)who want to hit the road to the west coast for a better life in sight is California. And it's Brian's idea along the road trip journey to stop at famous murder sites where serial killers committed their crimes and record quotes and have Carrie take photographs. Yet being middle class to earn enough money to leave the East coast they decide to partner off with another couple for help.Only this poverty and uneducated couple that's white trash and hick talking that lives in a trailer court isn't what they expected. Enter Early(Brad Pitt)and his girlfriend Adele(Juliette Lewis)who are unique and have very dark secrets. Along the way and the site stops the interaction and talk is interesting only to become more and more horrifying and revealing. As it's clear finding common ground is tough. Only a real life journey of actual site research turns into a real life nightmare of actual horror. As Early is a real serial killer on the warpath from restroom to barroom killings.Overall good film that explores the darkness of human nature showing that probably more is learned from life by seeing the actual revealing nature of a person than documenting past occurred events. Because people's actions speak the most honesty. "},{"Title":"Quality serial killer thriller","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" A surprisingly effective thriller, this.David Duchovny and Michelle 'Ensign Ro' Forbes are a successful, professional couple, he a writer, she a photographer. Forbes is desperate to move to California and, in an act of compromise, Mulder agrees to the move on the condition that, along the way, they visit sites of historical interest concerning famous serial killers. His idea he writes the words, she takes the pictures, with the end result a bestselling coffee table book that will set them up for life. To help finance the trip, they decide to car share and advertise the fact. As their bad luck would have it Brad Pitt sees the advert and, shortly after killing his landlord, he and his girlfriend, Juliette Lewis, meet the writer couple and begin their cross country trek. Inevitably, mischief ensues.Pitt is outstanding as the genuinely chill inspiring Early Grayce and is capably backed up by Lewis playing her customary white trash character that seems to be her default setting. Duchovny and Forbes make for a convincing double act too and, as events spiral out of control, you as the viewer are sucked into their plight and can feel the tension ratcheting.Intelligent, sinister and beautifully shot, this deserves recognition beyond its current status. A top movie. "},{"Title":"Disturbing but fascinating","Date":"2 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Husband and wife Brian and Carrie Kessler (David Duchovny, Michelle Forbes) are traveling by car to California. They don't have enough money for gas to get all the way so they take along strangers Early (Brad Pitt) and his girlfriend Adele (Juliette Lewis). Brian is writing a book on serial killers...but doesn't know that Early himself is one.Off-putting at first but this movie just gets better as it goes along. The discussions between Duchovny and Forbes are fascinating and the interplay between Pitt and Lewis is amusing (I believe they were still dating at the time). You know Early is a killer really early (sorry) in the movie so it gets a little nerve wracking wondering when and why he'll snap. Also Pitt gives a great performance. Lewis, at first, got on my nerves with her voice and sweetness but her character grew and developed as the movie went on. Forbes is on target not trusting Early from the beginning. Only Duchovny seems overly mannered in his role. His character is supposed to be laid back--but THIS laid-back??? The violence is strong and brutal and the insights on killers are fascinating. This was made before Pitt hit it big and before Duchovny did The X Files and it's fun to see both of them so young and eager. A disturbing but fascinating film. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"Kalifornia-review","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I can't say too much about Kalifornia as sadly I have yet to actually see the whole thing (I've only managed to see it in bits and pieces on Fuse.) But what I have seen is absolutely awesome! I am a fan of Brad Pitt but I admit not all his earlier movies are well good. But this role, I just, his acting is great, his character Early seems so normal well okay creepy, dark weird but you know normal for a hillbilly of that type I guess. And Juliette Lewis's performance although I can see how some may be annoyed by it I think it's amazing. Sadly I have yet to see the end, but from reading other reviews on here it sounds good, but disappointing. I have to admit that I wish David Duchovany's (sorry if the spelling on that is incorrect) was a bit flat but for him it was okay. His wife's character was better, and I thought her performance while not the best in the movie was pretty good, a portrait of the avant-Gard/older sister type. Particularly the scene where Early and Brian go to play pool, and Adele and Carrie are having their one on one time together. I've watched that scene at least twice now and I still think the acting in it is just wonderful. One because of the emotion that Adele portrays after talking about being raped by the three guys and how she feels about Early and Carrie's reaction to it. Everything about that I think is just so perfect. I mean, maybe it's because I can relate a bit, I'm not sure. As for Brad Pitt who plays the serial killer that we actually get to see for once; I thought he was great. Some movies with Pitt that I've seen were just average or not worth seeing. I don't think I've ever seen a terrible Pitt movie or if I have it's not because of his acting it's other factors. This movie was not one of them. He turned out a great performance in Kalifornia. I swear I'm not just some random I do like him for his acting not just because he's good looking, I mean his character in this movie isn't exactly handsome or cute by any means! Pitt is dark, brooding and downright scary at times. Yet he's also cheerful, funny, nice, and even loving towards Adele. Granted there are some spots that made me want to reach through the TV and strangle him but that's probably just me (and the character Pitt played in the movie.) But it also shows how good Pitt's acting was in this movie it made me forget that he was playing a character, that is what good acting is supposed to do. At any rate I wish I could say more, but that's all I can really say without having seen the ending, I have seen most of the movie through what I've caught on Fuse and as I'm writing this I'm taping it on DVR so hopefully I can write a more complete review later. I just wanted to share my thoughts on a movie that I thought was something really cool and something that seems to have gotten overlooked (it shouldn't have!) "},{"Title":"I've seen better, less confusing films","Date":"24 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I wasn't sure how to rate this movie. It's not altogether horrible, yet not even close to an Oscar-winning performance. Then again, how many movies actually are Oscar-winning; very few. However, what I found after watching this movie was a maelstrom of confusing scenes, disconnected dialogue, and characters that just didn't seem to mesh with the overall story. My first question was how Pitt's character ever ended up with Duchovny's crew in the first place. Although it is explained in the film, I still can't see how these two couples could have logically ended up together, unless it was by pure chance. The whole point of movies these days is the suspension of disbelief, and I hardly find it believable that this could have happened. However, for the sake of argument, it did. Still, this movie presents a plot that is somewhat disjointed and yet, emotionally barren for me. Yes, the whole prospect of dying at the hands of someone you were initially being kind to is mortifying; dying is an uncomfortable subject to begin with. The film simply did not present me with the feeling of placing myself in one of the character's places. I've seen Pitt pull more convincing performances, and Duchovny has portrayed better characters, but for me this movie took a nose dive once it hit the road.You'd be better off with the gut-wrenching feeling you get from watching Natural Born Killers. It has the same subject matter, but pulls you in so much, the world for a few hours afterwards, still has that surreal feel to it. The only thing I did with Kalifornia, was return it to the video store. "},{"Title":"Tell me, big shot, how you gonna write a book about something you know nothing about?","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" When others ask me to describe this film to them, I always use the words 'ironic'. Why? The overuse of over-educated not realizing what is happening until midway through the film seemed to work in this film. Duchovny and Forbes are those two over-educated people that want to witness the truth of humanity, but when faced with they cower in fear. It is ironic, one could say.Not only is the ironic nature of this film fun, but it is definitely one of those movies that is taken up a notch due to the actors. Pre-Jennifer Aniston Brad Pitt is perfection in his role, and Juliette Lewis was on the top of her career with this film. She nearly stole this film from everyone else. It is sad to see her fall as hard as she has. Lewis explored every avenue of her character and was not afraid to go overboard and show us the true emotion of her role. We cannot give sole credit to Lewis for her part in this film, we also need to thank director Dominic Sena for pushing Lewis to explore this un-simple role further. I could not imagine anyone else in her part. Lewis was a great asset to this film. She helped release some of the tension felt between Duchovny and Pitt when they were trying to reach the same level as Lewis.While the acting commands its own attention, it is the story that impressed me the most of this film. It is very dark, gritty, and real. The powerful women's roles in this film surprised me for the time, but also helped me dig deeper into the overall themes of confusion and social structures. Feminism did have a bit part in this film, and Sena was not afraid to show it through Lewis. While you will find moments that seem a bit cliché, Kalifornia is a powerful film that yields some decent acting with a very gripping story.Grade ***** out of ***** "}{"Title":"different spin on the serial killer theme","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Kalifornia is another in the serial killer genre (Se7en, Silence of the Lambs etc), but this one is a little different. My main problem with most serial killer movies is that they tend to glorify the killers into these superhuman, superintelectual creatures, when, in reality, they are just sad, extraordinary mal-adjusted and emotionaly stunted human beings. This film takes a more realistic look at the phenomenom although much of the over dubbed dialogue is somewhat cliche and derived from countless other psychological observations (dropping the penny from the building analogy, heard that one many times).Brad Pitt plays Early, the confused white trash killer with a slight amount of charm (perhaps a Charles Manson influence?) who hitches a ride to California with David Duchony and Michelle Forbes. His character represents the truth about most killers, there isn't any deep meaning behind what they're doing, no devious mastermind plotting some kind hideous revenge, no grand mystery, they are just people who have a horrible upbringing, exposed to psychological and emotional trauma and are venting those feelings anyway they know how. There are several points in the film where David Duchovny's character is making many psychological analyses of Early, perhaps blaming his childhood, his father, but they are quickly denounced by Early. He just likes killing people, the reason is unclear, even to himself. The movie does hint sometimes at the serial killer cliches, such as Early's pointless stories about The Doors, mystical portals into other dimensions, which try and convey some otherwordlyness to Early, like he is a creature from another dimension, but they detract from the overall theme that killers should be pittied, not worshipped. While the movie has truthfull intentions (as opposed to most Hollywood films), the script is somewhat flabby and could have used some tightening up. What saves this film is the performances. Pretty boy Brad Pitt is almost unrecognisable as Early, sometimes over the top (with his trademark little mannerisms thrown in) but he nails the character and is genuinely creepy, repulsive and yet somewhat fascinating. Watching this guy act is a treat, much like watching De Niro act, they are so absorbed into their characters, it's truly a awesome sight. Juliette Lewis and Michelle Forbes are excellent and their scenes together are brilliant. My only complaint is David Duchovny, who I feel has no acting ability and no range. His performance (like all his performances) is incredibly bland and unemotional and I feel he was miscast in this role.All in all, a good movie, not great, but good enough to warrant multiple viewings. It's a different spin on the serial killer theme. "},{"Title":"Unfairly criticised psychological horror","Date":"4 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  After watching Kalifornia, two things struck me immediately.  Firstly, it's a lot more disturbing than I had predicted.  The gore, and general horror factor, reach impressive heights.  Secondly, it's a lot better than I had imagined.  After reading a handful of unflattering reviews and unimpressionable box office figures I was never expecting much but this is actually a success for director Dominic Sena and the horror movie genre in general.Kalifornia is how horror movies should be made &#150; with slightly different storylines, believable characters and at least some element of intelligent realism.  Brad Pitt is absolutely terrifying in his role as the alcoholic, psychotic Early Grayce.  In addition to his top-notch performance, his characters continual aura of unkemptness is a triumph for the filmmakers.  Pitt's continual squinting, and the cameras reluctance to show him looking directly towards the audience, makes the audience struggle to get even a glimpse of his soul.  Juliette Lewis gives the other notable performance as Early's dependent partner, a field day for any psychologist.  Pitt and Lewis form the perfect &#145;trailer-trash' couple, and the movie's other coupling of David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes does not even come close to comparing.The shadowy lighting of the main &#145;serial killer' spots, especially in the film's finale, help preserve the tense atmosphere and keep the audience on their toes.  But there are few cheap shocks in this film as Sena prefers to develop the psychotic character of Early until the audience are absolutely terrified of him, and what he has the potential to do.Some of Duchovny's voice-overs, giving insights into the mind of serial killers, are slightly clichéd and unimaginative but the premise that his character is blind to the film's main irony, that his perfect subject is sitting in the back seat, is highly believable and you find yourself siding against Forbes for being so critical of Early and Adele.A must-see movie for horror fans, or anyone wanting to see a criminally under appreciated piece of work.*********  "},{"Title":"Always listen to the butch girl!","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Yes, Lewis and Pitt proved their acting ability with this dark fable, and yes, Duchovny was his usual minimalist self .  The reason to see this film or re-see it is Michelle Forbes.  Like Cassandra in  Agammemnon_ or Mr. Pink in _Reservoir Dogs_, she keeps telling people what's going on, and they keep ignoring her until it's too late.  While Duchovny's Bryan deepens his hero-worship of the testosterone-oozing Early, Forbes' Carrie actually listens to Lewis' character, learning about Early from Adele's more informed perspective.Forbes' work isn't flashy, but it's her point of view the audience is brought to identify with as the story develops.  She says the things the audience wants to hear said, and her reaction shots are controlled, never over the top.  For me, it's Forbes who keeps this movie from being a kind of ultraviolent cartoon, and when Early turns on her at the end, I felt more real concern for her than for the too pretty, too cerebral, too naive Bryan or for the other poor souls unlucky enough to get on the wrong side of Early. Maybe Forbes' butch haircut and bossy attitude kept people from noticing all the acting she's doing in this movie--I don't know, but take a look or a second look at her performance and see if you don't agree that it's what holds the movie together.  "},{"Title":"Brad Pitt can actually act!","Date":"10 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is a riot... I haven't laughed so hard since Monty Python broke up. This is one of those drama on the surface movies where the director allowed the actors to play it for black humor. Pitt and Lewis take full advantage, while Duchovney and the forgettable female lead look completely confused and not-in-on-the-joke. A great 2 hours, especially the second time around "},{"Title":"Gritty, intense, and satisfying","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I'll begin by saying I'm not necessarily the world's greatest Brad Pitt fan. However, I thought that he did a magnificent job of acting in this film. Instead of playing what I consider to be his latest pretty boy roles, he really got his teeth into a very unsavory character, and made him believably nasty.  Juliette Lewis was great as Early's naive girlfriend.  As far as the point I read that Duchovny won't watch this movie, I thinks it's mainly because of the fact that he is pretty lame as a lead character in this movie.  Pitt and Lewis make this film.   "},{"Title":"Pitt Shines","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  A wild performance by Brad Pitt is the highlight of this outstanding film. I found his VERY unbalanced character to be oddly charismatic as well, and even the acting talents of the other leads were not nearly enough to steal any of the spotlight from him.  This film is absorbing, with some tremendously tense scenes and some surprisingly funny ones as well.  In other words, it's the total package, and is a movie that is not to be missed. "},{"Title":"Juliette Lewis","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  If you are one of those people who don't think that Juliette Lewis can act, then this is the one film that you should watch if there is any hope of changing your mind.  Her character is sort of dim-witted, but Juliette brings her to life with a very powerful, subtle, psychologically complex performance.  She's the best thing about this movie, which, aside from her, is a fairly predictable, completely unbelievable attempt at your standard serial killer on the road horror flick.  Pitt is okay. Duchovny is warming up for the X-Files.  Forbes is gorgeous, but under-used.  Juliette Lewis is flat-out amazing. "},{"Title":"My New Favorite Movie","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is a really great movie. It has all you could ever want in a great flick-Its got guns,sex, great cast, and lots of strong violence. I have always loved road movies and this is definitely one of the best. I would choose this over Natural Born Killers any day. It is just so fun and entertaining to watch. Brad plays an awesome pshycotic killer and I liked Juliette Lewis better in this than NBK. She just doesnt seem like a killer. This movie has a real horror movie like feel which is great. Its also real eerie without being extremely violent such as NBK or Doom Generation. If you have any interest in road movies you will love this movie. "},{"Title":"Dark Joy Ride","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The writer is in charge of this film. Writers like to write about writing, and in this case, he brings a photographer. What is written about and photographed is Brad Pitt. This is his  most committed performance before `Fight Club.' Surely informs some of his later roles.Sena is what's interesting here. He has an edge which shows in his eye, as the photographer that goes further than the writer. Is this the same guy who did the execrable `Gone in 60 Seconds?' At least he had some similarly self-referential scenes in `Swordfish.'Why is violence cinematic? Why do we ride the `doors?' What's in it for us? What would have made this film great? I'll propose some of `Switchback.' "},{"Title":"earrrrrrrrly now cmon a--dele now get","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  see people don't appreciate brad pitt as much as he deserves for his acting. so many films he's shown his talent but it's still not completely recognised. this film just completely transforms him as we usually see him. cinamaorgaphy is brilliant, and it's such cinema film, you feel like you're watching it in the cinema, especially the beginning. it looks attractive right from the beginning. some amazing acting in this, and amazing characters. juliette lewis playing adele i think is her best role, adele's my favourite character i think in any film, she's the sweetest most naive little innocent girlie. i really recommend this film to any1, everybody i've made watch it have loved it. "}{"Title":"A Kalifornian Nightmare","Date":"15 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Kalifornia is one of the most melancholy and philosophical movies that were ever made about serial killers. The whole film is surrounded by a sad atmosphere, so locations like disintegrated factory buildings or decayed slaughterhouses are extremely matching to the mood. The brilliant photography of director Dominic Sena refines this study about the depths of human soul. Main actor Brad Pitt is giving a great performance with playing the weird serial killer, obviously stressed by a childhood trauma, but the most excellent appearance comes from Juliette Lewis . Her part playing the role of Adele, a chick somewhere between childish naivety, white trash and madness is outstanding! Don´t expect a second Silence of the Lambs or even a Henry - Portrait of a Serial Killer, because you surely will be disappointed! What you get is a film with far-reaching dialogues and well-developed characters...8/10 "},{"Title":"Sweet psychological thriller","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Pay attention to this one, it's got a lot to say. It's film noir and social criticism mixed in one. In fact, this film was probably the (unacknowledged) inspiration for the entire 'X-Files' series (which I hate), and there are a hell of a lot of similarities between them. The spooky, dark atmosphere of dread is very much the same though much more effective here. Duchovney's character--a liberal writer--does everything he can to accomodate and relate to the Pitt character (Early) and still ends up in deep trouble. The characters are all realistic and almost everything that happens is believable (as opposed to 'Blood Simple' where to achieve a few sick laughs you're asked to suspend disbelief). Pitt's performance is effective on its face as well as hilariously camp simply because of the huge star he has become since (his tongue-in-the-nudie-picture scene in the unrated version is funnier than hell). But all that's okay, for the film as a whole works on many levels and can withstand more than a few unintentional laughs to go with the intentional ones. The most touching scene is the final one, when the tape recording of Adele confessing her loneliness and deep need to be accepted humanizes her tragically and  emphasizes the contrast between her (who never really had a chance) and these two yuppies (Duchovney and Forbes) who shared a portion of her tragic journey. Even after a first hand experience of true evil has tempered his liberalism and made him kill to save his life, he will have to hold on to a large portion of his original theory simply because of the overwhelming pathos generated by that final tape message. "},{"Title":"First rate psycho thriller Road Movie.","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I really liked 'Kalifornia' the first time I watched it several years ago, and seeing it again the other day it has stood the test of time. Director Dominic Sena unfortunately went on to make dumb action movies which don't do his talent justice. The four leads are all equally good. Brad Pitt is a superstar now, but has made some interesting and adventurous choices in the past such as the wonderfully deadpan 'Johnny Suede' and this, possibly his best acting to date. Juliette Lewis has certainly never been better than here. Her only subsequent performance to equal this was in the much maligned 'Natural Born Killers'. Pitt and Lewis steal the movie, but David Duchovny shows in his pre-Mulder days that he has acting chops to spare. Finally, Michelle Forbes is impressive as Duchnovny's snobby, pretentious girlfriend. Why she never became a major star is beyond me. The only minor gripe I have about 'Kalifornia' is the unnecessary and sometimes intrusive narration. Other than that it is a taut, involving thriller, and one of the most underrated movies of the early 90s. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Hmm... they say that California is the place you oughta be","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I just watched Kalifornia last night. I went on a delightful trip to Blockbuster Video. When I was looking around, I noticed it. I looked on the back of the cover to see what it was about. But I noticed the names. Brad Pitt, Juliette Lewis, and David Duchovney. Wow! That is some big star cast. So, I gave it a shot. Actually, I thought it was pretty decent. It's nothing special to look at. But I would recommend it. Under no circumstances is this a movie for kids. I would only say for the adults. Mainly because of the subject and violence. I would say to give this a shot. It's a good movie. Just wonder why it's called Kalifornia. Oh, well.7/10 "},{"Title":"Terrible And Ugly, Yet For Pure Comedy It Has It's Moments","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" KALIFORNIA is a movie I wanted to see ever since it first came out. Back in 1993 Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis were a couple. Both were hot, rising young stars with a hip, punk-rock image. I always assumed this movie would be some sort of cool kids on the run epic, a killing spree set to a great alternative rock sound track, sort of REPO MAN meets POINT BREAK.Alas no, by Jove! Ten minutes in, Brad Pitt walks into a sleazy diner, and shouts, AW WAWNT A BAOWEL UH CHILLEH, knocking it out of the park with the most uproariously bad Southern accent in the history of film. Right then I knew I was heading for comedy genius. Not since Peter Sellers turned the French accent inside out as Inspector Clouseau has an actor gotten so many laughs out of simple mis-pro-nun-cia-tion.But it doesn't stop with Brad's crucifixion of redneck culture. The moment David Duchovny makes the scene, the John Lennon of Sucky Acting has found his Paul McCartney. The chemistry between the rip-roaring redneck and the geeky nerd with the tape recorder is so amazing -- two forms of bad acting, (macho shouting versus wimpy whining) but blended together with total harmony.The girls in this movie are actually somewhat better than the boys, though that's not saying much. Michelle Forbes, who went on years later to be a standout presence in the HBO series TRUE BLOOD, is at this point totally charisma free, but at least she's inoffensive. What little acting this movie has all comes from Juliette Lewis, who somehow turns the shallowest and most insultingly stereotypical character (the helpless child-woman, the white trash victim) into a completely sympathetic and believable human being.If you want to read a really good book that tells the same story, (wimpy elitist kidnapped/liberated by white trash killer) read DIRTY WHITE BOYS by Stephen Hunter.KALIFORNIA is a terrible movie, but Brad Pitt would have made an awesome Lamar Pye.And David Duchovny would have been a natural as wimpy little Richard Peed. "},{"Title":"Not that thrilling, pretty dry actually","Date":"25 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" The plot of this movie is basically a redneck killer played by Brad Pitt on the road with his girlfriend, a writer that is into serial killers and his girlfriend who is a photographer taking pictures of places murders took place. Besides Brad Pitt's performance, nothing else really stood out to me and even his acting was a bit over sometimes. The best performance in this movie acting wise is probably Juliette Lewis, although Pitt's character was more fun to watch while Juliette Lewis is annoying in this. It just felt like a dull movie to me, but I kept watching it because I thought at least the ending would be good, but that was a letdown as well. This movie is suppose to be a psychological thriller, but there wasn't anything really thrilling about it. Maybe I missed something, but after the movie was finished I just wasn't satisfied. It had a okay start though, but nothing special. Average at best.5.1/10 "},{"Title":"Great Cult Film","Date":"19 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Very good cult with Brad Pitt giving a superb performance. Juliette Lewis plays the perfect cult leading actress. This film is so good that it should be put out again on the big screen. With all the movies Brad Pitt has been in and with David Duchovny being in the hit show Californication I believe it would be a box office hit. I did not want to add a spoiler but Brad Pitt plays the perfect mentally ill serial killer. His southern accent is very believable. Not only do Brad and Juliette take Michelle Forbes and David Duchovny on a ride of their lives they also take the audience.Great movie I definitely recommend if you like cults. "},{"Title":"SCary!","Date":"11 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This Was One Scary Movie.Brad Pitt Deserved an Oscar for this.A traveling novelist (played by David Duchovny of the X-Files fame) and his girlfriend pick up two hitch-hikers(Juliette Lewis and Brad Pitt) on their way to California. On their way they stop at infamous serial killer murder scenes to photography the scenes for an upcoming book Duchovny's character is working on, little do they know that the most disturbed serial killer in the history of the country is sitting right next to them in the same car. "},{"Title":"Serial Killer Movie With Some Thought Behind It.","Date":"2 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is a strange movie. It's as if it had been cobbled together independently by several different intellects and sensibilities. It's not a particularly dumb movie, a pointless slasher product, despite its fashionably misspelled title. It's not a rerun of, say, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. It's not arty either, not like, say, Badlands, although the people behind it must unquestionably have seen both earlier movies.Let me get an abstract of the story out of the way. A writer of stories about serial killers (David Duchovny) wants to travel out west to California with his photographer girl friend (Carrie Laughlin) and visit the scenes of mass murders, then write a book about them. To share expenses he agrees to take along two strangers, the bearded and vulgar Brad Pitt and his blowzy girl friend Juliette Lewis. Duchovny shouldn't have done it. Pitt turns out to be an exemplar of the type. There is a violent and gory climax.Each of the four main characters could be described in a couple of words, I suppose. Duchovny is the cheerfully tolerant, analytic writer who wants to get into the heads of serial killers but is happy enough to allow Pitt to liberate the occasional, well-controlled wild streak in him. (Grinning like a little boy, he lets Pitt show him how to shoot a pistol.) Laughlin is the snooty Eastern artist who is revolted by Pitt and Lewis and irritated by Duchovny's interest in them. Pitt is the hairy ape who spits all the time, wears a cap with a Confederate flag, whips his woman when she drinks or cusses, and takes the shoes off his smelly feet in a restaurant. Lewis is the nincompoop who believes that since Pitt rescued her from a gang bang years ago he's her savior and master. She's romantic to the point of delusion and more interested in her yo-yo than in Pitt's transgressions.As for character development, Laughlin and Pitt don't change at all, from beginning to end, only revealed. Duchovny's change is formulaic. The liberal finds that, under extreme circumstances, he can shoot and kill another human being because the script calls for it. Actually, Duchovny's character isn't very bright. When Pitt commits his first murder on the road, Duchovny peppers him with penetrating questions like, You didn't have to kill that guy. Why did you do it? For the power? Because he reminded you of your father? Really. Well, as Duchovny admitted earlier, all he knows about serial killers is from library books, and he's evidently read Freud. Juliette Lewis is the most interesting character. She's full of ums and ahs and other hesitations and her performance is informed by a childish excitement until, near the end, when her fundamental decency is awakened and she turns on Pitt. In turn, Pitt has a better grasp of the character than the one he showed in the popular Se7en, another insulting title. Here, he's nicely animated.I have to say that the photography is fine too, and so is the location shooting and the set dressing. These kinds of skills are often neglected because they form a kind of background to the figures in the foreground, but they're important skills nonetheless.For what it is -- and it doesn't really pretend to be more than what it is -- a story of two (or three, depending) innocents who are emotionally and physically savaged by a serial murderer -- it's not nearly as bad as it might be. Here's how bad it might be. A couple of simple-minded happy-go-lucky college kids on spring break pick up two venomous hitch hikers and after assorted mayhem, including a couple of student deaths and considerably nudity, one or two of the surviving students manage to slaughter the hitch hikers. This film isn't that bad. "},{"Title":"Must see movie!!!!","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This movie is great! Brad Pitt will never be able to out act the performance he gave in this movie. Duchovny was top notch, as was Forbes and Lewis. The 4 main characters embark on a scenic road tour of historic murder sites, in one of the coolest cars ever made, 1960's model Lincoln Continental. Early Grace is a simpleton with a taste for dry toothbrushes and carnage. He likes his women to not curse or smoke, and wear PWT dresses. Duchovny and Forbes are a pair of artists from the city, while Early and Lewis are Trailer parkers from the rural outskirts. Even though the majority tone in the film is dark, there are plenty of funny scenes to be had. The writing, directing, and acting are brilliant. If you like road movies, murder, humor, and narration, watch this film. Everyone delivers, and you will want more when the credits roll. One of my all time favorites. hey...shave that dog n teach it to hunt! "}{"Title":"The Brad Pitt Show.","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I have to start off by apologizing because I thought the first 75-80% of this film was hilarious. It's mostly because of Brad Pitt's performance. Spot on.The acting by all involved was quite good but Brad stole the movie. The atmosphere was perfect in all respects. I'm not a giant Pitt fan but this has got to be one of his best roles ever.Brutal,Honest,Gritty. All good words to describe this movie.I was reading a previous review and the person said that the reasoning behind Early's violence isn't explained. It is explained but they thankfully don't have to go into graphic detail to get their point across.Overall I gave this a 9 because every scene bar 1 or 2 was effective. I think the humour in the first half or so is perfect for this movie. Underrated. "},{"Title":"A great 1990's drama.","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" Kaliforniais a great film that makes us look at ourselves.The film has a great cast,Brad Pitt(Johnny Suede,A River Runs Through It,and The Legends Of The Fall)as Early Grayce,David Duchovny(The X Files)as Brian Kessler,Michelle Forbes(Star TrekThe Next Generation,HomicideLife On The Street,and Escape From L.A.)as Carrie Loughlin,Brian's girlfriend,and Juliette Lewis(Natural Born Killers,Cape Fear,and What's Eating Gilbert Grape)as Adele Corners,Early's girlfriend.Brian Kessler is a writer who is a Liberal,is getting ready to write a book about serial killers.Brian and his girlfriend,Carrie decide they want to move to California,so Brian places an ad at the college for some who wants to go to California,to share expenses on the trip.Early Grayce is an ex con and sociopath on parole,who recently lost his job at the mirror factory in town,is in debt,owes his landlord money.Early's parole officer stops to visit him and tells him about a job.Early goes to the college and sees the ad,he later tells Adele,his girlfriend about leaving to go to California.Early and Adele meet Brian and Carrie at the bus stop and leave town.Brian and Carrie do not know that he is a killer who just killed his landlord.For a little while Brian and Carrie thought of Early and Adele different but got to know them and become sort of friends,Carrie and Adele become real good friends.Their journey is a very learning one.Though Brain and Carrie not knowing early is a killer till later on in the movie.The question Brian asks in this film about the difference between killers and us is a very good question.Early Grayce is a sociopath who doesn't see the error of his ways,goes down hill later on and pays the price.This film is a great movie,I give it 10/10 stars and 2 thumbs up.I love the songs in the movie,especially at the end of the film,the songLook Up To The Skyby The Indians. "},{"Title":"This Ain't Lucky Logger","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  SPOILERS, but not reallyMice & Men.   Over Education.   Tequila sunrise.   Barking dogs.   Mobile home.   Deep hole.   Parole violation.   Hail Mary.   Broken mirrors.   Cactus buddy.   Gas guzzler.   Nice haircuts.   Manhood test.   Lucky Logger.   Magic doors.   Bad words.   Poverty poetry.   Moon howl.   Peaches & Cream.   The rebellion.   Test site.   Freud tango.   Horny mannequins.   Handy shovel.   Soiled reflections.    Carpooling sucks.   "},{"Title":"Not bad thriller; Michelle Forbes is terrific","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  So-so thriller starring Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis, who join David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes on a road trip out west. The latter couple are researching notorious murder sites for an upcoming book; Pitt's a serial killer on the lam (unbeknownst to Dave) and Juliette is his poor, not-all-there companion.  This is a good cast and the story moves along, but Pitt isn't belivably scary as a serial killer, although it is one of his better earlier roles.  The best thing is here is Michelle Forbes, who always manages to shine, whether in her roles on `Homicide Life on the Street' or in the brief series `Wonderland.'Vote 6  "},{"Title":"Brad and Juliette are AWESOME","Date":"3 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I rented this movie thinking it probably wouldnt be very good since it didnt do that well in the theatres. Well I liked it so much I actually bought it! Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis are outstanding as poor white trailer trash. This is definitely a classic role for them both. David Duchovny plays the gorgeous Brian-a photographer who goes across the country with his photographer girlfriend Carrie studying the scenes of famous murders. They need to find someone else to go with them to share expenses so they wind up meeting Early and Adele( played by Brad and Juliette), the poorest,greasiest,sleeziest couple around. The ending was suspenseful and somewhat happy. Overall I enjoyed this film and found it to be very entertaining. I give this 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Strange traveling companions","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" So you're a young writer, traveling cross-country with your avant-garde photographer girl friend to research a book on serial killers, but you'd like to have someone along to share expenses, maybe spell you on the driving. You advertise and who shows up? A scraggly-bearded roughneck and his baby doll girl friend -- a pair who could give trailer trash a bad name -- so what do you do? You say 'Hop in.' Me, I'd drive off in a cloud of dust. But then the movie would be over. And you wouldn't have any bludgeoning, stabbing or -- and this is important -- bravura acting. Because despite it's dopey premise, Kalifornia provided Brad Pitt with an early chance to show what a splendid actor he is (as did 12 Monkeys.) He's matched, in southern-fried ignorance, by Juliette Lewis, if not in the outbursts of insane rage that keep the picture perking along.It's a frighteningly realistic portrayal of a good ol' boy gone bad and almost makes it worth it to go along for the ride. "},{"Title":"VERY depressing...","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" ...Kalifornia is a psychological thriller about insane killer Early Grace (Brad Pitt) and his girlfriend Adele (Juliette Lewis) who take a ride with a couple (David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes) who are investigating America's most famous murder sites.  During the trip, Early secretly kills a man for gas money and Forbes' character starts getting suspicious of him.  Duchovny's character is more laid back and ignores her complaints.The problem about this movie that focuses on only four characters is that two are boring (David Duchovny and Michelle Forbes) and one is completely annoying (Juliette Lewis).  Grace is the only character on screen worth liking and listening too.  Duchovny is mellow and laid back and Forbes' main character trait is to whine and complain.  Lewis plays Adele perfectly, unfortunately her Southern accent distracts you from anything she's saying.Pitt delivers an amazing performance though, with the same Southern accent yet more natural (Lewis sounds like she's trying really hard with each word).  His character of Early Grace is fun and saddening, especially when he goes completely psychotic near the end.  Kalifornia came almost as close as The Green Mile did bringing me to tears.Not for the weak stomach or weak heart, Kalifornia impresses, 8/10. "},{"Title":"A good watch even if they did misspell the title.","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Kalifornia is a good Hollywoodish odyssey of suspense and terror which tells of two couples who drive cross-country to California to share the cost of gas A pair of losers (Lewis & Pitt) and two wannabee artists, a photographer and a writer (Duchovny & Forbes). Pitt nails his character which is the focus of this somewhat predictable thriller. A good watch for those into psycho-killer flix. "},{"Title":"Great movie, good acting and thought provoking plot.","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I felt that this movie was outstanding.  It kept me on my toes the whole time.  The plot is full of hidden symbolism and irony.  I felt the acting was excellent to good and the direction of the film was fantastic. It is a very good movie to watch and then to discuss with some friends. "},{"Title":"abhorrent to decency","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Kalifornia is disturbing.  I believe there is no reason for this story to be told.    It is neither entertaining nor does it have social value. Technically, the movie is very well make, the performances are top rate and first class.  The story develops in an intriguing way that holds interest.   But at the end this movie sickens and is abhorrent to decency. I recommend Kalifornia to no one. "}{"Title":"Love it!","Date":"31 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" This is a fantastic movie! Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis are highly entertaining. I don't know many people who can be categorized as trailer trash but it seems to me Brad Pitt hit the nail on the head on this one and I always love Juliette Lewis. How can you not adore her in this? She's innocently adorable and if we didn't know her better we'd probably think she suffered from a slight mental retardation.I'd give this 10 stars if it wasn't for David Duchovny who I've always found annoying. The yuppie characters in this movie are irritating anyway and with Duchovny in the role, they're annoying times 10. Although he played the victim, it was hard for me to sympathize with him on this one. Yes, their roles were necessary, but he certainly isn't.Needless to say, Brad and Juliette stole the movie and are very well suited for the roles of trailer trash which can also be viewed in Too Young to Die, another winner! "},{"Title":"B-O-R-I-N-G","Date":"9 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  I was expecting to love this movie--film noir, serial killer, dark irony.  I was baffled by many choices the characters made (Hey, I know they're creepy looking, but let's hook up for a cross-country road trip anyway!), found the pacing to be glacial, and the emphasis on moody lighting to take the place of original thought by the director and cinematographer.Thinking about it now, this would have been a much better movie if someone had just run the script through the common sense-o-meter (1992 model) before starting to film... "},{"Title":"Natural Born Killers","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  KALIFORNIA (1993) **1/2 Brad Pitt, Juliette Lewis, David Duchovny, Michelle Forbes.  Farfetched road trip about a writer and his photographer girlfriend on an excursion for a book about serial killers in America.  To pay for expenses they advertise for travelling companions and get more than they bargained for with a flighty young woman and her psychopathic, white trash boyfriend.  Glamourization of violence is the theme that does nothing  yet has its moments of predictable suspense.  "},{"Title":"One of the two worst movies of all time!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This movie is one of my two least favorite movies of all time. Along with Harriet The spy, this movie reached new levels of crap! If you are in the mood to have your intelligence insulted and actually scream at your tv. While watching this movie i could only think one thing, why am i being submitted to this torture, what did i do?!? "},{"Title":"Juliette Lewis rules this movie","Date":"12 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I wouldn't say I'm a huge Juliette Lewis fan. To me, she's a quirky character actress. Her slow-witted, country bumpkin, trailer trash portrayal in this movie is WONDERFUL! Brad Pitt, however, just misses in his portrayal of her boyfriend. There are elements of his country bumpkin, trailer trash portrayal that are truly wonderful. The way he walks, for example, is great. His look is spot on, too, including the chipped tooth (see the trivia for more info about that).David Duchovny provides his typical deadpan, single note performance, demonstrating again a question of his ability to have any range whatsoever. There's so little passion to his character.I am unfamiliar with Michelle Forbes, though her performance comes closest to matching Juliette Lewis's than any one else's.I rated the move as relatively low as I did (a five) for two reasons. One, to help drag down it's total, because there are lots of 6.6 rated movies I happen to like. Secondly, it really ain't that good. "},{"Title":"If it's not good enough for the lead actor ...","Date":"23 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  In an interview, David Duchovny said he hasn't been able to watch even the first hour of this film - and neither should you. The scene where he asks the owner of a house where a murder was committed if he can look around - change the name he gives and he could had lifted his performance from just about any episode of the X-Files. He's on autopilot for the whole film. Brad Pitt overacts appallingly. "},{"Title":"Great story, bad production","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  This is such a movie that makes me think if they had only given it to a decent director... You see, the acting is terrific, except for Duchovny, which is sad, because he got most of the line since he's the narrator. But Pitt is marvellous (as always - speaking as a heterosexual, so I mean his acting, just in case) and Lewis and Forbes are good as well. The story is also quite interesting doing research for your book on serial killers with the assistance of one. The problem with this movie is that it suffers from mediocre direction/cinematography and particularly a bad soundtrack. The music sounds as if it was written for a softporn series, and add to that Duchovny's sleazy and boring narrative voice - at some points in the movie you're starting to think you're actually watching such a series. I can't believe no one else mentioned the awful music in their comments. Never use electric slide guitars in a movie soundtrack! It ruins the whole atmosphere. I thought is was going to be something like a non-Tarantino-esque 'True romance', but instead I got a decent yet very mediocre and out-of-a-dozen serial killer flick. Nice, but certainly not memorable. (Sorry for all the hyphens by the way.) "},{"Title":"Nothing Positive","Date":"17 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" honestly, if anyone has a brain, there's not 1 positive thingto say about this movie what so ever. I lost my $1 renting this. I'd rather laugh at Will Smith saying If you got a dream, you got to protect it. all the actors must've been bored or had no fame at the time. even Matthew Mc Conahay *however you spell it* was better then all the actors in this movie, when he played a psycho in Texas Chainsaw 4. If you see this movie, and have anything good to say, you IQ, must be extremely low, with such bad taste in movies, it hurts. Thank YOU...and the TRUTH, has been spoken!Save yourself from the misery. Get Devil's Rejects, now that's a classic. "},{"Title":"Early is not a serial killer, he's just an illness lost mind.","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Another movie to suffer without an adventure to run, no enigma to solve. Just an illness man, acting like an animal. No a good reason to take this journey. Pitt and Lewis are great actors; magnificent Michelle Forbes but a weak David Duchovny performance...   "},{"Title":"Poor in almost every department","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":"  Distasteful, cliched thriller has young couple doing cross-country research on America's most infamous murder sites, becoming road partners with a dim-witted young woman and her snarling boyfriend--who is an actual psycho. Arty and alienating, the film's tone alternates between pouty pseudo-irony and silly flamboyance. Handsomely-made perhaps, but ultimately laughable. Brad Pitt's performance as the low-rent killer is godawful. * from **** "}{"Title":"Deranged","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Horror","Review":" I was up LATE last night and had NOTHING else to do ... and was just too tired to get up off the couch and drag myself to bed. This NUTTY, DARK movie was on and Juliette Lewis is mildly alluring and interesting so I watched. Brad Pitt, as he is in many movies, such as the similarly deranged Fight Club, was COMPLETELY PSYCHO in this twisted potpourri of madness.Brad Pitt plays a deranged, backwater, trailer trash serial killer and David DuCoveny does not have the chutzpa to do anything about it.I'd have been better off playing tiddlywinks or counting sheep. Now my brain is filled with more disturbing images of Brad Pitt raping and pillaging like a complete lunatic. If you like dementia and darkness, this one is for you.I give it one star because I cannot give it zero. Seriously. "}]