[{"Title":"Good Suspense -- For the Intelligent Movie-Goer","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"44 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed this film very much.  It is well acted, and has plenty of star power, with great performances from Roberts and Washington.  The story is compelling, and the cinematography lends itself to excellent suspense.  However, many moviegoers (including myself) will find elements of the plot confusing and hard to follow.  There are a great number of characters, and it is often difficult to tell who is who -- most of the bad guys dress alike and have similar hair, so distinguishing them becomes challenging.  This may be a minor flaw in either casting or costume, making the characters somewhat undistinguishable.  However, it also makes the plot quite intriguing, as the intelligent moviegoer becomes entangled at guessing just exactly who is associated with who, and so on.  Still an excellent suspense movie -- if you like other Grisham movies (The Firm, the Rainmaker, etc.) you will like The Pelican Brief.  But be warned watch the film in an attentive state, and be prepared to think a lot.  If you are a lazy, sit-back-and-relax type of viewer, this may not be the film for you. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock would have been pleased","Date":"23 March 2006","Score":"29 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" You gotta love Alan Pakula. His Pelican Brief is true to the source material but manages to complement it with artfulness learned from Hitchcock and the events portrayed in All The President's Men (also directed by Pakula).The result is a thriller which never has to resort to the hackneyed or the obvious. Even the chase scene in a car park manages to be a little different.He has casted brilliantly (perhaps Fletcher Coal should have been older?) but his masterstroke is commisioning James Horner to provide the score. At times sparse and at others boldly chromatic it jangles the nerves as Julia and Denzel duck and weave their way through a maze of unease.A great way to spend two hours. "},{"Title":"The best of the Grisham movies","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"43 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Forget the plot holes.  Forget the implausibility of the story.  This is Grisham, the modern-day master of legal and political conspiracy and intrigue.This movie centers on one thing the chemistry between the on-screen duo of Julia Roberts and Denzel Washington.  And they do not disappoint.  Both give absolutely stellar performances, Washington as the reporter who desperately wants his story to see the light of day but is not afraid to let his compassion show through, and Roberts as a terrified law student engulfed in a situation where she is way over her head, trying simultaneously to survive and avenge the death of her lover.  There is not one scene, not one bit of dialogue, verbal or non-verbal, that doesn't make be believe everything they say, and that is a testament to the acting abilities of Roberts and Washington, two of Hollywood's best.For pretty much the entire second half of the movie, Denzel and Julia's characters work together to find proof of the conspiracy that resulted in the assassination of two Supreme Court judges, while at the same time dodging unscrupulous lawyers, heavies and an international hitman.In their final scene together, when Darby is taking the FBI director's private plane out of the country, the bond that has grown between her and Gray is extremely noticeable.  They deplane, and Gray shows Darby the headline exposing the conspiracy.  Darby smiles, shakes Gray's hand, and proceeds to walk to the car that will take her to her new location.... but no, a handshake is just not enough, not after what they'd been through... so she goes back and gives Gray a huge hug, which he returns.  The mutual respect is there for all to see.  No words are spoken throughout the entire scene, they are not necessary.Having read many of Grisham's books and seen all of the movies adapted from those books, I wondered how The Pelican Brief would stack up against all the others in the long run.  In my opinion, it is still the best of the bunch.My score a solid 10. "},{"Title":"Scary political thriller works due to good script, fine performances...","Date":"10 January 2007","Score":"22 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" JULIA ROBERTS is a damsel in distress when she writes a brief, theorizing what and who was behind the murder of two Supreme Court justices. DENZEL WASHINGTON is the investigative reporter who sees some merit in her theory and reluctantly decides to offer his help in tracking down the bad guys.It's based on a terrific John Grisham thriller and given a well crafted script, good performances and taut direction from Alan J. Pakula. I'm not a fan of either Roherts or Washington, so for me to praise this movie shows you how suspenseful and entertaining it is as a thriller.The overrated Julia Roberts is a huge box-office star who never once appealed to me despite her enormous popularity and Denzel Washington is a competent actor who sometimes does extra fine work--but neither one would win a popularity poll with me.So, with that personal bias showing, I still give THE PELICAN BRIEF a respectable rating because it does what it sets out to do--it keeps you hooked until the ending after a few unexpected plot twists totally in keeping with this kind of story where the heroine is in peril because she knows too much.Well worth a view. "},{"Title":"Everyone I have told about the brief is dead.","Date":"14 August 2007","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Take any John Grisham novel and have it brought to screen, written and directed by Alan J. Pakula (Sophie's Choice, All the President's Men. To Kill a Mockingbird), and add Julia Roberts and Denzel Washington as the leads, and you have a movie that is worthy of 141 minutes of your life.I love political films. You know that if you have read my reviews. Political thrillers are especially great. This one is well worth watching for the story, the directing, and, most especially, for the lead actors. I do not think that Washington and Roberts have ever disappointed me - OK, there was that License to Kill in 1984.I won't synopsize - you can get that anywhere - but, I will say that you will not be disappointed. It's not a popcorn movie, you have to put some effort into watching it, but the rewards are great. And the chemistry between Roberts and Washington is fantastic! "},{"Title":"Star appeal lifts a good political thriller","Date":"7 February 2006","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Another John Grisham novel becomes an entertaining thriller that opens with the murder of two Supreme Court justices. A Tulane law clerk suspects that the killings are too much of a coincidence and suggests that a Louisiana oil magnate and the White House may be involved. Determined to find out the truth, the clerk's research puts her life in danger, which is clear enough when her law professor is killed. Julia Roberts spends most of the film on the run, dodging killers and murder plots. Denzel Washington is a reporter who get pieces of information from an unknown source and eventually Roberts and Washington team up to investigate the assassinations. The film has complicated twists as Roberts and Washington work together to stay out of harm's way as their investigation points its compass at the White House. The supporting cast is great as are all the tech credits and James Horner contributes a nice music score. "},{"Title":"Engrossing, exasperating, enjoyably silly...","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Grisham's bestseller becomes paranoia thriller directed capably by Alan J. Pakula. Eager beaver Louisiana law student Julia Roberts does some home research trying to connect the backgrounds of two Washington, D.C. Supreme Court Justices who were murdered; her theories regarding the two men--who wanted them dead and why--turns out to be scarily accurate. The brief manages to get into the hands of top Presidential aides, and soon a contract is put out on her life. Shady political business is mixed with detective yarn and a (semi) love story between Roberts and stalwart newspaper journalist Denzel Washington, who is excellent. Smoothly done commercial package, well-paced and entertaining, though exceptionally far-fetched (which parlays into the enjoyment factor). Roberts pouts too much, and her first meeting with Washington (talking in a weepy whisper) is awful, but there is chemistry between the two and they help gloss over the more nonsensical parts of the script (such as a chase through a parking garage--full of cars but no witnesses--and the ridiculous, fatuous way the writers explain Roberts' seemingly unending credit and cash flow--I have the money my father left me). The supporting cast is filled with recognizable character actors all playing two-faced sons-of-bitches, with the minor exception of John Lithgow doing a nicely benign turn as the editor at Washington's paper. *** from **** "},{"Title":"Pakula at his best....I love this movie","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"15 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is just a great 'whodunit' legal thriller. Gripping, intelligent, acting is superb, the story is well constructed and builds in this beautiful crescendo. It' a huge cast and everyone is perfectly suited for their role. It moves beautifully, it flows like a movie should flow. I can't find any real flaw worth sharing. Just isn't there. I think it sets up Denzel Washington to continue in his escalating career as a wonderful character actor, a huge movie star, a big talent. Tony Goldwyn, since GHOST has this tendency to play the 'bad guy' but what can I say, he's good in this film too. Robert Culp, I love his impossible character. Julia Roberts is wonderful as the young starry-eyed law student who stumbles upon things bigger than anything she ever imagined. I loved every moment of the film. I recommend it to anyone who enjoys good solid film making. It should be used in teaching film - how to construct a story, how to keep the story one step ahead of the audience, making it suspenseful and exciting without having to resort to unnecessary violence or sex to make a movie work. It almost breaks through 'formula' scripts as suggested by the pundits who often don't have their finger on the pulse of what audiences want. It's one of the few films that when ever on television draws me in again and again and again! "},{"Title":"It's all been seen before","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"11 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The 1993 film with Julia Roberts and Denzel Washington still in the formation years of their careers &#x96; so this is certainly if nothing else a curiosity piece seeing how these megastar A-listers performed before they truly reached the top. John Grisham novels will generally make for a reasonably solid if unspectacular film, with just sufficient meat for serious actors to get their teeth into, and the Pelican Brief is no exception to this rule.When two senior judges are murdered, twenty-four year old law student Darby Shaw (Roberts) looks into the case and her suspicions somehow make their way to the FBI &#x96; suspicions that prove potentially damaging to the US government. Now she and journalist Gray Grantham (Washington) must try to stay alive long enough to ensure what they have uncovered is told to the world.Few do distress-turned-determination better than Julia Roberts, but after a slow start followed by a great deal of panicked running and hiding, interest wanes somewhat. Meanwhile Denzel Washington is given so little to do in the first hour to the point he is almost forgotten. Further, it takes so long for us to actually discover what was written in the eponymous brief and for the leads to meet and agree to take action, that the audience's desire to get to the bottom of the 'mystery' is definitely lessened. However, once the two do start working together in the latter half interest does pick up, but not enough to retrieve the film from its ponderous start. Roberts and Washington do the job required of them but seem to treat it as little more than a day at the office &#x96; there is very little of the energy we have come to expect from Roberts, or Washington in particular. The secondary roles are filled slightly better &#x96; John Lithgow in particular a standout newspaper editor, and watch out for a very young Cynthia Nixon (Miranda from Sex in the City) as Julia Roberts' student friend. However, Stanley Tucci as one of a number of shadowy government figures on the tail of the leads should have stuck to the shadows more. There is little of the slickness, the grit and pace characteristic of later John Grisham adaptations such as Runaway Jury.Legal thrillers about corrupt government prepared to kill to save their own position have been done so often (and so often much better) that little feels fresh about this Grisham adaptation, to the extent that were it not for the presence of A-listers Roberts and Washington this film would have long been forgotten. As it is, the film does not have enough thrills to save it from the fate of the DVD bargain basement bin. If you wanted to see this, it would probably be cheaper to buy than rent this film &#x96; and it would make a nice coaster! OK for a throwaway (literally) Saturday night film, but not memorable in any way. It's all been seen and done before. "},{"Title":"A Brief ring of truth","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I haven't read this particular John Grisham novel on which this film was based, so I can't comment as to the film's faithfulness to it. I can surmise however that from reading other Grisham novels it feels like it might be quite close. I'm sure someone will correct me if I'm wrong.The storyline is fairly straightforward. Why were two Supreme Court Justices assassinated? Darby Shaw, a curious law student (Julia Roberts), does a little research and writes a thesis on a possible reason. She shows it to her law professor boyfriend (Sam Shepherd), who in turn shows it to a colleague, also a lawyer (John Heard), who works for the FBI. The professor is blown up in a planted car bomb and his friend is shot dead in a hotel room. And someone wants the student dead also. She goes on the run, and eventually turns to Gray Grantham, an investigative journalist (Denzel Washington) for help.This is a superb conspiracy movie within the genre of All the Presidents Men and In Defence of the Realm, and although starting relatively slowly, builds up the tension and is never dull. It has an excellent supporting cast featuring Robert Culp as the worried President (what President isn't?), with John Lithgow as Grantham's newspaper editor, British character actor Nicholas Woodeson as an assassin, and Stanley Tucci, who gave such a wonderfully chilling performance as Adolph Eichmann in the British TV production Conspiracy, is equally pragmatically chilling here as a hit man.There is a muted chemistry between the two leads which, like the film, (although there is a little action), never quite gets, perhaps purposely, to boiling point. It's all suitably and superbly played in a low key, which helps to maintain a sinister element to the overall development of the plot.I suspect that The Pelican Brief is probably not to everyone's taste, but I personally love it, and given the oft modern corporate disregard for environmental matters, is by no means implausible, and indeed has the ring of truth about it. "}{"Title":"conspiracy","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I don't think that you have to be a conspiracy nut like me to enjoy this movie, but it sure helps. Sure the conspiracy was a little far fetched and hard to believe but that is what makes it fun,, Julia Roberts and Denzel Washington star as our two main leads,, countless other actors and actresses make this a great movie,, there are so many I can't even think to list them all, but they were great nonetheless. Supreme Court judges are getting offed by someone ,, and our junior law clerk,, played by Miss Roberts has to figure out who done it,,because she is writing a paper on it for class, Mr. Washington plays a local reporter for the newspaper, and eventually she contacts him,, brings him up to speed and the two team up and try to solve the murders of the Supreme Court Judges,, along the way they are almost blown up,, shot at , and numerous attempts on their lives,, as the bad guys who are responsible will stop at nothing to keep this from going public,, excellent crime thriller that really shouldn't be missed. "},{"Title":"First Great Adaptation Of Grisham's Novel","Date":"31 October 2011","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Pelican Brief is a legal crime thriller based on the novel of the same title by John Grisham. It stars Julia Roberts in the role of young law student Darby Shaw and Denzel Washington as Washington Herald reporter Gray Grantham together with Sam Shepard,Hume Cronyn,Stanley Tucci,John Heard,Cynthia Nixon,Jake Weber and James Sikking.It was directed by Alan J. Pakula.The Pelican Brief has the 24-year-old law student Darby Shaw embroiled in an affair with Thomas Callahan,her alcoholic professor. She writes up an insightful theory about the recent murder of two Supreme Court justices,one of whom, Abraham Rosenberg, served as Callahan's mentor. When Callahan shares this so-called Pelican Brief with buddy Gavin Verheek, an FBI lawyer, the document makes its way to White House flack Fletcher Coal, who believes it could topple the current administration. When Callahan is murdered and the President convinces the FBI to hold off on investigating Darby's theory, the resourceful student must go into hiding, stalked by relentless assassin Khamel. Her only hope of escaping Callahan's fate and proving her theory lies in Washington investigative reporter Gray Grantham,who's already had one confidential source back out of sharing information about the assassinations.This is the first great adaptation of John Grisham's best-selling novel.The film itself was fantastic as it was suspense-filled from beginning to end.Roberts' and Washington's performance makes the film absorbing and entertaining from beginning to end.It elevates the movie from a typical crime thriller and mystery.In summary,the movie succeeds into putting the great story of the novel into the big screen. "},{"Title":"Pakula saves dull plot","Date":"30 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'The Pelican Brief' is all about mood and atmosphere. There are a lot of hushed phone calls from people who offer tantalizing bits of information and clues before changing their minds and deciding not to say anything else. Then they are usually killed anyway. They might as well have spilled the beans. I had a hard time keeping up with who got killed and what their relationship to the plot was. They all seem to be bland-looking, middle-aged white men with pudgy tummies and receding hairlines. But I could be wrong about that. Anyway, it's a good thing 'The Pelican Brief' is so sombre and sneaky and foreboding. Once the truth is finally exposed and brought out into the open, it's not terribly interesting. A rich oilman wants to drill for oil in Louisiana. In order to do that, he has to kill a couple of Supreme Court justices so their successors will rule in his favor. Oh, and the brown pelicans of Louisiana's coast will be wiped out as a result too. I don't know, I think if I was in this movie, I'd be one of the bad guys. I'd rather drill for the oil than worry about the brown pelicans. And didn't FDR have a court-packing scheme of his own? Of course, he didn't kill anybody. That we know of. Director Alan Pakula certainly makes the most of what he has to work with here by keeping the suspense level high and by keeping our interest, period. I've read several of John Grisham's books, but this isn't one of them; from the evidence presented here, I'd guess it's one of his lesser works. Denzel Washington plays Gray Grantham (does that sound like a superhero's alter ego, or what?), a Washington journalist, in a quietly authoritative manner. It's as if he dares anyone to question his honor. He is the epitome of journalistic integrity, if that's not an oxymoron. Were it not for Washington's considerable acting skills, his character would simply be too good to be true. He comes to the aid of Darby Shaw, played by Julia Roberts. In keeping with the film's quiet and suspicious nature, Roberts portrays Shaw as smart but increasingly paranoid, which is understandable as she is pursued by quite a few of those middle-aged white men who work for the President or the FBI or the CIA or some oil cartel... I was never quite clear on that either. It is an effective performance. I suppose part of the fun of reviewing a film like 'The Pelican Brief' is poking holes, or attempting to, in the plot's logic. For instance, I found it rather difficult to believe that the aforementioned intelligence agencies and assorted bad guys could not capture or kill the Darby Shaw character. She stays in various motels and hotels using her own credit cards; they spy on her, they tap her phone, but by golly, they never can seem to get their hands on her. She always outruns them or ducks into a crowd or jumps in Grantham's car at just the right moment. I know, this is standard issue stuff for a political intrigue/murder mystery, but it really sticks out here as improbable. It's almost as if they stop chasing her after eight p.m. so she can get a good night's sleep. There is a funny moment too (though I don't think it's intentional) during one of those many hushed phone conversations; Shaw calls Grantham to give him some tidbits of information, and when he tries to find out more, she says, Don't ask me any questions. Grantham gets a confused look on his face and says, quite logically, Hey, YOU called ME. In that moment, he has become a surrogate for the film audience. So kudos to Pakula, Roberts, and Washington for keeping things fairly exciting and interesting almost to the end; 'The Pelican Brief' does peter out as it reaches its conclusion. Still, it could have been a lot worse. "},{"Title":"Ho-hum adaptation still better than The Firm","Date":"19 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Grisham's first couple of best-sellers - The Firm, The Pelican Brief and The Client - were fairly lively page-turners, but none of them received very strong adaptations to the big screen, which is a true shame. The Firm, especially, was a total mess, but The Pelican Brief is only slightly better.Two Supreme Court Justices have been assassinated. Tulane law student Julia Roberts compiles a brief, which identifies a subtle link between the two which may have been the motivation for the assassinations. She does it as a lark, not realizing that her mentor and sometime boyfriend Sam Shepard would pass it on as a document of interest to contacts in the government. Next thing she knows she is on the run from assassins and attempts on her life, with only the help of idealistic journalist Denzel Washington.The story definitely requires some suspension of disbelief to get off the ground. In the novel, it was possible because Grisham kept the pace nimble and kept the action moving. In the film, the credibility issue stands out like a sore thumb largely because the pace is so sluggish. The lead character of Darby Shaw is so bland that it quite frankly does not seem possible for her to have conspired this brief nor that anyone would consider her much of a threat. Alan J. Pakula, usually a director of some merit, stages the assassinations on the two Justices totally devoid of tension or style. It is almost like witnessing a commercial for insomnia. Thankfully, he rouses himself a bit more later in the film. There is a nice moment where he contrasts Roberts and Stanley Tucci, as a killer, readying themselves for a meeting.The film picks up in the latter half, which prevents it from becoming a complete misfire. Yet, even with that, it still fails to catch fire and does not do justice to its source.Roberts would seem ideal casting, but Darby Shaw is such a cipher that the role fails to give her much to sink her teeth into. Even worse, Pakula has apparently instructed her to restrain her natural on screen ebullience which robs the part of much needed life. It is only towards the end that Roberts really seems to be enjoying herself on screen.It must have seemed like a great coup to cast Roberts opposite Washington, but alas the two have zero chemistry together. With Roberts restrained close to passivity, Washington goes all star turn and fails to connect at all with the other actors or his leading lady. Oftentimes it seems like he is reciting his lines directly to an audience rather than the people in the same scene, an approach that wears thin quickly.There are no real surprises in the story and with a leaden first half, the film falls well short of thriller status. Still, it is a much better effort than Sydney Pollack's atrocious adaptation of The Firm and not as fatuous as Joel Schumacher's The Client. Grisham fans would still be well-advised to stick to the book. "},{"Title":"lame would-be thriller","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Julia Roberts is Darby Shaw, the kind of brilliant, beautiful and ambitious character that drive potboiler novels like The Pelican Brief. A law student at Tulane, Shaw rounds off her legal education by sleeping with one of her professors (Sam Shepard) and floating a conspiracy theory linking the mysterious deaths of two Supreme Court justices. When Shaw's theory - blaming powerful land developers for murder - becomes circulated in a legal brief, she finds her life turned upside-down. Friends of hers - all having have read the brief - die and Darby goes on the run. Meanwhile, the president (Robert Culp, playing a morally bankrupt chief, less a right-winger than merely in sway of the rich) tries to squelch an FBI led investigation of one of his friends. Tying the mysterious deaths to a top-level cover-up, a Washington Post reporter (Denzel Washington) teams up with Darby to crack the case. They follow the trail that takes them across the country and eventually brings them to the home of a dead lawyer. This has to be one of the worst movies I've ever seen. borrowing elements of more deservedly remembered Alan Pakula movies like All the President's Men and Parallax View, Brief is utterly contrived. It's not as inspired as it is clearly dependent on the cynicism of a jaded public for our leaders and the law. When you look past this flick's slim thrills and its laughable message, nothing left makes sense. The script tosses in a high-priced hit-man (Stanley Tucci) only to dispatch him quickly. Others eliminate their enemies with well-placed car bombs. (We're supposed to believe that guys who are expert in killing people without raising suspicions will rely on big loud car bombs going off on public streets in front of everybody, and of course they can kill just about anybody but a crusading journalist and a law student? We're also supposed to believe that Darby's brief, based on unsubstantiated suppositions, is enough to warrant her death - you'd think that those with power are smart enough to know that most routinely dismiss conspiracy theories for that reason.) Like all so-called thrillers, this one isn't solved - once the story runs out of steam, the script merely dredges up somebody who can explain all. (Brief is typical of modern thrillers populated by brilliant characters who nevertheless never actually do any detective work - virtually all relying on some mysterious stranger to walk out of the gloaming with all of the answers.) Over two hours of overwrought tension aren't enough to match the detective-smarts you'll get in a single half-hour of Scooby Doo. The final insult is the leaden seriousness that Pakula bathes the script in. We not only have to believe this flick, we have to believe IN it. What's impossible to believe is how the Pelican Brief poses any danger at all. You'd think that a cabal of rich right-wingers could afford to do a better job than a law student could uncover. You'd also think that had Shaw been brilliant enough to solve the mystery, she would have been smart enough to realize the danger it posed her - illustrating the modern thriller's other big failing, its reliance on characters who are gifted and brilliant but never all that smart. "},{"Title":"This movie aged well","Date":"20 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I like the movie better now than when first released. I think the weakness of the movie is due to the weakness in setting the scene, and the manner of telling the tale. The director blew it.Roberts and Washington salvage the director's ham handed story telling, and this is an excellent ensemble cast.I would have preferred the story be told more directly, and the plotting, planning and execution of the assassinations be revealed. Instead of a mystery, I think the story is better told as a good old fashioned detective story. The director could have used some of the old Phillip Marlow or Sam Spade series as models. "},{"Title":"A solid movie","Date":"12 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a solid movie. Most of the story holds together quite well, being plausible which is very important to me. There are just a few places in the story that I wish the director, Alan J. Pakula, had chosen to make a bit more believable. I won't expose those scenes because I wish to write a spoiler free review this time.I look for movies that I can believe in, written well, acted well, and most important directed well. This passes all of those tests. You can't fail with the likes of Robert Culp, although he plays a bit of a wuss here, or Julia Roberts who was well cast.Backing up the strong crew is a key character played by Denzel Washington, Tony Goldwyn, and several more big name actors. I can't imagine how they were able to attract so many stars.Alan J. Pakula has a long list of good movie credits as director. He did a great job on this story, it had some twists and turns so would have been easy to screw up. "},{"Title":"A solid movie","Date":"7 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a solid movie. Most of the story holds together quite well, being plausible which is very important to me. There are just a few places in the story that I wish the director, Alan J. Pakula, had chosen to make a bit more believable. I won't expose those scenes because I wish to write a spoiler free review this time.I look for movies that I can believe in, written well, acted well, and most important directed well. This passes all of those tests. You can't fail with the likes of Robert Culp, although he plays a bit of a wuss here, or Julia Roberts who was well cast.Backing up the strong crew is a key character played by Denzel Washington, Tony Goldwyn, and several more big name actors. I can't imagine how they were able to attract so many stars.Alan J. Pakula has a long list of good movie credits as director. He did a great job on this story, it had some twists and turns so would have been easy to screw up. "},{"Title":"Give work to your brains a bit","Date":"26 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have to tell and affirm that movies made in the 90's have more substance and intelligence than recent ones. The movie is centered on intelligent discussion, so you need to concentrate to follow the plot. Though I haven't read John Grisham at all, I love the movies based on his novels. So far have watched A Time to Kill, Runaway Jury, The Firm, The Client; and I think the legal elements make the thriller more exciting.Being a fan of Denzel Washington, he aptly fits into the role and love the way he moves confidently, with practiced ease. Julia Roberts looks pretty, and gives a commendable performance as the scared legal student on the run. When she remarks her brief was 'ludicrous', I never expected it to form the crux of the plot (though the movie was titled about a brief), I mean what can a law student discover that the FBI cannot? But that's the way John Grisham thinks, and it's interesting.I was a bit disappointed that there were no court scenes as I love courtroom dramas. Nevertheless, the movie keeps you at the edge of the seat, as you keep trying to find out who were the perpetrators of the murder. I found myself wanting to know more even after Roberts reveals the content of her brief to Washington, and was quite satisfied in the end. "},{"Title":"Makes you wonder if Uncle Sam is watching.","Date":"25 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is an intriguing political thriller where law student Darby Shaw (Julia Roberts) writes a brief about a government conspiracy after two U.S. Supreme Court justices were assassinated. Soon, she finds herself a target of corrupt government spies.The action begins when misfortune starts to happen around Shaw after her brief landed in the hands of the FBI, and soon finds herself dodging assassins and hiding out in hotels across the country, giving us an exciting on-the-run plot. She finds her only ally is journalist Gray Grantham (Denzel Washington), who forms a good team with Shaw in trying to expose these bad guys and find the truth behind the conspiracy. The theory implicating White House officials adds onto the tension of the plot.The acting is good and believable the Roberts and Washington have some good chemistry together. Their characters were well-developed as the movie progresses. Those bad guys popping up here and there with their disastrously deeds give you suspenseful moments, and makes you wonder if the government or Uncle Sam is watching your every move.Overall, a good political thriller that one will find captivating.Grade A- "}{"Title":"A Fine Suspense Film Based on Grisham Novel Roberts and Washington are Outstanding","Date":"23 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Interestingly, about 13 years after the release of the original novel The Pelican Brief by John Grisham which centers around the investigations and theories involving the assassinations of two Supreme Court Justices, two Supreme Court Justices' careers also ended close to the same time. Justice Sandra Day O'Connor announced her plans to retire in the summer of 2005 which was followed by the unexpected death of William Rehnquist in the Fall of the same year. It's always a bit spooky when real life follows fiction, although as far as is known, the departure of Rehnquist and O'Connor had nothing to do with foul play or political currents, or did it?In The Pelican Brief, two diametrically opposed Supreme Court Justices, Rosenberg and Jensen, are assassinated by unknown assailants for unknown reasons. Rosenberg was an aging liberal whose days on the court were probably numbered. Jensen was a conservative in the prime of his judicial career. While the first assassination is advantageous to the current sitting US President who we learn is a Republican, the second assassination makes no sense in terms of the first. At a law school near New Orleans, an ambitious young law student, Darby Shaw (played with unending believability by Julia Roberts) is dating one of her law professors, Thomas Callahan (Sam Shepherd). After both professor and student learn of the assassinations, Darby decides she can crack the case. (Callahan had interned with Rosenberg when he was a law student.) While law enforcement believes the assassinations were probably enacted as revenge by a disillusioned losing party in a former case, Shaw decides to research deeper to unearth something political which Rosenberg and Jensen might have had in common. She engages in her own investigation of sorts and writes an essay on her findings, a brief.She passes her brief to Callahan who doesn't take it too seriously. He takes a trip to Washington D.C. to attend the funeral of Rosenberg where he meets a former classmate, Gavin Verheek (John Heard), who now works in the legal department of the FBI. Callahan offers the brief to Verheek who in turn passes into the FBI. The FBI begins believing the brief is a much more serious theory of the assassinations than either Callahan or Verheek had realized, and the brief ends up in the hands of the president.Back in New Orleans, Darby is fearing for her life when tragedy suddenly strikes. She believes the brief has opened up a kind of Pandora's Box and doesn't know who's after her nor whose after some of the people around her. Is it the CIA or another secret organization which has decided to kill her because of the brief? She contacts Washington D.C. political reporter Gray Grantham (Denzel Washington) to help her. The plot then becomes about whether Darby and Gray can confirm the theory of the brief before they are assassinated themselves, like the Supreme Court Justices.A very well-done and spot-on political thriller, all from the mind of John Grisham. Julia Roberts is 100% convincing as Darby Shaw, the-opinionated-law-student-turned-political-target whose brief is shaking the foundations of the political hierarchy at the highest levels. Washington is equally as intense as Gray Grantham, a Woodstein-type reporter trying to get to the bottom of political corruption wherever it festers. A few name talents appear in smaller roles, notably Hume Cronyn as Justice Rosenberg and John Lithgow as Smith Keen, editor of Grantham's newspaper the Washington Herald. A compelling film from start to finish with an outstanding cast. "},{"Title":"a students left field killer conspiracy effects the president","Date":"30 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" well here a a conspiracy thriller from the director presumed innocent and all the presidents men so you can see where the director is going with his story around white house stuff so with a great a list cast Julia Roberts ... Darby Shaw Denzel Washington ... Gray Grantham Sam Shepard ... Thomas Callahan John Heard ... Gavin Vereek 5Tony Goldwyn ... Fletcher Coal James Sikking ... FBI Director Denton Voyles William Atherton ... Bob Gminski Robert Culp ... President Stanley Tucci ... Khamel Hume Cronyn ... Justice Rosenberg John Lithgow ... Smith Keen so with all these characters a young Julia Roberts character derby shaw is a student who likes to study conspiracies come across a problem that might bring down the president as she is having an affair with the her professor who is an aid to one of the 2 judges killed so the brief he has on this conspiracy murder smells a idea that someone high has done this so when the F B I director gets wind of this through a mutual friend he he gives it to a body guard who is close to the presidents menpresident could be smeared. So, he advises the president to tell the director to drop it, which he does.and later on derby professor is out on a date and there messing around they go back to the car he refuse to let her drive she gets out and he blows up the FBI Are on her case but she gets away so as the action hot upher place is has been burglarized and what was taken were her computer and her disks. Obviously, her brief has someone really annoyed the president friend at the FBI, he agrees to come meet her but before he does someone shoots him and takes his place but derby is keeping ahead a goes to a journalist gray grantam who doesn't believe at first but when she brings him eviedence he goes public but his editor is suspicious about what going great thriller of cat and mouse this is my 76 review gave this 7 out of 10 its 2hrs 15mins a great looking movie can both of them live to tell the world as they are moving targets "},{"Title":"It is entertaining but don't expect more than that.","Date":"3 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A law student uncovers a conspiracy, putting herself and others in danger. Two Supreme Court Justices have been killed. Now a college professor, who clerked for one of the two men, who's also having an affair with one of his students, is given a brief by her, that states who probably, wanted to see these two men dead. He then gives it to one of his friends, who works for the FBI. When the FBI director reads it, he is fascinated by it. One of the president's men who read it, is afraid that if it ever got out, the president could be smeared. So, he advises the president to tell the director to drop it, which he does. But later the professor and the girl were out and he was drunk and when he refused to give her the keys she stepped out of the car. When he started it, it blew up. She then discovers that her place has been burglarized and what was taken were her computer and her disks. Obviously, her brief has someone agitated. She then turns to her boyfriend's friend at the FBI, he agrees to come meet her but before he does someone shoots him and takes his place. Roger Eert wrote One thing the movie proves conclusively is the value of star power. Julia Roberts, returning after two years off the screen, makes a wonderful heroine - warm, courageous, very beautiful. Denzel Washington shows again how credible he seems on the screen; like Spencer Tracy, he can make you believe in almost any character. Together they have a real chemistry, so potent that after the movie was over, I heard people complaining that they were never allowed to have a love affair. Any romance would have been rather tactless, of course, considering that the story takes place in the week or two immediately after her lover has been blown to pieces. Maybe with a Grisham story you tend to forget details like that. It is entertaining but don't expect more than that. "},{"Title":"How capitalism handles environment","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie shows how capitalism deals with environment in the US. The story is similar to what the international oil companies (IOCs) does worldwide. This is particularly true for developing countries where the inefficient government and chaotic situation allows them to go far more than they go in US. The movie also successfully demonstrates the interrelations among corrupt politicians, government officials and the big corporations. However, it depicted an ideal role for the media which is rarely the case. What I believe that, mostly because of the benefits from commercials of IOCs, the media mostly favors the powerful corporations. The most important point is that, while it tells the story, the movie does not bore the viewer. I strongly recommend wide viewing of this movie and then think about the case when the OICs operate in a freer environment. I would also wait for similar movies which speaks about Middle Eastern or Nigerian version of such stories. Happy viewing. "},{"Title":"Average legal/political thriller that is well made, but isn't particularly exciting","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Pelican Brief begins with 2 judges being killed in suspicious circumstances. Aspiring law student Darby Shaw (Julia Roberts) has her own theory of why these particular judges were killed and she believes that the killings are politically motivated. Darby decides to write down her theory of what she believes has happened in a document that she calls 'The Pelican Brief' . This is initially done as a sort of 'assignment'. However, when news of the existence of the Pelican Brief gets out, those that are responsible for the killings do everything in their power to get their hands on this document putting Darby and everyone else around her in danger.I wasn't quite sure what to expect from this film as I hadn't read the John Grisham novel upon which this film is based on prior to seeing it. One thing I did, at least expect, was an exciting and fast paced legal and political thriller. The problem with this film is that it moved at a snail's pace and for me was just far too 'talky'. There were good moments in the film and at times it was quite exciting, but it was uneven and felt far longer and far more drawn out than was necessary.As well as being somewhat dull at times, the screenplay didn't make sense at times - I'm still not sure how Julia Roberts knew that the guy in the lift was going to try and kill her (it's possible I might have missed something there as I'll admit that my mind was wandering from time to time due to how bored I was getting with the film). There is also a scene where Darby makes a phone call to Gavin Vereek (John Heard) and asks him to meet her - she's never met him before so she asks him to wear a long sleeve shirt and red cap and asks him how tall he was (this was to make sure that she ends up speaking to the right person). Vereek ends up getting killed and the killer had bugged his phone and recorded the conversation. As a result, he assumes the identity of Vereek in order to kill Darby. I was OK with all of this, but what made me laugh was when he started to put all the clothes on in Vereek's hotel room. OK fair enough, a long sleeve shirt is a fairly generic item of clothing, but a red cap? What the odds of someone having one of those? It just felt a little contrived and a little bit too convenient.The performances from the actors do save the film somewhat; Julia Roberts was particularly good in her respective role. Denzel Washington stars as newspaper reporter Gray Grantham and he helps Darby with her investigations and it is he that ultimately publishes the article which exposes the 'truth' behind the conspiracy. Washington is good in his respective role and his charisma alone is enough in this film.What really let the Pelican Brief down was its dull screenplay; it wasn't particularly exciting or suspenseful and there weren't really any great plot twists. Even the ending felt a little bit anti-climatic. I was expecting a tension fuelled final court scene like we've seen in previous legal thrillers such as A Few Good Men or more recently in The Lincoln Lawyer. The final 30 minutes were pretty good and it's a shame that the rest of the film wasn't as enjoyable. Perhaps part of the problem is that I went in with high expectations - I usually enjoy legal thrillers as they are generally exciting and interesting, but I didn't get that feeling when watching this film. I found large parts of the film to be dull and I also felt that it was far too long. It's not an awful film, but there are far better legal thrillers out there. "},{"Title":"Unusual on screen chemistry lights up Grisham thriller","Date":"16 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I confess to not having read the John Grisham novel but quite enjoyed this adaptation, starring two of my favorites, the beautiful, always vulnerable and endearing Julia Roberts, and that tall, handsome gentleman, Denzel Washington. They work well individually in this film, and especially in their joint scenes, chemistry of a fashion.Julia Roberts plays Darby Shaw, a smart law student who has stumbled upon a conspiracy that resulted in the murder of two Supreme Court justices. She is having an affair with an older professor (Sam Shepherd), who is killed by a car bomb intended for her. As Darby is forced to go on the run, she teams up with an investigative journalist, Gray Grantham (Denzel Washington), who of course initially is after the news story, but mainly serves as her sole ally and protector in helping her ferret out the plot and avoid being murdered herself by the various government agents and assassins hot on her trail. All quite suspenseful, for me at least. I agree though with comments made that at times the plot is a little confusing and it becomes difficult keeping some of the characters straight. I'd thought I was the only dumb one here; nice to learn there are others.*** WARNING SPOILER COMING ***Engrossing plot typical of Grisham, but for me the closing scene makes this movie. It's so much more dramatic than just having Darby and Gray ride off into the sunset together. The genuine friendship and mutual respect shown at their parting handshake and hug has a drama beyond that which the more predictable romance could possibly have brought. I don't think it's a racial issue either; sometimes friendship just makes a better, more unusual story than a love affair. I'm a bookworm but for once am pleased not to have read the novel, as apparently (according to other comments) the two do get together so to speak, go to bed, have a romance or whatever in the book. Ho, hum. "},{"Title":"Bodily waste is made by PEOPLE!!!!!!","Date":"26 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Really f*cking convoluted, is what the title of my review should be, but I got class. Very few pelicans are in this movie, oh, pelicans are a type of bird, they are actually pretty cool if you research them. No pelican was paid to appear in this movie, that's the main thing I hope you take away with you from my review of this movie. A brief, as in like the title of this movie The Pelican Brief, refers to underwear, specifically men's underwear, but the only person in the movie shown wearing underwear is Julia Roberts, who is a lady, and they don't even show her underwear other than her bra! Science! I like birds, I think birds are amazing. Enclosed with this review is a hand drawn map of buried pirate treasure. "},{"Title":"Oval office Bird Flu","Date":"7 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Some of the biggest men in the United States - in the fields of commerce and manufacturing - are afraid of somebody. They know that there is a power somewhere so organised, so subtle, so watchful, so interlocked, so complete, so pervasive, that they had better not speak above their breath when they speak in condemnation of it. &#x96; Woodrow WilsonThe real menace of our Republic is the invisible Government which, like a giant Octopus, sprawls its slimy legs over our cities, states, and nation. &#x96; John F. Hylan A financial element in the large centres has owned the Government of the U.S. since the days of Andrew Jackson. &#x96; Franklin D. Roosevelt More things in politics happen by accident or exhaustion than by conspiracy. - Jeff Greenfield The Pelican Brief is another conspiracy thriller by Alan J. Pakula, a director who specialises in conspiracy movies (Klute, The Parallax View, Rollover, All the President's Men etc). The film stars Julia Roberts as a young law student who stumbles upon a far reaching plot involving the US Government and giant oil corporations. Denzel Washington plays the journalist who helps her get the truth out.It's Pakula's most mainstream, conventional film in this genre, and the film's obligatory action scenes are ridiculously over the top, but the director knows how to conjure up invisible menace, quiet intrigue and the horror of far reaching power. And like All The President's Men, Pakula understands that there is an innate thrill in watching as bookish heroes quietly chase paper trails, track down leads, interview potential sources and piece together puzzles.Unlike many conspiracy movies, The Pelican Brief highlights how blatantly open and public many conspiracies are, and how reliant their formations and dismantlings are on both accidents and chance. Pakula seems more interested, however, in showing how important a sheer force of will is in uncovering conspiracies. His heroes are modern incarnations of noir detectives, intrepidly carving their ways through the murk, flashlights in hand.7.9/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"This 'Pelican' Needs Much More than Just Being Brief **1/2","Date":"11 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The film starts off with an excellent premise. Two supreme court judges are assassinated. Naturally, we have to see what they had in common that would cause each to be murdered. The subject matter is environmental protection.Julia Roberts, a law student, who is sleeping with law professor Sam Shepard, happens to have written her theory about why the assassinations occurred. Truth be told, she happens to be right and at that point the bodies start to mount up at a very fast rate. Even the assassin, Stanly Tucci, takes a bullet to the stomach.It is never explained fully what the environmental problem is. However, we know that that President Robert Culp and assistant Tony Goldwyn are up to their necks in thievery.With Shepard blown up, Roberts engages reporter Denzel Washington, Gray Grantham, to investigate. The movie becomes a one step ahead of the culprits.Even the ending is contrived. Amazing that Roberts suddenly has all the resources to live on an island paradise. The picture is far from paradise. "},{"Title":"All The President's Men wannabe is passable","Date":"4 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" When John Grisham's best-selling novel The Firm was filmed, it had a lot going for it, but the fell short of greatness because the screenwriters made changes to the story. As a result, the screenwriters are faithful to the Gresham's book this time, but this book wasn't as good and is filled with filler material. The movie lasts two hours and twenty minutes, and most of it is just a damsel in distress (Julia Roberts) being chased from one place to the next. A number of scenes could have been removed without taking anything from the movie, and most of the chase scenes are adequate, but nothing more. The story wasn't a bad idea at all, about two U.S. Supreme Court justices who were not ideological allies being assassinated and a law student's theory on the cause putting her life in danger. A good director (Alan Pakula) was chosen to direct and there is a worthy supporting cast. Why does the film feel so ordinary? Mainly because it's overlong and monotonous, and has nothing that hasn't been done better elsewhere. It alters between Roberts being chased by bad guys, Roberts hiding out in secret places, and mysterious bureaucrats mumbling secrets in dark corridors, like All The President's Men with chase scenes. It's no surprise that the film version of All The President's Men was directed by the same director. Because of the big budget, it's proficient in all technical aspects. The locations provide some decent local color. So for all the monotony, The Pelican Brief is painless and and at times mildly interesting, and there are worse ways to pass the time. "}{"Title":"A high profile Crime Story","Date":"29 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is based on a novel by John Grisham. John Grisham's movies are always based on and around lawyers and their ability to solve crimes. This story is about a law student who uncovers a conspiracy resulting in her life in danger.I am a Fan of John Grisham and his first novel I read was The Firm. Pelican Brief is another masterpiece by John Grisham. Though I have stopped reading his novels since sometime back, but I have liked all those I read. His stories are always based on a gang vs a underdog and how the underdog always comes over the gang. Julie Roberts is also my favorite actress since Pretty Woman days.Darby Shaw (Julia ROberts) gets to know about the murder of two high court judges and why. She gets down to research regarding the same. She writes a note regarding her knowledge about the murder accusing the President for setting up the murder. Now the government agents as well as the assassins are after her. One by one the person who are helping her are dying including her best friend. The only person she can rely now is Denzel Washington. Denzel plays a journ who wants the story.Nice story, direction and acting by lead pairs. "},{"Title":"Explosive Julia, Amazing!!!","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Julia Roberts gives the most explosive performance. The Pelican Brief is a thrilling, chilling story about a woman, a Law student who writes a top secret 'Brief' called the Pelican Brief, this brief is then passed on and 'somehow' gets out in the open and now they are looking for her and the person guarding her (Denzel Washington)the only man who can protect her.'Everyone I tell the Brief about dies''I'll take my chances'Now Shaw is high target to be killed.Darby Shaw (Roberts) life is being torn apart her boyfriend is blown up in a car, and she being tracked down, Julia Roberts performance in this EXPLOSIVE film is so 'Right On The Money' she gives such a vivid performance she obtains all aspects of her performance as always, i especially took a attention to her reaction when her boyfriend is blown up in the car that's were the EXPLOSIVE act comes in.After a few killings Darby gets more suspicious and more frightened because she is being 'stalked' to be killed the Brief is heard and she wins in the end, although she must keep hidden after this she says a long teary goodbye and emigrates near the sea to a nice secluded home with a big flowery back garden 'DARBY SHAW IS TO GOOD TO BE TRUE!' "},{"Title":"The Pelican Brief","Date":"20 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" From director Alan J. Pakula (All the President's Men, Sophie's Choice, The Devil's Own), I was mistaken into thinking for ages that this was a courtroom drama, I did however know the leading stars, so for that I had to see it. Basically two Supreme Court Justices have been killed, and young law student Darby Shaw (Julia Roberts) has stumbled across a big conspiracy about it, and writes theory documents about it, that become known as The Pelican Brief. Of course her theory has the ring of truth circling it as it passes from person to person, and soon enough she realises that she is in danger from those who want to silence her. With little help from the FBI, she decides to turn to investigative reporter Gray Grantham (Denzel Washington), and there is a big discussion about how the brief could cause problems for an upcoming court case involving official people. The brief is most delicate because it could harm the credibility for the President of the United States, it is not made clear fully who was trying to kill them, but Darby and Gray get out of their situation and everything settles in the end. Also starring Sam Shepard as Thomas Callahan, John Heard as Gavin Vereek, Tony Goldwyn as Fletcher Coal, James B. Sikking as FBI Director Denton Voyles, William Atherton as Bob Gminski, Robert Culp as President, Stanley Tucci as Khamel, Hume Cronyn as Justice Rosenberg, John Lithgow as Smith Keen, Anthony Heald as Marty Velmano, Nicholas Woodeson as Stump, Stanley Anderson as Edwin Sneller and John Finn as Matthew Barr. Washington and Roberts together give good performances, I have seen a few conspiracy theory films, and they sometimes can be hard to follow, that was sort of the case, I couldn't make sense of absolutely everything happening, but for the shifty characters and chases, it is a reasonably worthwhile thriller. Good! "},{"Title":"Star power","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A good thing about movies made after John Grisham's novels that they have very good picks for lead actors. Same thing we can see in Firm (Tom Cruise and Gene Hackman), Client (Susan Surandon and Tommy Lee Jones), Rainmaker (Matt Damon and Danny De Vito). This time they are Julia Roberts and Denzel Washington.Pelican Brief is the story of corruption in the highest levels of authority that leads to assassinations of two Supreme Court judges. A law student Derby Shaw (Julia Roberts) creates her own real theory of this case and, as a corollary, puts her life into a serious danger. The only person who can help her is a reporter Gray Grantham (Denzel Washington).I consider this movie as well-made thrilling investigation politic law story. Julia Roberts had played such a convincing character of a strong weak woman that later was recreated in the Net by Sandra Bullock. As for Denzel Washington, which is my favorite actor, he did it again. He gave a true example of a reporter, that fights for sensations, however sets the humanity and justice on the front plan. Rating is 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Another classy Pakula thriller","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Another finely wrought, if complicated thriller from the man that brought us Presumed Innocent. The Grisham plot is sprawling but coherent and Pakula manages to include what must be most of it; but even if we find ourselves bewildered by the jigsaw, the tension of its coming together runs throughout the film.Excellent performances from Washington and Roberts are buttressed on either side by a large pool of committed Hollywood support (although I can't quite get scared of Stanley Tucci's assassin). There's also a vision to the shooting of the film that includes a noble America as a ubiquitous background to the film; the protagonists are fighting in and for a benign but worthy moral backdrop that's rendered visually as well as in the plot and its script. Intelligent but mainstream &#150; just don't' go with anyone who'll ask you what's going on every five minutes. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Resist the urge to watch this movie.","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The problem with cable tv is that it gives you a 2nd chance to view movies you were wise enough to avoid in the 1st place. Such is the case with this star-studded yet plodding and, ultimately, dull movie.-spoilers-Usually I'm a fan of movies based on Grisham's novels. They always feature a underdog vs. some great conspiracy with the underdog coming out on top. Nothing that will change your life, but good entertainment. So where did this go wrong? Well for one thing its too long by about 15 minutes, there are far too many scenes that are intended to build suspence but succeed only in building an itch to channel surf and see if something good is on. One example The scene where John Heard's character is killed is 6-8 minutes of him brushing his teeth, looking at himself in the mirror, grabbing his fat belly etc, etc. By the end of all this I was begging 'please please have him killed I can't take anymore of this.' Then there's the 'Pelican Brief' itself...Its alluded to constantly throughout the film, to find out about it was probably the reason I stuck with this turkey so long. When, at last, its described its surprisingly straight forward, no clever insight or plot twist. Something, in fact, that 100s of people might have thought of.Besides all that this movie has a cheesy, made-for-tv, feel to it. Particularly the group scenes (the protest in the beginning, the shooting at the park, etc.) which are obviously staged.Avoid. "},{"Title":"What a disappointment, after the book!","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  When The Pelican Brief was published as a book, my husband and I read it aloud to each other on a long road trip. We could hardly wait to turn the next page. We found Darby fascinating and smart and courageous. When the movie came out we were eager to go. What a disappointment, after the book! Julia Roberts was so annoying with her low-talking monotone and feel-sorry-for-myself attitude, I wanted to shake her. She was not the Darby in the book. I think the rest of the movie must have been okay, but Julia Roberts was so obnoxious I couldn't enjoy it. Sorry, big Julia Roberts fans. . .  "},{"Title":"Average but well cast","Date":"7 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Pelican Brief is one of the lesser Grisham adaptations, with a bland story but a great cast - Roberts is perfect as Darby Shaw, and Washington portrays Grantham excellently. Its a bit slow, and some of the suspense gets lost in the intricacies of the plot - and by the end, the film slows down almost unbearably, bordering on painfully. But the book was very average also, so in that department, it's a faithful adaptation. "},{"Title":"Tension it has - but not much else.","Date":"7 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  John Grisham wrote a fine tale where politics sleeps with big business, and, as a result, the world's environment is set to suffer miserably. Unfortunately the intricate plot enveloping this tale was evidently too large for director Alan Pakula to handle. Pakula did manage to make this film suspenseful, but the lack of continuity within the plot brought the mounting tension to peaks of unintentional humor.At one point the reporter Gray Grantham (Denzel Washington) is running from the very man he's desperately searching for. Then that evening (or so it seems) Gray is solemnly talking to the man's widow and we learn that her husband has been dead for two weeks. Go figure.Another time Gray is standing shirtless at night in front of a secret, secluded cabin with a rifle in his hands. From the eerie noises moving through the dense surrounding forest its seems Gray is about to get shot right in his magnificently bulging chest. But no. It is only the heroine, Darby Shaw (Julia Roberts), slipping and sliding through the muck trying to get to his hideout. What a let down. I do remember laughing at that point. And by the way. How was she able to find him, and the super clever bad guys couldn't?Speaking of clever bad guys. After seeing the same two bad guys take turns attempting to terminate Gray and Darby, suddenly there's a girl bad guy chasing our breathless duo. Where did she come from? In a very tense moment she has the two cornered and spots their reflection in the shiny chrome of a nearby car. Since they are crouched motionless behind a wall looking toward the chrome on the car, and the female assassin has to move toward them, I would have thought they would spot her reflection far sooner than she theirs. How do they get out of this one? Oh yes. A Doberman, conveniently sitting with the window half rolled down in the car next to the assassiness, decides to get excited just at the right moment. I sort of felt like Max in Get Smart. The old Doberman in the adjacent car trick I can hear him say.If you like tension, and more than the occasional hackneyed getaway ploy, you'll love this movie. Otherwise, stick to the novel. "},{"Title":"Merely an O.K. piece of work","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" With the exception of Pretty Woman and Glory, respectively, I've never found either Julia Roberts' or Denzil Washington's work to be among my favorites. Their performances in this movie did nothing, for me, to change this opinion. Hers was just overall annoying, and his so low-key and quiet I wish someone (either on-screen or off-) had had a cattle prod handy to rouse him.I like Grisham's work overall, and have liked some of the screen presentations as well as, or even better, than the book. This one definitely wasn't one of them. For me, a major problem was not caring an iota for ANY of the characters (lead or minor, good-guy of bad- in the supporting cast).But seeing it again at this time in our history, viewing Robert Culp's thoroughly-inept,, unintelligent, vacuous President (ring any bells????), and his devious aide, Tony Goldwyn, (ring the bell again?) - and all of the completely smarmy government operatives abounding - well, it seems that our current reality is imitating art.The present goings-on, and the past several years with the Iraq fiasco, may have a different scenario than this flick, but the current cast of real characters in D. C. makes those in this film seem less fictitious than was so when it was released, or when Grisham wrote the story. "}{"Title":"First-rate legal thriller based on John Grisham's #1 bestseller","Date":"25 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" THE PELICAN BRIEF, in my opinion, is a first-rate legal thriller based on John Grisham's #1 bestseller. When Darby (Julia Roberts) and Gray (Denzel Washington) were being pursued, I got really scared and tense. This was because I didn't want to see them get hurt. It was fun watching them outsmart the bad guys, though. To sum this up, the performances were top grade, the direction was flawless, and the casting was perfect. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Julia Roberts or Denzel Washington, or you enjoyed John Grisham's title novel, I highly recommend this movie. You're in for a good time and lots of thrills, so see this movie today. I guarantee you that you'll have a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, lock the doors and windows, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Glossy, ho-hum thriller","Date":"7 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" THE PELICAN BRIEF Aspect ratio 2.391 (Panavision)Sound format Dolby DigitalDuring a bitterly contested election year, a young law student (Julia Roberts) writes an uncannily accurate thesis on the recent murders of two Supreme Court judges and joins forces with a skeptical journalist (Denzel Washington) when she's targeted for elimination by agencies attached to the White House...It's difficult to believe this ho-hum thriller - based on John Grisham's novel - was directed by Alan J. Pakula, the man responsible for ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN (1976). The near documentary realism of that earlier film has been replaced by Hollywood gloss and contrivance, as two of Tinseltown's brightest stars follow a trail of clues to their inevitable conclusion. Pakula's own script thankfully refrains from indulging a romance between Roberts and Washington, but there isn't much chemistry between them either, as they rush headlong from one scene to the next, seeking answers to a complex mystery. Unfortunately, the build-up of details isn't nearly as exciting as the film presumes, and the punishing 141 minute running time simply adds unnecessary baggage to an already convoluted storyline. Pakula takes advantage of his lavish budget by staging most of the major set-pieces within large crowds of people, but there are few surprises in either the script or its execution, and the happy ending is never in doubt. On the plus side, however, the film is distinguished by a powerhouse supporting cast of reliable talent (Sam Shepard, John Heard, Robert Culp, John Lithgow, Hume Cronyn, James B. Sikking, Stanley Tucci, William Atherton, etc.). Production values are excellent. "},{"Title":"The only film I have seen where virtually nothing happened","Date":"30 June 2001","Score":"12 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this film on a Saturday evening, at a prime time hour. It was reportedly an edgy sort of thriller, with Julia Roberts and Denzil Washington, who apparently gave excellent performances. I was looking forward to it with some suspense. And that suspense was just about the only suspense I got. I don't remember the length of the film, but it felt like well over 4 days, and it was not time well spent. This has to have been the only film I have seen where virtually nothing happened. Julia Roberts was unusually irritating throughout, Denzil Washington's character was hollow and watching it from beginning to end made me feel like I was watching a year-long golf tournament. I nearly fell asleep several times, and my overall reaction was that the film simply was a failure. Failure to convince, deliver or provide any entertainment or suspense whatsoever.2/10 - and it can count itself lucky to have got that "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of The Pelican Brief","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"29 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Some of things I really appreciated from this political thriller was (1) no sappy romance taking away from the suspense and story; (2) very little profanity; (3) a number of interesting scenes that kept your attention for the full 141 minutes; (4) solid acting by the two leads, Denzel Washington and Julia Roberts; (5) nice visuals and nice sound.What I didn't appreciate was the usual Hollywood screen versions of the John Grisham novels, which means a fair amount of Liberal agendas, some subtle, some not so subtle. The message anyone against saving wildlife like the penguins has to be either crooked or a violent thug is preposterous. Early on, we hear a TV broadcaster proclaiming that the killings of two Supreme Court justices might have been by some group that also bombed abortion clinics, ACLU offices, etc. Of course - villainous right wingers hurting good-guy left wingers - what else? Isn't that the way it's always portrayed in the movies?? Too bad that bias political propaganda is in here because most of this film is just a very good suspense film and well done at that. Washington and Roberts are both fun to watch and they are up against so many suspicious-looking characters that it's a paranoid viewer's delight. They keep you guessing who you can trust and who you can't, which is fun, and helps make the time on this movie fly past. "},{"Title":"Worth Watching Once But That Is It","Date":"12 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I'm not much of a fan of either Julia Roberts or Denzel Washington. With Washington, his race always comes in to every movie he stars in, Usually with him being on the end of some form of racial abuse. As for Roberts, she just bores me. Plot in A Paragraph Darby Shaw (Julia Roberts) a law student writes a legal brief detailing her theory on why two Supreme Court justices were assassinated and under whose orders, and shows it to her law professor, and lover Thomas Callahan (Sam Shepard). He gives a copy to his friend Gavin Verheek (John Heard) at the FBI. Before long Callaghan is dead and she reaches out to Verheek and Washington Herald reporter Gray Grantham (Denzel Washington) for help.Amazingly John Grisham wrote the part of Darby Shaw with Julia Roberts in mind. Roberts read the book once it was finished and agreed to the role without even seeing a script. I find this amazing as she is woefully miscast as a law student, as she struggles with the dialogue, and lacks any conviction as a believable law student.Made at the height of Roberts popularity and Washington was hot coming off the back of his Oscar nomination for Malcolm X it was a great pairing!! I think if these two made the stinker I Love Trouble (That Roberts followed this up with) that year it still would have been a hit!! Despite enjoying it, and some great performances, I will probably never watch this againMy race bug bearer of watching Washington came up 3 times during this movies run time! As for Roberts she continues to be a popular actress, however I lost interest in her and her movies a long time ago, I have only seen five of her movies since 2000. "},{"Title":"not so thrilling John Grisham with a few questions","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Two Supreme Court Justices have been killed. The president (Robert Culp) wants investigations but nobody has a clue. Darby Shaw (Julia Roberts) is a law student sleeping with her professor Thomas Callahan (Sam Shepard). She obsessively research to find a case with both Justices on the same side and possibly a motive. Callahan gives it to Gavin Vereek (John Heard) working for the FBI. The brief goes all the way to Fletcher Coal (Tony Goldwyn) White House Chief of Staff. Fletcher Coal is concerned that something in the brief will be embarrassing to the White House. Soon after professor Callahan is killed in a car bomb.Meanwhile reporter Gray Grantham (Denzel Washington) working the case from a different angle receives a call from an informant called Garcia. When killers come after Darby, she contacts Grantham.This thriller takes too long to get going. It is too complicated and goes on forever. Based on a John Grisham novel, this movie has no mystery. The bad guys are obviously bad. The case behind all the killers is nothing more than an excuse. As a thriller, it has a few moments. It's just never gets rolling for long. Every time there is a bit of excitement, it's followed by grinding exposition. Julia Roberts is playing up the damsel in distress so much. The crying is really distracting. She's constantly talking in a soft low voice.While Julia on the run is compelling, she does things that seems unlikely. For example, why does she meet her friend Alice in person? Why not just call? Presumably she called her to meet. It's not like she got money for her. She could have told her everything on the phone.And why not tell Grantham the entire story? What's the point of holding back? Presumably he's not part of the conspiracy. Also why not rewrite the Pelican brief? She wrote it in the first place. Couldn't she rewrite it again? There are just too many nagging questions about the logic of everything. I can appreciate the complexity of it all, and a few things will fall through the cracks. That's why real intense rewrites are necessary.Also the bad guys keep being right there waiting for them, bugging everywhere, and yet can't seem to kill them. They shoot at them from far away, but when they're close, they never even try. When a shooting would be so much easier, the bad guy uses a car bomb. "},{"Title":"Cold Blooded With Barely A Heartbeat","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The underlying tension is the Star here by way of Director Pakula's restrained and riveting rhythm. It is the plain and picturesque framing he uses to display an unnerving uneasiness that is at times let down by the two lead Actors who are just too laid back.Roberts and Washington, while attractive seem to be doing everything they can to be controlled and intelligent Adults. This by way of showing as little emotion as possible and speaking in hushed tones and displaying only the minimum of expression.If the Movie wasn't so well composed visually with a creepy score and a sense of doom, it would completely evaporate if it was left to the Human inhabitants. Everyone on screen lacks personality. Stanley Tucci's cold blooded assassin stands out as only being of more cold blood then the rest of the cast and for that Character it works, but the rest render barely a heartbeat.It is a hard plot to wrap-around and explanations are not very clear and in the end it is not a welcome wrap-up to a slightly engaging but very tepid treatment of heavy ideas and powerful Politicos. The story and the People do not ring true, and seems as though they were taken from some sort of fanciful Lawyered Up-Governmental-White Collar-Crime-Thriller from a best selling Author. "},{"Title":"good adaptation elevated by excellent casting","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Two prominent Supreme Court Justices are assassinated and the FBI is convinced that it was no coincidence. Suspecting that the motive behind the killings was mere greed instead of politics, Tulane University law student Darby Shaw (Roberts) submits a brief speculating who the real culprit may be, but when that same brief makes its way from her classroom all the way to the White House, Darby suddenly finds herself on the run from unknown assailants who want her dead. Her only hope of survival comes from Gray Grantham (Washington), an ambitious investigative journalist who may have the resources she needs to uncover the truth. Suspenseful, well-cast adaptation of John Grisham's novel has enough twists and turns (in addition to solid performances from two strong leads) to keep it from being just a simple chase flick. The plot isn't always easy to follow, but it does entertain. *** "},{"Title":"Intense Brief between Julia Roberts & Denzel Washington )","Date":"17 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Although I've not read the book version of the Pelican Brief, I'd read that the novel is very popular and highly appreciated. Which made me really curious of the movie and what made me really wanna watch it is the presence of Denzel Washington & Julia Roberts.It's a good, racy thriller with oodles of suspense. There're many heart-beating moments when the assassins get really close to ticking off the lead actors.Both of them come up with intense performances although Julia at the time had a long way to go. Even the chemistry between Julia & Denzel didn't happen as expected.The background score was OK, could have been more anticipatory & tense.But I appreciate the tight direction. You could have put lesser known actors in here and the movie could still have become a hit, thanks to director Alan Pakula & his team.Verdict Good thriller drama, just wished for more fire between the super hotties Roberts & Washington. Sigh! "},{"Title":"A Scandal Bubbling Up Around Pelicans","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The assassination of two Supreme Court Justices in a 24 hour period would certainly be a crisis of incredible proportions for the USA. But I wonder would the solution be even more cataclysmic for the national psyche, depending on what it was.Food for thought should you decide to watch The Pelican Brief. Now how does the state bird of Louisiana fit into the homicides of two of the Brethren? That you have to see the film for.Paranoia is the key word of The Pelican Brief. Julia Roberts is a law student who is sleeping with her professor, Sam Shepard, who once clerked for Justice Hume Cronyn and in fact will probably be his biographer. A little bit of research on Roberts's part into the cases involving these two who were generally on opposite sides on the court gives her what she feels could be the reason and link for the killings. And pelicans actually have something to do with it.I've heard it said that if one could just keep a cool head in a crisis, you can get out of it. Roberts writes her theory up, shows it to Shepard who in turn shares it with a friend in the FBI. Next thing you know he's blown up by a car bomb and she's running for her life. What if they had just ignored her theory?Julia's a pretty woman in real fright and her one source of support is Denzel Washington, an investigative reporter also looking into the assassinations. No romance here, but good chemistry between the leads.At this point with films like The Firm, The Client, The Rainmaker, John Grisham's books have a pre-sold audience. But that also places a big responsibility on the players who have to live up to the Grisham characters that his readers have come to know. I can't see how he could complain about Julia, Denzel and the rest of the cast of The Pelican Brief.I'd pay attention also to Tony Goldwyn who in the Nineties was making a nice name for himself in villain roles like in Ghost. Goldwyn plays a really creepy White House aide to President Robert Culp. The kind of man who would have found a home with Richard Nixon. Culp's pretty good to as a president like Nixon, who has a nice scandal bubbling up around him. A film made from a John Grisham novel with a great cast of players. What's not to like? "}{"Title":"Grisham won't be ashamed","Date":"21 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Here is a rather good adaptation of John Grisham's novel, The Pelican Brief. It's really better than The Firm, also based on an excellent book by Grisham.Denzel Washington - a great actor, one of my favorites - is the perfect guy to embody the journalist Gray Grantham of the Washington Post (Washington Herald in the movie if you've noticed). The young Julia Roberts makes her beginning in Hollywood with a rather convincing Darby Shaw. Tony Golwyn is good in Fletcher Cole, too. So, a good cast for a good movie.Finally, Grisham's job is well respected, there's a good cast, we have a good moment of TV fun ! "},{"Title":"Suspense, Superior Acting, and Fast-paced Storyline.","Date":"14 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Even if you don't particularly like the courtroom drama genre, you will enjoy this film. The conspiracy plot may seem cheesy and typical on paper, but it was supported by convincing acting by Julia Roberts and Denzel Washington, two of my favourite stars in Hollywood. The characters' emotional vulnerability is probably what makes this very fictional (and unrealistic) battle-against-big-money come to life. Most of all, the chemistry in the partnership between Denzel and Julia feels natural and consistent. Furthermore, the fast-pace storytelling makes sure you are sitting at the edge of your seat throughout the 140 minute film. Clever inquisitions by the pair is juxtaposed with intense action scenes from the first moment on... The perfect sequencing makes it an enjoyable, entertaining experience.Julia plays an ambitious, young law student who stumbles upon critical information in a conspiracy; Denzel is an political journalist who is known for his masterful investigations and personal passion for his work. How much of their personal stakes are they willing to put through to uncover this massive conspiracy? The movie creates memorable, 3-dimensional characters without cheesy lines. A must-see for those looking for a suspense-filled investigation film. "},{"Title":"In response to Hollywood Cowardice","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" You gave the movie a vote of two because of some made-up racism?Other people should know that there was no romantic interest between the two of them (Roberts and Washington), because Shaws(Roberts) lover has only just been killed. And also a large part of her motivation in the movie is to avenge her dead boyfriend, shown true in one way by how Shaw Carry's the pain of his death through out the movie. To have Roberts kissing, or a lot more with Washington would of been ridiculous. I never payed attention to race once in the whole movie, didn't think of it one bit... It is amazing how nowadays its only the people who accuse of racism, that focus on race so intently. Keep your IF IT WERE WHITE PEOPLEs and your ignorance to yourself.Was a great movie you should watch it. "},{"Title":"It was OK","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I don't know if I would classify it as the best Grisham adaption as some other people might my personal favorite is undeniably The Firm but that's neither here or there. This one did not suffer from a lack of casting or a good plot but I don't care for Julia Roberts's acting and I feel she is the most overrated actress in America. That is probably the reason why I haven't seen this one since it was released but I suppose I could stand to see it again and I might change my mind and soften my stance a little. I know my brother and mother went to see it at the theaters and they did enjoy it so maybe I am being too critical. The story is Julia Robert's character is having an affair with her professor and he gets blown up in a car bomb meant for her. She knows she's dead meat because she wrote a paper entitled The Pelican Brief which theorizes that oil companies assassinated two Supreme Court justices in order to influence a decision to mine for oil reserves in some protected wetlands. Denzel Washington is a news reporter who Roberts contacts for help and he does his best to protect her from the powers that be who want her dead and the story suppressed. Like I say it was a pretty good movie another reason why I may not have liked it as much as other Grisham movies is that it didn't have the Mob angle that some of the others did. But it was worth watching. "},{"Title":"enjoyable","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" My wife and I bought the DVD of Pelican Brief to keep at a rental house, and didn't originally plan to make it part of our personal library. I watch this film fairly often, and I'm always surprised at how much I like it. It's became a reliable Friday night Nothing's-on- whaddaya-wanna-watch? film, and goes very well with pizza. The plot could be more tightly woven, but it winds nicely into the lives of the 2 main characters, and keeps them busy and the audience involved. I enjoy the fact that we get to see Julia Roberts really act, not just look pretty, and Denzel Washington is -- as ever-- superb. Stanley Tucci demonstrates again that he can play ANYthing, and the immortal Hume Cronyn does more from a supine position than most actors can do at all. I give it a solid 7 1/2 (imdb votes don't show fractions), and say Give it a try! "},{"Title":"Thriller snoozer","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Pelican Brief knocks off a Grisham novel with the usual Grisham Washington D.C. government conspiracy underpinnings involving the White House, FBI, etc. and countless faceless suits running around spying, snooping, eavesdropping, and the ever popular skulking. Roberts is at the center as a law student who puts together a theory, the Pelican brief,  about who had two Supreme Court justices assassinated and then becomes involved with newsman Washington as they both go on the run and on the trail of the proof needed to unravel the conspiracy and get the bad guys. With a lukewarm reception by critics and public alike, The Pelican Brief offers star power and busy, convoluted entertainment for couch potatoes. Turn brain off before watching. (B-) "},{"Title":"Its not brief, but it's watchable.","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  MILD SPOILER FOLLOWS. An experienced director and a good cast turn this adaption of one of John Grisham's intricate but pedestrian thrillers with a legal background into a watchable entertainment. It's not nearly as interesting as `The Rainmaker' and not such a good action yarn as `The Firm' but is prettier than both, with good use being made of New Orleans as one of the major locations. Denzel Washington as Afro-American ace newspaper reporter Gray Grantham and Julia Roberts as Darcy Shaw, a beautiful WASP princess law student, are very good together and I longed for racist sensibilities to be outraged by their characters having a good old bonk.They get it together at the end of the book, but alas, in the film they do not. In the book though, unless I've missed something, Gray is not specifically Afro-American, though he cultivates his own Afro-American Deep Throat (a White House janitor).I quite enjoyed Sam Shepards' randy drunk law professor who has fallen in love with his beautiful student Darcy. He's very improbable yet quite convincing. What she sees in him is harder to figure, but he is disposed of early on. Most of the other characterisations are stock standard &#150; the dimwit President (an amalgam of Ford, Reagan and Bush senior), the conniving presidential aid (most of the Nixon White House), the straight arrow FBI director (maybe not so stock standard) the laconic, not to say taciturn evil hitmen, the tough but supportive  editor (John Lithgow rather good as a Ben Bradlee type). As in `Three Days of the Condor' the great liberal press saves the situation and the crooks are brought to book (well, some of them) despite the machinations of the White House and the CIA. There's not an original idea in the film but Alan Pakula puts everything together quite well. It's not a patch on Pakula's `All the President's Men', but it's hard to hate a movie aimed at trying to save the Louisiana Brown Pelican. Remember the rhyme? `What a wonderful bird is the Pelican; for its mouth can hold more than its belly can.' This is a pretty cluttered movie, but it takes off somehow, soars once or twice, and lands groggily a bit early.   "},{"Title":"OK thriller","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  OK, this movie is not great, it's just OK. The cast is great, and the director is good. I know for a fact that if this movie did not have these big actors in it, it would not have gotten more than a 5. It doesnt really have many thrills, and it's not very original. If you like the actors in this movie, give it a try. **1/2 out of *****  "},{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  so-so thriller, too low key","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Pelican Brief is about a USA Presidential scandal, but it has nothing like the gripping pace of other Oval Office flicks. Mostly it concerns lawyers who can't fight and don't use guns, which is OK as far as realism is concerned, but doesn't exactly make for a bang-zip-bam action flick.The badguys don't seem to be able to decide whether they are following the goodguys or trying to kill them. The worst aspect of the film is how the badguys consistently fail to do this.However, to be fair, the film held my interest and had a few interesting ideas. The acting was good and the setting was very REAL. I mean, to make up for the fact that there weren't any stuntman flying around on wires, there was a sense that yes, a scandal might actually play out this way in real life. Except that the goodguys would die on Day One.Who should see this film-- action / thriller buffs, but only on a rainy day when you've nothing better to do-- law school students, but see The Paper Chase firstI'll give The Pelican Brief a so-so 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Law student sleeps with professor, goes to library, uncovers conspiracy, calls for help, gets help, government tumbles...etc!","Date":"18 August 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Pelican Brief (1993)This held up better than it should over it's rather long two plus hours. Why? I think because it used a large, good cast (including Julia Roberts as the lead). The story is a bit contrived, if almost believable in that sensational kind of way that's formulaic. But it's high stakes Washington politics that can be interesting regardless, and it has the innocent individual on the run from danger that can sustain even a bad plot.But this is a good one, raging from New Orleans (ever partying), to New York to Washington. Director (and producer, and screenwriter) Alan Pakula has a slightly breathless, slightly superficial style to his filming that gives routine Hollywood the doldrums, sometimes, but even so, he has a slew of impressive films to his credit, including the most subtle and original of them, his first, Klute. But check out Parallax View, too, for a curious film (nothing deep, but very clever). For a more chilling plot, Sophie's Choice, based on a book by John Fowles, a more slightly more probing writer than the man behind The Pelican Brief, John Grisham. And if comparisons seem appropriate here, look at Robert Redford in the earlier Three Days of the Condor for a similar running and running from a conspiracy larger than us all.If I've diverged from the movie itself it's partly because it is so unremarkable, even though it's a completely enjoyable film of its type. Professional, derivative, complex, glossy. "}{"Title":"Who killed the Supremes?","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The usual paranoid bad guys evil GOP president, the sinister CIA, the scary FBI and all their menacing hit men. The usual good guys a very old Jewish U.S. Supreme Court Justice known for his defense of blacks, gays, American Indians Native Americans, crooks and criminals - he hates cops and FBI agents, and one of his Brethren - a closet gay who likes to wear a disguise and watch homosexual porn as a local theater in Washington. Both of these left leaning gents are murdered as the movie begins. Then someone starts murdering other lefties, including a liberal constitutional law prof Shepherd. His gorgeous student/lover Roberts digs up some old legal proceedings and writes a student brief - The Pelican Brief. Why a pelican? See the movie. The student brief ties the evil conservative president to a more conservative and more evil oil baron, whom we never see on the screen or in the book. She has to be waxed, right? The broad knows too much. But as she dodges the knives and bullets of mysterious killers, who comes to her rescue but a fearless African-American reporter for the Washington Herald the Washington Post in the novel. Why Grisham went out of his way in the book to identify the reporter as a white man and his role is played by Denzel Washington in the movie, only Hollywood can explain.  "},{"Title":"Roberts Ruins It","Date":"14 December 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I expected that Darby Shaw would be the same intelligent and forceful person described so well in Grisham's book. Instead there was this timorous, whiney, shakey, mumbling caricature of Darby. Others performed well, but Roberts ruined the movie for me. "},{"Title":"what a bore","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I tried to get into this movie but just couldn't, i think it was the sound of Julia Roberts voice, spending most of the time in the film talking over the phone with a low dragging drool, but not only that, the film was just boring, it was slow moving, dull, with no exciting bits. In most movies there is always a little romance between the stars, not in this one, could this have because Julia had a constant throat infection. "},{"Title":"Star-powered escapist fare","Date":"19 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have seen other movies made from John Grisham novels, The Client (1994 ) and The Firm (1993). I would say this is on a par with those movies, and is typical of the mass market thriller genre. For me it's like watching TV, or an airline movie the treatment is predictable, the plot includes a lot of unlikely action morphed out by various CIA, FBI, and other serious types according to the general expectation of the audience on a simplistic level, with some creativity but certainly nothing original. This is a movie for a tired CEO to fall asleep to. Yet it stars Julia Roberts and Denzel Washington with an interesting cast that includes the very talented Sam Shepherd. Alan J. Pakula, who directed and penned the script from Grisham's novel, has a number of important movies to his directorial credit including All the President's Men (1976) and Sophie's Choice (1982), and some as a producer, most notably the celebrated To Kill a Mockingbird (1962). So what happened here?Just the usual gravitation toward the mean. If you make a movie aimed at a mass audience, what's the point of doing anything they wouldn't appreciate anyway? Roberts and Washington are here for their star power, not because of their considerable acting talent. Yet, perhaps inspired by one another, they both give strong performances that carry the movie and make this definitely worth watching.Julia Roberts plays a Tulane law student who gets an idea about who assassinated two Supreme Court justices and why, and she writes a brief about it, the Pelican Brief. We see her deep in the stacks at the library doing research, sporting several hair-dos at a little table under various lighting changes, so that we know its daytime and then night, etc., a clear device about as original as the pages flying off a calender. Tulane law professor Thomas Callahan (Sam Shepherd) is her mentor and bed mate. She's twenty-four and he's about forty, but a girl can learn a lot from such a man and he's warm and loving. Nonetheless we are scratching our head about this match up, especially when he begins drinking heavily (one of the justices was his mentor), and we know now for sure he's not in love. Well, the guy that gets Julia Roberts sure as heck can't be wishy washy about his love for her, we know that.We are also scratching our head because Denzel Washington, the ace of spades of leading men, an actor of power and accomplishment, is usually found in more serious venues, a guy who's played Steve Biko, apartheid victim and martyr in Cry Freedom (1987) and Malcolm X in Malcolm X (1992). So what's he doing in this mid-brow flick? He plays a beltway reporter, right out of the annals of the Bernstein and Woodward legend, but there is little real acting for him to do. So why is he here? It's to play opposite Julia Roberts of course! So what we have here is a very expensive entertainment starring two real actors. (I wonder how much money it made considering what they had to pay Grisham, Roberts and Washington.) Surely the subplot has to be romantic. How IS Hollywood going to play the racially mixed duo? Inquiring minds want to know. (Hint with great subtlety.)Julia is running, since the bad guys are after her. Notice that the plot conveniently gets rid of the too old for her guy. Try not to notice the other contrivances, the mysterious guy in the background who appears at exactly the last moment, for example. Just as one of the bad guys is about to blow our Julia away, he somehow blows the hit man away--by the way, getting blood on our girl. (It's enough to mention one plot contrivance per review, unless it's unusually bad, but there are others.) Well, Julia's getting the picture and it's pretty scary. She's on the phone as she's running from hotel to hotel, spending cash instead of using traceable credit cards. She can't trust anybody. Even the president of the United States is suspect, played incidentally with a kind of glee by Robert Culp as though impersonating Ronnie Reagan halfway into his dementia. Strange thing, Julia actually thinks you are supposed to really ACT in a thriller! Denzel knows better, managing a kind of controlled emotion throughout, saying as little as possible, using his eyes and making a lot out of silence, which is something an accomplished actor does when the script doesn't give him sparkling lines. Julia really does look scared, her face rubbery with a mean crease down the middle of her forehead. Watching just her, one could mistake this for an artsy-smartsy serious flick. Not to worry. There are some nice explosions and plenty of chases and all sorts of shadowy red herrings lurking about.Bottom line If this is your genre, and you've just got to get away from that pile of papers you brought home to work on, go for it. This is standard issue escapist fare, true, but the stars really do shine.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"There is no Darby Shaw!","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Pelican Brief is directed by Alan J. Pakula who also adapts the screenplay from the novel of the same name written by John Grisham. It stars Julia Roberts, Denzel Washington, Sam Shepard, Stanley Tucci, John Heard, John Lithgow and Tony Goldwyn. Music is scored by James Horner and cinematography by Stephen Goldblatt.When two Supreme Court justices are assassinated, Tulane University Law School student Darby Shaw (Roberts) writes The Pelican Brief, her theory on what is behind the killings. After showing it to her law professor lover Thomas Callahan (Shepard), it sets the wheels in motion for more murder and political intrigue, with Darby right in the middle of it and in fear for her life.Ah John Grisham, he was just like Michael Crichton, authors who for a while seemed the hip guys to read and therefore became ripe to have their works adapted into movies. Of course this in no way was a measure of quality, where just like some of the Crichton adaptations, Grisham's literary transference to the big screen hasn't always proved to be critically successful. Sure, star casting and big amounts of studio cash driving them forwarded have ensured considerable box office returns (Pelican Brief made close to over $140 million in profit), but audiences have remained indifferent towards the visual tales of legal eagles in peril.The Pelican Brief is quite frankly too often dull, a simple story is made to look over complicated by filling it with secondary characters that just come across as superfluous. The lead protagonists lack depth and development and long passages of dialogue feel like padding that just stretches the running time to the over long 140 minutes run time. Pakula (is this the same guy who crafted All the Presidents Men and Presumed Innocent?!) slow burns it in a way that we expect a big rousing pay off, yet the finale is one big anti-climax. Leaving us with a sort of oh, is that it? feeling.Another major problem is the casting of Roberts as Shaw. Although unfairly thought of in the 90s as rom-com fodder (being good at it doesn't make her a bad actress), Roberts lacks the range to really bring Shaw to life, to hold the film together with a detailed characterisation. This leaves Washington (as political reporter Gray Grantham) straining to hold the core coupling together, which he does, manfully, but even his efforts can't lift the human interest part of the narrative to exciting heights. While elsewhere it all feels routine from the director and Horner at times thinks he is scoring an Arnold Schwarzenegger movie, which of course doesn't fit.It's not a total wash out, there's a fine ensemble of actors to appreciate and those with a legal/political bent are sure to get something from the plotting. But this should have been much better, more brainy and for sure more exciting, as it is it's a over long bore that wastes talent and premise in equal measure. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Intensely engaging and suspenseful","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is about a law student uncovering a huge conspiracy that involves the assassination of two judges. After her brief gets into the hands of the FBI, she becomes the focus of assassination.Making a suspenseful thriller is not an easy task, but The Pelican Brief does the job. The plot quickly develops into a myriad of conspiracy, deceit, murder and paranoia. The constant surveillance, chase and murder is engaging and scary, these really kept me on edge throughout the film. Darby Shaw's well justified paranoia is intense and suspenseful, I really feel her fear and desperation. There were so many times I shouted danger to warn her, or shout don't! to hope to save her life. The plot is suspenseful, and it makes me want to find out what happens.The Pelican Brief is intense and engaging. I look forward to watching other John Grisham adaptations in the future. "},{"Title":"Most enjoyable thriller","Date":"28 December 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Another complex legal thriller from author John Grisham (The Firm) is brought professionally to the screen by director Alan J. Pakula (Presumed Innocent).As in the Sydney Pollack film The Firm, The Pelican Brief requires concentration and attention to detail as it relates the story of New Orleans law student Darby Shaw (Julia Roberts), whose theoretic paper, which outlines what she believes to be the reasons behind the brutal assassinations of two Supreme Court judges, lands her in hot water when it passes into the wrong hands. Her brief, it would seem, is much too close to the truth for comfort. So begins a frenetic chase as Darby runs for her life whilst she searches for someone in whom to place her trust. She finds that confidant in Washington Herald reporter Gray Grantham (Denzel Washington), whose determined yet ethical pursuit of the truth is both admirable and effective.Grisham's involved novel (which probably loses much specific detail in crossing to the big screen) gives the movie a plot that is fascinating enough to carry proceedings alone, however Pakula's effective direction and his choice of two popular stars does no harm to the cause. Both Roberts and Washington are in good form and give strong performances, as do the impressive supporting cast.A most enjoyable, and occasionally tense, thriller whose beginning and finale are both far outdone by the fast middle.Sunday, March 27, 1994 - Village Doncaster "},{"Title":"A great picture!","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A minimum of violence, a minimum of special effects, a maximum of good acting. Denzel Washington and Julia Roberts play very well together. The suspense is tangible, but low-key, which makes it all the more suspenseful. One of Grisham's better stories, it shows his unhappiness with lawyers. I got the feeling from Julia Roberts that she was not acting, but that she was really involved with the Pelican Brief. It's not an action movie, but a potent movie. In light of today's politics, it is rather noteworthy. The photography is excellent, which contributes to the picture. It's a shame that Alan Pakula isn't around to do more pictures. "},{"Title":"What, What did you say?","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I couldn't hear one word of Darby's explanation on The Pelican Brief.  She was whispering the entire conversation into a tape recorder.  Why did the director tell her to do that?  Was it for dramatic purposes?  NEWS FLASH, actors can still hold up the same level of drama while talking normally so the audience can hear and understand the movie.  If the director was going to have her whisper THE MOST IMPORTANT PART OF THE MOVIE, then he should had have the screenwriter write a prologue explaining, however not in complete detail, the purpose of The Pelican Brief.  The actors in The Pelican Brief were great, but it was a shame that I couldn't hear a single word they were saying.  4/10. "},{"Title":"Easier than reading the book by John Grisham","Date":"5 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Rated 6/10.  In The Pelican Brief, supemely talented New Orleans law student Darby Shaw (Julia Roberts, in full pout and doe eyes) solves the mystery of who assasinated two Supreme Court justices after a few all-nighters in the law-school library.  She shares this info with her lover and professor, Thomas Callahan (Sam Shepherd, looking good!), who shares it with a friend at the FBI.  Soon everyone who knows about The Pelican Brief (Darby's novel title for her thesis; whatever happened to titles like Doe. v. State of Texas?) dies suddenly and violently.Darby does a Deep Throat and seeks out journalist Gray Grant (Denzel Washington, also lookin' mighty fine).  He checks out her story and soon they are both are on the run, relying on all the tools of spycraft they picked up from previous John Grisham novels, no doubt.If the pace of the movie had been faster, the viewer might not have had time to think of all the implausibilities of the plot.  But it clocks in at 215, when it has enough material for a tight 130.  However, the photography and scenery are nice but those late '80s women's clothes suck! "}{"Title":" satisfying action-suspense movie","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  denzel washington is magnificent as gray. julia roberts is delightful as well. she's one of my favorite actresses. john heard was okay. the movie had plenty of suspenseful moments. watch this treat if you haven't seen it yet. i would give the pelican brief 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Yea Denzel!","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Hey, I'm a big fan of Denzel's, alright? Anywho, the books are always better than the movies. This one's no difference. I can't really put a finger on Julia's character. She seemed to live in a state of perpetual fear for being killed, which is understandable. Still, there's nothing to grab onto with her. She just seemed flighty and you turned to Denzel to provide some info on what the hell was going on. He's a natural of course. I'm not being biased either. He handles his scenes with Julia wonderfully by not allowing this chick to confuse his role. The plot's not all too bad either considering it's by Grisham. It's weird that politicians would kill folks over pelicans in the swamps, but that's how it goes I guess. It's more original, I'll give it that. It ties together wonderfully. "},{"Title":"A well done movie, but not as good as the book....","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  John Grisham wrote a really great book, The Pelican Brief - I saw the movie first and really liked it, but when I read the book, I felt the movie needed some really important details that made the story more real. Anyway, well done! -) "},{"Title":"Good thrill with exceptional cinematography","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Alan J. Pakula has created another exceptional looking political thriller that, at least, in terms of visual style matches his great earlier work- (Klute, The Parallax View, All The Presidents Men, Rollover). Unfortunately, the script based on a John Grisham novel is one of the weakest of his career. The premise of a conservative capitalist conspiracy to assassinate members of the supreme court is certainly credible, but, it doesn't quite translate into a 140 minute film. The remarkable look of the film is so remiscent of the director better work that the audience keeps waiting for richer character development. We only find this development during the first half hour of the film especially with the rich character of Thomas Callahan (very well played by Sam Shepard). Once we get into the action part of the film things get much more standard and morally clear- a real let down for fans of Pakula's excellent Klute or The Parallax View where the tension is created as much by the character's insecurities as it is by the actual physical threats against them. Pakula is a marvelous director of actors and this remains true here- Denzel Washington does fine sturdy work here in what is really a supporting role as Gray Grantham, a Washington reporter who comes to the aid of Shaw. Washington shines here and he virtually overwhealms the film. Julia roberts is adequate as the protagonist, Darby Shaw. Actually I wish that Cynthia Nixon, who has a small role would have been cast as the lead. Nixon is a brave, complicated actress and could have gone deeper places then Roberts. As noted before Sam Shepard does some of his best film work here and there is also nice work from John Heard, Stanley Tucci, Robert Culp and Jon Lithgow. However, it is the films cinematography by the gifted Stephen Goldblatt that makes me recommend this film. Goldblatt works here in beautifully composed low lit scenes. Some of the night scenes and scenes in the Oval office are so remarkably well photographed that the inadequacies of script disappear. The art direction and  set decoration are equally sublime throughout the film using a muted color pallete throughout most of the films- that contrasts sharply with the vibrant colors of the beginning and end "},{"Title":" Best of the Grisham-book based films.","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Bought a copy 5 years ago and have watched it 25-30 times. The fear on Julia Roberts face as she is running from Stump feels real. Read the book by John Grisham before watching movie and feel that this screen version of his book is the only one that Hollywood has done justice to. 'The Chamber' and 'The Firm' were so-so. I was not impressed with 'The Client' or 'The Rainmaker'. I have copies of these films but always go back to 'Pelican'.  "},{"Title":"Believable intrigue, but foolish behaviors.","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was a very plausible idea of corruption, manipulation, and politics to a cynic like me. There were, however, many coincidences, plot holes, and just plain stupid moves made by the characters. Not enough to really ruin the movie, but enough to make me say,Nobody would do that! or Why didn't... etc. Typical movie nonsense. I haven't read Grisham's novel, but I hope he detailed it more smartly than this. The foundation of the story is enough to overcome this, but it could have been great. There is no profane language and the visual violence is quite minimal. In my book it's a solid B grade. "},{"Title":"More Conspiracy Theories","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" And when they're well handled, they're about as entertaining as movies get. 'The Pelican Brief' is extremely well handled. It has a slow, almost beguiling, plot development. But the quality of direction and the acting of its two leads seldom lets the story flag. It runs for well over 2-hours, And this gives Alan J Pakula, the director, plenty of time to realise his work without any botched haste. Here; strange-faced Julia Roberts plays the law student with an eye for conspiracies, Darby Shaw. When a couple of Supreme Court Judges get bumped-off, her published speculation falls into the wrong hands. Pretty soon Ms Shaw is also in the firing-line. She narrowly escapes a car bomb and, realising that she's been marked, goes on the run. Denzel Washington plays investigative journalist Gray Grantham. He becomes her confidante when all the other people she contacts get wasted. Beginning with wary suspicion, their relationship develops into one of mutual trust and respect. They are both fine actors and each gives a thoroughly believable presentation that doesn't descend into the usual trite and hammily predictable romance. The more these two begin to unravel her conspiracy, the more they become entangled in it. There are wonderfully observed moments of tension along the way. I particularly like the 'man in the wardrobe' scene, where his presence is barely hinted at as the mirror-door just opens an inch or two. You don't notice the door open so much as the reflection shrink. It's a very nicely observed little detail. Suddenly it becomes a life-or-death race in a multi-story car park. Again, the director makes use of another sly trick of reflection. These small details seem to hark back to an earlier, more intelligent age of cinematography entailing the likes of Orson Welles or Hitchcock. There is little in the way of pyrotechnics. A couple of cars explode. Bloody moments are equally low-key by most of today's standards. They're as gross as a good thriller should be. Short, shocking and rare.The ending is uncluttered by excessive schmaltz. Most of the villains are caught. The FBI get on the case. Ms Shaw disappears with their assistance. The hinted romance is still never more than a hint.A very strong and believable supporting cast of American character actors like John Heard and Robert Culp give the movie an additional stamp of plausibility. Editing is unobtrusive. Lighting and sound are as good as you could wish for. It's technically very competent.If anything; the conspiracy itself looks a little far-fetched. It seems highly unlikely that a top-flight law firm would engage in assassinations. It also seems equally unlikely that there would be 'people surrounding the president' who would 'stop at nothing' in order to see him re-elected. I can't imagine anyone risking a stint in the electric-chair - or whatever - in order to advance the political careers of the sort of shallow dimwits who find their way to the oval office these days. Perhaps in 'tricky dicky' Nixon's time, but not since. However, bent lawyers and homicidal political aides are standard Grisham fare.It's a nice movie though. And the 2-hours-plus hold your attention easily. It's what 'Enemy Of The State' should have been, but for the OTT acting, pyrotechnic overdrive, and self-indulgent violence. More brains than Brawn.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Well acted and suspenseful scenes, but lacked a plausible conspiracy.","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Pelican Brief was well acted, contained great scenes of suspense during the action scenes, but lacked a plausible conspiracy scenario.  Certain elements, such as the car bombing scenes, were very predictable.    When the movie was first released, certain character interactions were overemphasized during the promotions of the film.  Current viewers will not be distracted by such tactics.    "},{"Title":"Casting problem","Date":"16 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Gray Grantham was specifically identified as a 'rich, white American' in Grisham's book.  Denzel was fantabulous in the movie, of course, but it would be better to have cast a white guy as the reporter.Julia Roberts was fine, but she could have added more depth into Darby.  I think she focused too much on the 'run for your life' part, and not enough on the 'law student.'  No nitpicking otherwise. =) "},{"Title":"Not a satisfying experience","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The resumes of the talent (Julia, Denzel, Sam Shepard, Alan Pakula, John Grisham) in this project portended a great movie. The result of their collaboration, however, just wasn't satisfying in the way they likely intended. Since I haven't read the John Grisham novel on which this film was based, I can't say whether bastardized source material was the cause of the film's malaise. I can say however, that there are much more satisfying legal/conspiracy thrillers out there such as The Firm (which, incidentally, was also based on a Grisham novel). 6/10.  "}{"Title":"The Pelican Epic Would Have Been a Better Title.","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Up and down thriller that runs way too long in the end to be completely successful. The Pelican Brief is overall an above average film though as law student Julia Roberts uncovers the truth about the assassinations of two Supreme Court Justices. Soon her professor/lover Sam Shepard is killed in a car bomb explosion and Roberts is fearful for her life. She confides in Washington Herald reporter Denzel Washington and immediately they both start a long race to elude those behind the conspiracy. The Pelican Brief has some good ideas and director Alan J. Pakula executes most pretty well. However, the movie drags throughout and has a pacing that is way too imperfect. In the end, the production tried to stay way too close to the novel. Washington and Roberts together is worth the time, but really they deserved better than this. 3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"good -but?","Date":"13 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" first before i review this- you should know how i think. when i watch a movie- i get immersed in it- totally involved. so maybe the first time i see a movie, i might be paying attention more to the actors than the plot. so my -review the acting by Denzel Washington is great, he is one of the best actors of any cinema era. He fit naturally into this role,most of his movies he makes his character stand out. he did a wonderful job in this movie. his costar however did not do that great,Julia Roberts is a cheap actress. her use of vocal tones high or low to show her mood-kept reminding me that i was watching an actress pretend to be someone.she really doesn't do anything special. there are a lot of actresses that when i see them on screen- i don't even remember their name-but i can remember their character's name.my only wish is that IMDb was in operation at the time of this films release, because the plot is also poorly thought out. OK here it is- someone that once worked for someone-wrote her theory on a political assassination - hmm that has happened every day since the beginning of the American political machine. to this day theories of political conspiracies are written and swept under the rug as often as people pour a cup of coffee. yet there are no government goons in the shadows-waiting to kill you. when i first saw this movie i would have given it a 8 or 9 but because i have seen it more than twice a year for the past ten years i knocked it down to a 3, and mainly because of a poorly thought out story line that gets old, and the older it gets the more unbelievable it becomes.throw a cheap actress like Julia Roberts into the mix and it is almost horrible. i could never understand what movie viewers saw in her, but i never did or never will see anything in her. I think Denzel Washington is the only one that made this movie come together. so my advice- is watch this movie only if you get it for free. but if you like Denzel Washington it might be worth watching, however be forewarned that you have to watch the other garbage. "},{"Title":"Perfect blend of suspense and action","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Pelican Brief stars two of my all-time favorite actors. Julia Roberts does an outstanding job of squeezing every ounce of emotion into each scene. Denzel Washington shows his versatility as well; his one character manages to pull off several roles at once(journalist/detective/friend/protector/action hero) without him seeming superhuman. I had to see the movie more than once to remember who was a bad guy, who was a good guy, who was a bad good-guy, and who was a good bad-guy. If you like intrigue, you will love this movie. "},{"Title":"Far fetched and stupid","Date":"20 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The plot was way too stupid-Evil rich guy wanting to get even richer by destroying the environment while blowing up everybody who accuses him and thus proving the Pelican Brief? Stupid. I was turned off by the gruesome slayings...The eerie pop of a silenced pistol followed by lots of splattered blood or killer car bombs that make you jump out of yoursocks...Not my idea of entertainment. Unless you're an on-the-edge and/or sadistic maniac, skip this one. "},{"Title":"Heart Pounding Suspense Drama","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Two Supreme Court Justices are Assassinated.No real clues, no real judicial action.Until... Julia Roberts formulates an amazing, but rather unbelievable accusation.Yet as unbelievable as it maybe someone fears it.  Enough to kill her for it.  And will stop at nothing Wire Tapping, Car Bombing, More Murder...And that's not all!While Julia Roberts and her only Ally Alan J. Pakula fight to find the truth, and the proof.Before they are dead too! "},{"Title":"The internet could have saved Darby Shaw...","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The internet could have saved Darby Shaw..Major plot flaw here!!Even in the early 1990s, the internet was still widely used..  Since Darby Shaw seemed to have lost every hard copy of the brief, she seemed to have memorized it...If she had found a quiet place.. recreated the brief and posted it all over the internet... sooner or later the info would have been picked up.. and many people would be investigating her claims..The theory behind the Pelican Brief as to why the Justices were killed is so basic and not earth-shattering...  the fact that Darby makes the connection does not garner such efforts to kill her..Of course there would be no book/movie.. "},{"Title":"Hollywood cowardice","Date":"3 January 2002","Score":"4 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I had to give this picture a very low rating--a 2--in large part because it offers hard evidence of the sorry persistence of racism in Hollywood into the 1990s. Think about it a beautiful,young leading lady; a handsome, young leading man; a thriller where they both share danger and a commitment to justice. There's a love angle, right? WRONG. The makers of this film could not bring themselves to have Julia Roberts' and Denzel Washington's characters cross the color line and kiss each other. Huh????? In any other movie where the leads were played by WHITE PEOPLE, there'd be at least a kiss--if not a lot more. Chalk up another victory for corporate cowardice. A disgrace. "}]