[{"Title":"powerfully good","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"54 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Extremely brutal, but gripping and compelling story of a volatile, alienated young teenager (Turner) growing up in the violent atmosphere of the L.A. Watts District and&#x97;against the advice of family and friends&#x97;makes no effort to transcend the harshness and ignorance of his surroundings, instead choosing to head down a dead-end path. Violent, almost unbearable at times, but faultlessly acted by the cast, and filled with powerful, authentic scenes. Tate is an absolute powerhouse as Turner's younger, impulsive, and extremely cold-blooded pal. Obviously not for all tastes, but a monumental achievement regardless, thanks to a superior cast of actors. ***½ "},{"Title":"Brilliant movie","Date":"16 March 2000","Score":"43 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Menace was a brilliant film. There are many reasons to it, but I think what makes it so special is it's sense of style. It proves effectively that a gritty street-drama doesn't have to look bad in order to be realistic. Instead of using hand held cams and grainy film the Hughes' shoot their film with style, influenced by John Woo, and action-comics.The violence used is also excessive and very graphic. There are brutal beatings as well as bloody shootings, all shot much better than your average action-movie. Like as in Dead Presidents, the directors aren't afraid of over-doing anything. Through slow-motion and impressive camera manoeuvering they're making great, exhilarating action.Well, besides the violence the movie is great in many other ways. The shootings and bloodlettings are just to make it more realistic, which is pretty much the goal of the movie. In heartbreaking detail the main characters narrate us through youth criminality, drug-dealing, racism and a lot of other nasty stuff. The voice-over works really well, making Menace a sort of black Goodfellas.The story is great, in some points resembling some greek tragedy, with a storyline used successfully in other movies like Carlito's Way, Goodfellas, American History X and many others. It's about changing your life in time, before it's too late. If you don't change in time, all your past sins will come back to you. The movie is hilarious, sad, suspenseful and very educational for those who think there is racial equality in USA.The Hughes' are young, aggressive and  untouchable film-makers who intend to show you the real world, and do it with style. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies in 1993","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"37 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Menace 2 Society is in my opinion the best Ghetto Gangster-Movie of all time. So powerful, so strong. Perfectly showing the hard life young black people go through in the ghetto. The main-characters are Caine, and O-Dog. Caine, is not the typical gangster, he had a very hard childhood, with a dealer as father and a junkie as mother, but he doesn't want to live this kind of live and tries to change it. O-Dog is the opposite, a young man who's afraid of nothing and always has trouble with the justice. The movie shows us the road that both, including there friends pass in this strange world of drugs, violence.The best film the Hugh-Brother ever made, simply a must see, you will love it!!! "},{"Title":"The Best Hood Film I Have Ever Seen","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"35 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you like action dramas, this is definitely the film for you. I have watched this film several times since I bought it, and I don't do that with many movies. It shows what it is really like for teenagers growing up in the ghetto.The movie takes place in LA, where Caine, O-Dog, Sharif, and the rest of they're crew trying to grow up in the Ghetto without getting shot. It deals with everything that is happening in the world with teens in the hood Pregnancy, Drive-by's, Drug Addiction, and many other things.What I like about this film, is that it is exactly what it's supposed to be. It does not show people getting shot every 2 minutes and showing the kids smoking weed in every scene, because it's not like that in real life. This shows exactly how everything goes down. Nothing more, nothing less.Check it out. You can get it at Wal-Mart for a good price.  "},{"Title":"This is what is!","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"30 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this film the weekend it opened. At the time I was 33, a white male living in NYC. When I went to the theater, I noticed that most of the audience was Black and in their late teens. For some reason, they felt that this was a good date movie. When the movie began, and the Korean Grocery scene was presented, the audience went wild with comments like Yeah, Yeah, Kill them!!. I must say I got a little nervous. But, as the movie progressed, I got absorbed in it. I liked Cane and I even liked O'Dog. When the movie ended, I started crying. I was embarassed. Then I noticed that the Black teenage guys around me were crying too. I applaud the Hughes Brothers for making a movie that is able to connect with so many people. I still cry while watching it on video. Do you care if you live or die? "},{"Title":"One of the best movies in 1993","Date":"17 October 2004","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Menace 2 Society is definitely the best Ghetto Gangsta-Movie of all time. So powerful, so strong. Perfectly showing the hard life young black people go through in the ghetto. The main-characters are Caine, and O-Dog. Caine, is not the typical gangsta, he had a very hard childhood, with a dealer as father and a junkie as mother, but he doesn't want to live this kind of live and trys to change it. O-Dog is the opposite, a young man who's afraid of nothing and always has trouble with the justice. The movie shows us the road that both, including there friends do in this strange world of drugs, violence and poverty. The best film the Hugh-Brother ever made, simply a must see, you will love it!!! "},{"Title":"Shockingly Perfect","Date":"30 August 2004","Score":"31 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is so good, I remember specifically the first time I saw it.I was 17 years old, hanging out with friends, doing the things 17 year olds and the characters in the movie do, in a friend's backyard. On our way out to a movie theater, I ran up to the entertainment room to grab my jacket. As I entered, I heard the first line of Menace from a television which had been left on. In the 30 seconds it took me to put on my jacket, I was drawn into the flick.As the first scene came to a close, my buddies came looking for me. It didn't take long for them to realize that we wouldn't be going anywhere.At such an age this movie shocked and excited me. It left me in awe and on the edge of tears.In my early twenties (and after I'd seen it several times), the movie made me laugh out loud. The clever dialog, even in tenuous situations, is genius. Cheeseburgers, anyone?Now in my late twenties, I consider this a classic. Take your other gang movies and throw them out the window. Boyz n the Hood is the only one that comes close and that takes itself way too seriously. Everything else is just an imitation of this perfectly woven tale.As long as you can tolerate the violence and not-so-clean language, check this one out. It's simply brilliant.  "},{"Title":"Menacingly Powerful, and Gritty Urban Drama","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Menace II Society is much more than your typical hood movie. It tells the story of young Caine Lawson, a teen growing up in Watts, California. The opening briefly shows Caine getting caught up in a grocery store shooting with his friend. This was a chilling way to open the movie, as it shows how easy it is for someone in the ghetto to get caught up in the moment and kill someone. During the opening credits, we see footage of the Watts riots that took place during the 60's. Caine narrates the story of his life, explaining how after the riots, drugs came into effect, and affected his home life as a child. After loosing his parents on at the hands of drugs, he was sent to live with his Grandparents. His Grandparents love him, but they struggled to raise him and tried their hardest to keep him out of trouble. Not too long into the movie, after we learn about Caine's early life, we see him graduate from High School. He hopes to leave the life of violence that surrounds him in his neighborhood. After falling victim to a violent car jacking, he is brought into violence and crime himself. As the story progresses, and things spiral downward for Caine, he ends up in a hell of a jam and tries to make a way out of it all. This is an incredible movie. It perfectly balances the ugly crime life and murder of tough inner city neighborhoods, Caine's own personal troubles, police brutality, and drugs. This is a powerful movie with a great story. It has a good message, but in some ways, I thought the film Boyz N the Hood showed the message in a better way. Menace II Society is more focused on the crime involved in inner cities, where as Boyz N the Hood focuses more on the family life of the characters. This is an excellent film that you should see if you ever get the chance. It has a good message, and it has some very moving moments in it. If you enjoyed this, I also recommend Boyz N the Hood, and you'll probably enjoy the Wayans brothers' spoof, Don't be a Menace to South Central While Drinking Your Juice in the Hood. "},{"Title":"An amazing debut for the Hughes brothers","Date":"22 May 2002","Score":"13 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Hughes brothers made quite a splash with this film, making one of   the best inner city films since Boys in the Hood. While I didn't care   much for the voice overs, the ending to the film proved to be bone   chilling, especially after becoming so close to the characters  who were killed. I felt Larenz Tate did an excellent job in his role as   O-Dog. While too many people focused on the violence in the movie, it   really wasn't the focal point. It was really more about how the   characters were conditioned, how they became used to the concept to   random violence. A solid film with some great performances. "},{"Title":"A Powerful and Great film from The Hughes Brothers","Date":"2 October 2004","Score":"19 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Menace II Society is a film of power and a desperate killing spree just in a little neighborhood. The film was very good, on all levels this is sure the best Hughes Brothers film. I've only seen Dead Presidents and  From Hell, which I thought were both good movies, but this is The Hughes Brothers best film and this is so far the best ghetto film I've ever seen. There was some flaws but the movie makes it out like there really isn't any. The acting was good, Tyrin Turner, I've never really heard of and Larenz Tate I've see in Dead Presidents. The action was good and the movie was extremely powerful. Overall, this was a very neat ghetto film by The Hughes Brothers.Hedeen's outlook 9/10 ***+ A-  "}{"Title":"Meaning in the violence","Date":"27 January 2003","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Boyz N the Hood was a landmark film and certainly is one of the best movies of the 1990s. This is true but it was too preachy in the execution of its main themes.  Director John Singleton has never matched it (and probably never will) but has come close with such hard-hitting films as Higher Learning, Rosewood, Shaft and Baby Boy.  Don't get me wrong, I love Boyz and I know that Singleton is one of the finest African-American directors in Hollywood, it is just that I cannot get past the tiring preachiness that has become common in his films.Now, you do not see that with the Hughes Brothers.  They portray their films in a much more realistic fashion.  One thing that has become a main criticism with the Hughes Brothers, is how they portray violence in their films.  How else can you show violence in a movie without it looking completely fake?  Just look at anything they've done and you notice how frighteningly realistic their subject matter is.  Yes in this film, people are shot, beaten, and robbed, but it is done a brutal fashion that is realistic.  If you've seen any music video or film that they have directed, you can easily make the claim that they are the best at what they do - portraying life as for what it is.  First look at Menace II Society.  This film upon its release in 1993, was instantly compared to Boyz N the Hood.  What separated the two, was their subject matter.  Boyz focused on the positive side of living in the Los Angeles ghetto, which was South Central if I'm not mistaking.  It also showed us Tre (played by Cuba Gooding, Jr.) who tries to survive, despite his harsh surroundings.  He grows up with a caring father (Laurence Fishburne) and it also shows him with his friends, many of whom are doomed to the legacy of street violence.  Menace shows us the other, darker side of that picture.  The story focuses on Caine (brilliantly played by Tyrin Turner) and his life after graduating from high school.  It goes without saying that Caine is a criminal, but we come to sympathize with him, even though there is no way we can support his actions.  He's a product of drug-pushing/using parents, witnessed murder before he was ten, was orphaned sometime later, and is now living with his God-fearing grandparents.  Throughout the film, Caine and O-Dog (Larenz Tate) commit numerous crimes.  You may think that the Hughes Brothers are glorifying that criminal image, but in fact, they are condemning it.  If they were glorifying Caine and O-Dog's actions, then the Brothers would not show us the consequences of those actions.      Now look at their music videos.  I cannot describe any 2Pac videos because I haven't seen any, but I can describe the Korn videos, both Here To Stay and Thoughtless.  Now before I go into this, I'll say that I'm a huge fan of rap, but I also enjoy some metal, Korn being the biggest thing metal I listen to.  At first I wondered why the Hughes Brothers would direct music videos for a band like Korn, and then I listened to songs on their newest CD, titled Untouchables.  Right there on the first track I realized the connection between Korn and the Hughes Brothers - the Brothers trademark of naturalness of everyday life combined with Jonathan Davis' angst-filled and sometimes violent lyrics, which often describe his childhood in school.  In Korn's Here To Stay video, we are shown the band (Davis, Brian Welch, James Shaffer, Reginald Arvizu and David Silveria), silhouetted against a huge snowing television screen.  Throughout the video, images of the band are intercut with footage of the Gulf War, C-sections being performed, the L.A. riots, the 1986 Challenger explosion, police chases, animals attacking other animals, and at one point during the video, we are shown a police a car with the numbers 666 on the roof.  As a grand finale, we are shown a twelve year-old boy sucked into the television screen after coming into contact with it.  The relevance here is not the band itself, but the Hughes Brothers direction.  The end shows how images of violence and destruction in the news affect our youth, just like in Menace II Society with Caine, who was young and was exposed to the same conditions as the boy in the video.In Korn's Thoughtless video, we're shown a seventeen year-old boy who gets revenge on his classmates by showing up at prom with a hooker for a date and ends with him vomiting all over his classmates, while his hooker girlfriend is laughing the entire time.  Again, the Brothers are showing us violence in youth, but doesn't show us the consequences of the boy's actions.  He wanted revenge, he got it, but is he truly satisfied?  The connection with the Brothers here is like in Menace, showing that there is always consequences and you most likely will suffer.  In the case of the boy, he will most likely end up warped and needing psychiatric help. The Hughes Brothers have come under heavy scrutiny for just about everything they've ever worked on.  This is largely because as I've already stated that their work is often very grim, but people often miss the fact that their work is often very optimistic about everything they talk about.  Caine could have moved to Atlanta, the boy in the Here To Stay video could have simply turned off the television, and the boy in Thoughtless could have put everything behind him and start over.As an African-American person myself from Virginia and living in a middle-class neighborhood no where near any of the areas I've described, I can't say for sure how accurate these films are (nor the music videos), but I can say that the Hughes Brothers, John Singleton and Korn truly bring out a glimpse of what life can be for some people.  "},{"Title":"Life sucks","Date":"1 January 2011","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I'm not saying it's a poorly made movie, despite all the continuity errors, but I can't stand being asked to sympathize with a complete scumbag. Mr. Butler Being a black man in America isn't easy. The hunt is on, and you're the prey!!! All I'm saying is... All I'm saying is... Survive! All right?Well, let's see, he carjacks a poor guy in a fat-food lane, threatening to kill him for not ordering cheese on the burger. He knocks a girl up then treats her like utter garbage. Her cousin comes to defend her honor and this pig stomps on him, and kicks him when he's down. He's dishonorable, a liar, a villain, a fiend, a murderous cad. But that line above from Mr. Butler makes it sound like we're supposed to pity him. I feel sorry for his grandparents, I feel sorry for the Korean shopkeeper, I feel sorry for Ileana, I feel sorry for her cousin, and I feel sorry for carjacking victim in the fast-food lane... all of which are Caine's victims. So let's amend the quote to be a little closer to reality Being a black man in America isn't easy, but it could be easier. The hunt is on, and you're the predator!! All I'm saying is... All I'm saying is... Let other black people survive! Leave them alone! All right? "},{"Title":"Intense and Graphic to the core","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The first ten minutes of one of the most graphically violent films of 1993,the urban drama from the debut directors Allen and Albert Hughes' Menace II Society begins with a teenaged boy named Caine(Tyrin Turner)watches as his friend and gangbanger O-Dog(Larenz Tate)coldblooded with no remorse what so ever gunned down a innocent Korean couple who runs a Liquor Shop in Watts,a suburban part of South Central Los Angeles,California. Unlike his friend O-Dog,Caine Lawson wants to leave his way of life,but he can't see a way out of a gang lifestyle that may either have him send to prison or be killed. Fellow gang member Sharif(Vonte Sweet)is the son of a teacher,Mr. Butler(Charles S. Dutton),who lets Caine know that education is one way out. Another gang member Stacy(Ryan Williams),receives a scholarship to play football at the University of Kansas,and he asks Caine to go with him. And Caine's girlfriend,Ronnie(Jada Pinkett-Smith),tries to persuade Caine to moved to Atlanta with her. Despite these possibilities,Caine has been worn down by a life filled with guns and drugs,violence and death. Unsurprisingly,he's fatalistic about his life,if he ever has a chance to HAVE a future,but if he wants to make a change in his life is one way out of a hellish world of the ghetto.The directorial debut of Albert and Allen Hughes,who are twins were only 21 years of age when they made this film. However,the film was a huge success and became a winner in so many ways making their equally compelling follow-up film,1995's Dead Presidents,again starring Larenz Tate,who became a superstar in his feature film debut in Menace II Society and from here gives one of the most shockingly electrifying performances ever displayed in a motion picture. His character of O-Dog was just that....menacing to the point and extremely raw. This movie may audiences squirm in their seats when they went to see this film,due to the huge amount of disturbing images of realistic bloodletting,explicitly graphic content and strong intense violence,and the raging sound of its raw persuasive language which also included scenes of nudity and sexual situations. What makes Menace II Society so intense was its deep understanding of each and every character,more than justifies their take-no-prisoners approach to film-making. This was gives the film its sheer intensity that penetrates that insight into the comptemporary society,and this film delivers. WARNING The last five to ten minutes of the film is very graphic,and its not for the faint of heart,and when this film came out in 1993,audiences looked at this as one hellva bloodbath! "},{"Title":"I thought killing those fools would make me feel good, but it really didn't make me feel anything.","Date":"5 September 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The directorial debut of twin brothers Albert and Allen Hughes, Menace II Society is a tough, no nonsense look at youthful black life in the Watts section of Los Angeles. The Hughes Brother's movie charts the hapless life of Caine (Tyrin Turner) as he seeks to escape the ghetto. The son of both a drug dealer (Samuel L. Jackson in a potent appearance) and an addict, Tyrin, surrounded by guns and a machismo culture, is tied to his friends and the way of life afforded him. Even as love and a chance of a way out arises with Jada Pinkett's (terrific) pretty Ronnie, it's doubtful if Tyrin will escape from the revolving door of death.Menace II Society had a troubled beginning, refused a video certificate on the grounds of its profane language and brutally violent scenes, it has since gone on to be viewed as one of the finer exponents of anti-violence involving Black Americans. That wasn't always the case though, many critics in the 90s were prone to calling it a film that glamorises the lifestyle of Hood gangsters, but offered a saver of sorts by correctly saying it had realism in amongst the harshness. Certainly the dialogue and regional slang was refreshing to hear, thus affording Menace and its makers praise for keeping it real, so to speak.Ineviatbly comparisons were (are) drawn with John Singleton's 1991 film, Boyz n the Hood. But although Menace is rawer, uncompromising and more visceral with impact, it lacks the intelligence of Singleton's film. Where Boyz had fully rounded characters, character with which to hang your hat on to, Menace is just a social group of youths we neither know or care about outside of the group, ego driven dynamic. When lead protagonist Tyrin is trying to deal with his inner conflict, we the audience are treated to standard run of the mill melodrama. The streetwise edginess that the Hughes' began their film with (the opening is nigh on horrific) has long since gone as they try to make a film that touches all the bases of Black Americana.Easily the most realistic of all the ghetto films made, in fact the film at times feels like we are on a documentary drive around downtown Watts. Menace II Society, however brutal it clearly is, has loaded the gun and shot the bullet, only to see it narrowly miss the whole target it was aiming for. Still it's one hell of an experience though. 8/10 "},{"Title":"9 out of 10","Date":"3 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Ok let me be honest.  When I saw this in the theatre I wasn't impressed. But I couldn't stop going back to see it.  And then it dawned on me that this movie is indeed a great movie.Compared to all of the other hood movies this is the best.  It contains a message that indeed hits home.  Your actions will come back to haunt you. Tyrin Turner and Larenze Tate played great and believable roles.Of course everyone won't get this movie.  But for those who do watch it I hope you get the message. "},{"Title":"Dead Presidents and Menace 2 Society","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" We are being asked to take even larger doses of a medicine that has proved to be deadly and to undertake commitments that do not solve the problem, but only temporarily postpone the foretold death of our economy. - Hieronymos II (head of Greece's Orthodox Church) A nation that continues year after year to spend more money on military defence than on programs of social uplift is approaching spiritual doom. - Martin Luther King, Jr Austerity is difficult, absolutely, but it's necessary, for rich and poor alike, black and white. - Frank CampbellThe more things change, the more they stay the same. - Jean Baptiste Karr Albert and Allen Hughes direct Dead Presidents and Menace 2 Society. Both films purport to be serious examinations of the trials and tribulations of post-Vietnam African Americans, but in reality function more as giant exploitation films. The influence here is Scorsese's Goodfellas, which the young Hughes brothers &#x96; the perfect age to be seduced by Scorsese's pyrotechnics - attempt to mimic blow for blow. And like Scorsese's film, though absent of his considerable style, the Hughes' work here is thin, melodramatic and sensationalistic, with deaths, screams, headshots, bombast, snorting, swearing and fury schematically rolled out to shock, bludgeon and titillate rather than edify. An entire resurgence in African American film-making would be corrupted in the early 1990s with such films.This is how it really was, the brothers would claim in interviews, positing their early films as a response to John Singleton's (underrated) Boyz n the Hood. Their films, the brothers claimed, portrayed the reality behind Singleton's supposedly rosy portrayal of the African American experience. But time has been unkind to their pictures. And as the baseline for what constitutes realism constantly moves, today Dead Presidents and Menace to Society, once touted as being a form of black neorealism or black naturalism, seem hilariously overcooked and gratuitous. And as with all these films, there is little understanding of why our cast of African Americans do what they do, behave how they behave or examination of the power structures and psycho-socio-economic forces at work. (Both films essentially boil down to blacks killing for money; but economics is itself the cause of the problem, stretching all the way from Vietnam to the Slave Trade to the Roman Empire) Still, there are good moments scattered about. Menace to Society opens with its best scene, an impromptu robbery/massacre in which a couple of black kids shockingly gun down the Asian shop-workers who insulted them. If disrespect is the root of all violence, we see that here, the larger marginalization of, or systemic disrespect toward, African Americans breeding both feelings of unworthiness and its opposite, a kind of manic need to protect, sometimes violently, brutalized egos. Black culture may have been mocked in the 90s for its bling, its hysterical materialism, but this, as well as the numerous riots which rocketed across the US in the early 90s, was an understandable response to both widespread feelings of neglect and a culture with conflates wealth and worth. One should not have to prove one's humanity, one's worthiness, and when one is constantly forced to do so, pressure builds and one sometimes snaps. What's pertinent about Menace's snaps is that the victim's of such black aggression are always minorities or other blacks. Meanwhile, white faces are absent from the picture. Society functions in a similar way, Power deflecting hate away from itself &#x96; down the social hierarchy - and onto others. Unfortunately the rest of the picture degenerates into gratuitous gore and violence.Better than Menace is Dead Presidents, which opens in 1968 and attempts to charter the lives of three friends (played by Larenz Tate, Chris Tucker, and Freddy Rodriguez) from the Bronx. They fight in Vietnam, are abandoned by the state, struggle to make a living, battle addiction and are then drawn to a life of crime.Like Menance, Presidents at time shows traces of political savvy &#x96; one of the guards killed during the robbery is himself a Vietnam vet - but sensationalism, cynically employed shocks and thriller set pieces eventually undermine claims to earnestness. Blame Scorsese for this. Singleton's Boyz n the Hood was released before Goodfellas and so is stylistically somewhat different from most African American films of the period.5/10 &#x96; Worth one viewing. "},{"Title":"Like Clockwork Orange","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" it avoids the we're victims of the man attitude that most mainstream blaxploitation films spout as some sort of social conscious to paper over the action, this one presents the character and action raw. It reminds me of clockwork orange where you are invited into the private, sick world of the protagonist, You kind of like him, in spite of the fact that he and his friends are despicable and self centered louts of no redeeming social value. It doesn't fall for the usual socio-rationalizations; these guys didn't have it so bad and they deliberately turned their backs on society and morality. The worse thing about their lives are the role models, most of them despicable but his kind Xtian grandparents, friends and sensible girlfriend make a futile attempt to get him to turn his life around. The men chose the wrong path and were willing to face the consequences. The action was intense and senseless; murders over stupid insults or petty theft. Even KayDee, goes from bad to worse after being the first in his family to graduate high school, as a functionally illiterate drug dealer though. He does a small stretch in county jails then carjacks a man for his car, jewelry and then makes him buy him a burger, at gunpoint. Ole Dog, his murderous og friend, was played by Larenz Tate with a fine fury. The characters are presented as human beings, evil ones, not stereotypes, ones you could sort of care about but never excuse or admire. That alone makes it worth watching. "},{"Title":"An offending glamorization of violence....","Date":"23 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  **POSSIBLE SPOILERS**Many people see this film as the best of the 'urban' films to come out in the early 90's.  I beg to differ.  It's hard for me not to see this as simply a film that glamorizes violence, and uses the black 'ghetto' youth to showcase this, like the other films.  It got to the point where it was very offending to watch.  Where movies like 'Juice' and 'Boyz in the Hood' were sure to bring the positive into the violence portrayed, Menace 2 Society seems to embrace it.  It's just SICKENING to me that the only positive character in the 'crew' gets killed when he was trying to escape all the violence around him....and the biggest advocate of the 'gangsta', street life, (Larenz Tate) doesn't.  Being an African-American, I didn't like this movie when I first saw it, and my views on it haven't changed 10 years later.  Menace 2 Society just seems to be cluttered with this violence and it comes off as exploitive, as if the makers were just trying to be as graphic, stereotypical and violent as possible.  I see this film as a tasteless attempt at glamorizing violence and exploiting the struggle of urban youth, with no apparent effort to make a stance on it.* 1/2 out of **** stars "},{"Title":"great story","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" this no holds barred hood movie that tells a story of choices that you have to make in life (whether to go the right or the wrong way)is a well adapted version of some of the thing s that young teenagers went through around those times in the ghettos of l.a . The great thing about this film other than the great acting is the captivating storyline and the fact that the director do sen't try and glorify violence or crime he portrays it in a way of the youngster Kaydee simply following what he was told from when he was a youngster and not knowing anything better than that.As it shows you when Kaine was younger he did not have a positive role model hes role model was Pynell a street gang banger who gets locked away and then years later when Pynell is locked up and Kaine is older Kaine is right there doing the same thing Pynell done when he was his age . This movie should be shown to every teenager who thinks street life is cool 10 out of 10 for this one. "},{"Title":"There IS hope, you just have to work for it","Date":"23 August 2008","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" There is always one light of up in just about any given film, with a fatal flaw that bogs the quality of it down. In Menace II Society there *is* none. Or maybe the actors or the direction could have saved it, but nothing, and I mean nothing, can overshadow the storyline. It's absolutely dreadful.The film centers on the milestones and many idiotic mistakes of Caine, the main character who lives in a predominantly black area that unfortunately is inhabited by equally morally deprived residents. If you haven't guessed what his fate is from the very beginning, he ends up getting shot, deserving every bullet that penetrates his body. Seriously. Caine, his friend, and nearly all the people in his 'hood minus the little children and Ronnie appear to have no morals whatsoever. They are all caught in a vacuum of moral depravity. Because of this, Caine continuously takes every golden chance to improve his life and throws it away until he finally gets what was coming in the end. Being arrested and even having a baby has done nothing to make him step back and think before he finds himself throwing swings and making yet another fatal action. Because he and many of the characters are so corrupted, there is absolutely no sympathy radiating from me.The film is not in any way powerful. Maybe in a bizarre world where the more violence there is in a film, the better the message comes across. If you look past the scenes that are supposed to have a strong message (for instance, the end where Caine is shot at least eight times), you realize that this boy had EVERY bullet coming! I don't believe it takes that many mistakes to realize that one has to clean up his act. The story had some potential, but if the writers injected just a bit of morality into the main character, and directed him so that he was more of a dynamic character, then I would have had sympathy for him. Halfway through the film, there's no other action to take but to throw in the towel on Caine; the boy will never learn.I decided to review this years after it was released, after various attempts to appreciate this film for its critical acclaim and its attempt to show that throwing away every chance life gives you is deadly. After years of trying to see what made this film so popular, I still don't know why some people even put it a mark above Boyz N The Hood. I still say that the graphic violence, which appears almost glamorized in this film, tricked people into thinking Menace was up a notch from Boyz.I stand by my opinion, this is an overrated dud. "}{"Title":"An Excellent And Powerful Hood Classic From The Hughes Brothers.","Date":"13 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Menace II Society is an excellent and powerful Hood classic that combines terrific direction,a great cast and a fine score. All of those elements make Menace II Society a great Hood movie,one of the best films of the 1990s and The Hughes Brothers at their best.Set in the South Central Los Angeles section of Watts,California,Menace II Society tells the story of Caine(Tyrin Turner),a street hustler who has just recently graduated from High School and is on the streets. Now,Caine is trying to survive on the streets of Watts either by starting a new life on the positive side or become a victim of the streets.Menace II Society is a brilliant and unforgettable Hood movie classic that came out two years after John Singleton's landmark Hood classic Boyz N The Hood(1991)and if Boyz N The Hood is The Godfather of Hood Movies,then Menace II Society would be the Goodfellas(a film that The Hughes Brothers used as a template)of the Hood genre. Right from it's shocking and disturbing opening scene,Menace II Society is a film that pulls you into a dark,urban nightmare that pulls no punches and is a movie that offers no salvation or safe keeping. Despite the tragedy and sadness that was in Boyz N The Hood you felt that there was hope at the end,but in Menace II Society there is no hope or happiness and you will feel that nothing will be good for the characters. Where as Boyz N The Hood focused on a couple of good kids trying to survive in their neighborhood,Menace II Society gives viewers an unflinching look into the world of Watts,California showing world where most of the main characters are criminals and despite being surrounded by urban decay, violence and death don't seem to be bothered by it but embellish it because it is a way of life in the characters eyes and with some of the characters there is no other way. The carelessness and apathy of the some of the characters gives MIIS a nihilistic outlook that is bleak and at times reminds me of Stanley Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange(1971)and Tim Hunter's River's Edge(1987)two other films that also have a bleak overtone. What is also great about MIIS is the style of the movie is almost like a Film Noir whether's Caine's narration or the dark lighting that is in the background that makes the movie realistic and at the same time surreal and dream like. The violence in MIIS is shocking and very brutal with nothing being toned down for the viewers showing how violence is shocking and horrific and when the violence happens it will disturb viewers mentally and physically with it's intensity and power. The violence in MIIS is not meant to be fun or exciting but to send a message that violence keeps happening and it's an on going cycle in the hood and ghetto and the violence also sends a message that the things that you do can come back to bite you in a big way. The main character Caine is a fascinating one because we never know what to make of him as a character he's not a good person but he's not a bad person either he's neither a hero or villain because most of his actions good or bad make him a complex character with depth. Caine is a character who is smart as well and you figured that if it wasn't for him being a street hustler he could've been a doctor or banker but drug dealing and hustling on the street is all that he knew what to do. Even though we don't know Caine is a good guy or bad guy there were some scenes in the movie where we as the viewer have sympathy for Caine whether you agree with his actions or not and he is a character in the film that you will never forget. The ending of Menace II Society is amazing and in my opinion one of the most powerful and devastating endings I have ever seen on film and the first time you see the ending it will punch you in the stomach because the ending is something that you will never expect to be so intense and truly gut-wrenching. The ending in Menace II Society will stick with you after you watch it and is one of the reasons the film is a Hood classic. An amazing ending to a great film.The cast is wonderful. Tyrin Turner is excellent as Caine,with Turner bringing sympathy and intensity to the role. Jada Pinkett is wonderful as Ronnie,a friend that Caine looks after. Larenz Tate is brilliant,unforgettable and menacing as O-Dog,Caine's trigger happy friend. Tate is charismatic and frightening in his performance. Vonte Sweet and Ryan Williams are great as Sharif and Stacy,Caine's good friends. Samuel L. Jackson is terrific as Tat,Caine's Father. Charles S. Dutton is outstanding as Mr. Butler,Sharif's Father who offers words of wisdom to Caine. Bill Duke is captivating as Detective,an officer questioning Caine. Glenn Plummer is incredible as Pernell,Caine's Father figure. Rapper Mc Eiht is good as A-Wax,one of Caine's friends. Clifton Powell does a fine job as Chauncey,a friend of the neighborhood. Arnold Johnson(Thomas Lawson)and Marilyn Coleman(Mrs. Lawson)are fantastic as Caine's Grandparents. The direction by Albert and Allen Hughes(The Hughes Brothers) is amazing,with The Hughes Brothers always moving the camera and bringing a great visual style to the film. Terrific direction,Hughes Brothers.The score by QD III(Quincey Jones III)is impressive and moody and matches the tone of the film. Fine score,Jones. There is also a great song by Mc Eiht called Streiht Up Menace which plays at the end. An outstanding song.In final word,if you love The Hughes Brothers or Hood movies I highly suggest you see Menace II Society,an excellent and powerful Hood classic that you will never forget after watching it. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Too fragmented","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" A brutal and thoroughly realistic of life in the afroamerican dominated Watts district in Los Angeles. Depicting the life of one adolescent criminal Caine (Tyrin Turner) with little restraint or hints of glossing over the morality, Menace II Society is a harrowing piece and fascinating debut by the Hughes Brothers. Fragmented and chaotic in storytelling, much like the unplanned, unfocused everyday life the plot moves from event to event in a seemingly unconnected fashion, with only Caine being the stalwart throughout. Other characters appear briefly throughout like Caine's drug dealing father (Samuel L. Jackson), his unscrupulous friend O-Dog (Larenz Tate) or Islam convert Tony (Anthony Johnson) fill in point of views, context and give a wider outlook at life in Watts. Events are left touched, but unfinished, as if small captions of reality captured on screen. The key character of the movie is Caine himself, who is equally endearing as he is menacing, dangerous and morally corrupt, an amalgamate of good and evil, leaving viewers unable to fully define the person along such close-minded perceptions.This method of storytelling does make it touch watching, lacking suspense or story-build, failing to connect with the audience. Nonetheless by the final act, when all events seamlessly summarise the life of Caine we receive a really poignant conclusion. The overall impact has somewhat waned through time and the filmmaking deficiencies in cinematography, sound or basic storytelling take away from what is an otherwise gratifying experience. "},{"Title":"Interesting, and at times powerful, look at inner-city LA life","Date":"25 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't pretend that I can relate to any of the characters here. But despite that, I developed a sympathy for them. That is because deep down beneath the surface, we are all human.Many films tell a story that the whole movie revolves around. Menace II Society is not one of them. Although towards the end it sort of develops one, this is mainly a slice of life film.In some ways the debut feature from The Hughes Brothers resembles Fernando Meirelles' masterpiece, City of God, especially when it depicts the harsh reality of life for its characters. Yet for the most part, the Allen and Albert Hughes concentrate the life part instead of the death. It's more about how people live and interact, and generally go about their day-to-day business. Not only does this help us grow to like the characters, but it gives us a look on how life goes in this setting.There are some terrific performances in this film. Caine, the film's protagonist, is a great anchor for the audience. Despite having his share of flaws, he is generally a good guy, who really cares about his girlfriend, Ronnie (the wonderful Jada Pinkett Smith) and her son, and wants to make a good life for himself. He's a person that anyone can sympathize with. Likewise, the always terrific Jada Pinkett Smith is in top form here. She brings her usual cool maturity to her character, and she is the perfect love interest for Caine. Also good is Vonte Sweet in a small but nevertheless a sympathetic role as Sharif, the Muslim who is trying to help everyone else live a better life, even when it annoys everyone else (except the audience).I don't understand why Charles S. Dutton doesn't get any more roles than he does. He is a talented actor, and here he is no different. Despite having only two scenes in the movie, he gives his character raw power that no one else could give. When he is on screen, he fully commands our attention, and everyone else seems to just fade into the background.Menace II Society isn't perfect. Some of the sequences are not credible, and Larenz Tate is too over-the-top as the trigger-happy O-Dog. Nevertheless, the first feature from the Hughes Brothers is a great film, and highly recommendable. "},{"Title":"about as hard hitting an urban coming-of-age/crime drama one could expect","Date":"6 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Hughes brothers's breakthrough debut, Menace II Society, has the grit to plunge at times into melodrama, but it also is very wise to ride back into a sense of realism that has the residue of Mean Streets, both in attitude, humor, and a perpetual darkness for these characters in their situation. It basically details the experiences of high school graduate Caine (a very under-appreciated Tyrin Turner), including a liquor store robbery-cum-shooting, ill-fated romance, and bad times that seem to be generally lying ahead with either crime or going out of the LA ghetto for good. While many of the themes in the film were previously seen in Boyz N tha Hood, Menace II Society- at least to my memory of both films (I haven't seen either very recently, 'Menace' more recently than the former)- the Hughes's have a more natural, rough-hewed combination of the hard-knocks messages to the piece with the portrayal of the characters and various situations.The film might not be perfect- I remember the ending not striking as well as it could've- but there are so many memorable images, scenes, performances. The opening, to start, as Samuel L. Jackson cuts a permanent impression on his young son watching a murder at a card game (striking use of slow-motion towards the very end as well). Then there's that cheeseburger man, who later was parodied (probably to not as great effect as originally shown) in Don't Be a Menace to South Central..., as well as Lorenz Tate's 'O-Dog', who is a near classic best-friend character, with all the energy and persuasion and subliminal fatalism that comes with the territory with these guys. It's also an impressive feat to see how shocking the violence can be in the film, even in short (or more-so dramatic) bursts. Despite it being their first film, and having made it in their early 20s, they've already made a film as accomplished and mature as someone might twice their age, albeit youth as the reason it clicks so well.Very cool soundtrack, dynamic performances, and even some melodrama that doesn't turn much icky when nearing the conventional, this is one of the better movies of 1993. "},{"Title":"Forget Boyz in the Hood","Date":"4 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The Hughes Brothers 1993 Menace II Society is the story of Caine, a black youth trapped in the ghettos of L.A. in the early 90s. Similar movies include Boyz in the Hood and Dead Presidents. Menace II Society is, in my opinion far superior to either of these others films, featuring better acting, more life like characters and a better message. Unlike many other films, Menace II Society does not attempt to blame the crime and violence of the ghettos completely on racism and society, but recognizes that the inhabitants of such neighborhoods must make their own choices, and are responsible for their own destinies. The film provides the viewer with an uncensored, often brutal, glimpse into life in American ghettos, and asks some very important questions about American culture and society. Filled to the brim with cussing, violence and drug use, this film could easily be offensive to many viewers, but is all the same a triumph of a movie. Powerful and sad, it is a movie that will stay with you long after you finish watching it. "},{"Title":"Watts soap opera","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found this to be affecting and effective, but unsatisfying.  The movie focuses on a guy who people like, who has the opportunity to get out of crime, but who chooses not to take advantage of the opportunity.  He doesn't really advance; the story goes nowhere.  The film uses the plot device of a woman who remains GOOD, and believes that the protagonist is GOOD, even though the environment around them is EVIL.  They are about to escape to Atlanta (where they will live a CLEAN life) but then FATE  catches up with them.  It's a very hokey film (and hokiest of all is that it's narrated from beyond the grave).  But it did make me cry. "},{"Title":"This is the best ghetto-reflecting movie I've ever seen.","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is the best ghetto-reflecting movie I've ever seen.Tyrin Turner puts in a great performance as Caine Lawson, the young, drug-dealing high-school graduate. I also liked Larenz Tate, who's one of my favorite actors, in the role of O-Dog, America's nightmare Young, black, and didn't give a ****.The movie builds up an interesting plotline in the streets of Watts, California, only to end in a shocking scene, and I highly recommend it if you haven't seen it yet.Not only the best ghetto-movie I've ever seen, one of the best movies I've seen, period! "},{"Title":"best ghetto  movie ever made","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Without a doubt this is one of the best ghetto/street movies I have ever seen. Larenz Tate is terrific at portraying the life of a young bad-ass (O-dogg). Tyrin Turner also plays a great role as Caine. This movie is worth seeing again and again. "},{"Title":"The hard cold truth about the ghetto","Date":"16 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I wasn't so sure about seeing Menace II Society, see, my problem is that I think that the kids who dress and act like gangstas always complain about how they are treated and how they are always going to be treated when it seems like they don't even try to improve themselves. Menace II Society gave me a different look to that thought and how scary it must be to be there, to survive making it to 18 years old is just a huge accomplishment. Still, it frightens me how much we haven't changed, how these kids still kill each other like there's a war on. It breaks my heart that if one feels insulted they just go in a car and shoot somebody like a coward and runs off.Caine has had a very rough life, he grew up in the ghetto with his drug addicted parents and when his father and mother dies, he lives with his grandparents. But that doesn't stop him from leading a life of stealing, sex, drugs, and murder. In a life where some are proud of the way they act and kill, he's the minority when he thinks there is more to life than this. But he joins in feeling there is no other way out until his friend invites him to get out with her and her son, but it may be too late to turn back now after all he did.Menace II Society is a great film with very thought provoking messages. When the grandfather said to Caine if he cared if he lived or died, it just broke my heart to think what the grandparents were going through knowing their grandson could die before they did. I think this is a very important film, it doesn't go over the top and it doesn't rub the gangsta life in your face, it just gives you a certain view of how scary it is to think there may be no way back.8/10 "},{"Title":"This is NOT the ghetto","Date":"24 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Menace II Society had a message, but along with that message came an incorrect portrayal of what the ghetto is really like.  It's easy for the commercialism of Hollywood to convince the Hughes brothers into making a film that chronicles the life and times of urban black youth living in Watts.  Hollywood dictates that young black directors make movies about the ghetto - including murder, armed robbery, car theft, and about as much swearing as possible.  But I am here to tell you that this portrayal of the ghetto is wrong.  When I first saw Menace II Society I loved it - because I was a young white male who grew up in the suburbs.  I thought it was so accurate of the ghetto and how it was so sad.  However, after growing up a little, having lived in Chicago for four years, and having worked with and socialized with numerous residents of the Chicago Housing Projects of Cabrini Green, i now have changed my opinion.  The characters in Menace to society have absolutely no morals, no respect for authority, no work ethic, and no desire for education.  The only symbol of education in the movie is the muslim kid who is clearly misled and ignorant and the sexual interest played by Jada Pinkett.  I find the film completely stereotypical and racist.  Anybody who likes the film without seeing this is racist themselves (even if they are black - if you hold stereotypes about your own race to be true, then you are racist) The urban black youth that I've met are nothing like the men portrayed in Menace II society.  The depiction of urban life by the hughes brothers is jaded i might add and I question their closeness to the ghetto.  People do not get shot and die every night in gang wars. The majority of kids don't try to steal cars.  And people from the ghetto don't constantly swear - that's just what the media has led us to think.  I'm not trying to be righteous, I'm just trying to be real and tell it how it is. Now if you can look past all the stereotypes, Menace still has a message - figure that out for yourself. "}{"Title":"cool title, bad movie","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The movie sounded so promising with its reviews and the promising Hughes directors behind it. But after pushing play, I was waiting impatiently for it to end.Maybe it was bad timing, because I viewed it waaaaaay after BOYZ N THE HOOD (one of my favorite movies of all time) came out and this movie was being spoofed everywhere. But then again, I don't think that really mattered.This movie is more bleak than BOYZ, and that's to its advantage. It has a chance to go into darker depths. But in the end, it seemed pointless and it never really went anywhere, even though it took its sweet time getting to that destination. The structure is terribly shaky, and not every movie needs a story, but the film still didn't intrigue me or leave me meditating to its lifestyle.I got the idea after the first few minutes. There is no hope. And though the beginning was energetic and controversial, and this film contains great performances from Bill Duke and Charles S. Dutton, it seemed like a dull web of cliches. Just because it's a hood movie, doesn't mean it doesn't deserve a brain. Check out FRESH or BOYZ N THE HOOD.Better yet, check out DEAD PRESIDENTS, where the directors put some real effort in a movie. "},{"Title":"One of the worst ghetto movies I've ever seen.","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Frankly, this is a very racist and stereotypical film. It looks like a member of the KKK directed it, or someone who equally hates black people. ALL the characters ever do is steal cars, drink 40oz, say the words n**ga and f**k in every other sentence, and generally kill each other off. I was really angry when I found out the directors, Albert and Allen Hughes, were black, but spent most of thier life in the Michigan suburbs. I'm white, and I don't live in the projects, but I know that black people don't do these sort of things, only the ones in Hollywood do. If you want to see a real, very UNstereotypical ghetto movie, go rent yourself Boyz N The Hood.I thought MC Eiht's end credit song was pretty good, though.  "},{"Title":"A ghetto classic","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Meance II Society is one of the best urban films ever made. Tyrin Turner in the lead is amazing and desvered a oscar bod for this role. But's it's the always watachable Larenz Tate as O-Dog who really makes this movie. The movie is funny, violent and sad. I highly recommned it. "},{"Title":"This movie was stupid","Date":"21 July 1999","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie had way too much profanity and characters that were so criminal that you didn't feel any sympathy for them but rather wanted to see them get shot or go to jail. The people who say that Menace was keepin' it real are idiots who think being a gangster is cool. I lived in a government housing while I was growing up and while this movie reflects a lot of the stuff you have to deal with in ghettos, it amplified it way too much. Just a movie trying to act more hardcore than the previous ones. This movie may reflect a few people's lives, but if you can identify with it, you should be in prison rather than watching this movie. Anybody who thinks this represents the norm of what life in the ghetto is like for black teenagers has never lived there. "},{"Title":"Articulates being a menace to yourself in addition","Date":"8 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Menace II Society shows growing up in an impoverished urban area plagued by violence by detailing numerous different perspectives; compassion, aggression, resistance, compliance, brute force, contentment, and more. Various scenes in the film, which is largely a string of vignette-style events strung together rather than a fully formed plot, focus on characters discussing their motivations to either combat or work around the violence in their area, with some choosing to try and fight it by contributing to it, and others simply trying to function in a community that is more like a warzone.The Hughes Brothers, Albert and Allen, who directed and co-wrote the film with Tyger Williams, craft their film around two young black teens growing up in South Central Los Angeles. One is Kaydee Caine Lawson (Tyrin Turner), who's father was a drug dealer killed when he was only ten, while his mother was a heroin addict who died shortly after. He went on to live with his grandparents, though their strict, moralist attitudes rooted in religion didn't stop Caine from becoming a petty drug dealer like his father. The other young man is Kevin O-Dog Anderson, who shows his best friend Caine what he can really do when the two go to a Korean-owned cornerstore to buy malt liquor and the owners watch them suspiciously and nervously walk around the store. After the cashier makes a derogatory comment, O-Dog loses his cool and winds up shooting both the cashier and his wife before robbing the cash register and taking the surveillance tape. Just another day in South Central, it seems.The film winds up showing the day-to-day life of Caine and O-Dog, which involves Caine nearly dying after being shot in a carjacking, as well as petty crime involving cracking cars for insurance money. We also get a glimpse in the life of Ronnie (Jada Pinkett), a single-mother with a young son she is desperately trying to shelter from the bleak environment and unrelenting violence that engulfs the neighborhood. Her character's introduction begins the Hughes brothers' descent into examining different perspectives of the neighborhood.Consider the scene where Caine is playing with Ronnie's young son, who is clearly growing up fast for a five-year-old, as he loves to be able to hold Caine's pistol, drink liquor, and hang out with the crowd of older boys. Ronnie is disgusted by Caine's compliance with allowing her son to hold a pistol and hang with his friends as they sip some of their ostensibly endless supply of malt liquor and smoke marijuana. Caine claims that this is for the young boy's good, as this is a rough and rugged neighborhood that laughs at kids who are kept from witnessing the violence in such a miserable landscape. The Hughes brothers allow you, as a member of the audience, to judge for yourself on both perspectives and hear each of their characters out; it is because of this even-handed approach that we see that Caine's point, while holding weight, also shows the cyclical pattern of young black men getting incarcerated or killed at a young age due to violent crime or the solicitation of drugs, and we understand Ronnie's protectiveness as a parent, but wonder if that approach is also just buying time for another funeral.The Hughes Brothers take a very liberal approach to Menace II Society in terms of crafting its characters. Unlike John Singleton's directorial debut Boyz N The Hood, a film that illustrates how and why you should care about its characters and why they are all smart men stuck in a hopeless situation, Menace II Society never gives you a reason to like Caine and O-Dog. By the conventionality of Hollywood cinema, we, the audience, should detest Caine and O-Dog for their criminal ways and their unconscionable resort to violence and immediate gratification whenever they get the chance. The Hughes Brothers likely feel the same way, but they challenge us to find reasons for us to care about them throughout the course of the film, and see if we can find even some sympathy for their situations.For much of the film, I didn't feel too sympathetic, until the third act, which takes a strikingly raw turn. Granted much of the film is captured with a gritty sense of realism, one doesn't really see the ugliness unfold until the third act, when karmic revenge circumvents and finds its lead characters unprepared to lie in the bed they've made for themselves. Menace II Society's only lacking feature is the Hughes brothers' directorial choices; the camera never seems to stay still, and either finds itself oscillating around the main characters in a 360 degree fashion or loosely tracks its location in a way that sort of oddly details spatial relations between characters and their surroundings when there's really no need to do so.With all that being said, Menace II Society winds up using its narrative and directorial grittiness in a manner that's germane to its illustration of various character perspectives in how to deal with growing up in a tumultuous neighborhood. The end result bears all the pain, immediate gratification, and whirlwind of emotions you'd expect and winds up being one of the strongest dramas I've yet to see that details the hood in a painfully realistic light. Finally, it works to emphasize that while your drug-dealing and violent crime is indeed a menace to society, it's also makes, perhaps equally significant, a menace to yourself. "},{"Title":"Great acting, choice of narration and directing.","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The film starts off with the murders at a convenience story, and introduces the voice-over narration of the story. I find that this voice-over does wonders at making the audience sympathize with Caine's character. He was born into this society, and therefore is not to blame for his actions and choices. Though his character is not as unpredictably violent like O-Dog, and is somewhat mild. He doesn't carry a gun, and his demeanour isn't that menacing. The voice-over helps to gain some insight into his thoughts and is thus more humanized.Tyrin Turner does a great job portraying his character. As a young boy on the edge of adulthood and just out of high school, Caine has no direction in life, and even has trouble answering whether he cares if he lives or dies. The many close-ups show his confusion at times and at others, his indifference to violence, implying his slow immersion into becoming like O-Dog. O-Dog is represented as a bit of a psychopath with no remorse or conscience for life. It takes little to set him off and Tate does a fantastic job of portraying this terrifying character.This film is well made and the directing shows it. The Hughes Brothers perfectly place juxtapositions of scenes together for maximum impact. The flashback comes in the beginning and establishes Caine's back story while creating sympathy for him. The composition of shots too are done nicely, and complements the way the characters tend to travel in groups.There is a lot of violence in this though, and it serves to show a realistic representation but can be very brutal. As mentioned before, it takes very little to upset O-Dog and turn him loose. The swearing is also very apparent and not one sentence goes by without them. Sometimes whole conversations go by with just cursing.Overall a very powerful representation of ghetto society, where importance is on staying together and protecting one's own. Masculinity is also obviously a very big issue as they constantly try to assert themselves through aggression and cursing. Read more movie reviews at championangels.wordpress.com "},{"Title":"bleak urban gangsterism","Date":"26 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Caine Lawson (Tyrin Turner) and best friend O-Dog (Larenz Tate) go into a grocery store. O-Dog takes offense from the Korean storekeeper's comment and shoots him and his wife. Caine's father (Samuel L. Jackson) was a drug dealer and cold-hearted killer. He grew up with his grandparents. Caine and his cousin Harold are carjacked. Harold is murdered. O-Dog and Caine go to kill the carjackers. O-Dog is gleeful about his murderous spree while Caine is much more hesitant. Caine is eventually arrested for the grocery store killings and his life spirals downwards.The Hughes brothers are able to bring a vision of urban gangsterism that is cold-hearted and bleak. Larenz Tate is amazing as the unflinching joyful killer. His glee and pride of killing the Korean couple is the best in the movie. Tyrin Turner is not as compelling as an actor. The movie essentially follows the less interesting character. Caine is portrayed more as a regular guy struggling against his bad upbringing and his surroundings. It would be better to have O-Dog beside him voicing the evil side for the entire movie. "},{"Title":"Trying to escape a day in the life in the ghetto.","Date":"30 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a gritty drama depicting violence living in the LA ghetto where we see street hustler Caine attempting to escape the life in the ghetto in order to lead a better self. This movie details untold gun violence, severe beatings, homicide and bloody images as gang members and street thugs are pitted against each other - all surrounding Caine's struggling attempt to escape it all. This depicts the unfortunate reality that these gang members never resist the street life and change for the better, forever becoming victims in the cycle of violence and, sadly, negatively influencing young children to be part of this life style. The acting and course of events are fierce and the movie's momentum keeps everything tense. Some viewers would find this movie riveting but probably would also find it upsetting at the same time as these actors are depicting the reality of a day in the life in the ghetto, which I find extremely appalling. In addition, most of the actors portrayed morally deprived thugs with not even an ounce of humanity in them. If the director had the foresight to insert at least a little moral value or redeeming qualities in the characters, the movie would have been more tolerable and you would probably learn something positive from the film, rather than watching a film that glorifies violence.Grade D- "},{"Title":"A electrically charged drama, Boyn N Hood on speed","Date":"30 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This is a more intensified version of Boyz n' hood, and more the better. Opening with a shocking double murder in a Korean convenience store, committed by a pair of black teens, the star performers of the show, this flick doesn't hold back on the out of control exploits and wayward youth of South Bronz, or more so the community known as Watts. We live in the shoes of Caine, one the youths from the convenience store, while his bad arse mate, Kevin, played by Larenz Tate, with raw intensity in this electrifying flick, was the murderous hand, on the account of the Korean clerk, making an insult regarding the teen folks. He really judges the two the moment they walk into the shop. When stealing the store camera/videotape, they watched it repeatedly where Kevin makes a sick comment about selling these babies for $9.95 There are some powerfully violent moments, eye for an eye kind of stuff, especially in it's fatal end, it's catalyst that has Caine sticking his wick into one too many girls. The bit where Caine got shot bad, and taken into the hospital where he's bleeding bad was quite tense. Despite influences from family and teachers, to choose the right path, it's wasted on Kevin, his fate truly something scary, where Kane could change his tune, which this is the want of the viewer. The fine Samuel L Jackson who briefly appears in flashback scenes was memorable, imprinted in my mind, when blowing away another guy at home at a card game, while getting friendly with his misses. Caine almost mirrors that scene later, giving a guy one hell of a pounding, for cracking onto girlfriend (Jada Pinkett) in a very strong performance I must say. The whole movie is very well made, and goes further than Boy's N Hood, with true moments of choking intensity and moments of heavy shock violence, especially Caine's shot scene towards the early part of the film. But too it's very potent. All of these things are what betters it. "},{"Title":"Better than Boyz'N The Hood","Date":"6 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" When Boyz'N The Hood seemed sincere in its approach but a bit sugar-coated, Menace II Society appears to be more realistic regarding the violence that prevails in those neighborhoods.The script cleverly avoids any manichaeism, and shows well, with a certain fatality, how difficult it is for these adolescents to escape the violence and chose another path that the one that seems to be written for them from their birth.Carried by convincing actors and well directed, Menace II Society turns out to be really striking and will remain for a lot of people THE best ghetto movie. "}{"Title":"The Hughes Brothers' Menace II Society can be upsetting but still also worthwhile if you stick around to the end","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Okay, after 20 years of reading and hearing about this movie by The Hughes (Albert and Allen) Brothers, I finally watched Meanace II Society on YouTube. Mainly about teen hood Caine (Tyrin Turner) and his life with fellow South Central L.A. pal O-Dog (Larenz Tate), among other events of that time, I found the whole thing a little upsetting with what I've now found out had the most use of the f-word of any of these black movies I've been watching these last few days, not to mention the constant violence. Still, it does get better when Caine's possible girlfriend Ronnie (Jada Pinkett before becoming Mrs. Will Smith) offers a possible out by moving out with her and her son Anthony (Jullian Roy Doster) to Atlanta. But then another girl he fooled around with named Ilena (Erin Leshawn Wiley) tells him she's pregnant and...oh, watch the film if you want to know. In summary, Menace II Society didn't really pick my interest until the last 30 minutes and I started to see it in a whole new light. So on that note, I highly recommend it with reservations. "},{"Title":"Strong, Intense Hood Classic","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Take a bow Hugh brother's. A wonderful hood movie and will be remembered for years. It's been 16 years and it still won't be topped in  A Gangster Movie category. And it still has the same effect to consumers who watch this movie. The acting is strong and powerful, the storyline is simple just like all the other Hood movies, but it doesn't take anything away from it. Pure Brilliance and a great adaptation to life in the ghetto and how it is to survive in the 90's. They just don't make films like Menace II society anymore. A great matching title too, Pretty much gives you an idea of the movie. The movie is not perfect it does die after watching it 1 2 many times. It's really nothing more to say about the film. It's self explanatory once you watch it. "},{"Title":"The best hood movie","Date":"10 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Menace II Society is a very grim yet very real feeling movie. In my opinion it is the best hood movie I've seen, even better than Boyz N Tha Hood. The main character Caine, like Trey from BNTH, is a smart young man growing up on the streets of South Central LA. Where as Trey was a good kid with level-headed parents, Caine grew up with a junkie mom and a drug dealing father, both dead by the time he was ten. He follows in his father's footsteps, selling drugs while graduating high school.The movie doesn't try to portray Caine as a hero nor a villain necessarily, rather as a young man caught in a life that many young men in his neighborhood live. In the end he is murdered as he packs up to leave the ghetto with his girlfriend and her son, showing us that even though he decided to change he still received consequences for his past actions. A sad yet very real portrayal. "},{"Title":"Menace 2 society","Date":"24 April 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie is by far one of my favorites. The acting in this movie is so perfect it almost as if its based on a true story. Although this film is similar to boys in the hood, it is yet a better film to me. Menace 2 society comes off as a funnier gangster film and boys in the hood is more serious. Some people also might be offend by this movie by it degrading black people, but it in fact was aimed to the black audience. Also the movie isn't just about violence and drugs, its also a story about survivng in the hood and there is indeed a plot. I recommend this movie for an older teen because it would show them the struggles going on that they don't even have to go through everyday, but not to a younger crowd cause it may portray violence into there heads "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies about the ghetto","Date":"4 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Rated R for strong violence,drug use and language Quebec Rating16+(should be 13+) Canadian Home Video RatingR(should be 18A)I had the opportunity of seeing Menace 2 Society yesterday night on IFC.I have heard about the film before but I never actually saw it.I have seen Boyz In The Hood and it is hard to choose which film is the better one.Boyz In The Hood is more of a dramatic film with more of a plot while Menace 2 Society is more of an action film.Both films are great and I recommend either renting or buying both films.Back in 1993 this film was considered very violent.Its tame by today's standards however.The film starts off with Caine and his crazy friend O-Dog going into a store for a beer.However the owners of the store are afraid of them and one of them says something bad about O-Dog's mother.Then O-Dog kills both of them,robs the store and takes the tape.We briefly see some clips of the 1965 Watts Riots.Then we are taken to the late 1970's where Caine is a little boy.His father is a drug dealer and his mom is a heroin addict.Caine witnesses his father killing another man.Now we see the present day.The year is 1993.Caine has just graduated from high school and the film shows his long summer.The film basically shows us the life of a teenager living in the ghetto.If you forget about the graphic violence and profanity you will see that the film has a good moral message.Unfortunately most people do not see this message when watching the film and think that the film glorifies gang life.This movie is in my Top 20 favorites.Menace 2 Society is an excellent movie and I recommend it.Runtime97min 10/10 "},{"Title":"incredible movie","Date":"15 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" easily one of the most powerful movies i've ever seen, the ending was just heartbreaking and chilling, and though the acting may not seem great to the casual viewer it is vividly credible and realistic. the movie is violent and is real no doubt, and the acting by tyrin turner and larenz tate especially is impressive, both these dudes should have been nominated for some kind of big award. jada pinkett did a good job too. just a really powerful movie that accomplishes its point and then some, some of the lines like do you want to die? send chills down your spine and let you know the message that if ur in too deep, it's too late to change your life no matter how much you want to. "},{"Title":"This is the best movie that was made in 1993!!!","Date":"23 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Menace II society is the best movie that I have ever seen.Tyrin Turner is the best actress I have ever seen.When I seen it for the first time three weeks ago this movie touched me in a special way.Believe it or not this movie had me thinking whether I wanted to LIVE OR DIE,then I went to thinking about what Tyrin Turner said about how funny it is growing up in the hood. I have never experienced it but i feel his pain.When I was finished watching the movie I found myself in a puddle of tears.I am not just saying this but I would really like or really even love to meet Tyrin Turner in person one day from the very,very bottom of my heart and see how his personal life is different from his Hollywood life. TELL HIM TO EMAIL ME!!! "},{"Title":"Damn, is this movie good or what?","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Now i luv the gangsta flicks, and this one right here is one of my favorites. everybody says boyz n the hood is better but stupid video shop never have that in so i haven't watched it yet. i watched the movie twice and it got better. its about two young black males with nothing to lose and every thing to gain. Caine, the main character goes to a shop to get beer, leaves an accessory to murder. only happens in the ghetto. O-dog, is the second main character and he is the violent and crazy one out of the two. boyz in the hood is about young men who are on a road to lead better lives while menace ii society is about people who are on the road to jail and (im just guessing eventually) hell. i tell people to see this, don't miss out. "},{"Title":"Wicked","Date":"25 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is great! When you consider just how young the Hughes bros. were when they made this (20 years old man!)and how well executed the movie is, you just gotta give props. Hughes bros. are something else and we ought to consider them as a credit to American cinema. To think they made the epic Dead Presidents two years later and got V. little respect for it is just criminal. I'd like to see what other early 20-something filmmaking folk could mount such an ambitious, emotive and deep movie. Hughes, keep doing what you do. * * "},{"Title":"A Classic Hood Movie","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I love this movie so much that its hard for me to even pick a favorite character. Everybody can pretty much identify with Caine because he's the narrator and the star and all, but for me maybe because I've seen this movie so many times, I can really feel where everyone is coming from. A part of me really wishes that a sequel was made or a prequel going into O-dog's life, cause he was a wiiilllld boy!!! I know I would be first in line to see that if ever they decided to put that out. But on a serious note this movie was very powerful and gritty. Its hard to believe that a person can just become used to seeing people dying all the time. Another really sad part in this movie was the cops in this film. I mean if police are even close to being that brutal as they showed it in 'Menace', I can really understand why Ice-T was saying 'f**k the police!' But everyone gave an amazing performance, its just too bad that with the exception of Larenz Tate, Charles S. Dutton, and Jada Pinkett I haven't seen too much of these actors. So if you're looking for a movie that comes with everything action, comedy, romance, action again, and an amazing tale that depicts street life in L.A. this is the one for you. 4 stars all the way!  "}{"Title":"So Good","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Menace To Society is as hard hitting powerful as any film about the Hood is ever going to be.   The opening scene was so well done I was blown away and loved it so much I would have been satisfied if that was the film even before the first 4 minutes were up and from there you are taken into this roller coater of horrific violence and Hood life.   I don't think this could have been more harrowing and let's face scary if it tried.   It is like Boyz N The Hood in a way but it's more darker and there are no real good guys , only guys who don't care about there life and whose life they ruin.   They are all very set into there family unit of Brothers and have no respect for one another as much as they try to show it especially O Dog who wouldn't jump in front of a car for a child if he had to.  I can't remember who played Caine but who ever he was then all credit to him as you don't know whether to love him or hate him.  I did neither I just pitied him because that's all you can give to people who are like that.   I thought all credit to everybody on board but all the praise should be given to Larenz Tate as the evil and crazy O Dog.   I have never seen a character so much in love with his own portrayal of life and hatred for everything except himself.  Was it Tupac who was supposed to play O Dog because I am so grateful he didn't because even though Tupac would have been good as he has been in that position, Larenz Tate is probably the better actor and let's face it, he portrayed thug life in a way which can put you off ever going around L.A. "},{"Title":"You can't just leave the ghetto..","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER WARNINGOne of the few ghetto films to be funny, sad, and violent all at the same time. Kevin 'O-Dog' Larenz Tate and Caine 'Kaydee' Lawson Tyrin Turner are 2 hustlers growing up in California. One day while going into a store for liquor, the Chinese owners start following them around like they're going to steal something. After buying the liquor, one of the Chinese owners makes a comment about O-Dog's mom. What's the price? Death. Both of the Chinese owners are killed by O-Dog and he takes the store tape so there was no proof. Kaydee was in shock.Kaydee grew up around drugs. His father, Tat Lawson Samuel L. Jackson, was a dealer. He saw his dad murder someone at the age of 10. His dad was later killed in a drug deal gone bad. Kaydee went to live with his grandparents.Kaydee and his cousin Harold are out cruising one night and they're car jacked. Harold dies. O-Dog and Kaydee strike revenge on the killers by killing them at a burger joint. It was the first time Kaydee had murdered.Kaydee falls in love with Ronnie Jada Pinkett Smith. She has a 5 year old son who reminds Kaydee of himself when he was young. Ronnie gets a job in Atlanta and he agrees to go with her. Pernell Glenn Plummer is the father. However, he is in jail for life with no chance of parole. Pernell was like a father figure to Kaydee when he was young. He told Kaydee to go to Atlanta with Ronnie and keep his son out of what they had become. But, before he found out about the Atlanta trip, Kaydee has sex with Llena Erin Leshawn Wiley. When she tells him she's pregnant, he says it's not his.Kaydee and his friend Chauncy Clifton Powell get a in a fight and Kaydee beats him up pretty good because Chauncy was harassing Ronnie at a party. For revenge, Chauncy sends in the tape of the murder at the liquor store that O-Dog had been showing everyone.When Llena's cousin Samuel Monroe Jr, confronts Kaydee about Llena being pregnant, he beats him up saying it's not his. Just when Kaydee and Ronnie are getting ready to move, DRIVE BY! Kaydee is shot dead by Llena's cousin for revenge. O-Dog is sent to jail because of the tape.This story shows you that you can't just leave the ghetto. You can't ignore what's going around you. You need to be in a gang or affiliated with drugs to live. If you don't belong with anyone, they will all be after you. They aren't scum. They're trying to make a living so they can get out of the ghetto. But by the time Kaydee was ready to leave, it was too late. He had done to many things to turn around and fix, and he had done too many things to move on. -Pat9/10 "},{"Title":"Powerful Movie!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Powerful movie about living in the ghetto. All the characters are played so realisticly. If you watch this movie, watch out for O-Dogg in Snoop D-O- Double Gizle's new movie Bones powerful movie that when it was first released (1993) it was bashed for its pervasive language & strong violence. 1,000,000,000's of gats! This movie deserves ********** (if you can't count, that was 10, lol) so, that's my f***in opinion!!!! "},{"Title":"Powerful Movie!","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A Powerful movie about living in the ghetto. All the characters are played so realisticly. If you watch this movie, watch out for O-Dogg in Snoop D-O- Double Gizle's new movie Bones powerful movie that when it was first released (1993) it was bashed for its pervasive language & strong violence. 1,000,000,000's of gats! This movie deserves ********** (if you can't count, that was 10, lol) so, that's my opinion!!!! "},{"Title":"8/10 Good","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is actually quite good.  Not great however.  After a brilliant jaw dropping opening, and an amazing first 45 minutes, the film starts to drag, and starts to become the same old thing.A depressing ending leaves this film for non-entertainment value.  Another problem so many films have spoofed this film, it ceases to have the impact it once had. "},{"Title":"I'm not a thug, but I Love This Movie","Date":"4 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  As a white, middle class kid who's never set one foot in California, and as an aspiring film critic who perfers Godard over Spielberg, I thought I'd hate this movie just as much as I loathed the pretentious and self-righteous Boyz in da Hood. Yet after viewing From Hell and being exposed to the Hughes Brothers for the first time, I popped this movie in my DVD playa, and Wham! It pulled me in as soon as the New Line Logo shot up. The movie tells the story of a young Hood-rat named Kaine. Although he's the main character of the story, he's certainly not the movies hero. Kaine might be intelligent (he's a HS graduate), have more moral than some of his friends, and display a degree of loyalty and dignity, but he is also a killer, a thief, a liar and a straight up thug. In short the Hughes paint him as a pure human being and try to avoid the audience from feeling outright empathy toward him. In fact, unlike Dead Presidents and From Hell every character in Menace II Society is so well fleshed out by the acting and the writing that we don't fell any hatred toward anyone (which is rare for a Hood movie). I think O-Dogg is hilarious (Nigga, you act'in lika little Bitch right now!, You all up on his Nutsac etc), and he's clearly a senseless killer who even Kaine distinguishes as America's Nightmare. And that goes the same for my dawg MC Eiht (A-Wax). All I can say is, if your one of those types who hates Hood movies, hates rap music, and thinks that they are above all cinematic cliches' watch this movie, and you may just fall flat on your ass and change your mind.  "},{"Title":"Simply a great movie","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I've probably seen this movie 20 times since it came out and I still watch it when it comes on television. I must say that some of the acting seems a bit corny now, but the images, characters and the story are still as gripping as ever. MIIS is basically a remake of the gangster classic Public Enemy from 1931. At that time Warner Brothers studios had directors that were interested in telling real stories. Another example also from 1931, I think, was I'm a Fugitive from a Chain Gang. Basically these films were about how life was in the early thirties for some people, like gangsters or poor people.Anyway MIIS does this too. People compare it to Boyz 'n' da Hood and Do the Right Thing. Why do the Right Thing? That movie has a completely different theme than this one. It deals directly with racism, MIIS deals indirectly with racism, but is about living a life of crime in the ghetto. Boy 'n' the hood is similar, but is a morality play and also coming of age drama. Just, because black people act and direct a movie doesn't mean it's exactly the same subject. MIIS is more a tragedy, as soon as you hear the voice over of Caine and he begins to tell his story you know that this is not going to end well.Furthermore the major part of the acting is great. Also a good thing is the dialogue in the script, it's all slang. When I first saw this movie I couldn't understand a word they were saying for the first ten minutes. This makes it more realistic, but also gives an almost Shakespeare like feel, because you have to listen with more effort to get the dialogue.Lastly for those people who say this film is racist and stereotypical. Please look a little bit further. Stereotypes are put forward yes, but not to characterize all young black men in the hood, they are stereotypes of individuals that exist, the nut, the player, the religious fanatic, the hustler etc. And even though they are stereotyped the actors do a really good job in deepening ther characters. I can't find any racism in this film with the best of my ability, I think the directors just wanted to make a film that would be very impressive and they succeeded in that. Maybe you would like to see a more Mr. Rogers type of movie which Caines grandparents watch as O-Dog visits. A movie about a world where everything is hunky dory.On a last note the point the movie makes is that it is not only your actions, but also your environment that inevitably lead to your fate. Even if you take the right actions the odds are highly stacked against you in places where there is little opportunity to get out of the mess you're in.  "},{"Title":"A violent but extremely good movie","Date":"19 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just have to say that I loved this movie.I loved the whole atmosphere and everything about it.The movie is about two black boys that grows up in a bad city in USA with lots of criminal influence around them. And then they slowly gets drawn into the criminal environment that involves steeling and killing. The movie features a lot of violence and bad language and the movie is therefor not for kids. The great thing about the movie is that it shows the truth about how hard it is for some black kids growing up in a world filled with racism and crime.It also shows that some people,like O-dog in the movie has forgotten all about the ethics and rules in life.A very well made movie that you will remember for a long time.Also see the movie Dead presidents  "},{"Title":"Yikes!  And Awaaay!","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I thought Boyz N The Hood was the ultimate inner city gangs film.  Menace blows it out of the water, way, way out of the water.  The opening murder scene puts the chill in chilling.  The film is brutal, hilarious, sick, twisted, touching and beautiful.  The Hughes Brothers would seem to have the filmmaking chops to go down in history as two of the all time great directors, if they could only make another flick as killer as this.  And how can you not like a film that has a cameo by Samuel L. Jackson?  Or as I call him, Mister Senor Love Daddy.  The only downside is movies like Boyz and Menace and Grand Canyon took a lot of the romance and glamour out of life in sunny Southern California.Why on earth Menace II Society wasn't nominated for Oscars for screenplay, direction, best picture, best actor and supporting actor is utter insanity. And the Hughes brothers have pointed out in interviews that this flick is about gangsters not gangs.  That's pretty obvious when you see the main character watchin' old black and white gangster movies.  The fact it's about gangsters and not gangs makes it more appealing.  It makes the film seem like a modern day film noir gangster movie and not just another Boyz N The Hood clone.  High praise indeed, dig?    "},{"Title":"Awful, Awful, Awful!","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Just imagine Boyz N the Hood with the positive influences removed, and you'll get the Hughes Brothers film Menace II Society. If You want to see action, violence, guns and criminal activity; Menace will wet your whistle! But if you want to see an accurate, positive, enlightening portrayal of Black America; buy all means don't see Menace II Society!The Hughes Brothers were obviously interested in action more than anything else.They created a lead character that was worse than the Ice Cube character in Boyz N the Hood. The lead character thought that he can drug deal his way out of the gutter! Menace II Society was the equivalent to the Devil coming out with a movie to make people fell sorry for him getting cast out of Heaven! What is disheartening about this urban tale; is that Caine never aspires to be anything other than a Menace II Society!It's predecessor Boyz N the Hood sent many enlightening messages concerning Urban America. The only message that this Hughes Brothers project tells young people is Live for the moment! Forget About the Future! "}{"Title":"Do the wrong thing","Date":"20 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I just saw Spike Lee's DO THE RIGHT THING and though that film had an entirely different plot, it still was much better due to its superb style and its mix of drama, action and humor. The story in MENACE is all too familiar(it reminded me of CARLITO's WAY and BOYZ 'N THE HOOD)and simply isn't interesting anymore after a while.There's some good acting in this film and some scenes are very well executed by the Hughes' brothers, but it doesn't make up for a good movie. It's not a bad one either, but it's all too predictable in the end. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A great film...one of my all time favorites..please read.","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Well..the hughes brothers have done it again, in one of my all time favorite films, Menace II Society. I absolutely LOVE street dramas and this one is one of my favorites. It isnt afraid to show you the realistic side of the hood where there can be heartbreak, drama, violence, and comedy, and how sometimes there isnt always a happy ending. Its not only a great film with violence used to stand out and say that its real life. Its about a man's quest to get of the hood for once and for all start of good by leaving his mistakes in the past. Well, some mistakes have consequences as he learns. I definitely reccomend this film along with Juice, Boyz N Tha Hood, Above The Rim, and Clockers.  "},{"Title":"Great film and very, very artistic","Date":"29 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  What makes this film great is the way is was photographed and scored, both of which are seamless. I remember two scenes in particular, the scene in the hospital where Caine is reflecting on his life, and the scene where Caine jumps on Chauncey at the party for feeling on his girl, Ronnie. Both of these scene encapsulate the former comment I made tremendously. The ending leaves you breathless. I read somewhere that Tupac was originally cast as the Muslim character before he got into a conflict with the directors. This normally would seem like a great loss, but the replacement, Vonte Sweet did a fine job. This film is a case of just flat all around great and heart wrenching cinema. "},{"Title":"Violent, brutal, most realistic and interesting ghetto-film. Very good.","Date":"22 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  -Sorry for a few spelling mistakesIt's hard not to find 'Menace II Society' interesting, even entertaining a way.  The Hughes brothers has captured the ghetto-life perfect, and the movie gets more and more frightening for every minute that's ticking away. I must say I was impressed by this movie. Acting was more than ok, all from Turner and Pinkett to memorable cameos from Samuel L. Jackson, Charles S. Dutton and 80's B-actor Bill Duke. This film is definitly not recommended for those who can't stand harsh language, blood and violence. Maybe it's understood right?The movies moral is quite clear, and it might get just a little bit slow in the turns but still it is worth the rating soon below.MENACE II SOCIETY suprised me. It was way better than I've ever could imagine it to be. And the life in the ghetto actually entertained me. I don't know if that's good or bad. An extra plus is the music. That gangsta & hip hop tunes matches in just as perfect as it you've might suspect. Dialuoge is nothing special, but the opening scene is a 90's classic. And the ending is powerful. When the credits starts to roll, you're not really recovered after the shock from a confession of the true ending that hits you in the face just before the credits shows. Don't miss it.   9/10 "},{"Title":"Easy Rider of the 90s","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Exceptional case of the movie  breaking away from its young filmmakers and starting to have life of its own. Can be compared to Hopper's Easy Rider, just like Dennis Hopper, Hughes brothers aren't great filmmakers( you can hear them giving interview after feature presentation on a video, and one can't help but wonder how these naive 21 year old twins could create film of such complexity), but this film once again proves that masterpieces are accidental, and have nothing to do with intelligence, education, or moral values, (or maybe even talent) of its filmmakers. Still, brothers could create an atmosphere so unsettling and disturbing, that puts the film above average American indie.After watching Menace II Society, you could feel nothing but disgust towards talentless hacks like LaBute and Egoyan, who gained notoriety and fame, because of American audiences' (and sometimes critics') complete unfamiliarity with anything but American cinema. Unquestionably, one of the best films of 1990s. **** "},{"Title":"a real ghetto movie","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" this was by far the best ghetto movie i have ever seen, and i have seen many good ones. this one was on a branch by itself. it  had great acting in it, especially larenz tate. i was surprised to see this be better than its parody, Don't Be a menace. this is a classic ghetto movie and a must see. "},{"Title":"a story that helps us understand how bad life can be","Date":"26 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The film is without doubt on a par with the brilliance of Boyz'n'the Hood, it does however manage to surpass the 1991 Oscar nominated ghetto movie in production values as well as the acting stakes. Larenz Tate, an unknown at the time is spellbinding with the ruthlessness of his characters ways. It is extremely funny however in the opening scene with the shoot-out, when, as O-Dog is taking the store clerk outback, if you look at the top of the screen, you can clearly see the whole camera crew in the mirrors. "},{"Title":"A State Of Nature","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This ranks up there with the most graphic depictions of violence ever to make it to the mainstream. Up there with Bad Lieutenant, Reservoir Dogs and a few others from an exceptionally violent period in L.A. -- the arrival of 'bellum omnium contra omnes'(the war of all against all); life in Hobbesian terms nasty, brutish and short.Plainly, this is post-Scarface, Colors & Deep Cover. Mostly it quotes Goodfellas, the Hughes brothers openly stated that it was a motivating factor. This is plain not only from the framing narration, but from the tethering of the camera to the characters, a la Scorcese.What it lacks in originality, it makes up for in energy and commitment from all involved. The advertised allure is 'this is what's real', but that's unimportant in movies. What is important is how the content exists as a cinematic experience of vision, audio, the editing of time and the perception of space. On those dimensions, two things score points the construction of this around the 'snuff' film, very much like Henry.... This is very clever self-reference, since the entire movie is a snuff film. The 'film within' acts as a maguffin.The other is the ending, which quotes Jacob's Ladder, not only depicting the life flashing before one's eyes, but tying up the loose ends in a visual shorthand. Too bad the Hughes all but used up their best ideas here, they haven't had any really good ideas since this. "},{"Title":"Great Action Movie","Date":"12 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Menace 2 Society is a brilliant movie based in New York. Its about the life of street thugs played by Tyrin Turner and Larenz Tate. It is the directional debut of the Hughes brothers, who did a Great Job. Tyrin Turner delivers a Good performance as the drug dealer. Larenz Tate is an underrated Superb actor playing the part of O Dog. This is one of his Greatest Performance, watch him in Dead Presidents. Jada Pinkett is very sexy, but in this film she looks a little less sexy then usual. The rest of the supporting cast give a decent role. Bill Duke and Samuel L Jackson are in small roles in this movie. The movie has some great Action scenes and is one of the Best Black Crime (Hood) Movies ever made. Alongside Boyz N the hood, Menace 2 Society is a Fantastic film. "},{"Title":"Well-done but familiar","Date":"5 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Caine (Tyrin Turner) and best friend O-Dog (Larenz Tate) grow up in Watts section of California--over run by drugs and violence. Caine is in love with Ronnie (Jada Pinkett) who wants to get out of there with her young son. She wants him to come with her...but can he break away from the drugs and violence he grew up with?This is very graphic and well-done...but I've seen it all before. Doesn't anyone remember Boyz N the Hood which came out in 1991? It told virtually the same tale and had a similar setting. That aside this is still a powerful movie. The language is raw (there is virtual non-stop swearing) and the violence is very bloody, disturbing and right in your face. The movie sometimes hammers it's message too strong (this film is anything but subtle), but it was made by two brothers (Allen and Albert Hughes) when they were only 21 so that can be overlooked. There are also great performances by Turner, Tate and especially Pinkett. Actually, the entire cast is great.So, I liked it but nothing about it shocked me or told me anything I didn't know. I give it an 8. "}{"Title":"How can a bunch of illiterate gangsters killing people be brilliant?","Date":"20 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is sad because it really is fake and melodramatic.  I think that Don't Be a Menace to SouthCentral while Drinking your Juice in the Hood is actually brilliant.  It makes fun of most of what makes this movie so fake and unsettling.  If you have seen this and don't live in an urban city in America, you really have no idea how fake this is.  One key example is when the Mexican gang took a black gangster to the hospital.  This would never happen.  Gang members stick together?  I thought that they rivaled each other...  If you want to see a more realistic depiction of the hood you might want to check out Boyz in the Hood.  It has much better acting(the only really well done movie with Ice Cube in it) and much better direction.  Of course Menace would have never been made if it had not been for Boyz in the Hood.  The only thing that this aimless movie achieves is trying to bring more tension between races.   "},{"Title":"A great movie, a must-see","Date":"4 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Menace II Society, a great movie. The story outline is good, the actors, all of it. Kaydee Caine Lawson, what a good character, and Kevin O-Dog, do i need to tell more about him, some crazy m*therf*cker he is, damn.Somebody recommended this movie to me, and i am glad he did. I wouldnt want to miss this one. And dont gimme that b*llsh*t that the movie is racist and stereotypical. Caus' some were just like them in this movie. They DID steel and rob and murdered people. Why does someone immediately have to come with that racial sh*t?! I'm a black man too yeah, i didn't grow up in such a neighbourhood, but simular sh*t happened here.The whole movie is very realistic, good camerawork. Just one word 'Fantastic'. This one is of a caliber like American History X and Boyz 'N the Hood. A must see! "},{"Title":"I love Gangsta movies","Date":"12 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Menace 2 Society is the best movie I ever watched. I love the story and of course the actors. Tyrin Turner (Caine Lawson) and Larenz Tate (O-dog) play their part so good, that I watched the movie 7 or 8 times. >Anyway, who´s out there, if u like Gangsta movies, don´t hesitate to watch MENACE 2 SOCIETY, u won´t regret... "},{"Title":"BEST INNER CITY FLICK EVER!!!","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was incredible and Larenz Tate was indeed a fine actor.  It was a story of a guy growing up in the hood, who was telling his story of life and perhaps death.  This movie showed the troubles in the inner city with gangs, teenage pregnancy, and theft. It also shows life on both sides of the track in a realistic form.  Jada Pinkett was great.  See this movie if you haven't.  The greatest.  "},{"Title":"Much more than a 'ghetto' flick.","Date":"7 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I read a review  of 'Belly' from a young lady on-line, and of it she said that it was terrible and we need more positive films.  While I agree it was terrible, but what we need are better films.  Menace II society is one of the most gripping films ever made.  More horrifying than Freddie Kruger, Friday the 13th or whatever horror film you can name because this, unfortunately, is reality.  Menace steps out of the tired rehashed 'ghetto' mentality with real characters, real motivation (whether you agree with it or not) good acting, and great writing and direction. I salute the Hughes brothers for their strength in getting a film as difficult to watch as this one on the screen.  A great film, I believe, affects you once you leave the theater.  In that respect, this is great film. "},{"Title":"Excellent description of real life issues...","Date":"6 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" This movie was on BET TV and removed porn and profanity, so it was for me a pleasure to watch.The movie depicts what happens in my city and the actors are excellent in recreating the hopelessness and, yes, even the foolishness that some religious people use to improve lives. I grew up in black and Puerto Rican neighborhood and saw such attitudes. In the city I live in now, 2015, the ratio is 55 percent black and 43 percent white and 2 percent other. Year after year, the murder rate reflects either 100 percent black on black or no less than 90 percent of the same. If one watches this movie with open eyes, one will see the emptiness - ignore the obvious anti-police push - that peer pressure imposes and what a life without God looks like. "},{"Title":"Brutal and powerful","Date":"17 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I have seen the other really famous movie about gangs in South Central L.A., Boyz n the Hood, a few times before, but I had never given this one a chance. One reason is that I always found Boyz a tad corny. Menace II Society has a few corny moments, too, but, in general, it's a lot better than Boyz. The film follows Tyrin Turner as a young man who is being drawn further and further into gang life, especially by his best friend Larenz Tate, a true psychopath who thinks nothing of murder. Jada Pinkett (before she married Will Smith) plays a responsible woman who tries to save Turner by taking him to Atlanta with her to start a new life. The violence in this picture is truly shocking - just absolutely nasty and brutal. I was surprised by just how powerful this one was. Tate and Pinkett are the stand-outs in the cast. Samuel L. Jackson has a small role, as does Charles S. Dutton. "},{"Title":"A powerful flick about the hood, flawed, but good","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" Menace II Society is probably my favorite movie about the hood to come out after Boyz n the hood. I mean its not as realistic as Boyz N the hood, but as extreme as it may be i identified with it more, as in one way or another I went through everything that main character, Kaydee (Turner) went through. This film is a gritty, a bit exaggerated story of some young thugs up to no good in Compton during the summer. It has some very good performances including Larenz Tate (Why do fools fall in love, crash) who was great as a crazy hood who doesn't give a fu** and Glenn Plummer who was also great in his role. The whole cast was pretty good other than Tyrin Turner whose performance I could call at best average, that lead part was the only one i didn't like. Jada Pinkett was good in her role, always believable, good early performance from her. This film is not as realistic as John Singleton's Boyz N the hood which was brilliant, howvever its still tells an interesting dramatacized story and is fun to watch. 8/10 #206 on my list of all time favorite films "},{"Title":"WOW!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Saturday Mar. 27 2004, i saw the movie for the first time in years, it reminded me that it was probably the best in da hood movie ever made. Boyz N' The Hood was one hell of a movie, but it doesn't compare to Menace II Society. I would pick this movie as the best of the best, but Boyz N' the Hood would be a close second. And if you watch this Menace II Society, and then Don't be a Menace... you will see that they used a lot of material in that movie. If i could change the movie i would. It was 1993 that's right but, it was a low-budget film. It could of been a hell of a lot better, if they really put their minds to it, that's why people say Boyz N' the hood was a better movie,but it wasn't. "},{"Title":"some people say...","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Some people say this movie is very melancholic... some say it's not a veritable depiction of youth in L.A. housing projects... some say it's too vile for their liking... I would say that the Hughes brothers made the movie just for those people. Those people are, for the most part, not abreast with what's going on in the inner city projects of North America.  This movie punched you in the face..... and then kicked you while you were down. That was the whole point to it. Now, the movie could've spent more time showing the intricate realities of the lifestyle some of the characters chose to lead, but it didn't need to. That may have helped the audience identify with the characters, but it would have just made the fact that this is fiction overt.  It seemed real because of the absence of hyperbole.  This is real, this is what's going on. Some didn't like it but aver it is a good film and well done.  Fine, you don't have to like it, the movie could be sublime or it could be lackluster or mediocre, you don't have to enjoy it.  But, perhaps, those who didn't like all too much because it was too vile, too melancholic, perhaps those very same people just don't like it for the simple fact that they know this goes on and don't want to be reminded. "}{"Title":"Very powerful","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  'Menace II Society' is about growing up in the violent inner city. The movie starts with two guys, Caine (Tyrin Turner) and O-Dog (Larenz Tate), going into a Korean supermarket to get beer. The owner says he doesn't want any trouble but also says he feels sorry for the mother of the boy O-Dog. For O-Dog this is enough to kill the guy. From the Korean guy's wife he wants the videotape from the security camera and then he kills her too. Caine doesn't approve this behavior because it was over nothing. Later in the movie we see Caine can kill as well, for bigger issues. The story is narrated by Caine, a guy who probably was a better man if he grew up somewhere else. But he didn't grew up somewhere else. He has always seen violence. When he was about five his father (Samuel L. Jackson) shoot a guy in front of his eyes for the first time. His mother dies of an overdose. Now Caine is living with his grandparents who do love him. There are some other people who really care for him. One of them is Mr. Butler (Charles S. Dutton), a school teacher, another one is Ronnie (Jada Pinkett). She was the girlfriend of his mentor who is now in jail.This is a very violent but powerful movie. It shows how it works in the ghetto. I don't know if it is like this but after seeing this movie I believe so. The performances are very strong. Tyrin Turner, Jada Pinkett and especially Larenz Tate give terrific performances. May be the movie is not for everyone because of the violence, but if you want to show the truth, you have to show the truth. "},{"Title":"Possibly the best urban movie ever made","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  **possible spoilers**Menace II Society is definitely an unforgettable story as it is still spoken about today when you mention 'hood movies or black film.  It revolves around Caine(Tyrin Turner) and his life.  The film also shows in graphic detail about Caine's unfortunate childhood from his father(Samuel L. Jackson) bein' a hustler, to his mom being a heroin-addict who is so strung-out to the point where she steals out of Tat's stash just to get high which then 'causes Tat to raise his hand to her, to even witnessing his father kill someone over owed money at a card game(...and it wasn't the last) Also in Caine's circle is O-Dog(Larenz Tate), who in my unhumble opinion was the most unforgettable character of this movie.  His short temper and trigger-happy tendencies made O-Dog such an unforgettable character surpassing the likes of Doughboy in Boyz N The Hood. I was real impressed with Caine's retrospective break down of his 'hood with the riots to the drugs, and before all of that - Dog shows a little of what I was talking about earlier at the grocery store in a very memorable beginning.  Jada Pinkett is also in this as Ronnie, a single mother whose baby is fathered by Pernell serving a life sentence - who Caine looks highly up to.  It's a very gritty look at the life in the streets and how decision can affect your life, more less be the difference between your life and death.  Very well scripted and acted, it really felt like the real thing and there aren't many that will ever come this close as this did...This is a must have on VHS or DVD or whatever unforgettable classic 10/10  "},{"Title":"Talkin' bout I better pay or else!","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Without a doubt, the single greatest 'hood movie ever. Completely nukes Boyz 'n' the Hood out of the water. In fact, I'd go so far as to say that it makes Boyz look like something you'd see on public access. Larenz Tate gives a chilling performance as an underage violence machine. This movie pulls no punches and is not for the weak of heart. Look for a pre-popular Samuel L. Jackson in one of the best scenes from any movie, period. Everyone needs to see this movie. I come from a part of town in NYC that, while not as bad as say Compton, is still pretty rough. I can honestly say that this movie rings true and if you wanna see what life can be like under very grim circumstances, you cannot go wrong with this cinematic masterpiece. My hat off to Allen and Albert Hughes. You've made a damn great movie. Rating ****1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Dark, explosive and intense, Menace II Society is the greatest hood movie ever made.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Menace II Society is easily the greatest hood movie ever made.  Some may argue in favor of Juice or Boyz 'N The Hood (which received a higher level of critical acclaim) but Menace II Society captures the desperation and mindlessness of angry hood youths unlike any other film.  It's a shame that Tyger Williams' screenplay was not awarded for it's depiction of the hood's harsh reality.  His dialogue is realistic and quirky, but funny and chilling at the same time.  Instead of painting the characters like the cartoon cliches they make themselves out to be.  Instead of glorifying their violent ways, the Hughes Brothers present these characters as being trapped by the ghetto, and use it as an excuse to live recklessly, steal and kill. Instead of the overacting you shot my baby! scene of Singleton's take on life in the hood, the film is packed with several touching scenes, which kick in at a gut level.  Specifically, the scene where Caine is playing a boxing videogame with his girlfriend's son and teaches him how to fire a gun, and the mother runs in and pulls him away.  We also learn about Caine's relationship with the baby's father, Glenn Plummer (who delivers a brief but memorable performance as a reformed, reeducated gang banger locked behind bars.)  He then sheds a tear and tells him that he was like a father to him.  He closes his eyes trying to hold back his feelings and asks Caine to teach his son how to be a man.  In those simple words lie the essence of this film, as in earlier scenes Caine recalls the advice his real father gave him, including how he was taught to cook crack.  The concept of father figures and the Id is touched upon in little detail, and in a way they seem like society's orphans but it is impossible to justify these character's lives, especially in the case of O-Dog.  In the opening scene, he blows a Korean store clerk's brains out of the back of his head and murders his wife for making a comment about his mama, then steals the surveilance tape and shows it off to his friends.  If there ever was a character who just didn't give a f**k it's O-Dog.  After Caine and his cousin are shot and robbed, they retaliate and exact their bloody revenge, in some of the most perfectly directed and edited scenes of the film.  Hughes Brothers showed promise with their 1993 debut, and it has gone on to withstand the test of time, and has become a bigger favorite than BOYZ.  The acting is more heartfelt and the characters are more clearly defined.  Either they express minimal aspirations to want to get out of the hood, or their too caught up in the gangland violence and mafioso-like status they long for.  In one particular scene, O-Dog murders a fiend in cold blood for offering a sexual favor in return for crack.  He then picks up a bag of cheeseburgers lying next to the corpse and asks his friends if they want any.  The characters seem to enjoy violence (in a manner similar to the characters in Goodfellas, who pillage out of neccesity AND habit) and don't want to let go of their vigilant lives.  The end is somewhat dissapointing because in it's own garbled way it's telling us that their is now escape from the hood.  The only reality is their own disillusionment with any other way of life. "},{"Title":"Violent, brutal, most realistic and interesting ghetto-film. Very good.","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  -Sorry for a few spelling mistakes                              It's hard not to find 'Menace II Society' interesting, even entertaining a way. The                               Hughes brothers has captured the ghetto-life perfect, and the movie gets more                               and more frightening for every minute that's ticking away. I must say I was                               impressed by this movie. Acting was more than ok, all from Turner and Pinkett to                               memorable cameos from Samuel L. Jackson, Charles S. Dutton and 80's B-actor                               Bill Duke. This film is definitly not recommended for those who can't stand harsh                               language, blood and violence. Maybe it's understood right?                              The movies moral is quite clear, and it might get just a little bit slow in the turns                               but still it is worth the rating soon below.                              MENACE II SOCIETY suprised me. It was way better than I've ever could                               imagine it to be. And the life in the ghetto actually entertained me. I don't know if                               that's good or bad.                               An extra plus is the music. That gangsta & hip hop tunes matches in just as                               perfect as it you've might suspect. Dialuoge is nothing special, but the opening                               scene is a 90's classic. And the ending is powerful. When the credits starts to roll,                               you're not really recovered after the shock from a confession of the true ending                               that hits you in the face just before the credits shows.                               Don't miss it. 9/10  "},{"Title":"A great achievement!","Date":"31 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film should be required watching for high school students who live in the 'burbs (those of us from the ghetto know it all already). The direction, pace, and screenplay are exceptional. The film reeks of restlessness and sudden violence, as does the section of town it describes. Larenz Tate shows his astounding range as a character hell-bent on destroying himself and everything in his path. I've watched this film at least 20 times; it just gets better and better.  "},{"Title":"Impacting and culturally important but also rather clichéd and obvious","Date":"13 May 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I can't remember the details but there was a period where, in the wake of Reservoir Dogs, Menace II Society was prevented from getting a certificate in the UK and was essentially banned amid a storm of hand-wringing and worry over violence in films. It was the mid-90's where I finally got to see the film on a really bad VHS with the tracking all over the place &#x96; but since then I don't think I had watched it till this weekend. It is quite hard to believe that the film was once subject to controversy; not only is it reasonably tame compared to modern standards, but it is also pretty realistic and doesn't fetishize or glamorize the violence (as opposed to the modern torture porn genre for example). It is additionally confusing when one looks back onto a film that is about as morally-sound and positive as you could hope &#x96; pretty much to a fault actually.The plot sees Caine getting drawn into violence and ultimately we all know where this is heading from the start because the film is from a certain period and a certain genre. Watching it again it is disappointing that so much of the film seems clichéd and rather obvious in terms of the dialogue, but maybe this is because it has been done so often since, it is hard to say in retrospect, but for sure the film does feel very obvious across the telling. This doesn't make it a bad film though &#x96; just perhaps a little clumsier than I would have liked. The delivery is still impacting though and the film does well to create a sense of characters with no future but death or jail; there are moments of relaxing and family, moments of joking around and moments of violence &#x96; the film does well to make them all just seem like part of life here. Yes the plot goes where you expect but it is still hard to watch and hard to stomach.The cast are better than the names would suggest. In particular Turner does better than I expected &#x96; he cannot make the overly earnest narration work, but he does deliver a good character. Tate has things simpler and is only OK; I found him a bit too slick to be the character he was playing. The support cast features some faces (Jackson, Duke, Smith and a few rappers of note) but generally the cast are unknown and pretty natural &#x96; it is only when they have to deliver some clunky lines that they struggle (man enough to take a live but not to raise one being an example).Menace II Society stuck in my mind because of the controversy surrounding it in the UK, but watching it now it just seems tame and fairly normal. Part of this is the film convincing the viewer of this world but it is also down to the fact that the film is actually quite morally simple and obvious. It does still have an impact and it is a culturally important film, but for sure it has its flaws and there are better films from the period tackling the same issues but better. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is definetley one of my top favorite movies!If you can get by the excessive violence and swearing then you'll love it (but that's what makes it so realistic!)I've seen this movie several times on IFC and I wish that they'd air it more! They aired it a few times a few months back and I love it!There's good characters, good actors, good plots...it's a VERY good movie!-SPOILERS-It starts off with two guys in a grocery store and one of them guns down the store owners (the man made a comment about his mother, I feel sorry for your mothers. and then he also guns down the woman in the back after telling her to shut up and she didn't) and they steal the security camera tape.That's the main plot and their lives over the summer.The ending is kinds sad, though...My description is probably off since I sorta forgot some of it...lolI give it a 10 outta 10! "},{"Title":"Angry, underprivileged youths act out against an indifferent society","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It appeared almost the entire neighborhood was either evil and drugged out or well on their way to that end. Murder and robbery were a way of life with these depraved kids who were indifferent to everything except whatever could lead them into crime or revenge slayings. Glad I don't live it their neck of the woods.  "},{"Title":"This Menace to Society is Real but Cliché Ridden **1/2","Date":"11 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" The film is a very good one but is filled with clichés. We are dealing with extremely violent people, many of whom regard life with a depraved indifference.If ever there were an argument related to genetics vs. environment to determine how we act, the latter would win overwhelmingly after seeing such a brutal film.With its brutality and realization, the film is so clichéd. We see the fact of drug-addicted, crime prone parents off to an early grave, the caring religious grandparents who can't control their wayward grandson, the out-of control hooligans terrorizing innocent, hard working people, schools that don't care and merely pass on the troublemakers, and white police officers as racist as they come.What are the solutions to all this violence? Is there any hope left for society? Must we all go into hiding?This is an utterly frightening story portraying the lives of young hoodlums who care so little about life.I was tempted to laugh when I saw the scene where the grandparents are watching It's A Wonderful Life. The latter film is so out of the realm of what is going on in today's communities.You have magnificent acting performances here that go by the waste side due to the constant violence and use of profanity. "}{"Title":"A film of raw power","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  On Friday, August 13th, 1965, the area known as Watts in south central Los Angeles erupted from a routine arrest of a drunk driver and escalated into a riot that lasted for six days and killed 34 people, almost all black. The Watts Riots showed Americans the depressed conditions of the area and led to the initial discussion of a redevelopment effort within the community. Almost 40 years later, little has changed. Unemployment rates are about twice the national average and the underlying issues of social dysfunction remain, seemingly immune to LAPD policing, the War on Drugs, or Habitat for Humanity housing programs. The despair of the inner city ghetto has never been more graphically and realistically presented than in the Hughes Brothers' Menace II Society, a film of raw power film shot in Compton, California one year after the Rodney King incident that triggered the riots of 1992. The film is more of a collection of brutal images than a coherent narrative, an explosive and disturbing picture of a community mired in nihilism and the hopelessness that follows. Containing standout performances from young actors Tyrin Turner, Larenz Tate, and Jada Pinkett, the film's violence is graphic and realistic, avoiding (with some exception) the special effects and highly stylized violence we have come to expect from the genre. Caine (Turner), who narrates the film, is a product of the mean streets and has witnessed violence his whole life. His father, a dope dealer, and his mother, a heroin addict are both dead and Pernell (Glenn Plummer), the man who he turned to for guidance, is in prison. He is forced to live with his religious grandparents and his only adult companion is Pernell's girl Ronnie (Pinkett) and her five-year old son. By the time he is in high school he is already dealing drugs and carrying a weapon. His best friend is a borderline psychotic named O-Dog (Tate), the epitome of inner city youth who have no stake in society, kill without conscience, and whose self-respect is only as strong as the weapon they carry.In the film's opening, a Korean grocer becomes the first target of the pent-up frustration of Caine and O-Dog who kill them in a random, purposeless act after the grocer says that he pities their mother and asks the boys to leave the store. The videotape, retrieved by the killers during their escape, is sickeningly replayed throughout the film by O-Dog as entertainment at parties. The scene underscores the racism directed at Asian storekeepers, also depicted in Spike Lee's Do the Right Thing, and brings to mind the general problem of white storeowners who act as middlemen for corporations unwilling to set up franchises in the inner city. When a new Denny's restaurant opened recently, it was the first restaurant opened in Watts in thirty years.Caine is bright and looking for a way out and we feel sympathy for him without supporting his violent actions and his unwillingness to take responsibility for his life. He is tempted by offers to escape, one with a friend who has become a Muslim and is leaving for Kansas, the other with Ronnie who is moving to Atlanta, but the only world that he is comfortable with consists of drugs, guns, and early death. We want him to get out before it's too late, but we know too well that it is hard to breakthrough the context of his life -- that is no hope and no way out. When he gets a neighborhood girl pregnant and refuses to help, the girl's cousin comes looking for him, leading to a climactic confrontation that leaves us desperate for answers yet unable to see any. Despite its cutesy title, Menace II Society is one powerful mother of a film.  "},{"Title":"AMAZING","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is my ideal movie. I love movies with shooting and killing. Lots of guns. It makes the movie so much more exciting and keeps you watching. Well this movie has that and so much more. Unbelievable story about a teenager (caine) growing up in the ghetto and sticking with his best friend (o-dog). Its about payback and taking that to the extreme. watch this!!!! "},{"Title":"How can anyone be stupid enough to not give this a 10?","Date":"12 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie has to be the most realistic ghetto movie I've ever seen.. the profanity is there because that is really the way people talk. Boyz In the Hood had a sappy plot and and a sappy storyline in it that was full of preaching and unrealism. the main character always makes the right choices and comes out good and everything. Menace is much better because while the main character does have some good in him, he cannot break free from the harsh society he and his parents were trapped in. The whole movie hits you and scares the hell out of you because it is truthful and this is actually what people do. If anybody out there is enough of a moron to give this movie a bad review, I'd like to know why. "},{"Title":"One of the most degrading pieces of propaganda!!!!!!!","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"9 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":"    Menace II Society is one of the most degrading pieces of propaganda, as it portrays an over-the-top story which passes for ghetto life. Thug life is more like it.  The story is lousy, and if the Hughes Brothers were white, this would rank right up there with Birth of A Nation.   I found no sympathy in the main character, Caine.  He is more like the jerks we see in Goodfellas, Casino, and that Great American Epic, The Godfather.  Yes, this film belongs in that genre; it just has a black face.  I was offended at the time, when the studio tried to market this movie with Boyz in the Hood.  The two movies are completely different.  Just because it deals with African Americans, it doesn't make the two films similar.   And what is up with the ghetto films?  I haven't heard such racist remarks in a while.  So many complained about blaxploitation films, years before.  Menace II Society, however, is the real offensive stereotype.  To say that one film is the real deal for poor African Americans is a sham, and this movie has no redeeming qualities whatsoever.   This movie is for people who enjoy violent movies, or just want to make fun of others.   "},{"Title":"terrible","Date":"14 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Thriller","Review":" I saw , quite surprisingly, the critics liked it. I forgot my usual assessment, if the critics like it , beware. I watched the first few minutes and heard the over the top swearing, and had misgivings, don,t get me wrong I,m not averse to swearing, but gratuitous swearing, tends to detract from the content. The film forty eight hours has a great moment, when Nick Nolte,s girlfriend, calls him ,having been stood up for the second time, She says Jack, he says Yeh F---. you, and puts down the phone , great impact funny, not gratuitous because only a swear word would do. I didn,t continue to watch the film, and could,t see why anyone would like it let alone praise it. Critics seem averse to entertainment, action, or a feel good story. Prefering some formulaic dreary repetitive realism type story. "}]