[{"Title":"Now the puppets are good guys!","Date":"3 June 1999","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is strange and unlike the other puppet master movies in the series. But it is funny in many ways, for instance take Cameron's high pitched shrieking of obcenities, and the Head monster at the Beginning is Hilarious looking HA HA HA. I was very pleased the girl who plays Lauren, man is she attractive or WHAT? The puppets are good guys who have to fight off Evil? What happend to the Evil gene and the lust to get brain chunks HUH? Well it's pretty cool that they are good though. The soundtrack by Quiet Riot and Joker is the icing on the cake for me. Watch this movie it's not that long. and its pretty GOOD. "},{"Title":"Not bad !!!!!!","Date":"2 April 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  In this third sequel Gordon Currie makes his first really big role of a movie . Rick (G.Currie) is the caretaker to a hotel . Him and three other friends find the puppets Pinhead, Jester , and you know all the others . In this moviee the puppets are good and are fighting evil . Tons of action pretty good . Followed by Part 5 witch is horrible . Believe me . If your a horror fan you should watch this movie . ** stars out of four . Guy Rolfe ( Toulon also makes his return . He was in the third .  "},{"Title":"The Best Of The Series","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I though that PM4 and 5 were the best of the series. the puppets are fighting the Totems, minions of Sutek, who want the secret Toulon stole from him back. To help the Puppets, a new one, Decapitron (originally an idea for an unmade Empire Pictures filck) is made. This has always been my favorite Full Moon flick, and I love part V. Keep up the work Mr. Band. As usual, the video contains an excellent videozone, and the video itself was distributed by Paramount. A Puppet Master Box Set was released in 2000 by Full Moon, but was quickly recalled by Paramount because they still claimed the rights to these films. Paramount needs to stop being an ass and let Mr. Band release all of his great films through Full Moon, not the Paramount Full Screen Collection. Bless Full Moon. "},{"Title":"Decent flick; horrendous plot.","Date":"1 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The notorious Bodega Bay Inn is now inhabited by a whiz-kid science major named Rick Myers who is working for an elite team of scientists in hopes of finding out the secret of artificial intelligence.  Meanwhile, in Hell, at the EXACT SAME MOMENT, a legion of evil rubbery demons send a horde of minions to the surface to kill anyone who has anything to do with Andre Toulon's elixir of animation.  It certainly would be bad luck if Rick just happened to stumble upon a vial of the damning potion, now wouldn't it?  Even though the plot of this particular chapter in the Puppet Master series is razor-thin and the acting stays consistently mundane throughout, it has a certain flair that most of the other entries don't.  The puppets are much more likeable this time around, and their movements, although not as detailed or complex, are a lot more amusing and believable. "},{"Title":"A must see for all Puppet Master fans!","Date":"9 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The PUPPET MASTER series continues to be highly entertaining with this really fun sequel! Director JEFF BURR (Who became the first director to helm a PUPPET MASTER movie & not be named David) steers the series back to it's darker horror movie roots, that were seemingly abandon in PUPPET MASTER III TOULON'S REVENGE. His direction is really good & he knows how to direct horror movies because it's clear he is a horror fan himself. I knew the series was in good hands with him at the helm, since I've been utterly impressed with his roster of films. What should be noted is how this sequel does away with any sexual elements & tones the gore down a bit (though it is still somewhat bloody) & adds a more fantasy like element to it. It also continues with the idea of the puppets once again being good guys & not evil as they were seen in the first two outings. This was mainly due to the amount of fan mail Producer Charles Band received from kids, who claimed they were big fans of the series & would even send him drawings of their favourite puppets. As is tradition with the series, the film adds a new puppet named Decapitron a head master that can change multiple heads & is really a channeller for Toulon's spirit to enter into. This is a very interesting puppet indeed, since Producer Band had a movie in production way back in the 80's that would feature this puppet, that unfortunately never happened when his EMPIRE PICTURES outfit crumbled into extinction. Sadly along with TORCH, this puppet would only be used in two movies, before being jettisoned with no mention of it's whereabouts after PART 5. The acting is well above par for the genre. GORDON CURRIE really shines as the likable college wiz kid & JASON ADAMS is perfection as his smart, but not as smart & very jealous, stuck up rival. While CHANDRA WEST is appealing as Rick's (GORDON CURRIE) girlfriend Susie. THERESA HILL is interesting as Susie's friend, a Channeler psychic. What I really enjoyed about this entry, is how it never lets up from start to finish, always providing us with new information & adds more back story to the serum. The plot is fun & the film features some good suspenseful moments, atmosphere & tension. The late David Allen really tops himself here, the puppet effects are pretty awesome & some of the best stop motion animation the series has to offer by far. The story in & of itself is very engaging & really easy & interesting enough to get sinked into. The Totem creatures are also a very interesting addition to the PUPPET MASTER fold & make for great villains for the puppets. The set design is really good, the totem puppets weird & creepy, in fact they have an almost Aztec like quality to them.On the downside though, there were a few things that kind of bugged me, but nothing to to spoil the fun of the movie The SUTEK demon although an interesting character & creation is to rubbery looking to be taken seriously & you could tell it was a puppet, since it moved like one. I also had trouble stomaching the idea that the Bodega Bay Inn was open yet again for business, despite it's bloody history & the fact that the murderer(s) were never caught (the puppets themselves). I mean there is no way the authorities & government would allow it & even if they did, who would want to spend a night at an Inn, where a whole bunch of people were horribly mutilated on two separate occasions? The film also leaves some questions unanswered like Whatever became of Camille, who became the puppets new master at the end of Part II? didn't her & the puppets leave the Bodega Bay Inn at the end of that movie? if so, why are the puppets back at Bodega Bay Inn again? Wasn't Toulon evil in Part II? if so, why do the puppets trust in Toulon again after he turned his back on them? Why is he a good guy yet again? the only answer I could come up with, was that this was Producer CHARLES BAND's idea of turning him good again, since the fan response was really positive for the character in III & they really grew to like the character in that film, since he was so sympathetic. Lastly, where was TORCH? despite being on the video box art, he is nowhere to be found here & no answers are given as to his whereabouts? where was Six Shooter in Parts 1 & 2? plus if the film takes place after II, & the puppets were weak from having no fluid in that one, then why are they all asleep here, but BLADE isn't? since he is still roaming around the Inn, does he not need serum too? & didn't TUNNLER die in PUPPET MASTER II? if so how is he alive here?See PUPPET MASTER LEGACY for a correct chronological order of the series.In the end, PUPPET MASTER 4 is a very fun movie & a real treat for fans of the series. It's got all the things really fun & great sequels have, new elements & plot twists, more story with plenty of interesting avenues explored, better effects, better acting, great directing, a fun story & just enough suspense, tension & gore added & some fun & interesting villains to help make it one of the best in the series. Even after all these years the film never loses it's freshness & still manages to entertain you, despite having viewed it multiple times (which I have over the years) but question Did they really need five writers to make an 80 minute movie & it's sequel? Shot simultaneously with PUPPET MASTER 5**** stars "},{"Title":"Scrappy plot, but decent","Date":"19 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" PUPPET MASTER IV🌕🌕🌕🌘🌑 3.2I thought this was entertaining enough. Not as good as the third, but fun. And the puppet FX were good once again. Th whole puppet vs. Puppet concept works great on providing action and effects, and the demon-puppets are a good villain. I found there is plenty of clever stop motion here, all done very well. The acting ain't to bad either, but the psychic girl is a tad annoying. There are three issues I had with the film. The first, a small bug, is the buildup, which like in 1 or 2 takes a bit. The second, a much larger issue, is that the plot seems to feel very scrapped together, like a bunch of little pieces of a script. So when it's all patched together it feels a little disjointed. The third, another problem, is the lack of blood. I don't mean gore I mean blood. Other than a severed finger the action is never violent or bloody enough to be horror-y. Even so this film is entertaining and I recommend it to fans of the series ('sept for gore hounds) and the younger horror audience too. "},{"Title":"I Found this a more fun then the last!","Date":"30 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I thought this was best one yet, (No, I am not Drunk lol ) I really enjoyed this one the most.I had fun of start to end of this movie, it's started of as Cheese as you can get, in the underworld of Hell (It''s kind of reminds of old Power ranger shows I used to watch when I was kid lol ) , the demon Sutekh send to of Totems which really nasty little creatures Rick Myers who ends up coming cross the Puppets and then bring they back for his own entertainment.Soon the puppets turn good and defend the Humans against the Totems and battle break with Blade and one of Creature. I love Jester face kept changing in fight scenes, I found it's really funny, I think could of helped that if thee kids in this movie instead of Adults.I can see why not many people like this movie, there was really limited on on kill scenes, there not many bloody moment. Some of the acting in this movie, as got to be worse anything in this series so. I think lead guy the only you acting didn't not bother me. Overall going to give this a 6 out of 10 (I was going give 7 but I was hoping of for more gore)I wasn't even thinking of seeing 5, i might end up having fun with it "},{"Title":"Enjoyable installment in the series","Date":"28 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Toulon's puppets battle a bunch of gremlin-like monsters who want to steal the elixir from boyish young scientist Rick Myers (a lively and engaging performance by Gordon Currie). Director Jeff Burr relates the entertaining premise at a brisk pace, maintains a generally serious tone throughout, makes neat occasional use of funky stop-motion animation, and delivers a generous sprinkling of gore. This film further benefits from solid acting from a capable cast pretty Chandra West as Rick's sweet girlfriend Susie, Jason Adams as smug and jealous jerk Cameron, and foxy Teresa Hill as sensitive psychic Lauren. Gulf Rolfe makes a welcome return appearance as Andre Toulon while Felton Perry has a regrettably small part as amiable scientist Dr. Carl Baker. The gremlin creatures are real gnarly. Moreover, it's cool to see the puppets as the good guys for a change. The tight 80 minute running time ensures that this movie never gets dull or overstays its welcome. Adolfi Bartoli's crisp cinematography gives the picture a pleasing polished look. Richard Band's spirited score hits the nicely spooky spot. Worth a watch for fans of this franchise. "},{"Title":"Kill dolls, again","Date":"18 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet Master is one of those franchises that every horror fan knows, and has a peculiar fondness for despite the fact that it isn't very good at all. Here, in the fourth instalment we see a demonic creature out to destroy anything associated with the eponymous puppet master, Anton Toulon himself. The subjects of his wrath? The lethal and animate toys Toulon created, as well as an improbably young scientist working on a project to bring life to the inanimate and a clutch of his witless friends and associates. Sound dreadful? Well, it's not. Harking back to the glory days of American horror, this is retro stuff that feels as if it was made ten years before it actually was. And that's a good thing, kids. Trust me, if the only horror you have seen is 'Shrooms, Thir13en ghosts and other such nonsense that gets the green light in modern horror cinema, you really are missing out and would do well to check out pretty much anything pre 1989 as an educational experience. Whilst the production levels and acting are bordering on the inane, this has atmosphere by the bucket load. In truth, the Puppet Master movies feel like really dark kids films, as there is next to nothing in the way of gore or violence, though this one at least has an entertaining death scene near the start which is relatively tense. Special mention must go to the metal soundtrack, which was great, as well as the device used to end the demonic menace The Decapitron, a puppet with the power of mimicry. Entertaining enough horror yarn. "},{"Title":"Puppet Strings...","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A severe backwards step for the puppets in this mainly dull and tedious outing. Guy Rolfe, so fantastic as Andre Toulon in part three barely features this time and Richard Band's fantastical them tune appears with the puppets a fair few minutes in to the film. For the start of the movie we are introduced to the caretaker of Bodega Bay Inn (Gordon Currie) and some youth friends of his (many of the cast are Canadian and are all very good in unfortunately rather undemanding roles - Teresa Hill is quite yummy). Totems, minions of the Egyptian God Sutek want the secret of animation life back and the puppets (when they surface) act with a previously unseen cleverness to attempt to destroy the ugly and very computer game looking Totems. The Totems merely complicate the series and distract from the things that previously made the series so unique - they don't share the weird beauty of the puppets and thus don't really fit in. Top scene is Pinhead using a rag to clean blood from Tunnelers drill bit, classic and about the goriest this film goes. The fifth film was filmed concurrently with this one so expect similar sections of mediocre and a Toulon performance that seems to have been filmed in a different era (or even galaxy). Guy Rolfe deserved better and series fans certainly do. Grrrrrrr. "}{"Title":"How A Good Series Turn Bad...","Date":"19 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I absolutely love the first three movies, they were great! I once caught Part 5 on VHS 10 years ago, and I was disappointed. But perhaps that was because I never saw the fourth one, because they were shot back-to-back. but after finally viewing a copy today, I have to say it was no way better than number 5. My expectations weren't high to begin with, but this is cheap direct-to-video stuff, not even a horror movie, it's PG-13. The acting was not convincing, the story was rather dumb without any excitement and there were not many effects. But the main problem is that there were no kills or any gore (the annoying kid who gets killed in his car was supposed to be the highlight, but come on..)Surprisingly, both Parts 4 and 5 were directed by Sequel-director Jeff Burr who gave us the excellent Stepfather II and Leatherface Texas Chainsaw Massacre III. I liked Puppet Master The Legacy, even if it was nothing else than a tribute with the best scenes from all movies.Overall, Puppet Master is very much like the Hellraiser Series A great trilogy but forget the rest.. "},{"Title":"Puppet Master 4","Date":"24 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet Master 4 brings something new to the series by making the Puppets the main good guys and having them fight against a new foe called the Totems. It was actually cool seeing the Puppets teaming up to fight them. The plot sees a demon named Sutek who wants the secret of bringing life to inanimate objects returned to him so he sends some of his Puppets called the Totems who are controlled by the creatures inside the dimension, a high-tech corporation receives one of the Totems in the create and after being opened it attacks Dr. Baker and Dr. Piper. In the Inn a young employee Rick Myers who is also the caretaker for the Inn is trying to create artificial life but can't seem to make the robots work on their own, after his girlfriend, college and his girlfriend who is psychic arrive he shows them around and they find one of the Puppets, Blade lying around. Soon they find Toulon's puppet cabinet in one of the rooms but it's sealed up so using acid they break it open and find the other Puppets Pinhead, Jester, Six-Shooter, Tunneler and Decapatron. They also find Toulon's diary and serum, injecting the Puppets with the serum they come to life again. Cameron and his girlfriend use a Ouija board to try and talk to Toulon but instead the Totems appear, then Rick must protect the secret and stop the Totems with the help of the Puppets and Toulon's spirit. They soon learn that to stop the Totems they need to use Toulon's unfinished Puppet Decapatron, Rick with the help of the Puppets go to re-animate Decapatron to stop the Totems from getting the secret. Puppet Master 4 is another good sequel to the Puppet Master franchise. Check it out. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Better than today's Full Moon films","Date":"10 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    ***SLIGHT SPOILERS*** This installment of the Full Moon franchise changes the storyline a bit and implements some new elements.  First off a new puppet master is established.  Secondly, the puppets turn good in this sequel.  Finally, It introduces some scifi/fantasy elements as well.A new tenant of the infamous hotel by the bay, his girlfriend, her psychic friend, and that psychics boyfriend, stumble upon Andre Toulon's puppet trunk.  They also learn about some demon from another dimension that holds Toulon responsible for stealing the secret to animating the unliving. So Sutekh (the demon) sends the totems, a bunch of craven little creatures that look like ear-less gremlins.  Then it's up to the puppet troupe to take care of the inter-dimensional threat that's trying to kill there new friends.Like most low budget movies this film is rife with continuity problems. How did the puppets get put back in the trunk?  How come nobody remembers the last rasche of killngs in the hotel?  Who bought the hotel?  Why would a contractor by a building with a history of mass murders?  All this and many more questions,  will not be answered...ever.The real suprise of this movie is the acting.  It's actually pretty good.  The actors take it with a enthusiasm unusual especially for a bunch of Full Moon nonames.  Teresa Hill was especially impressive as the shy, nervous, psychic Lauren.  Chandra West (Susie) was also a pleasant suprise also.  Gordon Hill was a tolerable protagonist.  But Cameron was far too annoying to stomach.  Thank the norse god he dies before halfway through.The puppets are there usual animated selves.  With some improvements as well.  There emotions (especially Jester's) are much more human due to the sounds that have been given to them.  Blade's hisses, Pinhead's grunts, and Six-Shooter's snicker have all been improved and sound much better.  The stop-motion animation is only average at best, especially the totems. They just don't seem to move as fluidly as the previous installment in the series.  Also the Sutekh costume is absolutely awefull.  How are we supposed to afraid of a creature so humorous looking.The story seems a bit juvinile for the series.  I think Charlie Band was looking to focus in on a younger demographic.  The violence being toned down in this movie also seems to speak the same.  Gore fans will be disappointed.I think the above is the main problem this movie can't really stick with many people.  It doesn't have the violence for gorewhores.  The language is a little cleaner.  Yet it's too violent and harsh for the wee ones.  Which is why the movie gets low ratings.  I have to say that the common reviews are mostly fair. "},{"Title":"HIGH HOPES fall short","Date":"18 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I'm a big fan of the demonic puppets. Looking at the surface of this one, it looks pretty good! You've got Decapitron, the puppets, and a new villain in THE TOTEM! Unfortunately, the little punk that's doing this project to animate, inanimate objects, can't act. He stinks! His girlfriend is worse. If they were left out, it would probably be cool, BLADE VS. THE TOTEM. I'd watch that for 2 hours. But instead, the puppets role is down played, and the whole movie suffered because of it. The mystical Skull guy who created the totem is corny at best, and Decapitrons appearance is long awaited, short, and really quite disappointing. You'd be better off watching the first one again.  "},{"Title":"Not Even the Middle of the Franchise","Date":"4 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" A young scientist (Gordon Currie) and his friends, upon being attacked by demons, are protected by a gang of animated puppets.On Super Bowl Sunday 1993, Charlie Band called director Jeff Burr and asked him to come in for a meeting. Burr had previously worked on Band's The Vault, but the film never came out. At this meeting, Burr was offered parts 4 and 5 for Puppet Master and two parts of Oblivion. At this time, Full Moon was largely backed financially by Paramount.Someone concerned with the continuity points out In Toulon's Revenge, Andre Toulon escaped Berlin somewhere between 1942 and 1944. Toulon committed suicide on March 15, and the film mentioned the Eastern Front, whose conduct of operations didn't take place until summer of 1941. In this film, Toulon's diary recounts Major Krauss's death as being on April 7. Since in previously established timelines, Toulon made it to America almost one year after escaping, Toulon would have to had killed himself on March 15 either in 1943 up to 1945.Who is this concerned? Puppet Master may be one of the worst horror franchises out there. Possibly not the very worst, because Hellraiser (for example) has really gone downhill to low, low depths. But really, this is Charles Band cheese, luckily saved by Jeff Burr, one of the best directors in the genre.The film is not all bad. The casting is strange and the acting is poor, but the effects are decent. Not great, as they never are in the series, but the introduction of the demons is nice and they're way better than any of the puppets. Apparently Burr had only limited impact on the casting, as he wanted Judy Geeson for a role but Charlie Band overruled him and handpicked his own actress.If you love movies, especially these lower budget movies, pick up this disc with Jeff Burr's audio commentary. Burr really needs to write an autobiography, as his memory is incredible and he is an excellent storyteller. He finds a way to fit 200 minutes worth of discussion into a less-than-90 minute film. His reflections on Albert Band and puppetry and everything else are priceless. "},{"Title":"Puppet Master 4","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" After being locked up and forgotten the puppets are back when Rick Myers, the caretaker of Bodega Bay Inn, stumbles upon them and the secret elixir of life. Meanwhile Rick's coworkers are in trouble from Sutekh's evil forces that are at work. This is a leadup to a showdown between Sutekh's mini demons vs the puppets. It was a nice twist to see the puppets being portrayed as the good guys in this film who seem to be having a good old fun time. The puppets mean spirited characteristics are now gone as Andre Toulon is speaking to them from the beyond the grave to do some good. I'm a fan of the Rick Myers character and not so much of his counterpart Cameron who was so unlikeable that movie was off putting at times because of him. Otherwise I enjoyed the film and it kept my interest but that being said the 4 rating is based on the film having all around poor performances and writing. "},{"Title":"Fun but not as good as its but not as good as before!","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" For anyone who has not seen the first three movies, This is a little bit of a Spoiler. The original Film saw The puppets trying to protect their masters secrets in various bloody ways. The second film saw them trying to Reanimate their master which by the end they had...Puppet Master 2 was a total departure going into Prequel Territory and showing how Toulon fought in the war and how his puppets were created.Of the first three films, ! was good, 2 was a bit of a let down and three was AMAZING!So now we come to Puppet Master 3 - The Demon... Now originally this was going to be Called When Bad Puppets Turn Good - Thank god they ditched that Title.Puppet Master 4 does not start out too well... In fact even by the standard of effects at the time, The masks on the Enemy are very poor.Fight scenes are lacklustre at best, and there is little challenge to the imagination.There are far too many plot holes to even refer to this a sequel... It is better thought of as a Stand alone movie.So is it bad... Not Terrible but there was so much scope that was not explored from the first two... It is a fun watch but far from a series best!However, the ground is laid for Remakes which with todays effects and a better story writer (Rob Zombie I hope you are reading this!) Could make a very effective series of films that would be fun and a joy to watch... 4 is OK! But it could have been so much better. Given it took until 1993 to release - Maybe the studios lost faith in the franchise, which is a serious shame as the third left an amazing story to work with. "},{"Title":"I am with you puppet master","Date":"7 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" I remember not particularly caring much for the rest of Full Moon's direct-to-video Puppet Master films that followed on after third instalment, but I managed to come across Parts 4 and 5. I had inkling to see if I still felt the same way and after getting through the fourth film it was actually better than I remembered. Nevertheless I didn't really liked how the puppets are turned into the good guys (although you could say that was the case in the third film, but I preferred that one's revenge angle) facing off against a Sutek the ancient Eygptian God and its minions that can control totems, but credit is due to somewhat (as some familiar staples do crop up) not completely repeating itself. Directed by Jeff Burr (a regular to the genre and to sequels&#x85; who would also direct the back-to-back made filth film), does quite competently polished if mechanical job, knowing that it's the puppets themselves that are the main attraction, as the animation is well-executed and the personalities of each one of them standing out with Blade taking centre stage. I always find something unsettling about the puppet Six Shooter and his laugh and again it's no exception here. The only two that didn't appear were leech woman and torch.The whole angle has the puppets finding a new master and protecting him from the demon who wants to destroy the late Andre Toulon's work and the tone has kind of changed, while some dark glimmers I didn't find it all that creepy (with nastiness mainly occurring off-screen) and even the cliff side hotel they occupy doesn't have that dominating presence either. Some instances fell on the funny side, but the change of pace and whole drama moves by quick enough. Also it looked like it had a little more money behind it and Richard Band chimes in with an airy, majestic score. Reasonable performances by Gordon Currie and Chandra West in the leads with Guy Rolfe returning as Andre Toulon. "},{"Title":"Too good to last?","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet master 4 lacks many things that made the first three movies feel like something special. There is the absence of that quiet, almost fairytale, quality found in previous instalments, noticeable right from the opening score.I tried to be patient with this film- and indeed the opening, which focuses on other worldly demons who wish to guard the secret of life as tapped into by Toulon, feels like it has the potential to be interesting, something new, a further exploration of the puppet master mythology perhaps.But it's wasted potential- nothing is explored in any kind of depth. This is especially disappointing in contrast to the thoughtful Puppet Master III. Up until now Puppet Master's puppets have always played a relatively small part in a greater story. Yes they probably are the reason people rent these movies, but we are treated to a lot more than just puppets killing people- there's interesting character development, some great building of tension, a rich past to explore but this film focuses mainly upon the puppets themselves, and these demonic critters sent from another dimension.The whole cat/ mouse feel of the action gets really tiresome. It's just not fun to watch the same scream, struggle a bit then eventually kill the baddie routine over and over again in this movie. There's a genuine lack of tension as well. For example we see the puppet master's chest being prised open for about five minutes. The audience knows what will be inside- we've seen the other films, and yet we're forced to sit through this. Why? That isn't tension- a revelation, isn't a revelation if we already know what to expect.Everything feels overly forced too. The boy-genius in his Converses who enjoys jumping around his room firing lasers at robots because he's crazy fun! too. He's not especially likable, he just feels like some, I dunno, Micheal J Fox in-the-80s throwback. The techno-babble is another annoying aspect of this film- we know means nothing so why bother? Even the selling point of this chapter- when bad puppets go good! is redundant because we've seen these puppets as justice-givers in the previous instalment. It's just really a sad contrast to the interesting characters we've met in previous instalments and the simplistic charm of those films too.The sad news is this was filmed back-to-back with its sequel Puppet Master 5. I have the box set, so I'm inevitably going to watch it, but I'm not excited. I don't care about this badly executed plot. The characters aren't interesting to me. A definite change in direction is what I'm looking forward to. Still here's hoping I don't find myself whistling in boredom during the next one. "},{"Title":"Best in the series!","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"  PUPPET MASTER 4 is certainly the best of the PUPPET MASTER series. Gordon Currie, Chandra West, and Guy Rolfe star in this horror film of incredible proportions. Never has anything like this ever been done before, were you take the villains from previous legendary horror films and make them the victims and the ones in need of help.In my regards, this is one of the best horror films of the early 90's, and I recommend it to anyone with interest in horror films or if you liked the original PUPPET MASTER movies. Not much else can be said about this film. It is probably a certainty that if you liked the series, you will like this movie, though.PUPPET MASTER 4 gets 4/5. "}{"Title":"The beginning of the decline of the PM series","Date":"26 December 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" The ancient demon God Sutek is finally angry enough that Andre Toulon (Guy Rolfe) stole his life-giving formula that it sends some demons (tiny, of course) to the upperworld to get those responsible. Somehow that means scientists from a Government company, despite them having nothing to do with it. Who is involved is kid genius Rick Myers (Gordon Currie), who has discovered the puppets while doing his experiments at the Bodega Bay Inn while acting as a caretaker. Running only 75 minutes, this mess of a film actually has 5 screenwriters credited with the nonsense plot. The main point seems to be about resurrecting new puppet Decapitron (a hold over idea from Band's Empire days) and Toulon telling Rick he is the new puppet master. About the only good thing in the film is the stop motion work by Dave Allen and his crew, but it seems to be less and less with each entry. This marks a turning point with the tiny terrors being full blown good guys now. This was also the first in the PM series to feature no nudity. PUPPET MASTER 4 came out in November 1993 and the fifth entry, despite being filmed back-to-back, came out almost a year later in September 1994. Felton Perry has two scenes as a murdered scientist. "},{"Title":"It is like the first two puppet master movies and the last three are from different series.","Date":"17 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" This one and the one prior Toulon's Revenge and the next one seem to be completely different from the first two movies where the puppets were not so nice. It is basically choose your series, the first two go together and paint the puppets as killers, while the next three are a series of them being the good guys. This one plays out to much like some cheesy television series episode to be as good as part three was and I never really had the urge to try and watch part five of the series. Basically, a kid gets the puppets while some strange dark lord or something sends his evil puppets out to kill, this dark lord looks like some sort of enemy from one of those live action Japanese shows like Ultraman. The movie is over before you know it though so it has to get credit for not inflicting you with a very painful to watch movie. Just to many plot holes and things in it for it to be considered an okay movie. You do get to see the guy who played Toulon in the last movie though then you have a very anti-climatic battle and wham the movie is over before it really begins. "},{"Title":"What on Earth?? What were they thinking?","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" So I decided to watch the entire Puppet Master series, and had just watched parts 1-3, which I thought were ALL excellent. They had a unique charm to them, and a certain intelligence that I really appreciated. About a year ago, I even saw Puppet Master Vs. Demonic Toys, which of course was bad, but still a terrific guilty pleasure and fun to watch.From the very beginning of this film, I knew it was in trouble. The cheesy Power Rangers-style Egyptian skull villain who watches the Puppets 'Rita Repulsa-style' through his pyramid glass came straight out of left field! All of the additions to this franchise in this story were completely absurd! Suddenly we have a grand assortment of all kinds of new and random characters and plots that are a far cry from the first three films. I seriously doubt that when the first Puppet Master was being penned, the writers had visions of someday seeing an Egyptian Power Rangers villain, totem monsters, annoying twenty-somethings who seriously can't act (and are supposed to be brilliant scientists but never say anything intelligent), and a lame Decapitron puppet who's head can morph into the ghost of Toulon.Another thing that greatly disappointed me in this film was that it completely ignores what happened in the last entry (Part II, since III was a prequel). Suddenly, the puppets are back at Bodega Bay Inn, back in their case (minus Blade), and Toulon for some reason is willing to help his puppets again (he betrays them in part II for his love of Elsa). This isn't explained AT ALL...and so with that, and all of this other junk thrown in, I was no longer amused.I'm a huge fan of ridiculous B movies, a connoisseur if you will. I even collect laser discs of rare B movies you can't find on DVD, and so it takes a lot for me to say that this was one of the most absurd movies I have ever seen in my life. I still love those puppets, the original ones, Blade, Tunneler, Pinhead, Jester and the rest, and if they had only stuck with what they had rather than trying to fix something that wasn't broken, well, the series might still be alive and in good health. That being said, even though the reviews aren't so great, I'm really interested in checking out Puppet Master Retro, sounds like an interesting one that pays great tribute to the original themes. "},{"Title":"This Series Just Keeps Getting Better!","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":"    The Puppet Master Movies are my Favorite Series of Horror Films. I've Seen All of Them Except Part 5, and Let me Tell You, I have Gotten Thrills, Chills, and Enjoyment out of Every Single One. In This One, we Have some of The Same Good Things we Find in Part One. Mainly A Psychic, A Team of Researchers, and Most Importantly, Good Scares! However, Unlike The Original, This time we Find Something New. A Few little Demons who want to Steal Back the Magic that Andre Toulon Stole from Them. Sounds Stupid? It isn't. I Even think It was Good for The Series to take a bit of a Twist. I also Thought it was Nice that the Puppets became the Good Guys. Because in The Three Previous Films, We Learn that The Puppets Will Obey any Command from The Puppet Master. Also in The Three Previous Films, The Puppet Master has used the Puppets for Their own Evil. I Think This Film also tries to Tell you That It is not The Puppets who are the Bad Guys, It's the People that Abuse the Puppets' Power.  In Case you Already Haven't Heard, You Should Know that this is The Newest Puppet's Debut Film. His Name is Decapitron, and He is the Most Shocking and Powerful of Them All. It's War and Chaos as The Puppets Fight off The Pesky little Demons as They Protect Themselves, The People stuck in the Hotel, and Most Importantly, The Magic of Life. The Graphics were also Remarkable because The Actually looked like They Were Walking, as to Where in Scenes from Previous Films They looked Like they were Floating or Hovering. As Well as A New Puppet Showing Up, a Few Puppets are Absent. The Absent Puppets are Torch and Ms. Leech.   This Film was so Fun to Watch and I Would Hope that There wasn't a Person in the World who Didn't Like it. I Also Thought the Puppets were a Little More Fun to Watch, Because they are Funny and Curious. All in All, We are left with a Good Film with Plenty of Thrills and Excitement to Go Around. A Pure Joyride. 10 out of 10. Any Good Puppet Master Fan Should see The Best of The Series, Puppet Master III Toulon's Revenge     "},{"Title":"Inspired sequel bringing new life to the franchise","Date":"6 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet Master 4 shows the great potential this straight-to-video horror franchise has in terms of the variety of stories that can be explored. In this third sequel, the human characters and the infamous puppets are forced to battle the forces of darkness in the shape of a towering demonic baddie, Zutek, and the evil Totems (think gremlins but with less personality).It's a feel-good horror movie but with a few genuine scares thrown in early on (a first for the Puppet Master series). The film is ably directed by Jeff Burr (Leatherface) and moves at a cracking pace.The cast do a decent job and there's even the introduction of a new puppet for the film's finale.All in all, a great popcorn horror film that leaves the viewer hungry for the next (but not final) instalment. "},{"Title":"The point the Puppet Master series started to go downhill... fast.","Date":"26 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet Master 4 is set at the abandoned Bogeda Bay Inn where teenage boy genius Rick Meyers (Gordon Currie) is working on the Omega Project for the Biotech Institute which concerns the pursuit of artificial intelligence, Rick's girlfriend Susie (Chandra West) & a couple of her friends including psychic Lauren (Teresa Hill) & the obnoxious Cameron (Ash Adams) turn up to stay for the weekend with him. Susie notices a strange puppet & Rick say's it's been there since he moved in, then Lauren feels something evil about it & leads the friends to a large chest in a forgotten storage room & several other strange puppets inside it as well as the diary of German toymaker & puppeteer Andre Toulon (Guy Rolfe) which describes a green serum which can animate the puppets & give them life which by an odd coincidence is just the thing that Rick is working on. Meanwhile Sutek the ancient Eygptian God whom Toulon stole the reanimation secret from in the first place wants it back & sends various little monsters out to get it & kill anyone who has learned about it starting with Rick, his chums & Toulon's puppets...Originally having the working title Puppet Master 4 The Demon this was directed by sequel specialist Jeff Burr whose other credits include Stepfather II (1989), Leatherface Texas Chainsaw Massacre III (1990), Pumpinhead II Blood Wings (1994) as well as the following Puppet Master sequel Puppet Master 5 (1994) which was actually made at the same time as Puppet Master 4 & continues the story with pretty much the same cast of actor's & character's (here in the UK ironically Puppet Master 5 was the only one never to be released on video or DVD so that means the only Puppet Master to follow on directly from the previous one storyline wise was never released!). I must admit that I am a huge fan of the first three Puppet Master flicks which I consider to be Full Moon's best films with some strong storytelling, neat special effects & gore & some memorable killer puppets each with their own distinct personality & implement's for killing but this is the point where that stops & the Puppet Master series starts to turn into a cheap horror franchise aimed at making money & selling replica dolls to the fans. Amazingly Puppet Master 4 has five credited on screen writers which I find astonishing, I mean it took five people to write this? While there are elements of the screenplay & plot that I like I have to say some of this sucks big time & some of the plot elements that are newly introduced like the Egyptian God Sutek, the laser fights & the scientific artificial intelligence angle are poor. Event at only 75 minutes long not much actually happens, out of the four main teenage cast members only one is killed & I didn't like the fact that the Toulon puppets don't get to do anything & aren't used as the main threat which ends up falling to Sutek's little monsters which are forgettable & don't have any particular stand out features.A lot of the previous Puppet Master films continuity is forgotten about or ignored here as well, I mean where's Torch from Puppet Master II (1991) which this follows? Although having said that Torch does appear in Puppet Master 5. The character of Andre Toulon has been completely rewritten & changed which doesn't help & the puppets which were once so cool & so deadly are turned into the hero's here & actually protect Rick & his mates from Sutek. The majority of the special effects are surprisingly good with simple yet very effective stop-motion animation & animatronic puppet effects used throughout, I just wish the puppets were meaner & had been given more to do. The only really terrible effect is the awful rubber monster suit that is supposed to pass as Sutek the Demon God. The gore levels are low, someone has their finger cut off & there's some mild blood splatter but this feels like it was made for a PG rating & if there hadn't been some 'F' word swearing it would surely have gotten that PG rating.Production wise Puppet Master 4 is pretty good, the wonderful location used for the Bodega Bay Inn scenes really help as I'm sure the production team would have struggled to build sets that were half as good & anywhere near as atmospheric. The cinematography is quite nice on occasion with some moody lighting & a power cut coupled with a good thunder storm going on outside with sporadic lightning flashes always helps the feel. The acting is alright by a fairly young & attractive cast (especially the two leading girls who are hot!) most of whom return for the next one Puppet Master 5.Puppet Master 4 has a few good points like the return of the puppets & some nice special effects & one or two good moments but it's nowhere near as good as the first three & you can tell the producers are milking the franchise & see it as a money making exercise rather than anything else, or maybe I'm just being too cynical? Splitting what would have sat happily as one long film into two 70 odd minute ones along with turning the once killer puppets into the good guy's & reducing the gore & nudity to virtually zero probably say's it all really. "},{"Title":"The Worst of the Series So Far","Date":"9 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror, Sci-Fi","Review":" Puppet Master 4 (1993) * 1/2 (out of 4) A teenage genius (Gordon Currie) is working on an Omega Project, which is meant to contact artificial intelligence. Along the way he stumbles onto puppet master Andre Toulon's puppets, which he brings to life just in time because some evil alien/demons have come to steal the magical potion. The most shocking thing in PUPPET MASTER 4 happens during the opening credits when you see that it took five writers to come up with this film and it only clocks in at 75-minutes. I'm really not sure why five writers were needed but it appears that all of them fell asleep at their typewriters. This here is clearly the worst in the series so far and that's a real shame especially considering the fact that the previous two were actually fairly good and delivered quite a bit of entertainment. This fourth installment just comes off incredibly silly and even worse is that this is when the screenwriters decided to take the puppets and turn them into good guys wanting to help out the humans. Blade, the most memorable puppet from the first three movies, makes his return here but he doesn't even get the use the instrument that he's named after. Six-Shooter, Pinhead and Tunneler aren't given much to do either and you really have to wonder why they even bothered to include them. Those expecting any type of violence or gore are certainly going to be disappointed as this thing here is pretty much PG-rated. That's pretty funny considering director Jeff Burr had just gotten done with LEATHERFACE Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE 3, which had all sorts of problems due to its gore and violence so perhaps the director was just playing it safe here. With the five screenwriters you'd think that they at least write one good, memorable character but that's not the case. The four teens are all rather annoying and poorly written. Toulon appears for a matter of minutes and his screen time is also wasted. PUPPET MASTER 4 certainly shows its low-budget as it seems they were working with even less money than before. The special effects aren't nearly as good but even if they were better it's doubtful they would have saved the film. "}]