[{"Title":"Glorious Film making","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"56 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Every time I look back at movies through the years, I find myself wondering why The Joy Luck Club did not make a huge splash in the awards circle.  The film is one of the BEST FILMS of my lifetime.  It will always represent to me, the dream that is America.I think it's because the emotions of the film are so universal, that I count it as one of my favorites. I am male, I am hispanic, I came to the United States when I was 13 years old.  I felt alienated, lonely and hopeless, could anyone really understand all that I wanted to do, all that I wanted to become.  How do you reconcile your cultural roots, with wanting to fit into the American Dream.I try to watch The JOY LUCK CLUB as often as I try to read the book.  Because it reminds me that we are all connected in so many ways. That our dreams and desires are not all together different. that Love reaches beyond race, beyond politics and beyond time.when I saw this film I thought, The Academy of Arts and Sciences would gush over it.  But it never reached the kind of acclaim it truly deserved.  I think it's because most film makers field of personal experience limited in reaching and feeling.  Most of the Academy comes from back grounds that didn't see struggle, that doesn't see the world in unison, but in carefully separated categories. This to them was not a human experience film, it was a film for a minority group.  But, while The JOY LUCK CLUB is life affirming to some, to those who have lived the similarities, it is life changing.  "},{"Title":"I Honestly Love This Movie","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"47 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Joy Luck Club is a movie based on the bestselling novel by Amy Tan of the same name. It is one of the best movies I have ever seen in my life. It combines the stories of mothers and daughters to tell one sincere story of friendship. It is one of the finest pieces of acting collaberations among an ensemble cast. It also combines foriegn film with American film in a way giving it a new style. This movie is almost ten years old. For me it never gets old and the stories are also fresh. I like the set up of the movie or the sequence rather, better than the book. It seemed to make more sense. It also has the movie and book on the same level of unique style and everlasting stories to go along with it. Many of the performances were powerful. Even those who only spoke the Chinese language in the film should have gotten awards for performances that made me laugh and cry. I would recommend this film to anyone who wants to see an honestly good film without the Hollywood hype. Rent it, you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Different strokes for different folks","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"35 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have read the book and seen the movie.  I have also read reactions to both.  Some really liked it and found it to be very real, while others hate it and object to the stereotype.  It seems to depend on whether you could relate to the stories, characters, or themes.I myself could relate very well to the stories, but that could be because I too have experienced the intergenerational and intercultural conflict as an American-born Chinese daughter with a very traditional Chinese mother. Many other American-born Chinese women who were born in the 1960s could relate to the stories very well also.  For us, we would start crying as soon as the first sentence is made.I didn't experience everything that June, Rose, Lena, or Waverly went through, but on a grander scale, they are dealing with issues that I have struggled with as well.I understand that there are other women who could relate to it as well, and these are not Chinese women--or even Asian women.  Perhaps Amy Tan has touched on universal themes that women of other nationalities could relate to.On the other hand, I have found that some people who are ten years younger than me didn't like the book/movie too much and found the characters stereotypical or unrealistic.Some Caucasian males didn't like this book/movie either, and again it comes back to them not being able to relate to it.I understand another user's comment about the negative portrayal of Asian men, but this person has forgotten about June's father who was portrayed as a very likeable man who was trying to bridge the gap between his wife and his daughter.  As for his objection of the daughters marrying Caucasian wives, he needs to realize that there are other issues/reasons involved and it's not because Chinese-American women like them hate Chinese men.In short, this movie is very good at portraying the intergenerational and/or intercultural conflict between people who are caught between two cultures. Women like me have cried while watching this movie because the issues have been very real for us.  For those who could not relate to it or cannot see the reality of it, then this movie would not be for them.  "},{"Title":"Honest and Beautiful","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"36 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Joy Luck Club is a deeply moving film that will touch the heart and mind of anyone who opens themselves to it's messages about life.If someone (such as darkfalz) feels this film speaks more of women's shallow choices, they miss out on humanity for the sake of superficial judgment.This is a film about hard choices and sacrifice. It's a story of the generation gap that inevitably occurs between immigrant mother's and their daughters who were brought up surrounded by different values. Each mother strives to raise her children in a way that will bring them success and joy in life. Each hopes to free their offspring from the pains they themselves had to endure. It is also about the Chinese way of pushing a child to be the best, and gives insight into a mother's need to see her own struggles amount to something great in her daughter. However, this is not just about Asians. It is about all parents hopes and all children's frustrations with fulfilling those dreams. In America the story of the first generational gap is a very real and painful one. It happens for boys as much as girls, and I know a lot of men who relate to this film despite it's inherent chick flick nature. It celebrates the need to keep your roots and history alive, even if you let go of certain traditions that you were not born into. The women in the film often make hard choices. Many of them folly and sin, but it is not a film about forgiving them so much as it is about the lasting effect of the choices we make. Everyone should see this film. It's one of the most honest human dramas out there. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"25 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The first time I sat down to watch  this it was just because there wasn't anything else on. I mean what would a single guy in his late twenties be interested in a film about relationship between Chinese-American women and their mothers? Well I was wrong. This film was very captivating and moving. It does excellent job of showing the universal issue of generational differences and the love that exist between parents and their children. All of the perfomances in this film were excellent. 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"affecting","Date":"26 May 2004","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  It's surprising they managed to make a movie out of The Joy Luck Club, which was, after all, a series of anecdotes by 8 different people.  But somehow they did it, seamless weaving in and out of the characters' reminiscences. Joy Luck Club could reasonably be described as a chick flick - it is, after all, a film about a bunch of women and their feelings - but that would be a disservice.  Chick flick has become a somewhat derogatory term, partially because it was a term created by guys who find women and their feelings annoying, but to a great extent because most movies in this class are shoddy pieces of tripe like Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood.  If movies of women and their feelings were all this intelligent, insightful and affecting I doubt anyone would have even coined the term chick flick.  This is a movie of honest emotion that leaves you with a sense of fulfillment, a rebuke to all those manufactured, syrupy women's movies that Hollywood churns out.  Highly, highly, HIGHLY recommended. "},{"Title":"What a great movie!  Truly a film that fills you with emotion!","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"20 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film is truly a classic.  The stories will touch your heart and make you laugh and cry.  The cast did an excellent job of portraying these diverse women.  You will love each character.  A movie every woman should see.   "},{"Title":"One of the best films of 1993!","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"23 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I think I feared seeing The Joy Luck Club because it just screamed chick flick all over the cover, but my mother kept insisting it was an excellent film that anyone could really enjoy. So, I let my guards down and I was pleasantly surprised by this uplifting and rewarding drama about mother's and daughter's. Just wanting what is best and growing up wisely. I know this sounds silly, but this film made me not only appreciate being an American even more, but it also made me fell better as a woman. The four Auntie's had such wisdom and I felt that their stories were so heart wrenching but true and realistic.One of my friends is from China and she told me how women are treated there and it just broke my heart, watching this movie helped me realize more how much I should appreciate what I have. I even called my mother after the film and told her I loved her because she always tried her best to look out for me. The four stories of how the mother's made their journey to America and raised their daughters was very touching and the ending felt like it could only be a new beginning. I would highly recommend this movie for anyone, it's perfectly directed and acted.8/10 "},{"Title":"Not enough praise!","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I cannot praise this movie enough. It leaves me walking away feeling empowered! I had a very close relationship with my mother and after she passed this movie helped me with my grief. It is more than a chick flick it is a look into another culture's past, present and future. It is a light at the end of a tunnel for those that hold this movie dear to their hearts as I do. This movie helps you run thru all aspects of feelings, I find myself laughing, crying, sad, happy. Every woman I have shared this movie with or recommended to have thanked me endlessly for it. I have also read the book - now normally I would say the book was better but I'm going to have to agree with Theaterchica07's comment that the movie was easier to follow than the book. I reread it 3 times before my mind could actually put together the scenes. My favorite part of the movie is Rose standing in the rain and she says You're not taking my house, you're not taking my daughter, you're not taking any part of me, because you don't know who I am. I died sixty years ago. I ate opium and I died for my daughter's sake. Now get out of my house! That right there sent instant chills thru me. Well done!!! "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"24 November 2002","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Words fail to capture the essence of this film.  I read the book before I saw the movie and as anyone can tell you, the book for a movie is usually a lot better, but in this case and I think they are both on the same level. I watched this movie again for the umpteenth time today and every time I watch it I see the magic again.  It makes me think of my own relationship with my mother and my relationship with my daughter.  This is the story that made me feel in love with Asian film. "}{"Title":"A great film.","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" One of the best films of the 90's, I think. This would have been my favorite film of 1993, if not for Schindler's List.Although I saw the movie first and then read the book, this is one of the few examples where I think the movie surpasses the book.Amy Tan is a magnificent storyteller, and one of the best out there, IMHO. It is regrettable that many others don't realize this, as she writes primarily about Mother/Daughter relationships from a Chinese point of view, and therefore many don't want to give her a chance. The book The Bonesetter's Daughter by her is also magnificent.Each time I see The Joy Luck Club, I pull new things out of it. However, the speech towards the end of the movie about her daughter having best quality heart always breaks me up. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece in editing","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Joy Luck Club is one of the best edited movies I've ever seen.  You know a film is well edited when the editing doesn't occur to you as you watch it.  It takes a special film to go beyond that and call particular attention to how well it's all put together.  But that's not only what makes this film great.This film is more or less told as eight small vignettes.  Usually in such a film, half to three quarters of them can be considered good.  In this film, the stories of all eight women are great.  They are well written, well acted, and tied perfectly into the frame of the story overall.  They are funny, dramatic and shocking all at the same time.  They are all interesting and very different from each other. The films' only weakness, in my opinion, is the bookends.  The story of the coming reunion of the three sisters.  The punch that's so prevelant in all the vignettes is just not there in either the writing or the acting. However, this is a great film, and one of the best of 1993.  While I don't think any of the actresses could warrant any Oscar attention on their own, it certainly was a snub that the film itself wasn't nominated, and particularly Wayne Wang, the director.  The Piano was a piece of garbage, and I cringe at the thought of it being mentioned in the same breath as Schindler's List and The Remains of the Day.  And The Joy Luck Club.  "},{"Title":"Work of art","Date":"6 July 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A powerful and poignant film.It's not a chick-flic, it's a human flic.There are certain truths underlying each story that mirror the relationships all around us.  "},{"Title":"A Hanky Fest","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  If you're an Asian-American woman with parental conflicts around culture then prepare to cry at this wonderfully fabulous film.  So many cultural issues come up that you never know when you'll be hit with a wave of recognition.  There are many laughs here as well.  You just don't know when they'll arrive.  This is a definite must for anyone struggling to understand how to incorporate their ethnic heritage in the massive American melting pot.   "},{"Title":"Extremely emotional","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  All I can say is this  every person in the world should see this movie! It is a masterpiece!  It is truly a very emotional film; see it when you want to see something amazing!!  If you are a man, be ready to cry for possibly the first time while seeing a movie!   "},{"Title":"A Touching Tale of Love Between Mothers and Daughters","Date":"5 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I've read many of the recent comments made by IMDB members and am disappointed by various posts. Although I do agree with some that the portrayal of men was sometimes rather harsh, but everyone must remember that this movie's focus is relating to WOMEN! Including that not all male characters were negative, this film is about women dealing with believing in themselves and their mothers. Take for example, Rose, her husband loved her for who she was, but she was caught up in the traditional Chinese ideal that a wife must be obedient and self-sacrificing. Not understanding, her husband, of course, felt alienated and strange towards her. There is one scene where he tries to get her to talk for herself, to make her stop groveling before him, but she refuses to feel that she deserves anything. Eventually, Rose's mother gets her to see this through her own personal history of finally standing up for herself, her mother, and a generation of future women.I am a first generation Chinese-American and the stories told by Amy Tan strongly empathized with me. These tales are a touching revelation of the tangible coldness that Chinese daughters and mothers often keep in their relationship. Although we may not always be able to say the things we mean or act the way we feel, there is that unspoken but often thought of love and connection between all mothers and daughters. This is especially apparent within the movie that accurately depicts the pain and anguish but above all hope that humans hold on to throughout their lives as a means to an end. I loved this movie that brought unhindered tears to my eyes and allowed me to see my mother through a different view. It is still difficult at times to remember that my mother has a story behind her tears and a history behind her bitterness, but at least I can understand that my mother only means well for me and my future, and I plan to make her proud.I am definitely not saying that this movie is for everybody, because apparently it is not, but see it and don't judge too quickly until you've let the true message of the film settle in. I would also like to say that those of you who disliked the film, please put reasons behind your complaints for thus far I have only seen a few negative comments that have made any sense to me. "},{"Title":"This Movie Is Best Quality","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I must agree with Todd Victor Leone's comment. The fact that 'The Joy Luck Club' was not nominated for at least ONE Academy Award is a TRAVESTY !!! This movie was very well directed, the acting by all actors was superb, the cinematography was excellent, camera angles, wardrobe, casting, screenplay - ALL GREAT. So why no awards ? I have come to the conclusion that Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences is comprised of a bunch of silly peoples and from now on when I want an opinion I intend to come to this website and listen to YOU guys first and watch whatever you recommend on my VCR while the Academy Awards are on. I'm mad as hell and I ain't gonna take this anymore !I have seen the 'Joy Luck Club' about five times and each time I want to be a part of this wonderful group of friends. I want them to invite me to play mah-jong and taste all the wonderful Chinese foods they make and I'd just love to ask June out on a date (she's so cute). So far I am an Italian / American but when I watch this movie I want to be an Italian/Chinese/American.This movie is actually eight stories in one but each has a common thread which is the gifts given and received my mothers and daughters to each other - gifts of hope, courage, resolve, and acceptance. This movie is definitely a tear jerker but after five viewings my tears now remain in their ducts and refuse to be jerked but I still love this fantastically wonderful celebration of art and the cultural diversity that makes America great .... despite the ineptness of The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.  "},{"Title":"Anyone who does not cry during this movie has no heart!!","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Yes, this movie, about mothers and daughters, can move people to tears, especially the ending. as a parent, i think of my daughters when i watched each tale of parent and child. each time i do watch, tears fall, even the music from the intro rips my heart out. my wife laughs at me, but i do not care, i am deeply moved by the story of the four daughters growing up and listening to their mother's tell theirs' take your sweetheart to this movie, if no tears, kick them to the  "},{"Title":"One of my top 10 movies of all time!!","Date":"12 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Ignored by both AFI and Oscar, The Joy Luck Club is a wonderful, beautiful, uplifting motion picture.  No single aspect stands out above anything else in the movie, but put them all together and the result is a truly moving experience.  The characters are so engaging and even though I am not of Chinese extraction, nor does anything in my life remotely resemble anything in the lives of the characters, I found myself instantly drawn in to their world.I can not recommend a movie more highly than The Joy Luck Club.  If you have not yet had the pleasure of seeing this life-affirming drama, I envy you that you can have the opportunity of seeing it for the first time. "},{"Title":"Most favorable.","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Movie started slowly for me.However, as the storyline began to take form and meaning ,I realized I had chanced upon a marvelous movie that really grabbed your heart while part of it grabbed your throat. A magnificent moment in movie making. I doubt that I recognized more than one or two of the ten major  characters but it has a long time that have been so impressed with a group of actors. The title was prophetic for me. It was a great Joy to see it and it was sheer Luck to chance upon it. "}{"Title":"Double-Edged Sword","Date":"12 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are quite a few themes in this movie.  One that springs to mind for me, right away, is that of a generation gap AND a cultural gap.  This is a story about Chinese-American girls, growing up in America, raised by women who came of age in Mainland China, decades earlier.  One interesting thought most of these Chinese mothers came to America, wishing to fight like a tiger for their daughters...........wishing that they could give their daughters a much better life (and a MUCH  LESS  PAINFUL life) than they had.  Unfortunately most of their daughters interpreted their tenacious desire to fight for them (and push them to excellence) as a lack of love hence the double-edged sword of giving their all for their daughters. I am all too keenly aware that this is what most people would call a chick flick.  Nevertheless, as a man, I loved it.  I enjoyed how the stories of the mother's and daughter's childhoods (and their younger years in general) were interwoven throughout the movie like a Chinese tapestry or quilt.  Moving in and out of the American and Chinese cultures made this even more interesting to watch.  Every tale, that each Chinese mother narrated, was like a work of art a work of art complete with flutes, violins and various types of Chinese instruments in the background.  Their tales were also frequently accompanied by breathtaking views of snowcapped mountains and the wide, open Chinese countryside (so very similar to what we have seen on sheets of rice paper or on porcelain plates).  There was also a lot of powerful energy in this film.  Not all of it was the negative energy of deep conflicts and emotional strife between mother and daughter.  Much of it was quite positive and invigorating the energy that filled the room of these daughters and mothers when they got together to CELEBRATE  LIFE at an extended family party...........The very moving and touching energy, that surged forth, when mother and daughter often came together, after years and decades of conflict..........and realized that they were on each other's team..........The tears of joy that often sprang forth, when a given daughter realized, for the first time, that her mother was not disappointed in her..........and that her own happiness was PARAMOUNT, in her mother's heart.In a small way, it did bother me that every single one of the Chinese mothers came from a dysfunctional family (and/or background).  I do realize, however, that the overall story would not have been anywhere near as riveting, had each daughter not had a mother who had to fight and claw her way to survival (and to sanity!).  I will say that, of all the mothers, Tsai Chin's Lindo Jon character was perhaps the most unforgivable role model for maternity.  Most of my friends, who have seen this movie, agree that she was almost HATEFUL in her attitude toward her daughter!  However, this part of the movie did help make the overall plot very interesting (and deeply charged with emotion!).  A few closing comments as a former student of Chinese History I really enjoyed seeing  some of the common Chinese familial traits played out in this movie respect for elders, honoring one's ancestors and being an obedient child.  Finally, I must compliment the casting director of The Joy Luck Club you selected some of the prettiest little girls to play the mothers and daughters in their earliest years.  "},{"Title":"A Great Movie","Date":"21 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" It was and is a great movie more than worthy of classic status. It is the only drama ever that has managed to make me cry over and over again without fail. The movie has beautifully shown the relationship between mother and daughter. As well shows that we all might not know our parents as well as we think. I may not be Asian but I am the daughter of my mother and the movie speaks to all mothers and daughters.Brilliant work Brilliant acting from young and old performers "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'The Joy Luck Club'","Date":"24 December 2006","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" On my first viewing, this film got a fair rating because there were not enough memorable roles and the story was confusing to me. I lost track of which person was telling their particular story at the moment. (There are eight stories woven into this two hour, 19 minute movie). I think it would be confusing to most one-time viewers to get confused here if you don't know the stories or the actors. It also got a little soap-opera-ish, too, but then again, this film was based on a best-selling book that was ready primarily by women.On the second viewing, almost two years later, I liked it a lot more and upgraded my star rating considerably. It's still a chick flick and a feminist one. The young women are that way, the Americanized women, while their mothers, those all born in China, are quite. The older ladies are a bit too strict and their daughters are a bit too liberal. That included general morals and language - a big difference between the two generations and cultures. The feminist angle I didn't like was that in almost every relationship the man is painted as the bad guy (the abuser, the non-loving type, etc.) That kind of story bias was too much.The more memorable of the stories turned out to be the ones with the older women, such as the one who left her two babies at the base of a tree, or the one who had to marry a young boy.For me, the best part of the film was the cinematography. There were some beautiful scenes and great colors bright oranges, yellows, reds and browns. Some of the young women were beautiful, too. The lady narrating in the beginning, June (Melanie Chang as a nine-year- old and then Ming-Na as an adult) was very appealing and had a great voice. Her story is the one that begins and ends the film. That ending, by the way, is almost guaranteed to bring a few tears.Overall, a wonderful visual movie and a great venue for Chinese-American actresses, all of whom I found fascinating to watch. "},{"Title":"One of the most powerful films out there. Undoubtley, one of the best of 1993.","Date":"21 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Growing up was never easy. Growing up would be anything but easy if you came all the way from China to America! Based on Amy Tan's novel, The Joy Luck Club deals with four different stories about women growing up in China. Each story contains a mother, and a daughter, who usually have different kinds of relationships with each other.The Joy Luck Club doesn't waste our time with unnecessary build-up or scenes that delay the moments of drama. The four stories (actually divided into eight one for the daughter and one for the mother) are short, so we don't have to watch an over-drawn introduction to the characters and settings. This is a good thing.What else makes The Joy Luck Club so successful is the wonderful and moving dialogue! Amy Tan definitely gave the book her fullest when writing it. What's the most moving line in the whole movie? Who knows? The only flaw is that the movie is too confusing! It's hard to remember the characters and tell them apart from each other. That's pretty much the only thing that got me down.The Joy Luck Club is a work of art. I doubt Amy Tan will ever be able to write anything that can compare. Why? The Joy Luck Club can only be described as powerful. And, boy is it powerful. Even if it is considered a chick flick this movie brings out all your emotions! If anything, I would recommend this. Go watch it today! 8.5/10 Good Powerful, moving, work of art Bad Confusing!Feel free to send me a Private Message regarding this comment. "},{"Title":"One of my favorites!","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Just like two days ago I remembered how much I liked this movie. I checked here for the comments because I was sure to find most people would agree that it is a great movie, and surely enough that was the case. Well, luckily last night flipping through the channels there it was, maybe 20 minutes into it. So of course, I had to watch it again. My God. I had forgotten how terribly SAD this movie is, I think I went through a whole box of tissue. WOW! I could agree with a couple here that it may be a chick flick because it portrays relationships between mothers and daughters, but men have a chance of learning a few things about us women and how cruelly men can treat us. This is a MUST - SEE. 10/10 stars. "},{"Title":"Heartwarming, Beautiful story of Generations","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Stunning, well crafted film of four daughters stories, interposed with that of their mothers. The script is first rate (Amy Tan, who wrote the screenplay from her novel along with Ronald Bass), and the performances are simply wonderful.  The conflict of generational ideals and expectations are realistically wrought, in such a believable, poignant fashion, that anyone really can relate. This could be about any gender, really.  The screenplay, intelligently, emotionally and tenderly realized, without feeling forced, could touch the remotest heart. Wayne Wang's direction allows the story to flow smoothly, without cliched or unnecessary distractions or cheap attempts at melodrama.  We should already know to expect something different, when Oliver Stone is involved (one of the producers). After seeing this movie, thank goodness for it. Keep a box of tissues handy (I did), and set some time out for yourself to enjoy this uplifting gem. Probably one of the best human interest films to come along in awhile, since STRANGERS IN GOOD COMPANY. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"GOOD but should have been GREAT.","Date":"6 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a GOOD film in many ways, that others here have mentioned.  It is quite a feat of Amy Tan's story telling to intertwine 8 major characters through 3 generations and not have the viewer completely confused.  The cinematography is very well done and the score is moving.  The portrayal of most of the Chinese women in this film is very positive.  But best of all are the performances by the actresses in the leading roles, especially the older generation.  It is so rare and wonderful to see so many Asian actresses in a Hollywood production.However, this should have been a GREAT movie, but wasn't, mainly to a couple of flaws.  Firstly, the portrayal of most of the Chinese men in this film is very negative, such as the philandering rich Chinese husband with four wives, or Ying Ying's cold penny-pinching husband who adds up everything she spends on an adding machine.  Some Chinese men might have been offended by these characterizations, but I would have been willing to overlook them, in light of the positive roles for the Chinese women.  However, there was one cruel unnecessary line of dialogue, spoken by the Rose character, that was a direct personal insult to an individual who wasn't in the film, but should have been. This line Amy Tan added to the screenplay (it wasn't in the book) showed to me that she has a small heart. "},{"Title":"An accessible epic","Date":"26 May 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is completely magnificent.  I am not exactly the target audience for this movie but I loved it anyway. It was done with much love and respect for its characters.  I liked the inter-generational scenes the best.  You can tell the characters are not American-born because they respect the elders.  Have a tissue handy near the end...and before that, too. "},{"Title":"Under-Appreciated","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  One of the best coming to America stories ever, thought that was not the main plot of this film.  The friendships this movie portrays in these women is beautiful and real.  The movie positively portrays the Asian-American community.  These four women are part of this country but have not forgotten who they are and culture they come from.  I wish there where more movies like it. "},{"Title":"Great, but read the book!","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  My high school English class has just finished reading The Joy Luck Club by Amy Tan, so to round things off, we were shown the movie. Overall, it definitely did the book justice. The symbolism and wonderful cinematography all provide a realistic view of the lives of these women, and if anything, it opens your eyes to Chinese culture.Often harsh and poignant, this movie provides the stories of four Chinese - American daughters and their mothers which reveal conflicts between Eastern and Western civilization, but also show the special bond between the mothers and daughters. It is great to see how each character develops and it really goes into detail with each character's traits. The strangest thing was, the images on the screen were almost exactly what I had imagined when I was reading the book. I think that definitely says something good about the cinematography, anyway!I would recommend this film to anyone - no, it is not a chick flick - it is a deep exploration of these women's trials and tribulations. However, DEFINITELY read the book, as a few stories are omitted in the movie. You'll love the book even more than the movie. "}{"Title":"A little soapy but the emotion is controlled well to prevent it becoming sentimental","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  June's mother plays regular games of mah-jong with three friends at what she calls the Joy Luck Club.  When she dies June discovers that two twins that her mother abandoned as babies are actually alive and not dead as feared.  On the even of her trip to meet them in China, the mothers and their daughters reminisce over their lives as children and as adults, strengthening their bonds as mothers and daughters.I always had the idea in my head that this film was about 3 hours long and all subtitled.  Don't know where I got that from but it kept putting it low on my list of things I'd like to see. This week I hadn't really watched anything so I thought I'd give it a try and was instantly surprised to hear English dialogue and notice that it is only just over two hours.  These are trivial things but it is funny what can put you off something.  The film instantly sets out it's stall to be a potential `chick flick' by focusing on the hardships and lives of 2 generations of 8 women.  I hate that phrase (`chick flick') but it is what came across to me from the first 20 minutes.Happily sticking with it revealed that the film manages to avoid the sentimental excesses of those films usually put under that category.  Although the film has enough tragic life experiences to keep a soap opera going for months, all crammed into 8 individuals, it still manages to be controlled and down to earth.  What I mean by this is that the emotion was involving but not forced by the use of tear jerking music or trivialised by being portrayed as mushy or sentimental.  It was from the heart.The cast do well.  No one person really stands out but as an ensemble everyone works. Due to this I won't go into individual performances but there are plenty of well known faces and I did get a little distracted doing `where do I know him/her from' in my head.  Some of the cast were so into their characters that this wasn't a problem but in some cases they didn't grip me and my mind wandered.With a smaller budget, lower production values and an all white cast this would have been just another TVM tearjerker.  However as it is this is a well put together film whose polish shows through in the fact that the emotion always stays relateable (no matter how tragic the events) and never really becomes as cloying or sentimental as many TVM's would have turned this. "},{"Title":"Heartbreakingly Beautiful","Date":"29 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" **********SPOILER ALERT!!!!**********What can be said about this film that hasn't been said millions of times? It's a beautiful film that makes you laugh one moment, and cry the next. Jing Mei (Ming Na)has just lost her mother months before and is about to go to China. She had recently discovered that her mother had 2 twin daughters there. At a party at her home, you find out not only the story about her mother, but of her mother's friends (Tsai Chin, Frances Nuyen and Lisa Lu)and their daughters (Tamilyn Tomita, Lauren Tom and Rosalind Chao). Some of their stories are heartbreaking (One mother drowned her own child), some are funny (One mom comes up with a ingenious way to escape an arranged marriage). The core of the story is the strength of womanhood and of relationship between mother and daughter.If you've never seen this film, have the hankies ready, because you will have a good weep. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  We enjoyed this movie.  The constituent stories are fairly predictable; four families, each mother with a heart-rendering tale from China and each daughter with a modern tale in San Fran.   Some of the dialogue is truly cheesy.  But it is all well acted, beautifully filmed and it held our attention for its two hours plus span.  Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"About Generations Of Asian Immigrants In The States","Date":"19 September 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Joy Luck Club is a film about the relationships between Chinese- American women and their Chinese mothers.It has a cast of Asian-American actresses such as Ming-Na,Rosalind Chao,Lauren Tom,France Nuyen,Tamlyn Tomita,Kieu Chinh,Lisa Lu and Tsai Chin. It is based on the novel of the same title by Amy Tan, who also co-wrote the screenplay with Ronald Bass.The film was directed by Wayne Wang.The film takes place in present-day San Francisco, concentrating on a group of late-middle-aged Chinese women. Ever since arriving in the United States after World War II, the women have gathered weekly to play mah-jongg and to tell stories, regaling each other with tales of their children and grandchildren, giving each other a sense of hope and renewal in the midst of poverty and hardship. The Joy Luck Club is made up of four women -- Suyuan, Lindo, Ying Ying, and An Mei. But when Suyuan dies, the three surviving members invite Suyuan's daughter June to take her place. Along with the daughters of the other members -- Waverly, Lena, and Rose -- June is a Chinese-American with only a passing interest in her rich cultural heritage. But through vignettes that switch back and forth in time, the daughters begin to appreciate the struggles of their mothers to start their families in the optimistic promise of the United States.The movie gives refreshing -- and bittersweet -- dimension to the age- old clash between generations.Four different actresses play the aunties in their youth, which sometimes keeps us struggling to keep the stories straight. That we do is a tribute about the miscommunication that separates one generation from another.Also,it is one of the most touching and moving films ever released on screen that it deserves every tear it wrenches from your eyes.Most of all,it is a great adaptation of a best-selling novel. "},{"Title":"A String of Pearls","Date":"10 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  An American-Asian Quilt woven by worthy hands.Four women and their daughters tell their life stories in a stunning film worthy of Industry respect.  Pearls of wisdom come from the mothers, engendering more understanding of our parents (regardless of their ethnicity), and how youth seems more concerned with peer pressure than with their individuality (and unique, ethnic nature). Understandably this epic story becomes all too melodramatic in its unfolding of maternal traumas throughout the older women's years (such as infanticide and the dishonor suffered by unwilling concubines), but it is still worth viewing.  The younger women (the daughters) go through a spiritual evolution, and are the better for this.  "},{"Title":"I want to see a director's cut.","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Racism aside, Amy Tan's wish to downplay the presence of major stars like France Nuyen and Lisa Lu may be one reason this picture wasn't even considered for an academy award.Others in this forum have pointed out that the St. Clair family history was truncated, and I wondered why all the other mothers were allowed (even posthumously) to explain their life stories to their daughters, but Ying Ying did not. It was brushed off with she would not tell me, she only said she'd been married to a bad man in China.Amy Tan had creative control over every aspect of this picture. Tan may have been trying to keep attention away from Nuyen, fearing that she might win a Supporting Actress award and distract people from the film itself (or, Nuyen thinks, from Amy Tan herself!). Thus, Nuyen's best scene -- in which she -does- explain her life to her daughter -- was left on the cutting room floor.If Nuyen is right, Tan doesn't appear to have considered that leaving that scene in -- giving Nuyen's great acting a chance to showcase Tan's great screenwriting ability -- might have inspired some nominations for things like Best Screenplay or even Best Picture.This is to say nothing of Irene Ng's sparkling portrayal of teenage Lindo's brilliantly clever ploy for getting out of -her- rotten marriage, or the amazing performance of Yi Ding as little An-Mei. She had me riveted to my seat.To whom do we write to ask that Nuyen's scene and others that were cut for similar reasons be put back in, say for future DVD releases?  "},{"Title":"Gushing review of Amy Tan's book to movie adaptation","Date":"8 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  San Jose State alumni Amy Tan's movie is as fine an example of an adaptation as you are likely to find in modern cinema. I thoroughly enjoyed the film on many levels. I am horribly biased toward the film as I am an alumni of SJSU, in a mixed race marriage with a lovely Chinese-born American woman with an extended family of 15+ beautiful women. We live close to San Francisco, so this is a film I appreciate.The film is about the relationships between mothers and daughters so it goes beyond just being about Asian Americans. It is about any mothers with daughters, and the trials of growing up in a mother's influence/shadow. The acting ranges from sublime to extreme, but very accurate portrayals within the scope of emotions I have seen within my own family experiences. The few scenes that may appear to be over-done are actually very on target with regard what I observe of this precious ethnicity. My female in-laws all giggle about how believable this film is. If you are up for a tear jerker with Kung Pao flavor and don't mind a cast of stunningly beautiful actresses, then I whole heartedly recommend it. The cinematography is great. The art direction is great. The director achieves all the moods. The only concern I might have is be attentive while you watch. The film moves in and out of different character's lives quickly and you may miss some of the story. So concentrate. This film is a cherry blossom treasure, delicate and fragrant film  "},{"Title":"a great movie, very moving, very underrated","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is an extremely emotional story, one of the most touching films I have ever seen.  I am amazed at the lack of recognition that this movie has received, it deserves a lot.  I understand the argument that it stereotypes women, and makes all men look like heartless pieces of c**p.  However, viewers shouldn't look at the characters in this movie as representations of all Chinese people.  This is a story about a specific group of people, who cares if most of the men in their lives happen to be bad guys.  I'd be the first to get upset about an unfair portrayal of men or any other group of people, but there is no need for that here.  This is simply a great movie, very, very moving. "},{"Title":"Join the Club","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I myself sometimes questioned about the discrimination this movie got. Less appreciations, lots critics and some says it is worst movie adaptation based on the novel.But to me this movie is very good, warm, touching, and very inspiring.The fate of this movie is similar with the story itself, it's about fighting for one's goal and good intentions, regardless what the world might say.For more than two hours, we are reflecting ourselves towards our relationships with those close to us.  In this movie, it took an example between daughter and mother relationships. And it shows us lots of gaps in our usual family communications.It is truly a good movie. Spend some time to watch it with your children or parents, and evaluate it together to improve your relationships. Should it works, then you have joined the Joy Luck Club... "},{"Title":"Best quality!","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  That Joy Luck Club was ignored by the major awarding organizations is both a travesty and a compliment.Travesty the acting was superb. The story, thanks to the author's involvment in the screenwriting and production, stayed true to the novel it was based upon. The cinematography was divine. A lot of love and care went into the making of this film and its creators deserved recognition. That none was given should be considered a slap in the face.Compliment most of the award-winning films gain recognition for a moment, a specifc scene or shot or special  effect. Well, Joy Luck Club doesn't have a single moment that those with the attention span of a gnat can fixate upon. From start to finish, this entire film is a moment! I guess what I'm trying to say is that this film is simply too good to be tarnished by some mainstream award.It's the tale of rising above the sometimes cruel and unusual circumstances life and other people have dealt with you, a story of great joys, terrible sorrows, clashed cultures, the generational gap. It is the story of immigrants and citizens, family (and extended family) relationships. This movie has it all.At nearly 2 1/2 hours, Joy Luck Club can barely tell its entire story. Indeed, some parts of the book just aren't there, like the story of the St. Clair family -- I would have loved to have seen that dysfunctional unit on screen. I have to wonder what the creators of this film were forced to leave on the cutting room floor.Buy it, rent it, beg, borrow or steal this movie. You have to see it. Just be sure to bring a box of Kleenex along you'll need it! "}{"Title":"An exquisite production","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I,at first,didn't intend to watch it(on TV,last January).But 5 minutes later,I myself couldn't leave from what was going on.What a beautiful drama!Everything in this film was memorable. Absolutely, all actresses and actors were terrific while the production was superlative.The movie together ended with my impression and tears.I still wonder as one user did.Why weren't there any awards for this film?    "},{"Title":"Smiling Fortune","Date":"8 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A wonderful adaption of a superb novel by Amy Tan.  The stories of four Chinese women and their American-born daughters are intricately woven together, each one just as interesting as the last.  Filled with beautiful images and music, all movie fans will find something to enjoy. "},{"Title":"A Film For Women of All Ages","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I'm Asian American, and this is one film that really caught my attention.  I don't read Amy Tan, but I know that her books surround the lives of Asian American women, which I think that most women from anywhere around the world can not only enjoy, but relate to as well.As a result to The Joy Luck Club, which is a perfect example, I think that this is one of the strongest and most beautiful films ever made!  It's sad in a few corners and funny from time to time like most movies are, and I think that is what makes this movie more than just great!A must see! "},{"Title":"too-polite rendition of a popular novel","Date":"29 November 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Amy Tan's bestselling novel has been adapted for the big screen into a respectable but artless melodrama, tracing in a colorful anthology of flashbacks during a family reunion in San Francisco the often-tragic lives of four Chinese women and their adult daughters. The cultural differences separating each of the quartet of traditional Chinese elders from their modern American children give each episode a special poignancy, but while criss-crossing two hemispheres and three generations the film is forced to lean too heavily (out of necessity) on the crutch of constant voice-over narration, presumably quoted straight out of the book.It looks and sounds at times too much like a well-produced television drama (full screen VHS and DVD versions were 'formatted to fit your TV screen', to no real noticeable effect). In fact the film might have worked better had it actually been expanded into a mini-series. Each of the separate relationships deserves a full movie by itself, and cramming so many memorable biographies (by so many different narrators) into a single two-hour movie only dilutes the emotional impact of each story. "},{"Title":"I love it!","Date":"25 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw The Joy Luck Club movie on the shelf at my library. I thought I had seen it years ago, wasn't sure, so decided to check it out. Well, from the moment the tape started I was mesmerized. Usually, I get up half a dozen times during a move, but I could not budge. My mother died 6 mos ago and it still hurts when I think of her. The Joy Luck Club made me aware of how much my mother meant to me, except I didn't know it while she was alive. The actress who portrayed the children's part were so lovely, especially Lindo when she was 4 years old. It is such a beautiful film, and it meant so much to me that I am going to watch it again before I return it. The characters' lives were all so interesting, and the mothers' love for their daughters was bittersweet. I only wish I had a daughter. When the movie was over, I was in tears and could not move for quite awhile just thinking about it. It just moved me so much, that I must put it on my top ten list of all time favorites. "},{"Title":"Bring the Kleenex","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  As a daughter with a mother.... As a mother of two daughters.... this film wrenched at my heart over and over and over again.Just as I had cleared my nose and eyes so as not to embarrass myself in the theater, here was another scene that tore my heart apart again.This film and the novel it was based on are about and by Asian Americans, but all you have to be is a daughter of a mother and the mother of a daughter to truly understand what these eight women are going through.A beautiful film to look at and a soul searching look into the relationship between mothers and daughters.  Bravo.  "},{"Title":"Eat A Bowl of Tea!","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Having not seen it since it was in the theater, I forgot just how good The Joy Luck Club is. The story of each of the women is personal and engaging. Different lives and pasts leading to the same destination, each road is harsh and lined with perils. The film is a nice blend of period piece and modern drama. I love the dialog (She will know I am waiting like a tiger in the trees, now ready to leap out and cut her spirit loose.) Visually, the film is almost too pretty. The women are all heart-breakingly beautiful, and each setting is dream-like in it's perfection. However, what could be a flaw is a strength, due largely to the quality of the actors. Each of the characters is strong and individual. I seriously question the slanderous R rating! I think it could have sufficed with a PG-13! I mean, there is hardly any sex, no nudity, but just some violence! The MPAA needs to get a life!!Otherwise, It is a very touching story of mothers and daughters, of hopes and fears. Victor Wong, even has a small part. A good film and time all around!9/101993 139 minutes Rated R CC.  "},{"Title":"It made my mom cried...","Date":"22 September 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Joy Luck Club is one of those few movies that can literally run your tears dry if watched in an ideal environment, free from distractions and unnecessary talking typical found in home movies.  This movie depicts the stories of four Chinese mothers and daughters whose experiences are told in parallel fashion that is original to say the least.  The presentation style is very effective and the transitions from one mother to another is smooth and cohesive.  The piercing clouds morphed to feather in the opening scene accompany by the thematic score and narration is very artistic.  I was amazed at the details of the emotional spin-off this movie creates.  The best thing about this movie is the story telling.  From the symbolic checkmate over her chess champion daughter to know what you're worth dialogue, this movie is high energy in a subtle way.  The theme of the movie is reiterated through the four families and woven together beautifully.  To be honest, this is a serious movie and if you're looking for a good laugh, this is definitely not the one to pick up.  This movie may not appeal to everybody but those that do, they'll love this movie.  Can't hurt to give it a shot. "},{"Title":"Nothing can make my wife cry, but this movie does!","Date":"20 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  We had read the book first before viewing the film.  The film does not disappoint.  My wife is a cynic, and for this movie to draw out her tears, I have to say......Great work, Amy Tan!  This movie brought out cobwebs from the memories of ANY immigrants, especially the baggage they left behind. "},{"Title":"Even strong men cry","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I missed about 35 minutes of this film the other night. i was flicking through the channels when the synopsis intrigued me.. Even though i had missed some of the film, it was powerful enough and so filed with emotion that it had me crying... It was on late so i had to record the rest of it and i watched it the next day, and again it made me cry! It's had such a huge effect on me that i'm going to buy it. There's not many films that can make a man like me cry, but this was one of them... even though i did miss over half an hour of the film. Highly recommended by me!watch it and weep. "}{"Title":"One of the few movies that teared me up.","Date":"7 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I read Amy Tan's novel The Joy Luck Club in high school and on my leisure time, and became one of my favorites. It is a combination of fantastic stories about four young Chinese women learning the walks of life from their mothers, whose life stories of love, hate, sacrifices, honor and war are retold in the novel and powerfully depicted in this movie, which are acted out through a series of flashbacks from the daughters' present day lives to their mothers' past in feudal China.Ming-Na Wen, Tamlyn Tomita, Lauren Tom and Rosalind Chao play the four daughters and each gave a powerful and realistic performance in their respective roles. The same goes with their on-screen mothers, played wonderfully by Kieu Chinh, Tsai Chin, France Nuyen and Lisa Lu. Their mother-daughter and friend-friend chemistry together were inspiring and a joy to watch and experience.This movie made me appreciate my Chinese heritage as it delves upon another's struggles and perseverance through the culture's past, present and future, and explore how one can cement his/her relationship with one's child or parent and learn from each other to better their lives. The scene where Kieu Chieh's character Suyuan flees China from the Japanese occupation, pushing a cart with her newborn twin daughters and a handful of her belongings in it was such a strong scene that it put tears to my eyes. The cart collapsing with her daughters and belongings spilling out furthered the emotion. Then, the following part where Suyuan had to make the difficult decision to leave her daughters behind, knowing she couldn't care for them, and putting some jewelry and a black & white picture of herself with the baby bundle finally sent me crying my eyes out (I have never had this much years in any of the movies I've seen).Kudos to Amy Tan for writing such a powerful novel and kudos to Director Wayne Wang for directing such a beautiful movie and cast. I enjoyed every minute of it and I highly recommend it to anyone.Grade A "},{"Title":"Stereotypical portray of Asians","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" As an Asian in the US I really hate this movie. I think it's a very narrow one-sided and stereotypical portray of Asians. All the Asian women have terrible stories of being dominated by jerks (usually the husband). I must say that some of the cultural and historical background is true and I will admit that some of these do reflect reality in China or Asian cultures, but it is overly dramatized and exaggerated. The plot has so much room to play with that I expect to have more breadth and diversity. It just seems unrealistic that all 8 women have such tragic lives. It bothers me so much that this is the way China and Asian cultures are being portrayed in a movie that is popular in the west.In the scene where Waverly brings her white fianc Rich home, Rich didn't know some Chinese dining etiquette. When Waverly's mother said her fish is not salty, she was being humble and actually wanted everyone to praise it. Rich actually criticized the dish and just poured soy sauce on the fish. It hardly seems like something anyone with decent manner would do. The character of Harold, who is Lena's husband and splits the cost of everything they share, and Lin-Xiao, who is Yingying's ex-husband and abused her and openly brought his mistress home, both seem overly flat, dramatized and unreal. There are also many noticeable flaws in the plot. For example, Ted became bored in his marriage with Rose because Rose has lost herself and let Ted makes all the decisions. Ted was going to divorce her for another women. During the divorce, Rose realized her mistakes and yelled at him Get out of my house and the next thing we know they are back together. The film never explained how the 4 women came to the US too.Besides the plot, the acting, filming, editing, etc. are actually good. It's annoying some people in the scenes in China speaks mandarin with an American ascent but I'll give them a break. "},{"Title":"Multi-generational, cross-cultural view of life, from a Chinese - American perspective","Date":"7 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I really liked this movie and showed it to my Culture and Communication class. My students, who are mostly Chinese, also seemed to really enjoy the film! I think that movie does a good job of showing the connections between generations and how we learn our culture, as it is passed down from grandparent to child to grandchild etc... The movie also deals with the theme of identity. Who are we? Who am I? Am I Chinese? Am I American? Am I a murderer? Am I a good mother? So many questions raised in a well-constructed way. I especially appreciated the scene when the American guy is at dinner, and he offends the whole family because of the different cultural expectations that he simply don't realize. These kinds of moments really ring true, and the audience, my self and my students, had discussed such types of scenarios before the movie, so this really stood out! "},{"Title":"Ming Na before ER","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am impressed with Amy Tan! This subject matter was very very sensitive and it was handled perfectly. This movie is not about Chinese-Americans it is the story of all Mothers-Daughters and the unspoken connection they share. Nancy Friday has written a book about it My Mother/Myself, even Freud has his views...lol. A mother is a woman, next time someone mistreats a woman they should keep in mind that is someone's mother or potential mother. I love the characterization as well as how the story unfolds from the perspective of each character and the switch of ancient past-past-present. Ming Na's character was my favorite, she loses her mother but discovers her maternal instinct...the scene when she is telling her mothers story to a friend's daughter is so beautiful. I found the wisdom of the mothers endearing. I sympathized with the daughters yet I wondered how they still could not communicate openly with their mothers because they were not teenagers. They did not have their own identities, yet blamed their mothers, yet living the american dream they had choices. Meanwhile the mothers accepted their choices yet knew their identities. The mothers even in their advancing age did not change because they despite circumstance made choices (they did the best they could). The daughters had choices...they discovered them with time. This is due to the social climate, the push-pull between culture and tradition (which is a universal conflict). Living in a primary oriental city I appreciated an heart felt look at Chinese woman as told through the eyes of the members of the Joy Luck Club. "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie hands down is one of the most touching movies I've ever seen sense Imitation of life, and Terms of Endearment. My heart was filled with sorrow yet happiness. Everyone has a history, good or bad, their are reasons why people act the way they do. This movie helped me understand my mother and realize why she cherished me so much, I wont go into detail but I feel as if i am more closer to her than i ever was before. I believe this movie was cheated out of an Oscar but knowing Hollywood, its still a predominate white audience. As a foreign film, this movie symbolized heritage, family, pride etc. It captured the hearts of the women in this movie and their struggle. It showed emotions that we yet in life have felt before. I may be 17, but I give credit to movies that deserve it. "},{"Title":"a film about family heart age life wisdom cooking love.","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" So many thoughts in this wonderful film.  So many faces so much love.  I thank you all very much  for working together to create special moments in others lives. "},{"Title":"sensitive and moving","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Wayne Wang does a beautiful job of Amy Tan's wonderful book.  The stories of the traditional Chinese mothers and their Americanized daughters are extremely well written and acted.  This film is very much about family and is appropriately rich in emotion.  Although there are some light and amusing moments, the prevalence of tragedy and deep family feelings leads me to suggest keeping a hankie handy. "},{"Title":"comparing the book and the movie","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I fairly agree with all the other comments on the movie. I would just like to point out a few differences that I found while watching the film. Having read the book, I was surprised that the film left out many of the St. clair faimly stories. I was slightly upset because I found the St. Clair family to be the most interesting. I also noted that Lindo Jong was older in the movie when she was sent to live with her future husband's family. Perhaps this was only to make it easier for the audience to deal with. But, overall, I found the movie to be a wonderful and worth 138 minutes of time. "},{"Title":"a must-see movie for everyone.","Date":"23 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Please read the others' comments for their important and valued opinions. This movie showed me how lucky I have been during my lifetime when compared with the lives of these women.  I've watched this movie three times already and love to watch it with others who have never seen it before.  Get the Kleenex ready because you'll need an entire box.  A splendid portrayal of asian culture and of its recent past.    "},{"Title":"Two worlds of culture and mothers and daughters","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Bring a lot of Kleenex.  This movie transcends the trivialization of American movies. Because the characters portray Chinese and Chinese American families, culture clash and rebellion are inevitable situations.  Resolution of the conflict of each character, though limited by time constraints, is satisfying taking that into consideration.  Everything is in it  Identity, mother/daughter dynamics, humor, reflection and the pressures we each face about who we are and what we want to be, divorce, reconciliation and moving forward.  A beautiful, beautiful movie. "}{"Title":"A Real Three Hankie Special Loaded With Beautiful Chinese Women","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" If this flick can't make you cry, then you have no heart. I bought it for my wife a few years ago and we have watched it several times now. It's one of her faves. I think I can make reasonably critical remarks because I've been over the same territory so much. Let's get the criticism out of the way from the beginning. I have two main objections. One, this is a woman's movie that is unapologetically pro-female and seriously anti-male in character. When the men aren't being portrayed as egotistical, selfish, and cruel, they are annoying or clueless. It gets a bit tiresome. In fact, one is surprised that a couple of them make the cut over the long haul because these ladies don't think much of men, in general, that is, unless they are completely domesticated and worshipful. Second is Oliver Stone's unrelenting attack upon the viewer's emotional homeostasis. He comes at you again and again, dragging an emotional response out of you over and over without significant letup. In so doing, he goes over the top a bit, but most of the feeling generated is honest and genuinely acted. One definitely gets the sense that the Chinese (or at least this group of them) are very sentimental people, which doesn't quite jibe with their rather stern and inscrutable image in the world at large. One of my favorite scenes was the one at the beauty parlor between Auntie Lindo and her daughter Waverly, where Waverly confesses that even a look from her mother used to make her cry herself to sleep. Lindo's reaction to this otherwise troubling info was a simple, Now you have made me happy. Then there's the scene in the kitchen after the dinner party between June and her Mom (who sad to say wasn't long for this world). That's where she tells June that for her she has, only hope, assuring her that, I see you. Both of these scenes are very touching. The finale, where June arrives in China to see her long lost half-sisters is a real tear-jerker, as well. Some of the scenes in this movie were rather troubling, however. At the top of the list would have to be the young Ying Ying's sacrifice of her infant son to get back at her selfish and cruel husband. He certainly deserved to be hurt, but to take it out on the baby boy? That I couldn't forgive her for. The same woman, in middle age, was understandably critical of her daughter's unbelievably cheap and pompous husband, but for her to judge him so harshly after the terrible thing she had done in her youth was hypocritical. An interesting sidelight is that this actress was the same young lady who played Leat, the beautiful native girl in the movie South Pacific.Speaking of that, this flick was an exploration of the natural beauty of oriental women. Which one of them was the most alluring? It was quite a contest. I'd say the two most beautiful women in the cast (at least of the older generation) were the young Ying Ying and An Mei's mother, the lovely woman whom we first saw wearing a fashionable hat, who became a fourth wife and didn't know her worth, and finally who committed suicide for her daughter's sake. Less for their absolute beauty than their special appeal was Lindo's mother in China and June's mother in America. Among the daughters, it was a tossup. Probably either Waverly or Lena was the most attractive, but June had a sensuous quality and certainly gave them a run for the money. Rose, although somewhat less beautiful, was also appealing. You can't go wrong with Joy Luck Club if you appreciate the beauty of Chinese women. Just make sure you have something absorbent handy when you sit down to watch because you're going to need it. "},{"Title":"ode to joy","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two years before he directed Smoke, Wayne Wang directed the equally great Joy Luck Club, based on Amy Tan's novel about some Chinese-American families in San Francisco. Throughout the movie, we get to see the various factors that led people to immigrate to the United States. A particularly effective scene is when the girl is forced to marry the immature boy.All in all, The Joy Luck Club is a very well done movie. It doesn't have a particularly well known cast (Victor Wong was the only cast member whom I recognized), but it doesn't need one. Everyone does a great job with the roles. A perfect movie. "},{"Title":"I loved the book!!","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just finished the book for my cultural anthropology class. The book is wonderful. It is truly amazing to see how the culture of the Chinese women fit so well into the pages of my anthropology book and vice versa. It is fair to say that culture is learned, shared, and worked on down thru the ages. The culture of the Chinese woman is a work of art. They learn so many things from their mothers and grandmothers, etc. that it is somewhat impossible for the daughters in this story to loose all of their heritage. With what each of their mothers went thru, they have such a rich heritage to pass on to their children. The men in this book play a very important part also, they are like the sidelines of the story. In China, the father is important, but not as regarded as the mother. Women in China, even though they are sometimes seen as the lowest have a great influence on their husbands and their children.  "},{"Title":"Good film but too sappy and made me feel bad to be a man","Date":"2 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I just rented, at the behest of my wife, JLC. I thought I'd never seenit before, but part way through, I realized I had. And I alsoremember why I didn't like it very much.Mind you, it's a very well made film, but my personal tasteprecludes this amount of sap. My wife amazingly, a person withChinese lineage, agreed with me. Some of the acting was quitefine, but some was rather wooden. Perhaps that could be blamedon the script itself, which seemed bookish at times.But my biggest problem with this film was how men wereportrayed. Let's see, first there was the ignorant, but amusing,white guy who couldn't handle his chopsticks. Then there was thephilandering white guy, who at first bravely defends his bride-to-befrom his rascist mom, but later becomes distant and bored. (Butit was all her fault???) Then there's the teenage bridegroom who'sfat and throws likes mistreating his teenage bride. Then there'sthe old dude with four concubines who rapes. Then there's theyoung ladykiller who is only happy when he's being cruel. Oh yes,then there's the effite, annoying yuppy.Finally, at the end, there's the kindly father who hasn't said a wordyet, until his final relevation at the end. Nothing wrong with him,except that he seems pretty ineffectual, even weak.I realize that women, especially in China, have had to endurecenturies of abuse from men. And I know there are probablywomen reading this thinking, now he knows how we feel whenwe watch most movies' portrayals of women. Perhaps, but two wrongs still don't make a right. "},{"Title":"A perfect example that a movie is a short story, not a book","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Joy Luck Club was about as good as could have been expected from the attempt to make a rather full-bodied book into a single movie.  It just can't be done in a way that does justice to the book.On the other hand, the casting and acting were superb, what was left of the plot was delicately handled (for Oliver Stone) and the overall result is a movie which is definitely worth seeing.I rated it a 7 (I've never given a 10).  If I were still dating, I would probably have rated it higher as your date will love it, and you will enjoy it much more than many other date movies. "},{"Title":"Not Really That Good.","Date":"6 June 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I haven't seen Wayne Wang's other work, but I was not impressed by this particular movie. I absolutely loved the novel. I was amazed at how much Wang was willing to depart from the novel, whether for brevity or plot. In the first scene, when they are playing mah jong, June says something like no speaking Chinese, thats not fair! In the novel all the daughters speak Chinese. I'm not one to quibble about book-film inconsistencies but in a movie so concerned with identity and relationships across generations and cultures, this makes no sense to me. And the score was an easy-listening abortion. I'd just like to see their reasons behind some of the decisions they made in adapting this movie. I finished the book attached to all the main characters, while the only character in the movie that I found compelling in the slightest was Lindo Jong. "},{"Title":"Could have been better","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is crippled by its structure- bouncing aimlessly between a number of different story lines gives it an unfocused feeling. Also a problem- the characters aren't especially well-drawn. The older aunts bear only a tenuous relationship to their younger selves; the girls in the younger generation are totally uninteresting. Cliches abound- the arranged marriage,  the competitive mothers living vicariously through their girls, etc. The real problem is that there are too many stories, characters, narrators, etc. to properly draw each one. What is left is something of a hodgepodge. The performances of the older women are good, though. "},{"Title":"Hard Luck Club","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Boy, I really hate this movie. The acting was melodramatic all the time. The dialogue is way overwritten. And everything in the film seemed to want to mystify what it means to be an Chinese American woman. Eventually, all the characters are just blurry. Firstly, I come from a Chinese American family and have plenty of friends who do as well. I suppose this movie tries to say what most Chinese American families can't, but in the end, its just a shallow tear jerker that has no qualms about reality. The one saving grace is the Rosalind Chao character who was balanced and interesting. All the other ones were whinny and overplayed. Executive producer Oliver Stone isn't known for his subtlety, is he? "},{"Title":"Wasn't as great as I thought it would be","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I was assigned to read The Joy Luck Club for this year's book report, but I was informed by several people that The Joy Luck Club was a movie, too! Not only that, but it was a classic, apparently! I can't believe I didn't know that. Anyway, I decided to give it a try. Like a prologue before I start with the book itself.I didn't like the biases that it gave to all of the daughter's husbands. It was like, somehow it showed that all Chinese men were cruel. I'm sure that not EVERY man in China is like that (or are they?)! That biased opinion of men threw me off. I also got confused with all the Chinese names and the many characters, though it was easy to understand the plot of the movie.What I liked about this movie was the hope that it gave. Friendships can last. I'm not sure if I've found friends that would stick with me until I'm old and gray. I can only hope so. This movie shows that it is possible for it to happen. The relationships shown between mothers and daughters were done splendidly. The last scene with June and her mother was sad. Granted, I didn't really feel any emotion, but I could tell somehow that it was supposed to be a heartbreaking moment.Everyone was also interconnected, somehow. It was like watching those romance films like Love Actually or Valentine's Day. The only difference was that the main topic of The Joy Luck Club was about family (specifically mother-daughter) love.I was expecting a lot, due to all the reviews that I've seen/heard. From friends to parents to adults to online reviews-- everyone said it was a great movie and it made them cry! I was wondering why I wasn't crying even in the last 5 minutes of the film. Either something's wrong with me or it's really just the movie. Or maybe it was just the time of the day. I felt that I wasn't concentrating much on it. Maybe next time.I hope that the book catches my attention more. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The book Joy Luck Club and the movie both blew me away. It really shows the cultural knowledge received from different up bringing between mothers and daughters.Even as myself growing up in a westernized culture and upbringing with my Chinese parents were so different. They tried to teach me the Chinese way when i refused at times. I got scolded for not speaking it well, or understanding some words.It would be even better if you could understand Chinese because there are some quotes that are very memorable, and the Chinese culture has such rich meaning in the words. It's meanings are really different from the English translations given.This movie really touches your heart no matter who you are. "}{"Title":"Even better than the book","Date":"14 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie even more than I loved the book, and I loved the book. The acting throughout is magnificent.  What a true ensemble cast in the best of Asian traditions!  One thing the movie added a dimension to is the visual nature of the food itself and what is important.  When Waverly takes the best crab for herself, I cried and laughed so much at the same time I nearly lost it. "},{"Title":"incredible emotive","Date":"21 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What to say of a movie that went so deep in my heart, with  characters so charming and well played. It will open doors in your soul that mustn't remained shut. The Joy Luck Club should have had more success because it really deserves it. "},{"Title":"Powerful Message of Life's Struggles and More!","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I am no film reviewer but this really is a powerful movie of immigrants who face adverse trails and tribulations! Gripping, Entertaining! Bring your tissue you will need it! If you are looking for a moving movie tonight, then bring the girls and guys to see this tear jerker. No Oscars? What a mistake! How can that possibly be? This gets two thumbs up in anyone's review. "},{"Title":"One of the most moving films.","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Certainly what my husband would call a chick flick but beautiful none the less. The stories that each woman has to tell are so incredibly interesting and believable. Grab a box of tissues, put the kids to bed, grab a cup of tea, sit back and enjoy. It's the best film I've seen about relationships in some time. It has all the makings of a classic. "},{"Title":"simply wonderful","Date":"29 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I can't add much more to what others have already said... except this read the book, too.  The movie does an excellent job telling the stories of the women.  And if you crave more, the book will give it to you.Beautiful tellings, both!!! "},{"Title":"An emotional epic","Date":"7 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Against the backdrop of a raucous yet emotional going away party for a Chinese-American woman named June-Mei Woo (Ming-Na Wen), the wonderful and bittersweet stories of 8 women, 4 Chinese-born and 4 American born, are spun in splendor.June is preparing to depart from her home in San Francisco to China to meet 2 older sisters she has never seen before. The twin sisters, in fact, were thought to have been dead for decades, as their mother, Suyuan Woo (Kieu Chinh) was forced to leave them, as infants, by a roadside because she was too sick and weak to carry them and had no automobile or other transport. For years, Suyuan wondered what became of these babies she unwillingly gave up, and it haunted her up until the end of her life. Only now, four months after her death, have the 2 women been located, and June, both with joy and trepidation, is going to meet them and tell them about their mother.Up until today's party, June believed that she really didn't know or understand her late mother. She bristled as a child at her mother's insistence that she learn to play piano and compete in talent shows at school. June believed that Suyuan was disappointed in her daughter's life, her career path, her choices, and felt inferior to the daughter of Suyuan's best friend Lindo Jong (Tsai Chin).But Lindo's daughter Waverly Jong (Tamlyn Tomita), as uppity as she could be towards June both before and after adulthood, did not have the easiest time with her mother either. A chess prodigy at age 7, Waverly felt constantly pressured and painfully embarrassed by Lindo's constant bragging about her daughter's extraordinary talents. The generation gap and cultural differences cause more than a few verbal spats between them, and Lindo feels as though Waverly is ashamed of her for being Chinese. Lindo's own history with her mother comes into the equation. At age 4, Lindo is betrothed, and at 14, forced to marry a 10 year old who, naturally, is not sexually mature enough to be a husband. Lindo is the one who is blamed by her surly old mother-in-law of course. It is not until young Lindo cleverly schemes her way out of the ridiculous marriage that she finds happiness, though it is not known if she ever saw her mother again.Intertwined into this happy gathering celebrating June's journey to China are the stories of 2 more women, Ying-Ying and her daughter Lena St. Clair. At 16, Ying-Ying (France Nuyen) falls madly in love with the local ladykiller Lin Xiao (a dubbed Russell Wong), only to find out shortly that he is an abusive, hateful cad who brings women into their home at all hours. Ying-Ying's heart is broken, but when she accidentally drowns their infant boy, it is shattered, and for a few years, she lives in a state of mental catatonia. After her mother's recovery later on, Lena, the daughter (Lauren Tom) finds herself in a rather odd marriage to an accountant (Michael Paul Chan), based more on mathematical equality than love and affection. Ying-Ying, knowing her daughter is heading for a life of misery and lovelessness, intervenes.The other friend of Suyuan is An-Mei Hsu (Lisa Lu), and her daughter Rose (Rosalind Chao). Rose's once happy marriage to Ted Jordan (Andrew McCarthy) is ending, and An-Mei sees a disturbing pattern of behavior in her daughter that reminds her of her own mother (Vivian Wu). If a person feels they are of little value compared to someone else, it is easy to take advantage of them and abuse their goodness. An-Mei recalls her mother's terrible life sixty years earlier, first widowed by An-Mei's father and then the victim of one of the most evil conspiracies I've ever seen in film, and finally (and most horribly), disowned by her own parents. And An-Mei desperately explains to Rose that she must stand up and be counted instead of letting people walk all over her. The outcome of this story is on the upbeat, thankfully, otherwise I would have said it was the most bittersweet of all the stories.But it's not. The most haunting story in the film is that of the late Suyuan. War has broken out and she hastily gathers her most important belongings and her precious twin daughters. Without a car, she is forced to carry them in a wheelbarrel for miles and miles. She is weak and feverish, and eventually, the wheels of the wheelbarrel break and she tries in vain to carry the babies in her arms. Her strength gone, she leaves her little girls on the side of a rural road, praying that her note of instructions will be read and that she will see her children again.But she does not. Suyuan dies not knowing if her 2 girls lived beyond their infancy. There are few situations in movies that I've found sadder than this one, but Suyuan's daughter June, taking the place of her mother, goes to China and fulfills her late mother's cherished dream come true.The emotions of this film are almost too rich at times, especially with regards to Ying-Ying's, An-Mei and her mother's, Rose's, and above all, Suyuan's life stories. There will always be those who think of this film as too corny or just another chick flick. Me, I don't mind OD'ing on emotion. If you're like me, you'll love this film for years to come. "},{"Title":"Wang Captures Tan's Story and Keeps It Pure Within His Medium.","Date":"31 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The story comes after a death and a reunion that bring the past back in all of its undiluted passion, and shows how the present, too, is made, how children who think they are worlds apart are inextricably influenced by the lives of their parents. Wayne Wang's touching film, based on Amy Tan's novel, is about four women, who were born in China and later came to America, and their daughters. Among these eight women mingle countless friends and relatives, to the mise-en-scene's maximum scenery capacity, in peripheral branches of life. Actually, those scenes are the biggest weaknesses of the film, as their interjecting party jest is so transparently scripted that we want only the bottom line of the scenes. But what is about to be dissolved are the beginnings of the women, the stories of how they were born and grew up in a time and culture so far apart from the one in which they live now.The club of the title is a circle of elderly Chinese ladies who meet weekly to play mah jong, and trade stories of their families and grandchildren. All have made ruinous paths from pre- revolutionary China to the privileged homes in San Francisco where they meet. But those old days are not frequently talked about, and often the entire reality of them is not revealed.In a framework of flashbacks, the secrets and stories of all four of the aunties are unraveled. We see that the China of the 1930s and 1940s, before the Revolution, was an inconceivably dissimilar world than it is today. Women were not considered too much. Those with resilient spirits and wills were regarded even less than the impressionable, submissive ones. Life was worthless, no more than in wartime. A mother's ability to love her children was doubted. In plenty of instances, all-consuming dilemmas from those hard days still find their echoes in succeeding generations The potent reality of Amy Tan's story is the lack of understanding between cultures that make the capability of the mothers to identify with their westernized daughters rely on things that have never been clearly vocalized.How, in one instance, could the narrator's mother have told of deserting her first-born twin girls by the roadside? Her mother, ill and emaciated, was certain she should die, and believed her girls would have a better likelihood of living if they were not compromised by the bad luck of a deceased mother. Other stories are just as, if not more, agonizing to Americanized ears. There is the auntie who becomes the fourth wife of a wealthy man, and when she gives birth to the son he wished for so much, the child is taken from her by the second wife.In America, the mothers find it difficult to get their minds around the paths their daughters are taking. Some marry whites, who have deplorable etiquette. They move out of the old neighborhood into houses that seem too cutting-edge and frigid. One daughter gives up on ever pleasing her mother, who carps on everything she does.This movie was produced by Oliver Stone, who himself at one time was an astute and scrappy filmmaker who turned out films with cross-cultural themes like this one, such as his Vietnam trilogy, and Joy Luck's director Wang leaves us longing for the rawness of those films, but he captures Tan's story and keeps it pure within his medium. Her story is as respects Chinese and Chinese-American characters, but their stories are all-inclusive. Anyone, everyone, can relate to how the expectations of one generation can become both the obstructions and the awakenings of the next. "},{"Title":"Poignant story of love and friendship crossing China to the USA","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This most wonderful movie yes,yes is at the top of my list for all time favorites.Every time I watch, I am amazed by the excellent ability of these actress's to pull you into the story and believe they are the characters. You love, you laugh, you cry, it's wonderful! Ming wa is wonderful as June and Auntie Lindo is absolutely adorable!The scenery is wonderful as you travel with some of the characters to China, and the United States too. It makes you want to do research into the times and places they show, where you can more fully understand the storyline.You will definitely enjoy this movie. "},{"Title":"human human human","Date":"8 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I'd read many books by Chinese, and Asian-American authors before, but though some of them touched something in me, I didn't really understand a lot of what they said. I knew I needed a better understanding of the cultural differences, but boy! what a gap!!!I've lived in Taiwan now for 5 years, and still have a lot to learn about the inner fires and mysteries that push and nudge these people to their choices. Choices I make, too but from a somewhat different outlook. So I caught the Joy Luck Club on the Starmovies channel... and laughed and sobbed, and felt so full I could burst and desolate, and loved, and neglected. All at once. Wow! What a ride! And for Pete's sake, I'm a 40-year old guy! (And no, I'm happily married!)I don't care that some posters are heartless enough to pare people down to cliches (ugly word, that.. yuck) in order to be able to make sense of the movie. It's their tough luck that they are missing out on the richness of life - a life that is portrayed so very well and so deeply by the smallest actions of the actors, and their words! A feather to you Amy Tan and Ronald Bass for some of the most stunning lines written for the screen!Go get the movie, folks. "},{"Title":"best film ever...","Date":"26 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film entwines the lives of women and their daughters with masterful expertise. The storyline is profound. The casting and acting is superb. Cinematography and direction are also astounding and capture the lives of these women with realism and compassion. This is my all-time favorite film. It is an emotionally wrenching story in many ways but as story that is relevant to the multi-cultural world we live in. There are complex layers of meaning and social commentary here. We see inside of marriage, family, and traditions that have crossed oceans as well as invisible boundary lines. It handles these sensitive issues deftly yet with implicit insistence that we take notice. It is a film to be treasured. "}{"Title":"Emotional, patiently-crafted and meaningful drama that was sadly overlooked by the Academy","Date":"23 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is a patient and deeply touching drama that explores the cultural clashes and values that are present in a Chinese community moving to America and raising their daughters there. Although it plunges into the cultural traditions of Chinese-Americans, juxtaposing the typical American-raised with the Chinese-raised, The Joy Luck Club never falls victim to stereotypes&#151;not all of the women are shy and submissive. And those who are learn from their mistakes the hard way.The story is told in flashback format where each female character gets to narrate events in her life. Each mother and daughter thus get to temporarily consume the whole film, placing supporting male characters in the backseat. It is through to this intimate perspective that the film projects so much heart. We feel strongly for all the lead characters at some point because they are so honest and personal about their struggles.Thanks to this narrative device, The Joy Luck Club is also a beautiful portrayal of eras&#151;the 40s specifically, capturing the grace and heart of each decade but never letting the visuals overshadow the template story of that particular flashback. The mother-daughter relationship is usually in focus. Juno (Ming-Na Wen) is arguably the central character as the film begins and ends with her struggles.I'll admit that it is occasionally a little heavy on the fortune cookie wisdom and there are a few moments of predictable sappy Hallmark clichs but these are thankfully kept to a minimum. I'd imagine this would be the prototype of an Academy Awards-showered film, but surprisingly it was never even nominated. For anything. A damn crime, I say, because this is a great film that treats a serious issue&#151;generation gaps.8/10 "},{"Title":"Can't find better...","Date":"2 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I voted for a Ten...after 4th time i saw the film. Can't find better than this one, except maybe Forrest Gump...? I saw both Forrest Gump and Joy Luck Club the same week. Any one noticed than in both movies there is a feather, i guess it is the same feather ? Any comments about those feathers ? Any one ever saw the same feather in another movie ?One thing that i don't find in the user comments is that all actress are beautiful women. Not pin-up beauties, but something else, beauty with a depth in it. Even Tamlyn Tomita (who often plays as kind of pin-up beauty) plays a serious role, more than a cutie. Not to mention the others.I want to say a word about the music. It's very moving. Very strong. I'm not used to pay attention to music in a movie, but this one, as i saw the movie 4 times in 2 years, i could not not notice. "},{"Title":"I really like this film","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Excellent, excellent, excellent, wonderful, wonderful, wonderful, it should have been showered with Oscars and flowers. I love Chinese films, and have a great empathy towards the Chinese people, films like these, give we occidentals a greater understanding of their humanity and culture. The drama was amazingly touching, a Chinese friend told me today that when this film was first released in Australia the audience dashed to the toilets to cry when the credits ran. This ranks amongst the best films I have ever seen, it contained an accurate depiction of Chinese society before the 1949 Revolution and the startling contrast of American society through which two generations of Chinese women survived and progressed. "},{"Title":"another book adaptation ...","Date":"8 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" ... not bad, but the novel hit the spot more accurately.  Here, scenes are faithfully reproduced exactly as they appear in print, and some (mostly featuring Waverley but also the Lena/Harold crumbling marriage with their notes for expenses).  The best are the ones which try to be more filmic - using rain, colour (the ones in China are excellent) etc.  One puzzling omission from the novel is the death of the small child Bing, swept out to sea as this has a major effect on his sister and is a strong chapter in the novel.  Good though this film is, I feel it comes across as too sentimental to be really effective. "},{"Title":"Take it from me...","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I am a white male who used to live in the Bay Area of California, in the middle of the largest population of Asians in the country. I was married to a Chinese woman and eat almost every dinner with her family. I learned the lanquage. I have traveled to China with my wife and her family. I was even adopted into the Community and made to be Chinese. So you can take it from me when I say this This is absolutely the most beautiful, heartrending, tragic and glorious film ever made about my family. I am honored to be counted among them and this film pays tribute to all that is great and not-so-great about this wonderful community. I applaud Amy Tan and I encourage all of you to see this film. "},{"Title":"The branching structure of storytelling","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Joy Luck Club shows writers the commercial and critical success that is possible by using the structures and techniques of advanced screen writing. I have long argued that the old 3-act structure is too elementary for anyone wanting to write a mainstream Hollywood script that will actually sell. Trying to write an advanced film like The Joy Luck Club with it would be laughable.Here is a film that tells the story of eight women over the course of approximately sixty years. Does this film have three acts with plot twists on page 27 and page 87? Of course not. You could try to impose such a system - and I'm sure someone will - but what good would it do? The 3-act structure was never designed to help writers create a script. Its main use has been in demarcating a script after it's written.To see how this film is put together - and how you might write a film like it - we have to look at how the seven steps of every story interact with advanced structures.Every good story is founded on seven dramatic steps problem/need, desire, opponent, plan, battle, self-revelation, and new equilibrium. Sure enough, the first thing we notice when exploring the structure of The Joy Luck Club is that each of the eight stories works through the seven steps.Clearly some of the stories in the film fulfill the seven steps better than others. In general I found the mothers' stories more compelling than the daughters'. That may be due in part to the nature of history and geography. The mothers' stories take place in a brutally patriarchal China that is going through vast social and political upheaval. As a result, the mothers' stories have an epic canvas, and the problems these women face are more tragic and profound.The daughters, on the other hand, face the problems of the affluent American, of what has also been called the end of history. Without the burden of war, famine, and slavery, these modern women are free to concentrate on the psychological, on the painful bond between parent and child, or in these cases, mother and daughter.Indeed, the biggest flaw of the film for me is that the psychological needs and self-revelations of the daughters are virtually identical. Each woman feels inadequate in the face of her mother's expectations of her. And each learns, through the help of her mother, that she is a valuable and unique individual. I don't mean to diminish the importance of this problem or revelation. On the contrary, I was overjoyed to see such a powerful feminine perspective coming from a film industry that is so excessively masculine. But the sameness of the daughters' problems makes these parts of the film drag.To see the power of this film, we must go beyond a simple seven step breakdown of each of the eight stories. The trick to this film is the way these stories are tied together. And for this, we need to look at advanced structures.Unlike the linear seven or twenty-two step structure used by almost all Hollywood films to track a single main character, advanced films require specialized structures that can tie a number of characters and stories together into an organic whole. This is a complex subject; there are over 15 different advanced structures (see the Advanced Screen writing Class), and each serves a different thematic purpose.The Joy Luck Club uses a variation of the branching structure. In branching structures, the author sets up a main trunk, then takes the story out to a series of branches that can be organized in an infinite number of ways. The problem with branching structures is how do you sequence the branches to avoid repetition and the sense that the story is stopping and starting all the time.The Joy Luck Club strategy is to center the story within a communal event where we can meet all the characters and return after each story to get anchored. The main trunk of the story is provided by the desire line of June. She wants to visit her long-lost sisters in China. This single line creates the reason for the communal event, returns again and again throughout the story, and gives the story the ending that not only completes June's story but thematically completes the stories of the other seven characters as well.To finish reading this review and to find others, please visit http//www.truby.com/im_jlc.html "},{"Title":"Oscar material?? Really????","Date":"15 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" All this mystification expressed over why this flick wasn't considered for an Oscar is, in itself, a bit mystifying. While it wouldn't have been the first time Hollywood recognized what is essentially a tawdry melodrama in that fashion, let's not confuse a bloated, ineptly manipulative movie with great art.It LOOKS great, though. Very high production values with great costumes and beautiful period sets. And the cinematography is gorgeous. All at the service of... ? A convoluted story, put in the hands of people that seem to have no idea how to tell it. Some good actors involved, though, gamely trying to make something of execrable material. "},{"Title":"Asian Housing","Date":"18 August 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A Mahjong Game has Three Asain Women telling a Daughter the story of themselves as individuals and how their Lives fit into The Life of The Daughter's Biological Mother who has recently passed away without telling The Daughter who she really was...The Mother never forgave The Daughter for The Forgery of a Girl Guides Cookie Order Sheet which was done with a Feather Quill used for The Mother's Asian Calligraphy...The Forgery caused The Daughter's Twin Sister to commit-suicide and The Twin Sister's ReBirth caused The Mother to fall into Poor Health...The Daughter chose to hold The Asian Shape with her hatred of No Disney Pay Out...The Mother erased The Daughter and paid her friends to raise The Daughter...The Daughter takes The Feather which she wrote The Forgery with to Famliy Line Twin Angels so she can write her ReHab Inventory...The Last Asian ReHab Inventory Writer loses The Shape Of Caucasian...The First Asian in a New Life Cycle opens Asian Housing... "},{"Title":"Damaging Film Perpetuates False Stereotypes","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie was one of the first successful Hollywood movies that featured mostly Asian American characters. However, years from now it will ultimately end up seen in a negative light. This movie perpetuates White Knight archetypes along the same veins as Dances with Wolves, Last Samurai, and even Avatar, in which White males are positioned as the saviors for (backwards) foreigners.The author Amy Tan is a self-loathing, Uncle Tom writer. She never lived in Asia, exoticizes Chinese and Asian cultures, and improperly interprets Chinese terms and behaviors in all of her works. Her core reader demographic are White Americans who enjoy consuming self-righteous or superiority complex attitudes toward other cultures. Amy Tan, and other White worshiping Asian Americans like her (like Michelle Malkin), ultimately enjoy success and acceptance in America by pandering, or by demonizing Asian males.In terms of other identity or 2nd-generation American immigrant movies, one hardly sees Indian, Middle Eastern, South American, or other males portrayed in movies/books as negatively as Amy Tan portrays Asian males in all of her works. It also perpetuates damaging (and false) stereotypes regarding Asians and gender roles. When one looks at 2nd class status in Western religions, the lives of American women during the same time period, or the lower percentages of women in current political or corporate offices in America compared to China, the damaging stereotypes seem even more absurd. "},{"Title":"soporific","Date":"7 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I think this movie is for girls.  It was so melodramatic that it reminded me of my girlfriend and how she would get work up over nothing.  Definitely a chick-flick.  Writing is very cheesy.  Directing is horribly confusing.  Acting is somewhat bad.  Don't learn about Asian-Americans in this movie; a terrible hyperbole.  Very offensive to Asian males as they are made the enemies and the Asian females all marry white guys.  A travesty for the Asian Male.   "}{"Title":"What is all the fuss about?","Date":"21 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Over two hours of dysfunctional families, lighted only by the one mother-daughter relationship that wasn't broken to the point of abuse. Excellent acting, decent direction, and 6 of the most unlikable characters I've seen on the screen.If you ever wished that Jane Austen had written about truly warped parents living in San Francisco, then this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"The Joy Sellout Club","Date":"19 May 2002","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Unfortunately, this movie is overhyped as showing asian american values when in reality it's just a recitation of old asian cliches in the American mainstream. Cliches and stereotypes such as the submissive asian wife/bride, the violent/abuse/asexual asian husband, the innocent masculine white man who saves the asian woman, and the wise old asian mother in law. This is the same vicious white racist tripe asian americans have to deal with daily in our lives. It's unfortunate Amy Tan had to sell out asians to write her book and get this movie made. It's also doubly unfortunate that these racist characterizations continue to haunt and burden most asians in the U.S. to this day. If you are looking for more realistic portrayals of asian americans look beyond the one sided portrayals and go watch some movies done by some real asians that haven't sold their souls to the White media yet. "},{"Title":"Too slow - to tragic - too female","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What would have been more interesting was the stories of how these 4 Chinese women found their way to and in the US.  The drippy sentimentality of the storytelling overwhelms what could have been a terrifically interesting movie.  (Yes - I know it was based on a popular novel.  Maybe the movie could have told the story that the novel didn't.) "},{"Title":"An incredible insult to Asian Americans everywhere!! These women are sell outs!!","Date":"14 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Joy Luck Club should be condemned, not praised!! These women are sell outs!! First of all, why is the film only about the women? What about the Asian men? There isn't a single leading Asian male character! This film portrays marriage to an Asian man so negatively, while the rich white husbands are portrayed so positively. This is shocking because the Asian men I know are not like this at all. They are much more caring, strong and masculine than this. In fact, I have heard of many white husbands in the news who get drunk and beat or even kill their Asian wives. The Asian men I know are worthy candidates for marriage and are never aggressive toward women.These Asian mothers toiled through sweat, tears and blood, surviving a brutal war to come to America. And what do their daughters do in return? They forget all the hardship their mothers endured and marry the first rich white man they meet!! Instead of working hard for their money like their mothers, they want to be pampered by their rich white husbands and live an easy life of luxury through marriage! These women basically sell their bodies, beautifying themselves according to Western standards of beauty, while trying to sound educated so they can enter upper class society. They basically use their sexuality as a tool to move upward in social class through marriage. This, my friends, is a form of PROSTITUTION!! Whether these women are doing this consciously or subconsciously, they are engaging in prostitution. Is that really all an Asian woman has to offer society?This is an absolute disgrace and an incredible insult to all the real, hard working Asian-Americans in the United States, many who struggle in poverty and have no real voice in society. Any dignified Asian woman should realize that this film is Westernized propaganda, teaching Asian- Americans that white is better, that Asian men are terrible lovers, and to look the other way as their heritage gradually erodes. Tell me, how many objects of Asian cultural heritage can you find in the homes of their white husbands, even after marrying their Asian wives? Can you find even one painting or vase?This film teaches Asian women to scorn their Asian men, even their own fathers, and to learn to put up with their mothers, who are an obstacle to be dealt with. This film does not empower Asian-Americans. Instead, this film brainwashes them to gradually despise themselves as they develop a crippling inferiority complex and a bitter sense of self- hatred. To make matters worse, The Joy Luck Club portrays the so-called Asian-American experience solely through the voices of women, while completely ignoring the male experience. This film is damaging and should be viewed as a negative scar that Asian-Americans must move away from. "},{"Title":"A good storyline but not my kind of movie","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I originally saw this in Ethics class at school two years ago. It is basically about four Chinese women and the lives of their daughters who are living in the United States and how similar they are. The film played out like a book, not like a movie, and has a Disney-like feel to it. It was incredibly boring for me but would most likely appeal to children under 10 and women over 40. It was basically trying to show that Asian women in the US can do very well when they try, and it did a good job of that. It was also funny at times. But otherwise, this was not very entertaining. Feel free to email me with any questions or comments. "}]