[{"Title":"Enchanting tale of man possessed by friendly spirits","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"38 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Robert Downey Jr. is wonderful as the man who became the medium for 4 people who died in a bus accident at the same moment the hero was born. As a child these friends were known only to him, eventually leading to psychiatric evaluations because parents, teachers et al insisted something had to be wrong with this child. While still a small child, the spirits decide it's time for him to be without his special fiends...until at about age 30 they suddenly make contact again. They need a favor; 4 favors. Each one of the foursome died before they could take care of some important unfinished business. In order to go to Heaven and rest in peace, their little friend would need to allow each of them to enter his body (since they are only souls) to accomplish their missions.The 4 scenarios are beautiful expressions of love and kindness, and although disrupting the young man's (love) life immensely, in the end he too is richer from the turbulence's. -- This is a wonderful fantasy, a big winner with romantic movie lovers. I have watched this film several times and will enjoy it again and again. The widescreen DVD version is particularly enjoyable. This is a sparkling gem of a movie!  "},{"Title":"This movie will probably always be in my top 5!","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"29 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has it all. I loved it the first time I saw it and still do every time I see it.  The casting was perfect and the actors all have a wonderful chemistry together. I will never get tired of watching certain scenes, like the (last) stamp scene with Milo, when Penny realizes who the cop is and when Thomas hugs the cop (hilarious!!),  when Thomas sings finally, when Milo has to say goodbye, there are just so many great scenes in this movie. And Robert Downey, Jr. just does a tremendous job - he is so talented. When the four spirits enter his body (at different times), it's amazing how well he portrays each one with such accuracy (especially as Penny), like he's really that person. The humor never misses a beat.  This movie will probably always be in my top 5!!  "},{"Title":"Nice Combination!","Date":"1 October 2006","Score":"28 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This was another winner in a fantastic year for movies 1993. In fact, there were so many good movies in this year that films like this were buried.If you can just ignore the typically off-the-wall Hollywood version of death and heaven and just enjoy the wonderfully-sentimental and humorous fantasy- romance-drama story, you'll be very entertained.The story is nicely told, entertaining start-to-finish in its 103 minutes. It really takes off after Robert Downey Jr. has become an adult and the spirits return to him.As much humor as in here, in addition to fantasy and drama, the final 15-20 minutes are tear-jerking. "},{"Title":"My all-time favorite","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Heart and Souls would have to be the most heart-warming, funny, tear-jerking, feel-good movie of all time. I can't understand why no-one I know has heard of it till I rave about it and insist they watch it. After several viewings I feel that Julia, Harrison, Penny and Milo are people I know and care about, and as for Robert Downey Jr, every time I watch it I pray that he straightens out his own life, such a waste of talent to be in and out of jail. Heart and Souls ranks up there, for me, with Baghdad Cafe, Five Easy Pieces and Wings of Desire. "},{"Title":"STIRRING!!!","Date":"5 October 2003","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Robert Downey Jnr & the supporting talent have made this sheer magic and a thrill to relive whenever it's shown.The plots soars and soars and finally settles firmly in rediscovery.   The four lost souls drift about not knowing their purpose though firmly tied to RDJ but they are without cause when they finally  discover their unfulfilled purpose, they manage to use their their one earthly link to try and accomplish all they had unfinished on earth.  Robert Downey Jnr sails ahead of the story and cast and it takes the wit, earthiness, sass and charm of Sizemore,Grodin,Woodward and Sedgwick respectively to keep up with him which they do without dominating or underplaying their roles.  The underlying themes of repentance for Sizemore, personal victory for Grodin, rediscovery & bonding for Woodward and self forgiveness and sacrifice for Sedgwick are beautifully visited so much so that you're unaware of the depth till the the credits start rolling. The final scene was a fitting climax for this simple but deeply stirring movie.  Never leave till tomorrow what you may able to do today,always live your dreams and follow your destiny but do so with your feet terra firma!!!Hearts And Souls scores soundly  9/10 "},{"Title":"Very moving...","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. I laughed at its funny bits and cried in the sad bits. Robert Downey Jnr was excellent as the leading character and the bus passengers provided some light relief. Everyone should have friends like these! Marvellous! "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I never even knew this movie existed until they showed it on TV here ... and I'm so glad they did! If they hadn't, I'd have missed out on something great. The story was wonderful, not just a comedy, but a meaningful comedy ... with laughter, tears, ... it says a lot about life. This is one movie which deserves more recognition.  "},{"Title":"Sweet, Goodhearted, and a Pleasant Surprise.","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"17 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Hearts and Souls is a pleasant and thoroughly enjoyable romantic comedy that I really didn't expect when I first watched the film years ago.Robert Downey, Jr. plays a young man whose life is going very well he's engaged to Elisabeth Shue, he's got a lot of money working as a lawyer or such...until some old friends of his drop in--imaginary friends, that is. Sort of. Dead imaginary friends that only he can see.Many years ago, some people boarded a bus, including Charles Grodin and Tom Sizemore. The bus flipped over a bridge and everyone died, going to heaven. But then they came back down involuntarily to Downey as a child and stayed with him for a few years. Every time they tried to leave him, they were pulled back to him. Until he was about eight, then they somehow managed to leave because they were influencing his schoolwork and life (I don't remember how they got out of it). Now they're back to haunt him again, because they need him to help get to heaven.I haven't seen this movie in a few years, so I'm a bit rusty on the plot summary, but I remember that I found it enjoyable and sweet. There aren't any big complexities here, just some good old fashioned fun.Robert Downey, Jr. is convincing in his role, as is the rest of the cast. I've liked Charles Grodin and Tom Sizemore for quite some time, and they got to show off their talent here. Too bad Grodin left the showbiz scene, because I really did enjoy him in films. He wasn't over the top of crazy he seemed very normal, and played very normal characters (Beethoven, Midnight Run).I think that this is the perfect example of romantic comedies that have both wit and respect for the audience. In a time of cheap teen flicks and so-called romantic comedies, the rare FUNNY romantic comedy that comes along is usually very good (When Harry Met Sally, Sleepless in Seattle, While You Were Sleeping, As Good as it Gets, etc.). While Heart and Souls isn't a great romantic comedy, it's above average, and definitely recommendable.3.5/5 Stars "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites!","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Just call me a sentimental sap, but This one is one of my favorite movies. Robert Downey Jr., Alfre Woodard, Kyra Sedgwick, Charles Grodin, Elisabeth Shue, Tome Sizemore, Dave Paymer where all excellent! What a Great combination! I saw this movie before my youngest son was born and it made such a lasting impression on me that it caused me to make bedtime rituals with him (Prayer, and what he calls his Lu-Lu's (a song We made up)). I've seen this movie maybe a half dozen times and stop and wait any time I see that it's on TV. THis movie made me a Robert Downey Jr. fan, and it made me a little more sympathetic to his personal issues. I'm happy to see that he may have finally turned the corner on his recovery. "},{"Title":"One of the Most Adorable Films of the 90's","Date":"19 January 2012","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In 1959, in San Francisco, the telephone operator Penny Washington (Alfre Woodard) leaves her three children to work in her night shift. The shy singer Harrison Winslow (Charles Grodin) is afraid of the stage and quits his audition. The waitress Julia (Kyra Sedgwick) is proposed by her boyfriend and she does not accept; then she regrets and leaves her job to seek him out. The smalltime thief Milo Peck (Tom Sizemore) tries to retrieve a valuable collection of stamps that he had stolen from a boy. They embark in a bus and the driver Hal (David Paymer) distracts while driving and has a serious accident, and driver and passengers die. Meanwhile, Frank Reilly (Bill Calvert) is driving his pregnant wife Eva Reilly (Lisa Lucas) to the hospital. Frank successfully escapes from the bus but Eva is nervous and delivers her baby in the car. The souls of the four passengers become the guardian angels and the invisible friends of the boy Thomas Reilly. Seven years later, Penny, Julia, Harrison and Milo conclude that they are harming the boy and they decide to become invisible also to him.Thirty and something years later, Hal returns with his bus to take them four and the quartet learns that they had all those years to resolve the issues of their lives. They ask Hal to stall and give some more time for them to resolve their unfinished lives and they decide to come back to Thomas (Robert Downey Jr.), who is now a tough businessman and indecisive in his relationship with girlfriend Anne (Elisabeth Shue), and ask him to help them to resolve their issues and become free souls. In the end, Thomas also becomes a better man.Heart and Souls is one of the most adorable films of the 90's. The writer uses the central idea of the successful Ghost (1990) to make a witty and delightful comedy, with state-of-art special effects in 1993.Kyra Sedgwick, Tom Sizemore, Alfre Woodard, Charles Grodin and Robert Downey Jr. show an amazing chemistry and they really seem to have fun while shooting this film. Kyra Sedgwick shows a beautiful smile and Robert Downey Jr. is hilarious. The cameo of B.B. King is a plus that gives the status of cult to this film. The message in the end is very nice and I do not recall how many times I have seen Heart and Souls on VHS in the 90's. Yesterday I saw it on DVD for the first time and I only regret that there are no extras, only the film. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil) Morrendo e Aprendendo (Dying and Learning) "}{"Title":"A truly amazing and adorable movie","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was deeply touched by this incredible  movie. I didn't realize how great the movie was until I rented it years ago (I had never heard of it until that time). I was captivated by its pure and simple messages. The performances by the entire cast were wonderful, specially Alfre Woodard, she was a joy to watch. I bought a copy of the  movie and now and then I see it when I am in a bad  mood - it always makes me feel much better. Brilliant !!! "},{"Title":"One you can watch with your children and not be embarrassed.","Date":"22 February 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Heart and Souls is a great movie. It is one you can watch with your children and not be embarrassed. It is also a great romantic comedy that can be watched with the love of your life. I don't understand why this didn't get a lot of attention when it came out. I just picked it up by chance for Valentines Day and am really glad I did. The acting was good and the story line well developed. The beginning is difficult to follow however. It starts with a short vignette on each of the key players but it doesn't make that clear. It is only later that you realize what the beginning was about. Well worth watching once, twice, even three times. "},{"Title":"Walk Like a Topper","Date":"17 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" My original comment on this was deleted. As with the characters in the movie, this gives me a second chance.I admit that I am an admirer of Downey. He is one of our few actors that can do what I call folded acting a self-awareness that communicates itself. This is just a kind of language of mental mathematics &#x97; one that I believe makes people more susceptible to addictive behavior. This film was done right after the rather amazing Chaplin, but before it was released. I think it is pretty effective writing and I will recommend it on that score.But there are two scenes that really worked for me. One is the setup, the other the payoff. The setup is the six year old Downey sings in the bathroom with his four ghost friends. It is 1965 and we are singing walk like a man, already an iconic song. The walls reverberate like schoolboy toilet walls do &#x97; or used to when they were 100% tile and urinals were lined up. It has energy. The boy actor is terrific. The joke at the time is a nun looks in and sees and hears only the boy. Mildly funny. Mildly endearing.Now move forward to later when the adult Downey re-encounters the ghosts. He has just done something companionable and likes hanging out. They are crossing Post street in San Francisco &#x97; a regular street. They break out into this song. The whole thing lasts only a minute or so before being interrupted by an iconic bus to heaven. But watch the ensemble do their strutting to the song, just as if they were still stuck in 1963, when the song appeared... except for Downey. Look at what he does here, hands in pockets singing the lead. When I saw this in 1993, I knew this man would be important. This 20 or 30 seconds. It is because the context is all about inhabiting bodies and carrying selves. He does the oh gosh, now I'm someone else, bit with awareness of both beings. In this scene, he is three persons the child, the adult, the actor. He spoke about this at the time. Here you can see virtually everything he brought to Tropic Thunder.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Oh - man....","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  My favorite part is definitely the meeting where the spirits take over the body for the first time. Robert is awesome and I am very glad to see a film that makes you feel good. Definitely a keeper. This movie is a classic that I will enjoy for years to come and hopefully I can enjoy it with my kids one day! "},{"Title":"Best and great movie","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie has humor, sadness and a very meaningful advice in its story line and does not have a bad special effect too..... one of the best movies i have ever seen. "},{"Title":"Positive and upbeat. Clean and refreshing.","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is a great family flick.  In an era of filth, this is a welcome relief. I could watch this with my 12-year old daughter and not feel embarrassed.  I could recommend this to my pastor or my 80+ year old mother without fear. Great ensemble cast -- actors who could sustain a movie on their own. Fun to watch;  Tugs aat your heart strings. "},{"Title":"No one can forget this movie.","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Caution While this story casts cynicism aside, it takes a bit of patience to follow. Downey is the only cynic in the film (at least in the beginning), but after his special encounters with four 'heavenly' strangers, his life is changed, perhaps for the better. That's the beauty of this movie. It is handled with deft physical comedy (Downey's table-tumbling at a stuffy board meeting as the result of souls invading his body is on a par with Chaplin and Keaton), but it is also one of the most loving stories with truly loving characters (even Sizemore) I've ever seen. The four vignettes with Sizemore (making a former bad deed right), Grodin (overcoming stage fright), Woodard (finding her children), and Sedgewick (tracking down the one that got away) are quite nice, even bewitching. Bewitching is the only way I can describe a moment like Woodard's recognition of a lost son or Sedgewick being granted a moment of mortal embrace- even if just for a second or two. This film will make you shed a few tears, if not downright bawl, but you'll be smiling- and that's no matter how many times you watch. So watch. Smile. Show your teeth. "},{"Title":"Steals Your Heart; Pierces Your Soul","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" We open up the film with an introduction to Thomas Riley's soon-to-be-parents preparing for going into labour. We are then introduced to Harrison (Charles Grodin; Beethoven), a singer who has the heart and wisdom, but gets stage fright because he can't handle crowds.We then meet Penny (Alfre Woodard; The Forgotten), a mom, struggling to find time to spend valued time with her kids between working. Following Penny is Julie (Kyra Sedgwick; The Closer) who is working as a waitress but desperately loves her boyfriend, but passes on the chance to run away with him.Harrison gets stage fright in his audition, Penny goes off for work, and Julie goes after her boyfriend to tell him that she is on board. They all get on the same bus, as we are introduced to Milo. Milo (Tom Sizemore Saving Private Ryan), has stolen a kids stamps and got $50 for them, but at the thought of being a bad guy, Milo tries to steal them back. Milo fails and resorts to taking the bus along with Julie, Penny, and Harrison.The driver of the bus gets distracted and runs off the road and kills himself and all 4 passengers. When they rise above as souls, they are dragged to the new born baby, Thomas Riley. For 7 years, they hang with Thomas, but have no idea why. When his parents and social workers believe Thomas has mental problems, they go invisible on the kid.30 years pass and Thomas (Robert Downey Jr.; Kiss Kiss Bang Bang) is a grown man. Finally, the bus driver comes down to get them. When he arrives, the 4 souls aren't too happy to see him. He tells them what they were supposed to do. Using Thomas to complete their unfinished lives, one-by-one they all leave.The cast itself is A-list. And the story is simply an amazing fairy tale style. With the amount of comedy and emotion that was in this movie, if you don't laugh or cry, you may need to check yourself for a soul.There is a large Walk Like A Man and Star Spangled Banner musical number. It's a great family film. And even if you're not a kid, you'll love it as an adult and even the teens will too.Plus it has some really great acting and special effects. Nothing wrong about this one folks. "},{"Title":"This movie has a magical quality I can't put my finger on.","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I especially liked the roles of Penny Washington (Alfre Woodard) and Thomas at age 7 (Eric Lloyd).  It was such a warm movie with so many endearing qualities that I was drawn to it and hooked once I saw it, so much that I watched it four times in two days.  It's a feel good movie with no lag in action; all the actors portrayed their characters well.  "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am a Robert Downey Jr. fan and this is one of my  favorites.  Made me cry. I loved it. Mr. Downey and the others are fabulous.  What can I say? I'm watching it right now, back to the movie! "}{"Title":"A Classic!","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an awesome movie!  I can watch it over and over and I won't get tired of it.  It also has a great cast.  Robert Downey Jr. did a fantastic job portraying Thomas and the rest of the characters.  It's very touching and I strongly recommend it. "},{"Title":"One of the better comedies ever produced.","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  The movie, reminiscent of Ghost or Heaven Can Wait, (but a little different) has a plot that has been done before...but no way as well.The interaction, alone, between the five main characters is worth seeing. The acting is superb. The comedy ranges from subtle to almost slapstick, and the production addresses your funny bone, your mind, and your heart.This movie is a classic sleeper. Your whole family should see it! "},{"Title":"Gimmick movie made worthwhile by excellent acting ensemble","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Four spirits don't know why they're inexplicably tied to a baby boy, born on the night they perished in a bus accident in 1959 San Francisco; jump ahead 30 years, and the ghosts learn the now-grown man may be able to help them redeem their collective pasts with a mix of mortal and supernatural help. Highly commercial fanciful-comedy is slick but not particularly hilarious or moving, mostly just busy--very busy--with little sub-plots swirling around and everybody chattering at once. Yet the casting here is fabulous, and each player gets a chance to shine baritone Charles Grodin (seldom without his hat) missed his chance to give a public performance; mom Alfre Woodard lost touch with her children; waitress Kyra Sedgwick left her beau hanging; and Tom Sizemore, in the film's best plot, is a thief anxious to return some valuable stamps. In the center of the happy chaos is Robert Downey, Jr., not the most subtle actor around but certainly nimble enough to tackle this physical role (he reminds one of Steve Martin in All of Me, but this is a better picture). Good-looking, cheerful, satisfying movie doesn't have the time nor the room to flesh out a romantic sidebar with Elisabeth Shue, but that's OK because the spirits are the stars this time around. *** from **** "},{"Title":"A Forgotten Gem","Date":"30 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It has been a long time since I have seen this movie, but I recently viewed the DVD with my wife, who had never seen it. It is rare that a story, music, direction and performances come together so well.This is one of my favorite films and it remains so on repeated viewings. It is a reminder of how good some of the actors in it can be. Robert Downey, Jr. was at the top of his game. It is also features fine performances from Charles Grodin, Alfre Woodard and even Tom Sizemore. Grodin, in particular, is far from a favorite actor, but is just right for his role in this movie.Filled with memorable moments, Heart and Souls is heartily recommended for all viewers. "},{"Title":"Forever in my heart","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Oh, Robert Downey Jr. is funny again in this one, and he plays a man who can see the ghosts, who have not yet fulfilled things they wanted to do in their lives, thanks to that sleazy bus driver. It begins as young Thomas Reily, he can see and talk to these beings, and he seems to learn a lot from them until a psychologist and others including his parents have become concerned, that he something is wrong, the ghosts have to leave now, leaving poor little Tom sad. Now he is an adult, and has forgotten about them, but wait, they appear again, and Tom somehow manages to see them again, and that's not it, the bus driver has returned saying, he's come to take them to Heaven, after all those years, idiot, says he was supposed to get them, but went seeing some relatives, and the ghosts are sore at him, so they made a deal, he'll get them once they complete what they've wanted do. And Tom should help them since he can only see them, at the same time trying get things right with his girlfriend. Overall this is a very touching and heart warming movie, and a very good comedy everyone can enjoy, not a lot of violence or swearing, so anyone can enjoy it. And the ending theme is also great and touching. "},{"Title":"How Could Anyone not like this film?","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I am most gratified to find so many folk in agreement with me about Heart and Souls. This is one of my top 5 guilty pleasure films of all time. Guilty pleasure?? Well, because I know that it grates a lot of cheese on my brain, but I STILL LOVE IT! I just recently bought the DVD and watched it again for the first time in a while. Downy is marvelous as the uptight yuppie fascist lawyer and makes the perfect Topper-Like foil to Sizemore, Grodin, Sedgwick and the great Alfre Woodard. My partner and I cry in all the right places and laugh at the jokes and then feel the warmth when it is all over. Shue's timing and frustration ads just the right comedic balance as the girl next door who's out of the loop about her boyfriend's strange behavior.For anyone who actually has a soul, I highly recommend this film for a feel good experience.  "},{"Title":"The best movie ever!!!!","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I can't understand why this movie is only rated 6.7 on 10 (which is good but not enough). I know a lot of people that really liked this movie and say that this is one of the best movie ever! And it is!I saw it at eight years old. I didn't really understand the whole story! My grand-mother taped it and gave me the cassette. At 10, I watched this movie 20 times! Because It touched me a lot. But I haven't understand the whole story.Then, I watched it a year ago. It totally changed my life. It gave me some advices that went throught my mind. This movie spoke to the viewers and give them a lesson.I don't want to break the puch for those of you that haven't seen this movie! I just want to say to you that you must go to the video club and rent it! You won't be disappointed!This is far away to be teen movie! This a movie for everyone!!!! Everyone could watch it! I can guarantee you that you will cry at least one time in this movie! This is so wonderful!After watching it, you will feel better and watch the life with a new view. Don't miss this movie, this is a classic!Buckingham guarantee this!!!!!10/10 without hesitation!You know what you have to do right now!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Love, honor and Truth within ones self","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  If ever there is a film that brings out all the good feelings in you this is the one.  From the first time I watched it to the last time it never loses its innocence and honesty.  In all my movie watching not many touch me in this way.  All I can say is do yourself a favour and cuddle up with the kids and get ready to laugh, cry and sing out loud.  I truly love this film. "},{"Title":"Sweet and sentimental","Date":"22 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I just saw this movie on USA Up All Night, and I'm glad I did.  I had only seen the first 5 minutes about 2 years ago, and was happy to see the whole thing.  I remember seeing Downey's name in the credits and early in the film, because I had only seen the part with the bus crash, I kept saying Which one is Robert Downey Jr.?  Then I saw hin as the grown up Thomas, and was amazed, because you would never think it was him.  Each character had such distinct personalities, and I liked them all.  I know it was fake, and I'm such a sap, but I felt horrible when they left little Thomas.  The body-inhabiting scenes were something out of All of Me, without the incredible solo wrestling match (I reviewed that movie too!).  Overall, I gained respect back for Robert Downey Jr. that I lost when he was arrested last year.  Downey was quite dignified and this was a fantastic movie. "},{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"15 September 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Every time I see this movie...without a doubt I will cry.  I love it!!! I just bought it and watched it again for the first time in a while and I am so glad that I did!!! The actors in this film are absolutely amazing...they inevitably bring tears to my eyes every time I watch it! "}{"Title":"Excellent Acting, Great Music and Great Film","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It's rare to find a composer who writes music throughout films anymore. This composition was fantastic and really pulls at the heart strings as much as this movie does. It's a great feel good movie for all ages. Robert Downey Jr. is at his best and Tom Sizemore and the rest of the cast are fantastic. It's so great to see a movie with so much character and so much creativity. I really enjoyed the time period acting and how true to form they were. The movie will make you feel good and give you the satisfaction that you search for when paying a couple of bucks to see a film. This director needs to come back to making big budget films. Excellent Acting, Excellent Music, Excellent Film "},{"Title":"A Charming, Heart-Warming, Sadly Underrated Movie","Date":"16 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I had never heard of this movie until about 3 days ago, when it turned up on Netflix in a search. Normally, I skip these movies, but I had to wash the taste of Spy Kids 4 out of my brain, and it starred Robert Downey Jr, aka Iron Man & Sherlock Holmes, so I hit Play. What I got is one of the best comedies from the early 90's I've ever seen.Without spoiling anything, the movie involves 4 people who died at the exact moment Downey's character is born, so they somehow become attached to the kid, interacting with him through his early childhood. However, an incident causes them to hide from him for presumably the rest of his life. But that's reversed when Downey's character is in his 30's and the spirits suddenly realize they each have some unfinished business they must take care of. What follows is a lot of slapstick, character comedy, and heartwarming scenes to entertain young and old.One of the best parts of the movie is, of course, Robert Downey Jr's acting. This is early in his career, so he looks incredibly young and inexperienced, but he tackles not only his character, but several other characters throughout the movie like a pro. Whenever he's on screen(which is nearly the whole movie), he has something funny to either say or do. The supporting cast are all charming as well, featuring the ghosts of a sassy black woman, a loving fiancée, a timid singer, and a greaser with a heart of gold, each with a fun personality and character. The effects are rather good for the time as well, with transparency and wire-work for the ghosts that is convincing enough to get the point across, but not enough to distract the audience from the characters. The camera-work of San Francisco is also well done, with close-up shots and wide shots used to achieve perfect perspective.One of the few problems I have with this movie is that it can sometimes get a little TOO heartwarming and sappy. When these scenes happen, they drag for a bit too long, which is more obvious toward the end. The introduction is nearly a third of the movie and is nearly a short film in itself, which is fine unless you want to get to the main point of the film. There's also a subplot concerning Downey's girlfriend that is practically glanced over and, for the most part, pointless. None of these scenes are so long you'd want to fast forward, but in this age of fast acting and quick editing, you may be thinking Get on with it a few times.Overall, this movie is a very charming, very heart-warming, very funny movie, using an idea that's been used so many times and creating an original atmosphere. I'd recommend this movie for fans of Robert Downey Jr, early 90's comedies, or anyone who wants to laugh and be inspired at the same time. "},{"Title":"Few adult fantasies reach this peak","Date":"15 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Funny thing about Robert Downey, Jr. When he was younger I felt that he was one of the most gifted young actors around, particularly in light/sentimental comedies (e.g., Only You, Chances Are). But, I was appalled by his personal behavior, particularly his drug addictions. Then he cleaned up his act, for which I admired him a great deal. But he seemed to lose the ability to play that very special kind of charming, romantic comedy. And frankly, I haven't been very impressed with most of the work he has done since. Ah well, such is life.This film has to be one of the most charming...well, it's not really a comedy at all (although it has its share of humor)...charming fantasies I've ever watched. Sentimental, humorous, even thought provoking. And Robert Downey, Jr. clearly steals the show...particularly in his performances when the other dead co-stars take over his body.That he so dominates the film is surprising since he is not in the first third of the film, and is acting with some very formidable performers. Charles Grodin plays, well, Charles Grodin here...but that's perfect for the part. Alfre Woodard is simply superb as the mother taken away from her children. Kyra Sedgwick is delightful as the young woman who made a bad decision romantically while still living. And Tom Sizemore is authentic as the Italian light thief. I give this praise while saying that I've never been a fan of either Sizemore or Sedgwick.It's rare that I give an 8, but this film sets a high for standard for adult fantasies. Bravo! Highly recommended! "},{"Title":"By far my favorite Robert downey jr film","Date":"4 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I can't even begin to explain how much I love this movie. Everything about it makes me feel ahhhh. I'm surprised I never saw this movie sooner. I never really heard about it. I don't even have to explain it just watch it, you will fall in love. The only thing I wish was different was elizabeth shues character, i dunno, I just didn't like her. but i dunno maybe that was just part of the film. All the other characters/ actors were great. Everyone had a great story that went with them and you had a tear of joy for each one. I will say no more just watch it and u will love it. thanks................................................. "},{"Title":"Wonderful spiritual tale!","Date":"25 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The film is almost a movie theme, as it addresses the dimension of the afterlife, life after death. It is based on numerous accounts of experienced people who have had contact with spiritual beings without bodies who had actually lived shortly before as human beings. As the arbitrary and irrational authoritarian influence of religions was released off our societies, western world ones first and then worldwide, we saw these previously taboo stories emerge in the sets of the modern world. The phenomenon of the medium itself, that human being capable to pose as intermediary, channel between dead people, in any case without physical bodies perceptible to our five senses, and us, human beings of flesh and bone and many other things, has become a landmark of progress of science. Rigid attitudes of allegedly scientific refusal do not resist anymore to facts which are multiplying, and science can now say that it does not understand these realities, they are just mysteries, but not hallucinations or bullshit anymore. Too many duly documented, official, even legally sworn about witnessings have piled up in the files of our governments. So this film is both a joyful comedy and a message of tolerance, and it pitches its scenario into our arms and makes us share what human life looks like when it is in touch with this new dimension on a natural daily basis. It also touches on this phase of childhood where so many parents have oppressed, consciously or by blind faith, the natural occurrence of this communication with the afterlife on the part of their children playing with these imaginary friends, as they say. .. Excellent performance, great achievement, not always easy to make. A must see! "},{"Title":"What a wonderful movie!!","Date":"8 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I absolutely love this movie! Just caught part of it again by accident as I was flipping channels, and I just feel so good right now. I gave it a 10/10, not because it's artistically or technically or dramatically special -- it just makes you feel wonderful! The acting is great, especially Robert Downey, Jr. as he assumes the identity of each of his 4 ghost friends, but everyone is just a joy to watch. The movie is filled with all good-hearted people. I can't understand why it doesn't have a higher rating on IMDb. I recognize it's not earth-shattering movie-making, but it's just such a sweet, happy movie, and ya know, what's wrong with that? We need those types of movies as much as we need more artistically strong movies such as The Godfather and No Country for Old Men. If you get the chance, watch this. You'll be humming and feel great when it's over. "},{"Title":"Absolutely Charming!","Date":"2 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I don't usually just throw out 10's for movies, but this one I have watched several times over the years and each time I'm touched by the message it sends across.I shed tears over the sad moments, I laugh at the funny parts, and I fall in-love all over again during the romantic scenes. Its really the best combination of a romantic comedy with some drama thrown in. Not only is it a perfect movie to watch with a loved one, but it's clean enough to watch with kids and parents.I loved this movie and would recommend it to anybody. It's really inspired me and the moments I have with my own family. And the song Walk like a man, talk like a man will be cherished by me forever. "},{"Title":"Funny and touching story","Date":"4 January 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" *Heart And SPOILERS* Four people (Charles Grodin, Alfre Woodard, Tom Sizemore and Kyra Sedgwick) die in a bus accident at the same time a little boy, Thomas, is born.The ghosts become his not-so-imaginary friends, but have to leave him (while keeping a careful eye on him) for his own good.We flashforward to a few years later; the now grown up Thomas (Robert Downey Jr.) is an uptight, closed off young man who is stuck in a work he doesn't actually like and has problems with his girlfriend (Elizabeth Shue).And if that wasn't enough, he finds he has to help his ghost friends, because they've been called up to Heaven and must put their unsolved problems to rest.Will Thomas be able to help them all? I rewatched 'Heart And Souls' for the first time in a while, and I realized it's even better than I remembered; nicely paced, with funny jokes, touching moments and a whole sincerity to it that makes this movie a real treat.It's perfect to watch with the kids and alone.Heart And Souls 8/10. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"27 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I think this movie would have fared better at the box office with better publicity. I didn't care if I saw it or not, it just happened to be showing at the right time so my friends and I went and LOVED it. It starts off a little slow setting up the different characters and the Robert Downey Jr hits hi gear and it is great. He plays each character so well.I highly recommend this to anyone that loves those feel good movies. And any Robert Downey JR fan is sure to enjoy it. The little boy in this movie is so cute and did such a good job. I have never had anyone watch this movie and not like it. I rented it so many times to show to people that the owners of the video rental store bought me one for Christmas!! "},{"Title":"A Fun, Comedy Drama","Date":"7 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A somewhat uneven comedy with a much more dramatic beginning and a much funnier middle, and the traditional but solid ending. Robert Downey Jr. gets to mimic several known actors including Charles Grodin, Alfre Woodard, Kyra Sedgwick, and Tom Sizemore as their characters supposedly alternately inhabit his body. This movie begins with a much more somber tone becoming a comedy when Robert Downey is shown grown and encounters his companion spirits. The ending of the movie is nice and solid with little sappy or syrupy gushing ending, but a much more deliberative but emotionally satisfying resolution. This is a fun, literally spirited movie with heart and soul, about redemption and second chances. There are a few cheesy pieces in the movie, but overall it's a nice bit of comedic acting in an entertaining movie. Seven out of Ten Stars. "}{"Title":"Great plot, fun, makes you laugh.","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It has been many years from when I first watched the movie. The movie is timeless in respect to the values it teaches. It makes you review your own life the second time you watch it. You wonder about all those moments in life you messed up and should have done the right thing but didn't. The part with BB King is one of those music/movie moments that will always stand out in film history. Like the Beatles on the Ed Sulavin Show,Heart and Soul has captured this forever. BB King was the best part of the movie for me. The way he plays,everybody wants to play the blues guitar. He makes that Gibson sing! Enjoy the movie,but don't forget when you see the Blues King play, how it makes you feel! He is the Soul of the movie. "},{"Title":"heartwarming movie","Date":"1 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  i just saw this movie again today and it was better than i remembered. its a comedy, love and life story. The cast for this movie is the best ever. their chemistry together works and its so much fun watching them on screen. robert downey especially was good even early on in his career. and furthermore i think that no one was overshadowed, everyone was given a chance to shine and get a msg accross. I think this movie was successful in trying to get a message accross that was not like shoving in your throat what it wants to say instead it was a relaxed atmosphere wherein you can enjoy the experience with the characters. and each one of them had something to say. i wish someone would remake this movie. make it modern with new twists for the generation today 8/10 "},{"Title":"Good heart, and good soul.","Date":"19 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I rented this film in 1995, or thereabouts, and immediately became attached to it.There's not much more I can add that other reviewers haven't already said, other than to urge people to see it -)Downey's performance ability and capacity come to the forefront in a very challanging role, where he must not only play his own character, but also the characters of the other four leads.  To find out why you have to see the film.The comedy in the film acts as a vehicle that asks the audience give some contemplation of their own lives.  It's a film that's funny, a bit introspective without being too artsy, dramatic, or otherwise a wet blanket in the entertainment department, as often happens when genres are tweaked or mixed  In this case we have pure comedy seasoned with some story drama.Be warned; the comedy in Heart and Souls comes from good old fashioned character sketches, courtesy Downey.  There's a good amount of slapstick, and one or two gag-lines tossed in, but the laughs come mainly from Downey's excellent performance(s).SPOILER ALERT; One of my favorite scenes is a cameo of sorts showing Bob Newhart early in his standup career, doing the club circuit while in San Francisco.  Newhart himself is played by another actor who does a superb job for the few seconds we see him interact with the film's characters (he's in the middle of his famous telephone routine).  The scene and cameo has no bearing on the film en large, and lasts for only a moment, but I liked it enough to point it out in this review -) SPOILER ALERT OFFGo rent it and see for yourself -) "},{"Title":"Charming and sweet comedy","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  It goes over some familiar ground, but in a charming way.  The cast is uniformly excellent and if it is a bit on the sentimental side, somehow it works.  Not for everyone, but if you like a touch of the romantic, this is worth a shot. "},{"Title":"One of my favourite movies...","Date":"1 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is one of my favourites - although the storyline may be a little too sentimental for some, i found this movie to be very sweet. The acting is wonderful - especially by Robert Downey Jnr. who, when you think about it, really plays five characters (his character plus the other four main characters when they enter his body).Heart and Souls deserves more recognition than it has gotten, and if you haven't seen it yet, i recommend you rent the video and watch it - you won't be disappointed! "},{"Title":"A true feel - good movie","Date":"18 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of my favourite films ever, but virtually no one has heard of it. It isn't to complicated but is very watchable.  All the cast work very well together with the various chemistry showing, particularly between the 4 souls.Admittedly the special effects aren't exactly brilliant, but neither are they awful.  Guaranteed to bring a tear to your eye in a few places, this is a simple story with heart-felt performances from the cast.  Next time it's on TV, don't skip it - you might be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable and light-hearted ghostly comedy","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I quite liked this show, which is basically about 4 people who died and have to enlist the help of the only living person who can help them finish their unfinished business at the point of their deaths. Downey is pretty convincing as the morose and cynical Thomas Reilly, who ends up as the unwilling accomplice in these ghostly escapades, as he serves as the conduit by which these ghosts perform their final acts vicariously through him. The story of how he becomes a cynic because the ghosts left him by himself when he was young, and how they change his heart when they re-appear to him as an adult is quite entertaining, and touching at times. The performances the actors and actresses give are quite good, and makes this movie all the more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"A truly great and wonderful movie!","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie really touched my heart, it was very nice! I usually like ACTION movies, but this was by far the best...Fantasy (I think it is!) Rob is very good and the 4 spirits are wonderful! I felt really, really sad (I even cried) when the spirits left him when he was just 7 years old, and fancy staying with him for 30 odd years? WOW! I LOVE THIS MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  One of my favorites!  Good clean, humorous movies are getting hard to find. This is a gem. "},{"Title":"Robert Downey Jr is still attached to his childhood imaginary friends or visa versa","Date":"25 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  A great little meta physical comedy that only Robert Downey Jr with the help of Charles Grodin, Alfre Woodard, Kyra Sedgwick, Tom Sizemore, andDavid Paymer can pull off. This is a pleasant little piece of brain candy with a wholesome plotline. Mark this one for some rainy day fluff. Sometimes thats just what you need.  "}{"Title":"My favorite!","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is my  best feel good movie!  The beginning seems slow, but sets up the movie, and then....wham, what a movie.  Robert Downey Jr. does a fantastic job.....  I rented this so many times for people to see (which NO ONE has not liked)  that the place I rent movies from bought it for me for Christmas! Love it! "},{"Title":"fascinating movie","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  this is one of the most wonderful movie i have seen. it has great humor and touching moments. i was touched by what Thomas did for them. i would greatly recommend this film to anyone who have lost their faith. i have seen this lots of time, but for every time i watched it, it's like its the first time I have seen it.walk like a man, talk like a man, walk like a man my son!  "},{"Title":"There sure is good heart in Heart & Souls","Date":"4 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This fantasy romantic com kept me in splits. Wow! what a lovely feeling. I never even knew this movie existed until I read Downey's biography. Downey plays Thomas whose head is spins from the realization that he can see 4 souls around him. For him they are real but, not for others. This leads to comic & absurd situations. He realizes that to get things back to way there were, he's going to have to bend a little to make room for the souls around him . The movie is about how the souls fulfill their last unfinished business by using Thomas as their medium & how Thomas reconciles with his true love. This one should not have been a big deal for Downey to pull off. It's a fun movie with almost no costume change or change in his look. All he had to do was act and give his best and sure he did. His comic timing is terrific. It is a character-driven film about sacrifice, about making things right, to live life and find happiness. This one is a family movie, yes, you can watch it with no qualms! Message Follow your heart and live your life. "},{"Title":"RDJ does some big time acting","Date":"31 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It's 1959 San Francisco. Penny Washington (Alfre Woodard) leaves her three children to work the night shift. Harrison Winslow (Charles Grodin) abandons his singing audition. Julia (Kyra Sedgwick) turns down her boyfriend's proposal. Petty thief Milo Peck (Tom Sizemore) tries to get back some stamps that he stole from a boy. They all get on the same bus that crashes into the Reillys on their way to the hospital. She is forced to give birth on the side of the road. The four bus passengers are stranded as ghosts in the world connected to baby Thomas Reilly. The kid gets in trouble and the ghosts agree to stay invisible for the good of Thomas. Thomas (Robert Downey Jr.) grows up to be a ruthless corporate banker. His girlfriend Anne (Elisabeth Shue) asks him to meet her parents. The bus driver comes back to pick them up. The ghosts are suppose to resolve their one issue but no angel came to explain it. So he gives them some additional time to finish.RDJ gets to do some big time acting pretending to be the four other characters. There is just too many stories to go through. It's not as funny as it wants to be. The ghosts leaving one at a time makes it feel anti-climatic. The story feels like it's slowly fading away. It would be better if they have a ticking clock and the ghosts stick together for the whole movie. It's a good movie for RDJ fans. "},{"Title":"Love, as blind and untimely, as death ...","Date":"16 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Heart and Souls doesn't lie about its content it has a heart, full of the sweetest and deepest forms of love, and it's about souls, four to be precise. Indeed, labeling this sparkling quartet from the 50's as ghosts would've been wrong. And except during some transitional moments where they have that ghostly 'quality', during the rest of the film, they're always seen with the hero, played by Robert Downey Jr.Maybe I'm going too fast, but I know anyone reading this review has already seen this film, and know what the plot is about. Four ill-fated persons who, in 1959, died in a bus accident at the same moment a boy was born, which made them entwined to him for an indefinite period of time. Charles Grodin is Harrison, a wannabe-singer whose stage fright caused him to leave the audition before even uttering a word. Alfre Woodward is Penny, single mother and night worker. Tom Sizemore is Milo, a two-bit thief failing to take stamp-collections, with high sentimental value, back from his contractor. Finally, Kyra Sedgwick is Julia, a pretty waitress who let the love of her life whose incapability to make up her mind caused her proposing lover to leave the restaurant.Visibly, they all took the same bus at the wrong moment, Harrison would have missed the bus had he tried to sing and Julia would have probably gone with her soon-to-be husband if she said yes while trying to get back to him caused her demise. As for Milo, the last thing he heard was you stink from the young collection's own. Penny only got loving hugs from her kids &#x85; which is only fair, since she's the only one who would have probably died anyway. But there's something particularly efficient yet simple in Ron Underwood's movie, it's the way these characters are carefully and subtly exposed, granted the subplots aren't revolutionary, at least when the accident happens, we know about their history, who they are, and their death is even sadder because it comes before their lives would come full circle.But that's what death is, it's as blind and untimely as love. But this is not a film to make you just cry, in one of these Capraesque strikes of fate, they are not sucked up to the sky, like the driver (David Paymer) whose naughty eyes rhymed with collective demise, instead, the four 'souls' join the newborn Thomas, born in a car nearby and this is the beginning of a beautiful friendship. One must wonder how come they don't think about their former lives, but we meet them again when Thomas is still a baby, so they had time to resign to their fates, and at least, they had a cute little boy as company. Except that it doesn't turn well for the boy, he looks like an autistic kid with four imaginary friends, going at the races for Milo (why would a ghost need money anyway) or dancing in the toilet with his friends.Yes, that part of the film asks a few disturbing questions. Wouldn't they adults be aware that this attitude would cause the kid's trouble? And to make it worse, I'm not sure they took the right approach anyway when they left him. You know, you remember movies for a particular scene, well, imagine if Dorothy's friends let her alone in the forest, how traumatic it would've been. And the four souls leave the poor boy alone, forever&#x85; I understand it was to protect him, but they could have handled it more tactfully, I imagine how hard it would've been for poor Thomas to lose the friends who've always been there for years and years. This is quite a heart-wrenching scene, difficult to watch, but as Milo said life is tough &#x85; thankfully, it cuts immediately to a young sun-glasses wearing Thomas, played by Robert Downey Jr.The contrast is extraordinary, we understand the boy has grown more cynical and disillusioned and the 'ghost' episode has probably something to do with him.Yet the four friends never left Thomas, followed him everywhere, they still act the same, and I wonder where were they when Thomas discovered sex, whether manual or mutual &#x85; well, I don't want to know. The film is meant like a fairy-tale and such considerations are needless, otherwise, why wouldn't they be a real criminal among the four, even Milo is more of 'Disney' bad bot. Later they learn they all have an unfinished job, and have to make up for their past mistakes. But it's too late when they're finally explained why they were kept on Earth. Anyway, the bus driver, who's got one hell of a debt toward them, give them one day to finish their business. No they have one day to convince Thomas to help them, talk about short time &#x85; this is where the story picks up, and Downey Jr. blooms on the screen.He proves to have a real talent of mimicry when the ghosts take possession of is body, which will help them to accomplish their deeds. Whether mimicking the macho, the singer, the seductive girl and the mother who won't take any attitude, Downey is priceless and elevates the film to a comedic level that makes us forget its sadness. The whole film is an emotional switch between laughs and tears, it's one 'you'll laugh, you'll cry' moments but handled so tactfully, without any over ambitions that when the last soul leaves the world, with a sympathetic twist at the end, you know you've spent a nice moment and all you want is to be with those you love and tell them you love them. It's as sympathetic as the sight of five people playing Walk like a Man on the street.It isn't Ghost but it humbly manages to find its own feel-good tone, one criticism though is that the film should've be called Hearts and Souls "},{"Title":"Sweet Sentimental and a Lesson to Be Learned for the Living!","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In this film, you have four very different characters including a single African American mother, Penny Washington, played by the fabulous Alfre Woodard, a country girl, Julia, who comes to the city to find herself and has to choose a life between being with her beloved boyfriend and his 75 acres in the country played by Kyra Sedgwick, Harrison, a classically trained singer who fails to sing at auditions because of his fear of failure played nicely by Charles Grodin, and criminal Milo Peck who wants to correct one of his stolen properties to it's rightful owner. They all board a bus driven by David Paymer and the bus crashes killing all of them while at the same time there is a baby boy, Thomas Riley, born into the world. The boy spends his early years talking and playing with the walls but he really is playing with the spirits who talk and interact with him. They don't know why they are with them. After thirty years, they have to go to their next assignment but they have make amends. First, they have to convince Thomas Riley played by Robert Downey Jr. as an adult that he's not going crazy or seeing things but they are actually real. "},{"Title":"Four guardian angels and a bus driver","Date":"9 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Four different people are seen at the beginning of the story doing different things. There is Harrison, an aspiring singer, who gets paralyzed during his audition and walks out of the theater. We find Julia at the Purple Onion where her beau has come to propose, but she can't make up her mind and he leaves. Nurse Penny Washington is preparing to go to her midnight shift, not before putting her three children to bed. And finally, the punk Milo Peck is up to no good.The next thing we see is how these four board a bus whose driver, Hal, is preoccupied with a car moving alongside, where a couple is pawing one another. That the bus crashes, doesn't surprise us, since all is pointing out to an accident. The four people and the driver are seen floating toward heaven.At that precise moment, a couple is rushing to a hospital where the wife is going to deliver her baby, but they have no chance, the boy is born in the car and the four souls we saw floating before, return as it appears they are going to stay with this boy as his guardian angels. Julia, Harrison, Milo and Penny, are there for the duration, or at least that seems to be their purpose.The film changes to a grown up Thomas Reilly. He is in a strange relationship with the lovely Anne, a girl who can't figure Thomas out. The foursome, take turns in changing this young man's mind as they work on him to take charge of his life and get to be somebody. Each ghost can make him do things when they enter his soul. Unfortunately, Hal, the driver, has another idea in mind he comes to collect the quartet one at a time to take them to bigger and better things.Ron Underwood, the director, working on the material George Hansen wrote, follows Hollywood's formula for after life movies. This film evokes other pictures of the genre, mainly, Ghost, Field of Dreams, Heaven can Wait, and others that tackled the idea of what happens when mortals die. The film, as shown by comments in this forum, seems to be a favorite for a lot of fans that find the mere idea of the after life appealing.What Mr. Underwood got was a good ensemble for his quartet of angels Kyra Sedgwick, Alfre Woodard, Charles Grodin and an excellent appearance by Tom Sizemore, an actor not seen often playing comedy. The wonderful Robert Downey Jr. appears as the grown up Thomas Reilly and does a wonderful job with the role. Elizabeth Shue plays his girlfriend, and David Paymer is seen as Hal, the distracted bus driver responsible for the tragedy that results as the basis of this comedy.The film is light and it will delight fans of the genre. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, but not great romantic drama","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" HEART AND SOULS, in my opinion, is a pretty good, but not great romantic drama. One of the best things about in, if you ask me, is the soundtrack. My favorite song of the soundtrack is the closing theme. I couldn't even begin to tell you what it's called or who it's by. The only thing that I can say about it is that it's a very lovely theme song. However, the performances were good, the set decoration was great, and the directing was good. To me, it was amazing how only Thomas (Robert Downey Jr.) could hear Julia (Kyra Sedgwick), Harrison (Charles Grodin), Penny (Alfre Woodard), and Milo (Tom Sizemore). Now, in conclusion, if you enjoy films about the afterlife or are a hopeless romantic, I highly recommend this fantasy about love and the afterlife. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable, if rushed.","Date":"5 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Heart and Souls is about a boy with invisible friends that happen to be ghosts, who died at the moment he was born. Only he can see or hear them. This movie is quite good, and Downey, Jr. is lovable in it, as are his ghosts. Be warned, there is one scene that, if you don't like seeing little boys abandoned and bawling, you will sob your head off, like I did. Unfortunately, H&S ends extremely fast, on the plot pretense of a time limit, but you know the studio ordered it edited and to a shorter length, but it still is a lovely movie. Rent it one weekend, enjoy. "},{"Title":"This Is Solid Proof That Downey Can Act","Date":"4 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Seriously In This Film One Minute He Is A Normal Guy Then Female Ghosts Possess Him & He Turns From Straight To Gay In 2 Seconds. Okay There Are 4 Ghosts In This Film 2 Guys 2 Girls So Thats A Relief For Me (I Hate Seeing Disturbing Or Shocking Things On Screen. The Plot Is That In 1959, Milo, Penny, Julia, and Harrison board a bus that later crashes, and all of them die but do not go to heaven right away. A baby is born in town at the same moment the bus crashes. The four dead passengers are tied to the baby, who would be named Thomas. For some reason Thomas can see them, and Thomas grows fond of them but when people think that Thomas might have something wrong with him, they decide not to let Thomas see them, which devastates him. Thirty years later Thomas is all grown and a little jaded when it comes to letting people into his life, and the four of them are still with him even though he can't see them. One day they simultaneously appear to him, and stay by his side until each one completes the final task of their personal lives. The Only Other Thing I Don't Like About This Movie Is That Song Walk Like A Man That Is Just A Sick Combo. Anyway It Also Has Some Emotional Scenes Like The Scene Where The Last Ghost Realises Her Ex-Boyfriend Is Dead & She Realises Her Job Was To Help Him With His Relationship (Between Elizabeth Shue) I Can Tell Thats Intended To Be Emotional Rating 7/10 "}{"Title":"A little gem unknown outside the U.S.","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I presume this film is well known in the US ; outside that country I don't think it is very well known ( and certainly not in France ). Upon a recommendation of someone who had seen it, I purchased the DVD recently and found it well worth the money. Slightly magical and in a similar vein to another film called Ghost Dad, it is a light hearted and sentimental look at the after life. I did not recognize the actors save the beautiful actress who played a small role in John Travolta's Phenomenon. I'm thoroughly into this sort of film which has some common points with the second version of Heaven Can Wait (Beatty ). I found it both amusing and tender and the sort of film one can watch over and over without getting fed up. Also the film score is no mean music - I was hoping to hear the beautiful tune Heart and Soul because of the title and in fact you do hear it at one stage for about 30 secs, but even so all the music is good, except for the corny song they dance to. I would have preferred a more exciting and original finish to the film but all the same the viewing and special effects used are very pleasurable. I presume it was made for a mainly American audience as there are some points I couldn't quite catch. But I did enjoy the magnificent rendering of the US national anthem at the BB King concert. I would certainly recommend the film to anyone who likes comedy fantasies and who liked GHost Dad or Heaven Can Wait. "},{"Title":"Fun while it lasts","Date":"9 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The first hour of this feature film was intriguing and entertaining thanks to a wonderful cast of characters brought together by circumstance. Robert Downey Jr. appears and things seem to go off track with the car scene. But I was willing to tolerate one such scene to reintroduce the characters to him. However, they decided to raise the stakes of stupidity with the conference room scene. Now, I feel like there was a tasteful way to play this scene that could of made it classic (sort of like the dinner scene in Nutty Professor or the courtroom scene from Liar Liar). Sadly, it wasn't played like that at all and it just struck me as ridiculous and worse, tedious (totally inconsistent with the first half of the movie). He makes inappropriate advances on two coworkers and makes a huge spectacle of himself all of which I found cringe-worthy. This seemed nothing more than a vehicle for Robert Downey Jr. to showcase his array of talents. I've seen this before where young actors are used/exploited for these purposes. The problem for me is that while I like Downey as an actor and find him charming, I don't find him particularly funny. He is not John Ritter or even Jim Carrey. I understand they needed a bridge to the rest of their movie where he no doubt decides to help his old friends but it just didn't work for me. Too bad since I feel it was a missed opportunity. "},{"Title":"Despite an impressive first half, the film don't lives up his expectations .","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" As someone which had zero expectations towards this film, i found it to be somewhat impressive. It's not a comedy film nowhere near of the level of 'Groundhog Day', arguably the best comedy of that year, but still, it's a enjoyable film.Of course, it's After Life's premise is very interesting, although with a strong inspiration in 'Ghost'. The first forty minutes and so are excellent and by far the best part in the film. The build-up was so interesting that i forgot the childish tones in the film. But unfortunately, the film goes downhill and it's climax really don't offers enough to the excellent build-up of the film. It's a question of action-reaction If you creates a great conflict, you expect a great answer. Also, the cinematography was good, with a very good art design, notably using blue lightning everywhere adding an aureate feeling to it. Robert Downey Jr. don't did so much to the film,though. His acting was very below average. So, this film can be an interesting pass-time. But not recommended, unfortunately. 5.8/10 "},{"Title":"Slightly heartfelt movie with ghosts but could have been better","Date":"3 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This is a heartfelt ghost movie with living characters that takes a bit of a patience to get into. Especially since in the beginning it shoes the life of some of the characters before they became ghosts. But it's understandable since the movie wants you to have a bit of a attachment to the characters, but unfortunately it's done in a bit of a dull manner. The direction and acting comes off a bit childish and doesn't seem all that realistic despite the premise having ghosts and all. The dialogue is a bit lame and the cinematography felt like your watching a play. Anyways the ghosts is set with boundaries to be where everywhere this baby goes and the baby can see and hear the ghosts. And it shows the baby grow up and become a adult. And the main story starts from there although the premise is creepy in a stalking kinda way. And the rules that are given to the ghost later on is just ridiculous. Most of the way through although it seemed to have some potential just goes in a silly and goofy direction and not for good either. The thing is the movie just goes in a really predictable direction from beginning to end. It's a slightly heartfelt movie with ghosts but the execution could have been more unique. Overall it's a watchable movie that you can watch with the whole family.5.8/10 "},{"Title":"Corny but fun","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The concept isn't exactly new, but the cast is great. Robert Downing Jr is really good at being possessed by a lady among a few other characters. It's a sweet movie and the ending is corny but the process is quite adorable&#x85; Although if you really think about it, it is a bit creepy. But good thing he was possessed by good people.I wish that he didn't turn out to be such a douche bag when he grew up. On a rainy day, when you are feeling down or in the mood for some good old happy feeling pick-me-uppers. The unresolved life issues where a bit on the nose, but with something just fun.D "},{"Title":"I Am NOT A Robert Downey Jr Fan","Date":"1 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Early on, I could tell Downey Junior's career was based solely on privilege, nothing else, so I found him totally unlikeable and unappealing.Then he would speak about his drug problem as tho it was wild and carefree with his dopey eyed, nasal way and I found him even less acceptable.But I got to say Heart and Souls is truly a fun movie to watch, but not for Downey Junior, thats for sure. The premise is based on the belief when a baby is born with his eyes open he can see the after life. Clearly that is what was supposed to happen here, as the baby is born in the car as the four spirits fly through and now they are bound to him. Of the seven actors, four are absolute faves, and Tom Sizemore did his part well, and if he is annoying, he is the first ghost to depart.The ghosts don't leave boy-girl-boy-girl either, thank goodness. While the guys have their problems solved first, it does give more airtime to the lovely ladies, Alfre Woodard and Kyra Sedgwick, two major factors that make this movie so much fun. Elizabeth Shue got the biggest laugh from me when I watched it again, when she reacted to Downey Junior's inability to explain why he sang the National Anthem while she and her parents watched in the audience.I do like Alfre's description of Downey's previous girlfriend, Miss Lookitmybutt, lookitmybutt!I would have liked to see more with Shue, and Charles Grodin was capable of more laughs as well.And as nice as it would have been to hear Heart and Soul I did like the Walk Like A Man number.The effects are brilliant, yes, and David Paymer is good, I think he was underused also. It would have been funnier with his hysterical brother in the part. This movie came out the same time that Downey Junior had done Chaplin, and this was clearly supposed to show his versatility with his portrayal of some fast-talking yuppie lawyer, who is possessed by a sexpot, a sassy Black woman and a street thug.  Of them all, Downey did the lawyer least effectively, and his female imitations weren't that deadon either.  His best moment was when Sizemore left his body and Downey ran into the wall. Adventure-wise, it is interesting to watch the first two problems are solved with lengthy play (Grodin's has a B. B. King cameo) and then Woodard's is solved so unexpectedly and Sedgwick's is solid and decent, but seems rushed.  I do like Woodard's story and how it concludes tho.  I finally had to record this movie, I enjoyed it so much, and just watched it last week.     "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"11 November 2010","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Heart and SoulsSince kids can talk to ghosts, we should get them to ask our deceased relatives where they hid all of those rare silver dollars.Unfortunately, the lost souls haunting the little boy in this comedy are the ones who are asking him for salvation.Twenty-five years after the four spirits (Charles Grodin, Kyra Sedgwick, Tom Sizemore, Alfre Woodard) that were bound to him after they died in a bus crash disappeared, the now grown up and callous Thomas (Robert Downey Jr.) is surprised to find them asking for his help. In exchange, they assist him with wooing his frustrated girlfriend (Elisabeth Shue).While not enough time is spent on exploring each of the wannabe-angels unfinished business, Heart and Souls is ultimately an amusing anecdote about removing remorse from your eternal records.Furthermore, it exposes the prejudiced nature of the afterlife Rich, white kids can afford to have multiple guardian angels. (Yellow Light) "},{"Title":"Worst movie ever","Date":"5 February 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Quite possibly the most stupid and, more unforgivably, BORING movies I have ever seen. The only movie I've ever walked out on. The only other movie that comes close is the hugely overrated and idiotic Moulin Rouge. Awful. "},{"Title":"A Rather annoying life after death movie","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If I were to describe this film in one sentence it would be a typical Hollywood after death comedy that makes Mormonism look interesting. It is tempting to leave it at that but I will not. Heart and Soul is about four people who are killed in a bus accident in 1959 after the bus driver drives off of a bridge while perving on a woman in the car next to him. The four people on the bus are trapped around a baby who is born at that instant and travel around with him until he is grown up. Then one day the bus comes along and the four ghosts suddenly realise that they are meant to fulfil their unfulfilled dreams and thus have a second chance at life. Thus they must convince the baby, who is now an adult, a yuppie, and a snob, to help them.Now, the theologically sickening things about this film. First, everybody goes to heaven, no matter what they do. If they are bad, they have to do penance, such as driving a bus to pick up dead people, but they still all end up in heaven. There is no God or judgement, and as such it is a fantasy, and atheistic view of the after life. God exists but he is a nice cuddly person that lets us do what we want, and if we do something that is a bit bad, we suffer a little punishment, but generally hell does not exist.What is wrong with that? Well the fact is that I do believe in hell and in a God that is not only interventionist, but is actually sickened by the evil that we do. Without hell there is no judgement and without judgement everybody, no matter how evil they are, get away with what they did wrong. This is covered by the idea of purgatory. This is okay, but theologically incorrect. The bible says we are either for or against God, there is no halfway point, which is purgatory. If we ignore God then God will disown us. The second wrong this here is that God is generally a tolerant guy. God is far from tolerant. He is not at all tolerant with people rebelling against him in the same way that a government is not tolerant of people rebelling against them. For those that follow him, upon them he showers many blessings (though not necessarily in this life). For those who do not follow him with, he ejects from his kingdom, which a king has a right to do, and thus they must suffer for eternity. God is the rightful king. He created the universe and thus rules over it. To rebel God against the rightful king earns his anger, which a king has a right to do. This might seem harsh, but the truth is that God showered immense blessings on us in the beginning in the Garden of Eden and we turned from him by disobeying his one simple commandment do not eat from the fruit in the middle of the garden.This movie also implies that we have a second chance if we die. We have none. When we die, all unfulfilled things remain unfulfilled. The only fulfilling thing in life is becoming a Christian because nothing else lasts after death. The second most fulfilling thing is to see others become Christians, and to build them up for that also lasts after death. Everything else will not come beyond death. "},{"Title":"Sometimes funny but most of the time silly...","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  1st watched 2/7/2002 - 4 out of 10(Dir-Ron Underwood) Sometimes funny but most of the time silly with not one but count them- four souls trapped down here to finish off some good work that needed to be done before they went to the afterlife(I think we've heard this before). The difference is that they had to manipulate and enter this one person's body and he(Downey Jr.) has to accomplish the good deeds.  The best parts in this movie are when Downey Jr. is acting out the other character's and there is a funny scene that turns into a musical number using the song Walk Like a Man.  But besides this there isn't much else.  Downey Jr. deserves better than this. None of his co-stars seem too into this picture and it shows in their performances.  Granted what they have in a script doesn't help and the direction could have been better.  This is yet another forgotten romantic-comedy that wastes it's talents. "}{"Title":"What were they thinking?","Date":"15 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Being I am open minded to pretty much all kinds of movies. This movie had to be one of the worst films i ever seen. The question is WHY on earth would someone make a movie like this? Maybe, it was funny back in the day when it was made. But being 2002 its definitley outdated. And what exactly is it with the singing?? hello? Granted its a clean film without the sex, violence, and F-bombs that plague over 80% of movies today, but it is really sad when I find and Adam Sandler movie funnier then this. Even the movie OSCAR (with Sly Stallone) was funnier then this piece of rubbish. "}]