[{"Title":"Allen is a comic genius!","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"57 out of 61 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is the sort of movie I can watch over and over. In one word I would say it is clever. A combination of mystery, suspense, drama, and Allen's ingenious humor, Manhattan Murder Mystery is my favorite Woody Allen movie. Perhaps my favorite movie - period. The plot was fresh, and having such humor with suspense is just too good. Another quality I enjoy in this movie is how Allen avoids an over-polished look. For instance, the scene where a neighbor in the hallway asks Paul about a rent increase. The actor appears to stumble for the right word, but Allen let the scene go that way giving it a very natural look. The restaurant scenes also portray realism with multiple conversations at one time; a quality I love in all of his movies. This makes reviewing the movies interesting- you pick up something new each time you watch it! Woody Allen's style is definitely an intelligent humor.  "},{"Title":"Underrated, Brilliant","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"45 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  No one took this film seriously when it came out earlier this decade. Most people thought it a fluffy, trifle of a film. And it is certainly light-hearted compared to some of Allen's weightier fare (see Husbands and Wives, his best movie of the past decade). But having watched this film again recently I think it is a stunning achievement in comedy. Allen and Keaton have great chemistry as a couple in a humdrum marriage who stumble on to what turns out to be a murder cover-up. Watching all the people in this film try to figure out how to be detectives based on stuff they've seen in movies and read in books is hilarious, not to mention smart. The latenight dinner conversation among Allen, Keaton, Alda, and Huston is some of the best, sharpest, funniest, fastest dialogue ever written (or ad libbed). One of the best comedies of the 90s. frink-3 "},{"Title":"My favorite Woody Allen!","Date":"8 July 2003","Score":"48 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"    This is my favorite Woody Allen movie and right up there with Annie Hall and Manhattan as one of his best.  Woody is at his best when he has Diane Keaton by his side and this proves it.  A lot of his more recent movies haven't been good, because he is pairing himself with much younger actresses who aren't as good at this type of comedy or who aren't good at all in the case of Helen Hunt.  This movie is hilarious even if you are my age (20).  I think it's refreshing to go the video store and rent a comedy that isn't either a stupid spoof, or a teen comedy that plays like a rated R sitcom.  This is a comedy that actually has a story, and Woody has the best lines.  If you don't like Woody's style though you won't like this, but if you have seen Annie Hall or any of his other movies and liked them then you should love this one.Zoopansick "},{"Title":"Great reunion with Keaton and Allen.","Date":"30 July 2005","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Manhattan Murder Mystery is a terrific Woody Allen film whit a wonderful mix of murder, mystery and comedy. With an all star fantastic cast; Woody Allen, Diane Keaton, Alan Alda, Anjelica Huston and Jerry Adler.The reunion of Keaton and Allen together was such a delight, the chemistry between Allen and Keaton, is truly top-notch, remind me of Annie Hall.(Diane Keatons role where actually intended for Mia Farrow, but as most of you know Woody Allen was going through his off-screen scandal at the time..). Like the most of Allens films this also have a witty dialog and excellent character development. And the murder mystery is very intelligent, fun and stylish mystery-comedy. Whit Manhattan Murder Mystery Allen also reunites with writer Marshall Brickman, they wrote Annie Hall and Manhattan together, Like those films, this one contains some very funny one-liners.Manhattan Murder Mystery is one of Woody Allen's most wonderful movies. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Light comedy from Woody Allen","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"25 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is a nice and light Woody Allen comedy about a death in a building that could be a murder. At least Diane Keaton's character thinks so, without really having a reason for that. She plays Carol Lipton, married to Larry Lipton (Woody Allen). They have just met their neighbors Paul (Jerry Adler) and Lillian House (Lynn Cohen) when Lillian dies. Because Paul is not that sad and is too ready to move on Carol becomes suspicious. When she is realizing certain strange events that has occurred her suspicion grows. Larry thinks it is pretty stupid but when a friend named Ted (Alan Alda) does believe her and helps her with the investigation he gets jealous and offers to help after all.Whether a real murder has committed is not the point, I guess. Allen gives us standard movie situations, ridicules them a little, and betters them then. There is a scene where Allen and Keaton go from an elevator into a basement when the lights fall out. It is completely dark, something we have seen more in thrillers, and for some reason Allen is able to make this cliché thriller scene suspenseful. There are more of these moments. Since this is an Allen film there are a lot of links to other famous movies (the script itself is a little like Hitchcock's 'Rear Window') and famous scenes, the ending in particular does a terrific job in reliving one of the most memorable scenes out there. (It has to with mirrors, I guess you know what movie I am talking about). This light Allen comedy is a terrific mystery story with brilliant touches that will be liked not only by Allen-fans, but by everyone who loves either comedy or mystery suspense. "},{"Title":"A light but very fun comedy","Date":"14 February 2004","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Woody Allen and Diane Keaton reunite in this fine film, and both are in top form.  Although it largely abandons the angst-filled themes of many of Allen's earlier films, it replaces it with a playfulness and sense of fun which elevates the film above your standard comedy or mystery.  Alan Alda is notable for his fine performance, as well. "},{"Title":"Keaton & Allen reunited for fun flick!","Date":"27 April 2004","Score":"24 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Manhattan Murder Mystery (1993) Dir Woody Allen Supposedly Miss Keaton (never married by the way) only did this film as a favor to Mr. Allen who was enduring some rather unsavory press at the time concerning his breakup with actress Mia Farrow and his ensuing love affair with Miss Farrow's adopted teenage daughter.  Because Allen needed a quick hit, he asked Keaton to help him out by starring in this murder mystery comedy.  Luckily for Allen (and for that matter, Keaton) the movie was a hit. Allen and Keaton star as husband and wife in a New York City apartment who suspect that their neighbor killed his wife!  Angelica Houston and Alan Alda provide additional comic relief as friends helping the couple solve the mystery.  Although the film takes its structure from Rear Window, Allen chose to end it with an homage to Orson Wells's classic mirror sequence in Lady From Shanghai. It's a very funny movie allowing Keaton and Allen to showcase their by now perfected New York City type characters.  "},{"Title":"Excellent Woody Allen movie","Date":"1 July 2005","Score":"18 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Couple Larry and Carol Lipton (Woody Allen and Diane Keaton) get involved with a complicated murder (they think) when their next door neighbor's wife dies suddenly. Her husband seems strangely calm about it and then Carol sees the dead wife alive and well on a bus...This was a return to comedies after Allen had made a string of dramatic movies. Most people believed he couldn't do comedies anymore. It turns out he hadn't lost his touch and turned out one of his best movies. Seeing Keaton and Allen playing a couple was great (they always worked so well off each other) and, for once, Allen isn't the neurotic one--Keaton is! It was fun seeing him play the strongest partner in a relationship. The dialogue is hilarious--one good line after another and the murder mystery itself is very intricate and interesting. Also there are a number of great old songs playing in the background that perfectly complement the movie--especially The Big Noise from Winnetka (for when they drive across the bridge at night). And I loved that homage to Orson Welles Lady from Shanghai at the end.The acting is almost all great. Allen and Keaton are just wonderful--right on target and acting (and speaking) like an old married couple. Alan Alda pops up as Keaton's best friend. I never really liked him but he's OK here. Anjelica Huston (looking incredible) also pops up and gives a very strong (and very funny) supporting role. Also look for Zack Braff (from the TV series Srubs) in his very first role as Keaton and Allen's son (!!!)My only complaint--the jerky, hand held camera-work. It worked fine in Allen's dramas but is just out of place here--the camera should move fluidly in a comedy. That's a small quibble though. This is WELL worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Mystery, Suspense and Refined and Witty Humor in Manhattan","Date":"17 October 2011","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" In Manhattan, Carol (Diane Keaton) and her husband Larry Lipton (Woody Allen) are coming home late night when they meet their next door neighbors Lillian (Lynn Cohen) and Paul House (Jerry Adler) in the elevator. Lillian and Paul invite their neighbors to drink coffee with them in their apartment and Lillian shows her treadmill to Carol and Paul shows his collection of stamps to Larry. While drinking coffee, the elderly couple tells that they have been married for twenty-eight years and they have a twin tomb in the cemetery. Lillian tells that she is in good shape and uses her treadmill everyday.On the next night, Carol and Larry go to see The Flying Dutchman in the theater and when they come back home, they learn that Lillian has died of heart attack. A couple of days later, Carol and Larry meet Paul on the street and Carol believes he is too perky for a widower that has just lost his beloved wife. When Carol accidentally finds an urn with Lillian's ashes in Paul's kitchen, she suspects that Paul has killed Lillian and comments with her friend Ted (Alan Alda). They decide to investigate her neighbor and Carol steals the keys of Paul's apartment from the super. She finds that Paul will travel to Paris and not to Caribbean as he had told to Larry and she, with a woman called Helen Moss. When Carol sees by chance Lillian alive in a bus, her curiosity increases and she decides to go further in her investigation. Yesterday I was setting in order and cleaning my films on the shelf, and I decided to see again the VHS Manhattan Murder Mystery. Last time I saw this film was in the 90's and I did not recall the story in details. Woody Allen is one of my favorite directors and actor, and that is the reason why I do not dare to say that this film is one of his best films because I love practically all his filmography.Manhattan Murder Mystery has mystery, suspense and the refined and witty humor typical from Woody Allen. One of my favorite moments is when Larry compares the need to Carol returning to her shrink with a GM's recall. Another very funny moment is when the clumsy Larry plays the wrong tape during the phone conversation with Paul. If the reader wants to spend 104 minutes laughing, watch Manhattan Murder Mystery since this film is funny even for those that are not fans of Woody Allen. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil)Um Misterioso Assassinato em Manhattan (A Mysterious Murder in Manhattan) "},{"Title":"I'm gonna break this thing wide open!","Date":"28 December 2006","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" One of Woody Allen's winners from the 1990s (albeit on a minor scale) reunites him quite snugly with Diane Keaton. Allen and Keaton have such a lived-in rapport (with plenty of jabs but no fatigue) that the sight of them together again in a comedy is an automatic uplift. They portray the Liptons, a regular N.Y.C. couple who suspect foul play from the elderly man in their building whose wife has suddenly died. Smooth, smartly assembled nuttiness with sensational support from Alan Alda as a playwright (with a crush on Keaton) and Anjelica Huston, putting off terrific comedic heat as a novelist. Wrapped up wonderfully with an homage to Orson Welles' The Lady From Shanghai. Great fun! *** from **** "}{"Title":"Sickday Suspense.","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" It's one of those films you conveniently locate on your video shelf on that day of the year you feel absolutely sick. My video has Mighty Aphrodite recorded immediately after it, but my bedridden convalescent body never seems to get through that one without falling asleep. However, Manhattan Murder Mystery mixes the above-par Allen one-liners with a suspense plot that never fails to keep me awake.Allen, and mainstays of the Allenesque ouvré Diane Keaton and Alan Alda really shine in their performances. My favourite scene involved Allen's reaction to a dead body in a lift him and Keaton have got stuck in.I gave it eight out of ten. Not Allen's best, but certainly enjoyable. Without it, I'd have nothing to take my mind off those 24-hour bugs every year. "},{"Title":"Breezy but not lightweight, a total fun and warm and human adventure...","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Manhattan Murder Mystery (1993)This movie almost defines delightful--at least for people who already like Woody Allen. (For some, Allen will always be irritating, no matter how brilliant the movie.) Without a shred of pretension, and without really any suspense in the usual murder mystery way, we get sucked into what is perhaps the most believable of murder mysteries ever. The reason is simple. It's told as if two very ordinary, slightly bookish, not so slightly neurotic New Yorkers stumble on a murder.It's the story of what we would all do if we thought our neighbor had murdered his wife. The bumbling, the doubts, the revelations, the sneaking around, the giggling. It helps (a lot) that we have the reuniting of Allen with Diane Keaton, and it's a nice breeze in the room to have both Alan Alda at his ordinary guy best and Angelica Huston as a true New Yorker brimming with confidence and savvy. (Huston is from California, a daughter in the famous movie family. Alda, nicely enough, is a New Yorker for real.)Don't expect anything deep, hilarious, or clever (three of the many intentions in Allen's movies). But it's really well made, superbly written, acted with utter believability, paced with snap, and filled with small surprises. Using the crack team Allen had in place in this period (set designer, photographer, editor, etc.), almost nothing could go wrong. As long as you like this kind of thing in the first place--a Woody Allen movie in the easy going vein.I loved it. "},{"Title":"Fun House For Neurotics","Date":"4 February 2009","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Leave it to Woody Allen to create interesting characters and funny dialogue. He plays Larry Lipton, a New York City book editor, whose wife Carol (Diane Keaton) becomes convinced that one of their apartment neighbors is a murderer. Half the enjoyment of this film is watching, and listening to, neurotic Larry as he reacts to his wife's excellent sleuthing adventure. She and Larry's friend Ted (Alan Alda) plot strategy on how to catch the presumed murderer, much to the chagrin of Larry.Some of the dialogue is amusing, like when Carol insists that Larry accompany her to the suspects' apartment for some serious nosing around. Says Larry I can't relax; I'm in a strange man's apartment in my T-shirt and pajamas.My impression is that at least some of the dialogue is semi-improvised. Whatever the dialogue method, the result is back and forth banter that sounds highly natural and convincing. When you combine this naturalistic style of talk with terrific performances by Allen, Keaton, Alda, and several other actors, the time flies by, and you're sorry when the film ends.The murder mystery element isn't really believable. But that's okay, since it's strictly ancillary to the characterizations and the humorous talk. Even so, there is indeed a puzzle that will be solved by the film's end.Editing and cinematography are fine. Background music features 1930's and 40's pop songs. With all the NYC street scenes, I even learned what New Yorkers mean when they refer to a crosstown bus.Normally, I don't care for talky films. But the dialogue here is so clever that the cinematic experience is pleasant despite a talk heavy script. Manhattan Murder Mystery provides a lot of enjoyment, at the expense of a neurotic character whose life is turned into a fun house of comically scary and startling events. "},{"Title":"My favorite Woody Film!","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I love this movie...it is definitely my favorite Woody Allen film. Diane Keaton and Woody Allen as a married couple are like a pair of old slippers...warm, inviting and comfortable.They have this wonderful energy between them and Dianne is so enthusiastic that she makes you want to go along on this 'murder mystery' with them. Alan Alda is fantastic as usual and Angelica Houston is perfect in her role as the intelligent but sexy writer. The scene where Dianne's character goes searching for her missing glasses is wonderful and the scene where Woody and Dianne's characters go to the hotel looking for Mrs House is hilarious. A delight from start to finish. "},{"Title":"If you want  a happy movie, go see Manhattan Murder Mystery.","Date":"2 June 2008","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Wonderful creative (and not only) relationship between Woody Allen and Diane Keaton has resulted in such movies as Bananas (1971), Sleeper (1973), Love and Death (1975), Annie Hall (1977), Interiors (1978), Manhattan (1979), Radio Days (1987), Manhattan Murder Mystery (1993), and has brought them both well-deserved fame and Oscars.Made 20 years ago, Manhattan Murder Mystery could be symbolical final chapter of imaginary Manhattan trilogy that would also include Annie Hall and Manhattan, and it would give (among many more great things) a chance to happy ever after to Woody's and Diane's neurotic romance. The reunion of Keaton and Allen as a married couple, Larry and Carol Lipton, trying to figure out if their new next door neighbor has committed murder of his wife is their last film together, and IMO, the funniest. Angelica Houston and Alan Alda provide additional comic relief as friends helping the couple solve the mystery. For me, Manhattan Murder Mystery (1993) is the most delightful and enjoyable of all Allen's films and I never laugh as much and hard as when I re-watch this comedy/whodunit. I have been Allen's fan for many years and I've seen every movie he's made. Manhattan Murder Mystery may not be considered his masterpiece but it is very high on my list of all- time favorite films and one of the most beloved comedies ever. It is so clever and funny that I would take it with me to any deserted island, and if I felt lonely and down, I'd watch the scene in the hotel's lift, and the Allen's face when he delivers one of his funniest lines ever, Claustrophobia and a dead body - this is a neurotic's jackpot! I believe Manhattan Murder Mystery has more witty and hilarious dialogs and one-liners than any of Allen's films, and I enjoy every one of them. Allen claims to have indulged himself with this movie in which he referred openly to such classics of cinema as Double Indemnity, Rear Window, and The Lady from Shanghai. The third time collaboration of Allen and Marshall Brickman in writing the script (Annie Hall, Manhattan) proved to be brilliant. The result is uniquely Allenesque - breezy, joyous, and absolutely fabulous. "},{"Title":"Wonderful.","Date":"14 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" After the mature and gritty work of Husbands and Wives (1992), Allen returns to what can be described as an amalgamation of his early funny movies and the moral ethics of his 80's work like Crimes and Misdeameanors (1989) and Hannah and her Sisters (1986).Manhattan Murder Mystery (1993) re-teams Allen and Keaton, and also uses two cast members from Crimes and Misdeameanors, Alan Alda and Angelica Huston. This is a comedy quartet alone make the film work. Jerry Adler is also good as the neighbour who is feared to be a murderer. All the characters seem so vibrant and alive, like the city it is set in. When Allen, Keaton, Alda and Huston all meet in a café at 1 in the morning to discuss their findings, I could not help but feel attracted to the atmosphere Allen had created - the city that never sleeps.The plot never sleeps either, even though it is relatively simple. The fun derives from the fact that these upper-middle class New Yorkers make their life more interesting by trying to solve a murder. The story seems so warm and approachable - like Broadway Danny Rose and Radio Days.The story of murder is mixed with wry humour and a little light violence. We go from a scene of a body being melted, to a hilarious phone scene. It is this juxtaposition of genres that creates the films success. The actors are all immersed in their characters, but sometimes they are off guard - and thank god too. We actually get genuine laughs from the actors. We see it here (the ending) and also in Annie Hall (1977), when Alvy Singer and Annie Hall are in the kitchen with lobsters.Furthermore, the story is genuinely a good mystery albeit a light one. The film references are all their too - The Lady from Shanghai (1948)for example. To some extent Allen expects knowledge from the viewer - the film references (this film has them, Face to Face in Annie Hall, the re-used but never stale jokes (sock filled with horse manure gag...Annie Hall and Radio Days) and various key figures of our times (Freud spoke of a latency period...Wagner music...lots more).Visually the film is good too. The first few shots of New York were surprising for me. They were not as romanticised as previous films - at least not to me. It seemed more like a Michael Mann film, with the city lights.So overall, I am glad Woody lightened up. This film is accessible, yet has many shades. I loved Husbands and Wives, but the Bergman-esquire relationship quarrels are not too fun to watch on your average night in.This film is charming, well acted and most of all a great time. "},{"Title":"Light-hearted Woody Allen is still Woody Allen.","Date":"16 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" By comparison of some of his previous work, including Husbands and Wives and Crimes and Misdemeanors, this is a very breezy and light-hearted farce that has great fun within the genre of films such as Rear Window and The Thin Man. Woody Allen writes and directs with such ease and relaxation and actors Diane Keaton, Alan Alda, and Angelica Huston so perfectly fit the mold he creates that it is simple enough to engage instantly with these characters and follow them as they interact.It must be said here that the actual murder plot is somewhat predictable and not very original. Yet, that is not the point of Woody Allen's screenplay. Unlike a lot of other writers, he focuses more on the characters and their reactions to these unusual situations; these are not people who suddenly turn into great private eyes when the plot requires them to. They are real, genuine and make plenty of mistakes that make us laugh. Allen gives one of his funniest performances on film and the return of Diane Keaton proves how warm and charming they are together still after all these years. Certainly not a very serious Allen movie, but one for those who aren't used to him to check out as well as more hardcore fans. A delight is still a delight. "},{"Title":"No Mystery about it, this one's a winner","Date":"1 July 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Manhattan Murder Mystery provides a strange combination of suspense and comedy and is able to blend the two very well. Even during the most tense of scenes Woody Allen is able to provide comic relief and take the edge off the situation.With such a dark, twisted storyline it's hard to believe that some comedy could be successfully inserted, but the comedy is more than successful in this film. With all the laughs you can expect from a Woody Allen movie and a suspenseful twisting plot, this is a movie that really can successfully crossover the two genres quite easily.The direction of Allen is superb in the dramatic scenes, putting the audience right where it needs to be to feel the full effect of the situation. There are great performances from Woody as his usual neurotic self and Diane Keaton as his nosy but quick-witted wife who get into believable scuffles over her inquisitive nature. Alan Alda is wonderful as Allen's friend who is just as intrigued as Keaton. Anjelica Huston also plays a great part as a nonchalant writer who gets involved in the chase.Allen is able to provide a wonderful fusion of genres in this film, I highly recommend it.8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Lightweight but fun Allen","Date":"4 July 2010","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Light and insubstantial &#x96; the thinnest movie Allen made since 'Midsummer Night's Sex Comedy', but still breezy and fun entertainment, and still manages to have a deeper emotional resonance about working through mid-life crises and relationships. The camera-work is a mix. The first half is annoyingly hand-held much of the time, for no particularly good reason, but the second half has some very nice lighting, and a fun 'Lady From Shanghi' homage at the climax. A flawed film, that one can pick at if you're in a cranky mood, but also one with wit and panache that you can enjoy if you let go of your inner film critic and just watch a master humorist simply tell a good yarn. "},{"Title":"A strong, viable comedy by Allen that doesn't feel like an ode to the slapstick genre","Date":"1 January 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Manhattan Murder Mystery marks Woody Allen's return to comedy after several steady years of cranking out dramas with underlying comedic themes. One could look at this film as him giving into the ones who demanded comedy for so many years, as he again creates a character hellbent on perfection and consumed by his petulant neuroses. Looking at this from a more comedic angle than his previous works, this is one of the funniest Woody Allen movies I have yet to see, surpassing even the heavily comedic undertones of works such as Midnight in Paris and Whatever Works.Allen rounds up Diane Keaton again in the leading female role, perfectly replicating the kind of atmosphere he created in Annie Hall, one of his first films to be recognized by even the Academy as a significant achievement in dramatic filmmaking. The two are a couple, named Larry and Carol Lipton, respectively, who are invited to coffee by Paul House (Jerry Adler) and Lilian (Lynn Cohen), who live next door to them in a highrise building. They have a few cups of coffee, as Carol enthusiastically talks with Lilian about her new treadmill, as they are both trying to remain in shape as they approach their elderly years. They leave the apartment not long after and return home to their quiet little sanctuary (mainly so Larry can catch the Bob Hope movie on Television).The next day, after returning home, they see a crowd outside of the House's apartment and find officers and a coroner on scene reporting that Lilian died of a heart attack. This comes as a grand shock to both Larry and Carol seeing as Lilian appeared healthier and more active than folks half her age, but it comes as a greater shock to Carol that the next day upon seeing Paul that he doesn't seem burdened or even upset by the sudden death of his wife. This sends Carol into a Nancy Drew-like frenzy, sneaking into the House's apartment, invading their privacy, and completely going overboard in her amateur investigation. Larry becomes frustrated at Carol's childish, intrusive behavior, but becomes more concerned when he notices that their friend Ted (Alan Alda) becomes entangled with the mystery at hand here and is getting awfully close to his wife. He realizes that in order to try and even continue a relationship with this woman that he'll need to play along and overall regain her attention.This is when Manhattan Murder Mystery becomes more about love and passion (or lack thereof) than it does the inherent murder and/or mystery. We see that Carol is doing this Nancy Drew investigation not to irritate or intimidate her husband, but almost as a way to cope with a dying, less successful marriage. This is her only outlet of excitement in an increasingly bitter world.Woody Allen marinated in the field of drama so long that American audiences thought he lacked the skills and the ability to make a compelling, silly, ribald comedy. Consider those audiences served by the filmmaking desperado himself. Allen delivers not only a funny, but a terrifically engrossing drama about the dying spark in a once prosperous marital relationship and the ridiculous methods one will use as a catalyst in desperate times.Allen and Keaton, once more, put on a fabulous show, giving us believable characters to enjoy watching, and side characters such as Jerry Adler and Alan Alda are fun to watch and provide grand entertainment. This is one of the strongest comedies Allen has ever made, way more competent that one of his odes to slapstick.Starring Woody Allen, Diane Keaton, Alan Alda, Jerry Adler, and Lynn Cohen. Directed by Woody Allen. "}{"Title":"Diane Keaton is back ...","Date":"30 August 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" After 20 years of marriage, and with one son in college, Larry (Woody Allen) and Carol Lipton (Diane Keaton) try to accommodate with each other's interests, and from the very first hilarious exchanges, we get the point on how dramatically opposed they happen to be. To give you an idea, Larry loves watching ice hockey games while Carol prefers to listen to Wagner; she loves Manhattan's nightlife while he'd rather watch the midnight movie in bed. The differences between Carol and Larry get more obvious when they meet Mr. and Mrs. House (Jerry Adler and Lynn Cohen), an old couple living in the same floor. In a remarkably dialog-driven sequence, we feel Carol's enthusiasm to have an extra-time for socializing and Larry's impatience to live and stop enduring Mr. House's collection of stamps. At the end, we're not that surprised by the following discussion about the path their life is taking, their mutual attraction and all that marital existentialism. They have a dinner with friends in the following scene which feels like a reminiscence of Manhattan, which is not surprising since the setting is one of the film's three titular 'M'. We learn that Carol wants to open a restaurant, Larry believes it's a foolish decision to take so late in life, yet one of their recently divorced friends Ted (Alan Alda) encourages her. We get it; Larry enjoys his life's pacific serenity while Carol desperately looks for a new meaning before it's too late. Many couples face that situation where the ambitions and goals in life suddenly differ, but Allen handles this material with a less polemical tone than the previous Husbands and Wives as if he was tired of hostile arguments. He leaves more room for Ted, whose adventurous temperament fits Carol's thirst for newness, not without feeling jealous about that. It's a pivotal, even crucial moment in Carol and Harry's marital life.Yet the title doesn't lie on the film's premise it's a mysterious crime that will shatter their boring routine. Speaking of the mystery, if the previous scene where they meet the friendly Houses' couple reminded me of Rosemary's Baby when Mia Farrow and John Cassavetes met the Castevets, I was even more struck by the plot's similarities when after a night out, Carol and Larry discovers that Mrs. House died of a heart attack. Much more, Mr. House looked unusually cheerful and not too much distraught by the loss of the woman he spent 28 years and planned to be buried with in a twin-cemetery, raising Carol's suspicion. She had a heart condition, he says, Carol insists that Mrs. House never mentioned that. At that point, we know what she's about, she smells something fishy and whether she's right or wrong matters less than that she finally found an opportunity to live some thrills. And the difference of attitudes between Carol and Larry is the film's comedic basis.Indeed, the conflict between Carol who wants to go further and Larry who wants her to stop, will originate one of Woody Allen's funniest lines Is that what you do when I'm forbidding? I'm not going to forbid you a lot, if you do. The greatest delight of Manhattan Murder Mystery relies on the way its intricate plot contributes to enrich the human relationships involved in the resolution and vice versa. Carol's amateurish investigation, her growing complicity with Ted, and Larry's clumsy attempts to help her after he understands that his marriage is in peril, are magnificently portrayed. And all these interactions culminate with the help of Marcia Fox, played by a scene-stealing Angelica Huston, a dark and sensual authoress and professional poker-player, so intuitive that she'll even steal Carol's thunder in the crime- solving process, and fascinate both Ted and Larry. As a counterpart to Carol's personality, like Ted for Larry, Marcia Fox will also teach Carol a few things about the word 'jealousy'. After, Husbands and Wives, a powerful social commentary about marital relationships and an opportunity for Woody Allen to exorcise all the demons resulting from the custody battle with Mia Farrow, Manhattan Murder Mystery feels like a moment of pure refreshment. If it's not the best of Woody Allen's rich filmography, not nominated for a Best Original Screenplay or Best Supporting Acting Oscar (while it deserved some accolades) it's still extremely enjoyable and delivers what we'd expect from Woody Allen. And the main pillar of this enjoyment is definitely Diane Keaton's comeback and her incredible chemistry with Woody Allen. Indeed, I have much admiration to Mia Farrow, and she'll be forever associated with some of Allen's greatest achievements, but there has always been a sort of inner sweetness in Farrow that confined to poignancy and even sometimes to pathos, and this characteristic reaches a paroxysm in Husbands and Wives where not only her character, but the actress herself looked both unhappy, embodying the marital conflict that was poisoning their lives. Woody Allen said Mia likes to do funny things, but she's not as broad a comedian as Diane is, although I don't approve the manner but I have to agree with the director, Mia Farrow is fine but as far as comedy is concerned, Diane Keaton has that little sparkle that makes all the difference. Yes, we have the New York middle-class lifestyle, the intellectual discussions with the couples of friends, Allen's neurotic personality (a dead body and claustrophobia, a neurotic's jackpot), his distaste for Wagner, a compositor who gives him the urge to invade Poland and the whole romantic twists and commentaries on men and women's relationships, all the ingredients for a great Allen's film are here but Diane Keaton is the icing on the cake.And believe me, she's for more than three quarters in what make Manhattan Murder Mystery such a delicious pastry, reminding us how a great chemistry she always had with Woody Allen, hell, even when they argue, they're hilarious. "},{"Title":"Delightful Murder Mystery","Date":"10 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The movie is based about a happily married couple (Larry (Woody Allen) and Carol Lipton (Diane Keaton)) in their mid-ages settled in Manhattan. One of the neighbors dies of heart attack. Carol is depicted as a friendly and a nosy neighbor and is convinced that the death was a murder as she felt Lillian (dead neighbor) was too healthy to die of a heart attack and suspects that the husband was responsible for it. Carol takes it on her to solve the mystery of this murder otherwise the murderer will get away with a murder; thus the name of the movie Manhattan Murder Mystery.Larry is shown as a simple man, an editor in a publishing house, who believes neighbor should mind their own business and wants to respect that. He is not a big fan of adventure of solving a murder mystery unlike his wife. Carol is driven by the urge to solve the murder mystery and teams up with the couples' friend Ted (Alan Alda) as she feels he is more enthused about nabbing the murderer.The movie is such a delight to watch. Even though there is a murder in the plot and suspense building up, Woody makes sure that you as the audience don't miss out on your belly full of laughter. Woody has done an amazing job as a writer, director and actor to make this gruesome murder mystery a complete comic experience. The on-screen chemistry that Diane and Woody share is just amazing and makes you believe they are truly made for each other. It reminds me of the couple in Annie Hall. One of my favorite scenes from the movie is when Larry and friends calls Mr. House for ransom with a series of coordinated recorded voices. Woody is just hysterical with his clumsy way.The best part about this movie and most of Woody Allen's movies is the fact that it is very natural. The movie banks heavily on the witty script and the natural flow of conversations which makes you feel a part of the conversation rather than just an audience. Woody capitalizes on the imperfections and spoofs in the movie giving it a more realistic feel to the movie. I feel this movie is an all time classic, evergreen and can be enjoyed over and over again. It's a complete family entertainment. I give this movie a 4er. If you have not seen this movie yet, rent it or buy the movie and watch it as I am sure you will fall in love with the movie. Abmonstein's Movie Review Manhattan Murder Mystery http//abmonstein-movie- review.blogspot.com/2011/11/manhattan-murder-mystery.html#links "},{"Title":"''Claustrophia and a dead body - this is a neurotic's jackpot''  **** out of *****","Date":"23 January 2009","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I've not actually seen many Woody Allen movies, the only other I've seen is 'Small Time Crooks' (2000) both are equally enjoyable, but both run out of steam well before the end, as if Allen can't be bothered and moves on to something else, having said that though 'Manhattan Murder Mystery' is for the most part an incredibly enjoyable old-timey sort of film,Woody Allen teams up again with Former Girlfriend Diane Keaton as they play husband & wife Larry & Carol Lypton a fairly normal middle aged New York Couple who are now alone as their son (Scrubbs' Zack Braff in a blink and you'll miss him part) goes off to college. They live in a high rise block, and are invited to the Apartment of one of their neighbours, elderly couple Paul & Lillian House (Jerry Adler & Lynn Cohen) they go, much to Larry's dismay who wants to watch and old movie on TV. The following day though, as they go to their Apartment they find out that Lillian has suddenly passed away from a suspected Heart Attack - After a few days Carol becomes suspicious due to the fact that Paul doesn't seem too terribly upset at the demise of his wife, and becomes convinced that he had a part in her death and tries to convince Larry, whose having none of it and putting it down to the Menopause, so she turns to friend and admirer Ted (Alan Alda) who she manages to convince, but suddenly during a wine tasting session, she sees Liliian go past on the bus... or does she?Understated, at times very funny - but the ending is predictable and looks rushed and out of kilt with the rest of the movie, but that's a small complaint for the most part, It's a really good movie.**** out of ***** "},{"Title":"This movie is a lot of fun!","Date":"15 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I liked Manhattan Murder Mystery a lot, The performances of Woody Allen and Diane Keaton as a mature married couple investigating their neighbor about the possibility that he has murdered his wife is very funny. I think this movie deserves 7.5 stars.There is a lot of chemistry between the leading and the supporting cast, Anjelica Huston looks so cool as the clever writer with a lot of world, Alan Alda is good too like the good friend of Diane Keaton who supports her in resolving the mystery about the possible murder, and who loves her. Jerry Adler is really good as the nice neighbor (the possible murder).Well this movie has the clever jokes that we can hear in all Woody Allen's movies but we can watch also suspense moments with touches of good humor. "},{"Title":"Great comedy","Date":"14 October 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I love Allen. He shines in every film I have seen him in. I love his humour and his ability to act and so I was delighted to see him in a role that catered for his style of acting and humour, but also showed a more mature and serious side to his acting.I watched this movie not knowing what to expect, except that the movie's lead stars (Woody and Diane Keaton) had been given very good reviews about their part in this film. I have to say I enjoyed the film. It was entertaining, funny but yet so sad.The mystery is actually engrossing!The film is about two characters who are miserable in their love lives (for different reasons) and in a strange country far from home. Their friendship develops so nicely and quickly that they become so attached to each other that saying goodbye is the hardest thing in the world.As much as the film shows happiness in the form of the friendship, the film touches you in an all different way towards its end. After seeing this film, I found myself thinking about it all too much afterwards. "},{"Title":"Perhaps an Adventure is the Best Test For a Relationship","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Woody Allen may be one of the most naturalistic, simplistic and self-effacingly unambitious filmmakers still working, but he can fool you. Or at least he fooled me. The plot itself is very clever, the murder plot being loaded with wit and old film noir and pulp novel knowledgability and the subplots and characters being typical Woody Allen tools accompany it with a successfully funny irony. It just seems so quick, so fleeting, so light.Really though, there is a lot of nuance that goes into this little film. In some sense like a Billy Wilder film (perhaps the reason for the film's early Double Indemnity reference), Woody will use cinematic techniques very heavily, but absolutely none of it is called to attention. There are minute details everywhere, from an elusive black cat crossing during a seemingly inconsequential expository scene, and the intent to keep decorative flowers in the foreground throughout shots of Woody and Keaton bickering about the possibility of foul play on the part of their neighbor. When Alan Alda is talking on the phone with Keaton at a questionable hour of the night, he puts his beer on his coffee table and the camera stays on it, evoking volumes about his character in relation to Keaton, his loneliness, his emptiness. This is all done so well indeed that the effortlessness can almost be mistaken for no effort. The cinematography is characterized by an almost entirely hand-held quality, simple pointing and shooting, panning and zooming, following, the most elementary employments. But in the apparent deficiency of technique, there is enormously effective technique. He relaxes our attention to aesthetics, and so we feel that we're watching a light, breezy little geriatric romantic comedy.Indeed, a central theme of the movie seems to be indifference, which tends to come with age when people seem to unfussily accept that there are many things they've never gotten to do and probably never will, and in effect some, like Woody's character, seem to see life's reality as a place where nothing exciting happens so there's no reason to feel dejected because there's no point of comparison to make between yesterday and today. It gives the murder plot a refreshing sense of adventure for Keaton and Woody must awaken from his humble grind to save his marriage from her newfound sense of excitement.Sometimes, its the unadorned format that gives the film stylistic release. There is one moment where Keaton glances out of a restaurant window at a passing city bus. This is the kind of shot that could've looked differently in the hands of nearly every other director. It's a murder mystery after all, and one would take for granted the manipulation of light, a sleeker film stock, but no. It is as if we are looking not at a screen depiction but looking in real life at a passing bus on the street.The two have not lost any of their flare as a comic duo. Roughly thirty years after Sleeper, Love and Death and Annie Hall, they have a chemistry to which Woody's teamings with his other female leads cannot compare. They both have so much character even while playing the age-old staples of their acting careers; Woody plays virtually the only role of his entire acting career. There's just a wise humility to their on-screen antics that keeps them ripe. "},{"Title":"Incredibly funny!","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie, it's so funny! You can laugh, and laugh, and laugh. I don't really like Woody Alen, but here he is great! I loved that scene when they're calling the guy pretending they are his mistress and mess up the tapes. I give it 9 in 10. "},{"Title":"Diane Keaton Gives Best Female Comic Performance of 90s","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I agree with those who love this movie.  It is my favorite of his, and I love most of his films.  But what nobody has yet singled out is that Diane Keaton in this movie gives the best female comic performance of the 90s. The way she pops off lines  like Forget the police, Larry.  They're red tape.  This is _my_ case and I'm gonna have Ted run a check on that captures everything that men find exasperating but endlessly attractive about women.  Anjelica Huston gives a star turn and Alan Alda could not be more appealing.  Of course Woody saves himself some of the best lines in his entire oeuvre.  It's one of my all-time faves. "},{"Title":"Nice little story","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a definite film for Woody devotees. For me there were some scenes where I couldn't stand his neurotic blabbing any more. He threw though some exceptional one-liners! The rest of the cast did a very good job and I guess they were improvising in some scenes. In general, it's a light comedy, but nothing deeper as some previous Allen films. Also it has a distinctive New York feel. "},{"Title":"Annie HallThe B side's.","Date":"26 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" With having found myself over the last few months unwittingly putting films of Woody Allen right at the back of the line of my must watch pile of movies,I decided shortly after finding out that a poll for the best films of 1993 was being held on IMDb's Classic Film board,that I would instantly put Woody Allen's 1993 right at the front,so that I could at last uncover the mysterious Manhattan murder.The plotReturning to their apartment building after watching a game of hookey, husband and wife Larry and Carol Lipton run into near by residents,and fellow husband and wife,Paul and Lilian House.Making small talk with Paul and Lilian as they find themselves in the building's elevator with them,Larry and Carol are caught by surprise when Paul and Lilian suddenly invite them round for a late night coffee.Ignoring her husbands less then subtle signs of annoyance,Carol accepts the House's kind offer.As Larry gets bored out of existence by Paul showing him all of his stamp collection,Carol finds every minute that she spends with Lilian to be a true joy,who along with having a similar craving that Carol has for French deserts,is also very keen on her at- home gym,which leads to Carol greatly admiring Lilian,due to how amazingly fit and healthy she looks.The next nightComing back from a night spent at the opera,Carol and Paul's fun night is stopped in its tracks,when they are given the tragic news the earlier that night,Lilian House had died of a heart attack.Feeling shaken over not just the death of her friend,but also the very odd,calm manner that Paul seemed to be in,Carol pushes Larry's reasoning that Paul is just grieving in a different manner right to the side,and begins to wonder if the thing that killed Lilian House was really a heart attack,or something much more sinister?...View on the filmPicking up a sub-plot that was originally meant for the duo's 1977 movie Annie Hall that got cut from the script due to feeling out of place with the rest of the plot,the screenplay by Marshall Brickman and co- writer/actor and director auteur Woody Allen impressively keep the movie away from every feeling dusty by cleverly balancing a tightly-coiled, surprisingly thrilling murder-mystery with characters like Carol Lipton,who will go to increasingly insane leginths to prove that their hunch is correct.Shooting the film in a floating, non-shaky Cam style,Allen gives the movie a wonderful fresh atmosphere,with the scenes that Larry and Carol share together having an expert,improve-like feel about them,which helps to give each of Allen's and Brickman's lines (with I cant listen to that much Wagner ya know.I start to get the urge to invade to conquer Poland!,being a particularly hilarious highlight) a real sharpness.Along with the crisp one-liners,Allen also gives the movie some terrific sly nods to Film Noir,from going to see Double Imdematey at a cinema,to an extremely stylish ending ,that has strong shades of 1947 Orson Welles Film Noir The Lady from Shanghai.Reuniting for the first time since 1979,Woody Allen and Diane Keaton both give strong performance's which set out to prove,that despite not appear on screen together for more than 10 years,neither of them has lost the other ones rhythm.Bounceing off a wonderfully agitated Allen,who would much rather be in bed then going round amateur sleuthing,Keaton shows Carol to be someone with an electrifying,and risky personality,who cant resits keeping away from solving the Manhattan murder mystery. "}{"Title":"A Lovable Mystery-Comedy","Date":"5 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I don't know why you're not more fascinated by this! We could be living next to a murderer, Carol Lipton (Diane Keaton) emphasizes to her doubtful husband, Larry (Woody Allen). Larry isn't so convinced New York is a melting pot I'm used to it! When put in the situation of having a murderer live next door, there are two kinds of people there are (1) the bored who decide their life could use a little fluffer, deciding to solve the mystery themselves, like a modern day Miss Marple, or (2) the fearful who figure it would be best to mind their own business and let karma stop by sometime in the future.Trouble is, Carol is of the first category, Larry of the second. She can't rest until she really knows what's going on; Larry, however, would rather go to work, come home for dinner at 500, stay up until the late hours of the evening to catch a forgotten classic on the classic movie channel, and continue the same routine for the rest of his life, spicing it up in safe ways when the occasion arises. But Carol has a mind of her own, and Larry, being played by Woody Allen (in which case meaning Allen is basically playing himself), is much too weak of a figure to stop her Nancy Drew madness.Who can blame her? Here's the situation as the film opens, Larry and Carol bump into their aging neighbors, Mr. and Mrs. House (Jerry Adler and Lynn Cohen), who proceed to casually invite them up for coffee. The two are dull, but sweet reaching old age, they have already purchased twin headstones, filling their days with blissful uneventfulness and hobbies like stamp collecting. Larry finds them pleasantly boring; the invitation was polite, sure, but neighbors are meant to be neighbors, not friends. Yet just as he's stating this sentiment to the kooky Carol, the unexpected happens with brute force. The following day, Mrs. House is announced dead. She had a heart condition.Larry is surprised but figures it to be another tragedy in the cruel game of life; Carol, on the other hand, is suspicious. Mrs. House never mentioned having a heart condition (strange considering she felt the need to discuss her hysterectomy only minutes into conversation). Mr. House must have murdered her. So she decides to do a little investigating herself, and, as it turns out, something is amiss. One point Carol, zero points Larry.These days, Woody Allen seems to travel back and forth between meaningful work and more passable fare. Critics flock to his old-age unevenness like a group of hungry vultures, but I've always enjoyed what he has to offer. When he's taking a break from changing the lives of his audience and having fun for a change, it's infectious (most of the time). Manhattan Murder Mystery is his finest, dare I say it, lightweight project. I could be biased, considering I watched the majority of his most famous films when I was too young to really understand their meaning, but over the years, Manhattan Murder Mystery has always stuck with me the most. Is it the contagiously humorous repartee between Allen and Keaton (in their first film together since 1979's Manhattan), the obvious homages to film noir(you can't beat The Lady from Shanghai playfulness of the ending) and Agatha Christie, the likable supporting performances from Alan Alda (the likable best friend type) and Anjelica Huston (the superiorly cool female figure), the New York setting? I can hardly decide, but Allen's deft combination of whodunit antics and absolutely hilarious exchanges makes every single thing about Manhattan Murder Mystery an unequivocal delight. And because he's realistic, of course he slides marital trouble and middle-aged discontent into the mix; it's the only way such an exciting story could exist in real life!With a luminous Keaton by his side, a truckload of his best lines (Claustrophobia and a dead body - this is a neurotic's jackpot!; I can't listen to that much Wagner. I start to get the urge to conquer Poland.), and an unabashed sense of fun, Manhattan Murder Mystery is Allen at his best confident, sensible, engaging, and uproarious. "},{"Title":"One of Allen's best films, much more than a minor work","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" As someone who has really liked or loved most of what she's seen of Woody Allen's filmography(15 left to watch as of now)- he has done some disappointments but none to me have been terrible or unwatchable, more uneven than anything else-, Manhattan Murder Mystery is up there with his best, not quite in his top 5 but most definitely in the top 10. As always with Allen it's adroitly directed and beautifully made with a noir-ish feel that adds so much to the atmosphere and mystery. The music is energetic and haunting, adding much to the comedic and mystery aspects of the story. Love the old songs too, they have a very nostalgic quality and easy to recognise. The writing is hilarious and in distinctive Allen fashion- not quite among the best screenplays of all time but some of the lines here are some of the most quotable from any Woody Allen film- while also keeping the suspense to nail-biting effect. Manhattan Murder Mystery works brilliantly both as a comedy and mystery. The comedy never takes a heavy-handed approach- in fact a lot of it is quite light- and always amuses and the mystery aspect is even better, very Hitchcockian(there was a very Rear Window influence here) and intricate and with great atmosphere and suspense. A highlight is the ending with the mirror sequence paying homage to Lady in Shanghai, it really has to be one of the best ever endings of any of Allen's films and is also very visually striking. The characters as with many Woody Allen films are purposefully neurotic but also compelling in their realism and they all serve a point to the story, no superficiality in sight. Allen gets great performances from the cast and his own performance is excellent. He has believable chemistry with Diane Keaton who gives her absolute all to her most neurotic, bat-out-of-hell character yet. Anjelica Huston is strong as usual though she has given better performances in meatier roles and while Alan Alda gives a better performance in Crimes and Misdemeanors (a textbook example of how to play a weasel of a character well, brilliantly in his case) but he doesn't disappoint either. Overall, a brilliant film and one of Allen's best, a minor work this is not. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"A Well-Written & Well-Acted Film!","Date":"11 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Woody Allen aka Mr.Cinema delivers A Well-Written & Well-Acted Film in 'Manhattan Murder Mystery'. Allen's presentation of a murder mystery comes in-tact with humor, that does the the trick.'Manhattan Murder Mystery' Synopsis A middle-aged couple suspects foul play when their neighbor's wife suddenly drops dead.'Manhattan Murder Mystery' begins well & climbs the ladder scene-by-scene. Allen brings in so much humor to this murder mystery, that is truly a work of pure genius. Allen & Marshall Brickman's Screenplay is funny & entertaining. Allen's Direction, like always, is note-worthy. Cinematography by Carlo Di Palma is perfect. Editing is good.Performance-Wise Allen dominates the show with a yet another marvelous performance. Diane Keaton is natural to the core. Alan Alda is decent, while Anjelica Huston is remarkable. Others lend support.On the whole, 'Manhattan Murder Mystery' is worth a watch. "},{"Title":"A Terrific Allen Effort!","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" There are some movies that require more than a single viewing for me to either get it or enjoy it. Some of Charlie Chaplin's films are in this category. So is North By Northwest. Add this film to it.I was always amused by the phone sequence near the end when the friends prepare an audio tape recording. A very funny scene! Highlight of the movie, in fact.Maybe I paid attention more the second viewing. I don't always view movies a second time --- if I don't like it, why bother? MMM has a good blend of comedy and mystery, with a terrific on-screen chemistry between Diane Keaton and Woody Allen. Honestly, I like this film much more than the renown ANNIE HALL. "},{"Title":"Annie Hall Grows Up","Date":"4 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" If you loved Annie Hall, you will enjoy this film that reunites Woody Allen and Diane Keaton in an Alfred Hitchcock Meets Mr. & Mrs. North murder mystery romp. Set against the backdrop of the New York urban sophisticated married couple with their apartment-living and hip friends, Allen and Keaton reprise the Annie Hall warmth and nuttiness as the darling duo become involved in a murder mystery.The production is not perfect, and it's not for everyone; but it doesn't matter. Mr. Allen's and Ms. Keaton's fans will love it, as their characters' witty banter, attractiveness and goofiness carry the movie. The ensemble cast is pure Woody Allen and is, as usual, terrific.Routine, comfortable moments are mixed with suspense and comedy. Get out the popcorn, put up your feet and enjoy! "},{"Title":"Allen-Keaton Reunion Enlivens a Not So Inconsequential Cat-and-Mouse Caper","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" It's tempting to look at this fairly lightweight 1993 comedy mystery as a bookend for Woody Allen and Diane Keaton after his Mia Farrow years. After all, as a long-married Upper West Side couple, they rekindle their natural chemistry like no time has passed at all since 1977's Annie Hall and 1979's Manhattan. That's the primary but not the only joy to be derived from watching this often hilarious cat-and-mouse tale.As they see their son (a young Zach Braff) off to college, Carol and Larry Lipton have become mired in a routine marital routine until Lillian House, an elderly neighbor, suddenly dies. It appears to be a heart attack, but Carol suspects foul play involving Lillian's husband. Most of the plot has Carol sleuthing for clues to fit her Agatha Christie-like murder theory with the help of Ted, a friend too close for Larry's comfort. Of course, Larry thinks Carol is going off the deep end and becomes jealous of Ted's burgeoning involvement in the case. Enter Marcia Fox, a glamorous, crafty writer who devises creative ways to unearth the killer (the pre-recorded phone conversation scene is a hoot), and you have romantic complications mixed up chaotically with the mystery. Naturally the shenanigans enliven the Lipton marriage.Co-written by Allen and Marshall Brickman, reunited years after those first two classic Allen-Keaton films, this is all fun stuff and a great excuse for the filmmaker to pay tribute to favorite classics like The Thin Man, Rear Window and The Lady from Shanghai. Allen is Allen as Larry, a good thing here, and Keaton is her breezy energetic self as Carol. Again using his unctuous personality to advantage, Alan Alda plays Ted like the talkative friend you don't quite trust. Ideally cast, Angelica Huston is at her cunning best as Marcia. Carlo DiPalma's cinematography is a bit too shaky for my taste especially when the details of the characters' clandestine actions are divulged. But the other Allen touches are in check here, and the result is an ingratiating entertainment. The DVD came out in 1998 and consequently has none of the extras we have come to expect from more recent releases. "},{"Title":"A smart funny film from Woody","Date":"27 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Woody Allen's film about a curious housewife (Keaton) who suspects neighbor of being a murderer after his healthy wife shows up dead. The film has a very interesting plot, and Allen shows his flair as a storyteller and still has some great one-liners and funny moments. The performances in the film was great, i loved Woody in his neurotic skeptical husband of Keaton's character. Alan Alda was also great as a flirtacious friend of the two who showsin her role a lot of interest in helping Keaton's character discover the truth. Anjelica Huston is also decent a writer friend of the editor husband (Allen). The film is one of Woody's better efforts, always funny and fun-to-watch. 9/10 #130 on my list of all time favorite films "},{"Title":"Manhattan Murder Mystery (1993) ***","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Due to the personal problems between Woody Allen and Mia Farrow at the time of production, it was Diane Keaton who was cast in Mia's place to reunite with the Woodster and it's good to see the two of them together once again in this very entertainingly offbeat comedy tale. I couldn't imagine anyone but Diane Keaton in this part. Keaton plays a bored housewife living in her New York City apartment building with husband Allen who becomes convinced that an elderly neighbor has just killed his wife and is trying to get away with it. She turns amateur detective and tries to enlist her doubting husband to little avail, but gains an enthusiastic partner in one of Woody's best friends (Alan Alda). Interesting, with a real feel for New York City, and Anjelica Huston on hand to eventually get involved in all the spying and trap-setting. It may even be the one time I've found her physically appealing. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"Hitchcockian Woody","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie proves that Woody Allen can really get away with any genre (well, maybe not western or horror).  But think about it--he's tackled comedy (of course), sci fi (Sleeper), romance, heavy drama, musical, spy movie, serious thriller and with this film, comic thriller.  But Manhattan Murder Mystery has its moments of bona fide Hithcockian suspense.  POSSIBLE SPOILER  When Diana Keaton breaks into her neighbor's apartment, looking for evidence that he murdered his wife, and he unexpectedly comes home is just one example.  The subtext of the film is just as engrossing as the Manhattan Murder Mystery; the notion of bored spouses (and ex-spouses, in the case of Alan Alda's character) looking for something, anything, to latch on to that breaks them away from their daily rituals.  There is a bit of Mia Farrow's Alice and her character from Husbands and Wives in Keaton's character, and it comes as no surprise that Farrow was originally scheduled to play Keaton's character.  But her fallout with Woody prevented that, and Diane Keaton makes the most of it.  It's nice to see her and Woody together again.  They are still friends, according to what I've read, and maybe they'll do another movie together.  The movie is basically a highly enjoyable comic mystery--a throwback to movies like The Thin Man and Hitchcock's The Lady Vanishes and his other light thrillers--set amid Allen's usual assortment of high maintenance and high strung New Yorkers.  Not a classic Woody Allen film, but a fun one and also one of the few Woody Allen films of the '90s to appeal to all audiences, even Woody bashers.   "},{"Title":"Woody's lighthearted caper brings many laughs","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  After spending much of the 80's making films of a much darker tone (even when it was a comedy), Woody returns to fine, goofy form with Manhattan Murder Mystery.  Despite involving the grisly subject of murder; it's a funny, silly story and very casual for Woody's standards.  Gleefully reuniting with the unflappable Diane Keaton, his ex-girlfriend and the co-star of many of his 70's masterpieces, Woody and Diane play Larry & Carol Lipton, a slightly neurotic, married couple living in Manhattan (surprise!).  One evening, Larry & Carol have coffee and cake with the elderly couple next door, Paul & Lillian House.  The following evening, Carol & Larry learn that Lillian has died of a heart attack.  Days later, the casual demeanor of their new widower neighbor arises suspicions in Carol.  She soon proposes that Paul murdered his wife, but Larry dismisses such a crazy idea and thinks they should mind their own business anyway.  Carol bends the ear of her friend Ted (Alan Alda), to toss around scenarios as to how and why her neighbor killed his wife.  Ted is happy to participate; he has a deep but respectable crush on Carol.  When Carol's conniving & snooping sways the opinion of Larry, aided by his jealously of her budding friendship with Ted, he reluctantly joins in on the case.Larry, a book editor, shares his wife's adventures with Marcia Fox, a sexy client/writer of his (played with long-legged confidence by Anjelica Huston), who wants to do much more with Larry than just have him edit her book!  Marcia is soon involved in the conspiracy theory, and brandishes even more impressive ideas as to how Paul House may have ended and disposed of his wife - much to the dismay of Carol, who is intimidated by her sexy presence and sharp mind.  Carol, Larry, Ted, and Marcia soon find themselves constructing a scheme to trick Paul into admitting he murdered his wife, even though they're not completely sure he did.  What's makes this film so enjoyable is that it's a very slight return to slapstick for Allen.  Woody is hilarious sitting on a sofa entangling himself in miles of cassette tape while the others try to create a mock telephone conversation with Paul using tape recorders.  Carlo Di Palma's jerky cinematography and Susan Morse's twitchy editing combine to create a rickety, but intimate look. Woody's predictable reliance on old jazz standards works well (although it doesn't in a few of his other films).The funniest thing about this film is its structural resemblances to Alfred Hitchcock's Rear Window.  The premise of both films regard a couple investigating the possibility that a neighbor murdered their spouse.  The two main characters in Rear Window, L.B. Jeffries and Lisa Freemont, are mirrored by the characters of Carol and Marcia, respectively.  Carol is the imaginative idealist who demands that her morbid theories come true, and Marcia is the cool beauty who seems to have solved the puzzle once presented with all the clues.  It's also interesting that Woody chose to reunite with Keaton for this film.  The basic plot of Manhattan Murder Mystery was originally constructed for what eventually evolved into Annie Hall, Allen & Keaton's most famous collaboration (the murder mystery story was dropped when the love story sub-plot developed).  This is a giddy, impromptu Woody film, but it's just as sophisticated as everything else he's done. "}{"Title":"An extremely clever movie which is just a little too long","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This is a brilliantly witty movie and some of the dialogue and acting is sparkling, but it also suffers from the occassional lag and at times my interest waned. However, the gems of neurosis that fall from Woody's lips make the rest of the ride worthwhile in this entertaining and engaging piece of light comedy. My vote - a strong 7/10 (almost an eight) "},{"Title":"Fun film!","Date":"18 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  A classic angst-packed Woody Allen film. He is charming as the nervous, anti-risk husband of Diane Keaton's character! Alan Alda and Angelica Huston round-out the group of would-be homicide detectives nicely! Great casting! Great story! Fantastic sound track! Lots of fun to watch!  "},{"Title":"Woody Still Has It","Date":"29 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" A middle-aged couple (Woody Allen and Diane Keaton) suspects foul play when their neighbor's wife suddenly drops dead.You know, how many films can you do about loving New York starring Woody Allen and Diane Keaton? Apparently a fair amount, as this film is one more on the pile -- and it is a pile of winners. Sure, you have Zach Braff's film debut that probably never should have happened, but that is forgivable.Who killed the neighbor? Why? Did anyone kill her? And then, is she even dead? This truly is a mystery, with ample amounts of comedy thrown in. And, because it is Woody humor, it is brilliant with its blend of easy jokes and more intellectual jabs (such as the reference to invading Poland while listening to Wagner). "},{"Title":"joyous, funny and thrilling","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Whenever someone tells me that they don't like Woody Allen films, I give them this one. Not only is it one of and just maybe the very best one of all, but it is joyous, funny and thrilling. It also helps that it has the most wonderful dialogue. Whether the main protagonists are in a restaurant trying to figure out what's going on or Allen and Keaton are sparring in their bedroom, the script just glows. Alda gives his best performance ever and the scenes with him and Keaton just glow with warmth and affection. Allen, himself is on top form with more wisecracks here than in almost anything else he has done. Never a dull moment, as they say, and just in case it might slow in the middle up pops an amazingly effective performance from Angelica Huston to continue to breath life and excitement into this rattling good yarn. So, if you don't like this there may be some early Allen you like but truly if you don't like this, who are you? "},{"Title":"Allen and Keaton together again","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Woody Allen and Diane Keaton teamed up again for Manhattan Murder Mystery in 1993 and proved once more that they are a great match. Here they play Larry and Carol Lipton, a husband and wife with a grown son where life for Carol anyway has become humdrum. One night they meet an elderly couple, Mr. and Mrs. House (Jerry Adler and Lynn Cohen) on their floor and join them for coffee. The next day Mrs. House is dead of a heart attack, and Carol decides there's been foul play. She confides in her divorced friend Ted (Alan Alda) and before you know it, she's snooping around Mr. House's apartment, following him and doing stakeouts with Ted.This is a wonderful comedy that has a very improvisational feel and two people who act and talk just like a married couple - except funnier because Woody's the husband. It's amazing to watch as these creative people - Carol, an excellent cook who is thinking of starting a restaurant, Larry, an editor, Marcia (Angelica Huston) one of his writers, and Ted build up the case and decide how to catch the murderous husband. The scene where the four have dinner is one of the best as the waiters listen in on what sounds like four people plotting a murder. The other classic is Marcia conducting all of them on a phone call that relies on each pressing the button of a tape recorder when she points at them. The sight of her panicking and pointing as Larry's tape unravels and he tries to fix it is priceless.The acting is superb, Allen his usual hilarious neurotic self, complaining to his wife that he can't listen to too much Wagner because it gives him the urge to conquer Poland and freaking out when he's stuck in an elevator. Keaton is pretty, energetic, and a riot as Carol as she goes through her empty nest crisis, angry because Larry gave Marcia a paperback he didn't give her and jealous when Ted starts to pay attention to Marcia. I think we have to re-evaluate our lives, she announces to her husband when she learns about the paperback. As a lonely divorcée, Alda gives a wonderful performance, and Angelica Huston as a beautiful, savvy, tough poker-playing writer is perfection.Woody Allen has made some heavy-duty films, comedies, and along the way, he's had a few misfires. After some of his more ponderous films, Manhattan Murder Mystery may seem like a throwaway. It isn't. It's a pure delight from beginning to end filled with mystery, suspense, humor and real people we can love. "},{"Title":"A Woody Allen classic, with the hilarious tape recorder scene","Date":"26 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I'm not a huge fan of Woody Allen's movies after Manhattan Murder Mystery, but I loved Manhattan Murder Mystery. Yes, there was the murder mystery of course, but also the relationship and chemistry between the main characters (Woody Allen, Diane Keaton, Alan Alda, Anjelica Houston). Whilst I haven't been to NY, I want to visit the place and see where it was filmed!! The twist in the plot line was intriguing and unexpected. The tape recorder scene at the end is one of the funniest scenes in movie history without a doubt. I laughed out loud big time and kudos to the editor. I'm pleased to have Manhattan Murder Mystery on DVD and I can watch this movie over and over again. "},{"Title":"A minor gem from Woody Allen","Date":"9 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I remember seeing Manhattan Murder Mystery in the theater back in 1993 and enjoying it (it's a great crowd movie); I saw it again today after about 20 years and it still holds up very well. It starts out as only mildly funny, but it gets progressively funnier, and can make you laugh out loud a number of times. The mystery plot is solid as well - this must be one of Woody Allen's strongest films plot-wise. And in the context of a lightweight comedy-murder mystery, Allen sneaks in an examination of a marital relationship, homages to some of his classic film favorites, and his profound love for New York. He also gives generous portions of the comedy to the other actors, Diane Keaton, Alan Alda, and Angelica Huston. As usual, Allen and Keaton make such a great team on the screen that you have to wonder why they haven't worked together again since 1993 - maybe even as the same characters from this film! *** out of 4. "},{"Title":"I like to exercise......I prefer to atrophy.","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" The Movie that is most Famous for the Reuniting of Woody Allen and Diane Keaton. It lands somewhere in the Middle of the Comedian's Comedies. There are the usual number of Woody-isms and a rather Complex Murder Mystery that keeps things on the run.Showing more Neurosis than usual Woody fidgets relentlessly and babbles non-stop and for the uninitiated probably too much. There is some fine support from Alan Alda and Anjelica Huston for the Bickering Couple to play off and the Murder Mystery is ever present. Many Film Buff Homages that aren't the least bit subtle, the best being the crisp overlay of the Movie onto the Lady From Shanghai (1947).Allen doesn't hit this one out of the Park, but does manage a Stand-Up Double as some things work quite well and others seem a bit Forced for the usually Smooth Writer/Director. Fans will no doubt find it Rewarding and Entertaining, but for a new look in on the Career of Woody Allen, this one is not where to start. "},{"Title":"Manhattan Murder MysteryA Woody Allen film which suggests that there are people who do have some ideas about the anatomy of a murder.","Date":"22 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Manhattan Murder Mystery is considered an important film in Woody Allen's long and illustrious cinematographic career as it is an exemplary proof of his faithfulness to Manhattan and people who live over there. As he knows both of them very well, more than a suspense thriller, his film appears as an acute observation of Manhattan people. The viewer is shown what Manhattan is and what type of people inhabit this area which has the reputation of being one of New York city's best known addresses. The film is replete with typically Woody Allen style humor which consists of short and witty remarks about people and their idiosyncrasies. For this reason, director Woody Allen created his own alter ego in the form of Larry Lipton, an intellectual editor who seems to be getting closer to a young woman as his wife is getting much too curious about a death which happened in their neighborhood. Emotional problems between husbands and wives occupy a good deal of screen space in Woody Allen's films. This is also the case with this film as its numerous subplots deal with the emotional turmoil of men and women. Lastly, there is something enigmatic about movie titles as there are times when viewers don't get to see much of what is described in the title. Judging from that yardstick, Manhattan Murder Mystery tries hard to cash on to that obsession and also succeeds. This is probably one reason why it enabled Woody Allen to show his cinematographic preferences in this film by including numerous important scenes from his favorite Hollywood films. "},{"Title":"Allen and Keaton as Nick and Nora","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" If Double Indemnity had been adapted as a vehicle for the Marx Brothers, you might get Manhattan Murder Mystery. This underrated Woody Allen comedy is one of my favorite Allen films. Allen and Diane Keaton, still the best of his many leading ladies, play an upper class, snooty New York couple who go sleuthing when the wife suspects their next-door neighbor of murder. If this plot description conjures images of Rear Window, it should. Hitchcock's film is payed obvious homage, as are many of the 1940s and 50s films noir that provide this film the style that it parodies (in fact, the characters go to see a showing of Double Indemnity at one point, and the ending is a spoof of Orson Welles' Lady from Shanghai.) Allen and Keaton are simply terrific together, deftly stumbling their way through physical comedy bits and one-liners like a nebbish version of Nick and Nora Charles. They're obviously having a great time, and so do we. Alan Alda and Anjelica Huston are also on hand in large supporting roles, and they're hilarious as well. The highlight of the film is a scene in which the four of them are at dinner and actually hatch the scheme for nabbing the murder suspect. It's one of the best moments of ensemble work ever filmed for an Allen movie.Favorite line, delivered by Allen to Keaton as she goes out snooping in the middle of the night against his protests Is this what you do when I forbid you? Because if this is what you do, I won't be forbidding you very often. Grade A "}{"Title":"cute ride and very funny","Date":"31 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Nice re-pairing of one of cinema's best comedy duos, has great location shooting, an amazing visual ending and some of Allen's best one liners. Alan Alda and Angelica Huston provide feisty support, especially Alda, who's quite playful here. While this is basically a long running gag about being nosy and suspicious, there is an undercurrent of seriousness below the goofy parts about growing older and livening up the duller routines of life. While it's not recommended to spy on your neighbors to see if they're killers or not, having an adventure with the person you've been married to a long time is something to consider; be it just around the corner or somewhere unfamiliar. That aside, this is a lively counterpart to Allen's previous Husbands and Wives, which was filled with bitterness inside its rich comic moments, as well as a pleasant diversion. It's really refreshing seeing Allen and Keaton together as a lovable couple, with no one cheating on each other, although a few slight scenes do discuss some hidden jealousies and insecurities. Keaton has some of her best bits being a snoop here and this may qualify as one of her better comic roles. Plus she always has the best clothes. Only she could carry off that wardrobe of hers. Look briefly for that Zach actor from Scrubs in a very small scene as the couple's son. You might blink and miss him. "},{"Title":"true delight!","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Woody Allen is such a comediant! That because he's so very very intelligent and, thank goodness, also a brilliant director and writer. 'MMM' happens to be very good proof of it and, even better, it's real fun! The first time I watched it, when the movie was finished I remember I watched it all over again. And I had the same fun! Now, every time I watch it again (cause I do, again and again), I discover a few more clever little details that hadn't came to my attention before. I LOVE Diane Keaton and Alan Alda, and Anjelica Houston is perfect in the role of Marcia Fox. I honestly hope I help u renting this movie. It's a pleasant journey through the best of Manhattan, with the company of some of the best actors Hollywood's ever presented us with, Woody Allen in his best shape and a selection of good old jazz songs that's a delight.I don't know what this movie will do to u, but it made me want to go to Cafe des Artistes and ask for rum cake ;-) "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable comedy-suspense.","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I have yet to see any other Woody Allen films, so I can't say whether this is his best or how it measures up to his other work.  But when I caught this on Bravo the other night, I found it to be a highly entertaining, occasionally suspenseful flick.  Sure, there isn't much substance to the whole thing.  Sure, Allen and Diane Keaton, as the married couple whose neighbor may have bumped off his wife, improvise half their dialogue, or give a very good imitation of it, and argue awfully loudly in their apartment at 130 in the morning.  But there are plenty of great lines and scenes, and yes, just the faintest tinge of tension and suspense at the right moments.  I also was struck by Diane Keaton's performance.  Despite the apparent improvisation, she was really good, believeable, funny, and even sympathetic as the wife who gets cuaght up in investigating the murder for many different reasons.  She does have great chemistry with Allen.  And considering all I've read about Allen, it was awfully and atypically (?) generous of him to practically hand her the whole first half of the movie.  Not that his performance wasn't good; it was, but he didn't really get going until near the end, when his character finally started to believe it all and got involved.  Alan Alda is fine as the man who's like a girlfriend to Keaton, and Anjelica Huston certainly made the most of her scenes as the writer who figures out the whole case and its solution in one sitting.  Like another reviewer said, this is a movie to kick back, relax, and enjoy.  Nothing deep or anything, just good for several laughs, a (minor) jolt every now and then, and pure entertainment. "},{"Title":"Genius is the word...","Date":"10 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I am a devoted Woody fan, your typical Manhattan addict, and would like to say this Manhattan Murder Mystery is the most under-rated Allen film. When I slip it into the video player I switch into another mood completely. The music, the scenery, the actors and actresses are all fabulous. It is one of those films that you can kick off your shoes, lay back, relax and enjoy.If I was to define Woody Allen's films to some ignoramus who hasn't seen any of them I would say watch Manhattan Murder Mystery first and you'll be hooked.  "},{"Title":"Woody's Whacky Murder Story Succeeds","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  It's times like this that I can tell when a director is truly great. Right when you think you've burned out all of their greatest stuff, you see one you haven't seen in a while and you love it. That's what happened with myself and Mr. Allen. Just when I thought Well, I think I've seen Annie Hall one too many times this year, I decided to see MMM, and after watching it, I couldn't get the smile off my face for an hour and a half. First of all, the script is witty and the acting is great. Secondly, the shots of New York are wonderful, and the ending to match Lady From Shanghai is creative and great fun for real film lovers. Recommended for a night of light fun with just a touch of brainwork to keep you on your toes. "},{"Title":"Lots of plot and witty lines in this Woody Allen comedy","Date":"31 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is one of Woody Allen's later comedies that I enjoy much more than his earlier, more highly acclaimed Annie Hall. For one thing, Manhattan Murder Mystery has plot. Lots of it. But it's too drawn out toward the end. Tighter directing and editing jobs would easily raise this film another notch. The cast and their performances are all good. And, for once, Woody Allen's role (as Larry Lipton) doesn't grate on the nerves. He's still the whining, complaining persona, but toned down quite a lot. The script is much better with some very witty and funny lines that diminish the unnerving aspect of his character. So, I enjoyed this film much more, and had a number of good laughs. The humor is mostly in the dialog. Along with Woody and his usual female lead, Diane Keaton (as wife, Carol), this film has some nice cast additions in Alan Alda as Ted, Anjelica Huston as Marcia and others. Here's a sample of some funny lines from the film. Larry says to Carol, I can't listen to that much Wagner, you know. I start to get the urge to conquer Poland.Ted, in the conversation at dinner on a group night out This would be a really great way to kill somebody. You clog their arteries with whipped cream ... chocolate mousse ... butter. They go like that. Joy Behar, as Marilyn, adds, I'd like to French-pastry myself to death right now.Larry, on retiring for the night with Carol, Remind me tomorrow to buy up all the Wagner records in town &#x85; and rent a chain saw.Carol, Larry, he had her cremated. Larry, How do you know it was her? Did the ashes resemble Mrs. House?Carol, I don't know why you're not more fascinated with this. I mean, we could be living next door to a murderer, Larry. Larry, Well, New York is a melting pot. I'm used to it.Larry, Yes, I know I'm a bore because I don't break the law. You know, I live within the Constitution, so I'm dull.Ted, I'm gonna be late for my shrink.Larry, walking with Carol down the hall of a residence hotel, Very nice. I love a hotel that's got lots blue powder sprinkled along the baseboards.Larry to Carol, You don't have to see your shrink. There's nothing wrong with you that can't be cured with a little Prozac and a polo mallet.Incidentally, 1993 was a truly great year for films with much competition for awards. So, this Woody Allen film didn't receive any awards or a single nomination. But that's nothing to detract from the film in a year that saw such great ones as Schindler's List, In the Name of the Father, The Remains of the Day, Philadelphia, What's Love Got to Do with It, Shadowlands, The Fugitive, The Age of Innocence; and a host of other very good movies. Had Annie Hall, half of this competition in 1977, I doubt it would have won a single Oscar. But, if Manhattan Murder Mystery had been up in the same year as Annie Hall, I think it would have beat Annie out in awards. As several other reviewers noted, when comparing them side by side, Manhattan is by far a funnier and more entertaining movie. "},{"Title":"Decent Woody Allen romp","Date":"14 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" With the hand-held camera, no narration, no breaking of the fourth wall and an all around more realistic feel, Manhattan Murder Mystery is a clear follow-up for Husbands and Wives, but transferring that great film's style into a semi-comedic thriller parody doesn't work that well, mainly because Allen's character and his neurotic sarcasm are completely out of place - part of the point, of course, but it gets tiring much too often. Alan Alda, too, plays a generic Alda character that we've seen in Allen films several times before. Diane Keaton is the film's saving grace - it's great to see her work with Allen again for the first time since the masterpiece Manhattan - and she's at her very best, as is Anjelica Huston in a smaller but unforgettable part. All in all, it's worthy enough of a slot in the Woody Allen catalog, and fans will probably enjoy it, but it's not one of his finest moments. "},{"Title":"Something others seem to have missed","Date":"3 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Terrific divertimento. Allusions to Raymond Chandler/Billy Wilder's Double Indemnity, Lady from Shanghai and the old Powell-Myrna Loy Thin Man series apt and well taken.Nevertheless, others seem to have missed the suspense influence from the Hitchcock Dial M for Murder. In it, Ray Milland is in an apartment of a suspected killer (if memory serves). Meanwhile, the absent killer (was it John Williams?) seems to have forgotten something and decides to return. The suspense only increases as Milland, unaware of this, continues to search. The scene in the neighbor's apartment that Keaton enters illicitly, while he decides to return, is an allusion to this and equally mesmerizing and derivative.All in all, a most entertaining, albeit lesser film by the great auteur and inheritor of the work of his predecessors.I hope he keeps them coming.David "},{"Title":"Hitchcock's «Rear Window» homage, take-off or parody?","Date":"28 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Has anybody noticed (or, for that matter, mentioned) the many similarities (and of course, discrepancies) between this Woody Allen great comedy-mystery entry and Alfred Hitchcock's mid-fifties classic «Rear Window» ? Apart from the basic premise of a neighbor's murder, some similarities are «sex-wise reversed»  for example, the Diane Keaton and Jimmy Stewart characters suspect foul play whereas the Allen and Grace Kelly characters at first dismiss that suspicion as fantasy. Besides this linkage - as far as I know -, the only Hitchcock movie Allen does refer to directly in one of his own films is «Notorious»  it occurs in «Hollywood Ending» in which the Woody Allen character discusses the effect that the ending of the Cary Grant-Ingrid Bergman movie has always had on him ! And he does mention that «Notorious» is one of his favorites films. Overall, I found the «cinéma-vérité» type of photography (had-held and seemingly improvised) a little bit disturbing... even if I suspect that this was done in order to give the picture a spontaneous documentary style. "},{"Title":"Best Movie I'VE ever seen!","Date":"30 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Okey, you know the plot since you probalary have been reading through all the user comments to get to mine...but still I'll go through it again The Liptons think their neighbour is a killer (that was painless, wasn't it?) I first watched this this movie LATE one night, an now I alway watch it late at night, don't know why though...it's probalary because some of the movie(the best bits) are set at night, and with Woody's directing watching it at night you feel as though you're IN the movie! Also watching it at night gives another effect it's more scary. At first it seems like a relatible, funny movie, but when the actions heats up it's pretty scary!!  It's just such a thrilling movie, so greatly made (his best movie!) Favourite Moment When their stuck in the elevator!!SEE IT!!!! "}{"Title":"Fun but not without meaning","Date":"1 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Produced at the time of his all too public break up with Mia Farrow (she was originally in Keaton's role - and still wanted the part in spite of all that was going on with Allen, make of that what you will) this was intended as a light hearted diversion.  And on that level alone it certainly succeeds. I would probably place it in the same vein as 'Small Time Crooks' in the respect that its one of his pure comedies, but (like all of Allen's films) still has room for subtext, in this case commenting on the banality that faces married couples.  I think that Allen is saying that boredom in marriage is something natural and inevitable, but doesn't seem to be condoning looking outside of the marriage to change things (look at what happens to the characters here when they do). The problems have to be looked at by the couple themselves.  And what a couple it is Diane Keaton and Woody Allen have rare comedic chemistry that is consistently a joy to watch. The script may not be comparable to Allen's best but the casting, in my opinion at least, compensates for this.  Anjelica Huston and Alan Alda are also effective in their supporting roles, Huston in particular as the enigmatic author.  Even Joy Behar (the Noo Yawker on TV's 'The View') is acceptable and not grating in a minor role.N.B.  The film contains references and allusions to some of the film noirs 'Double Indemnity' and 'Lady from Shanghai' in particular.  I think that the latter film may be important to see so one can fully appreciate the ending. One of the great things about Allen is that unlike  many other contemporary film makers, he works on the assumption that the audience does know something has seen important movies and has read important books, so will be able to understand such references.Recommended, regardless of whether you happen to be an Allen aficionado. "},{"Title":"A return to the old style comedy formula from America's greatest neurotic!","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  I am a great fan of the Woodmeister, even during his troubled times with Mia Farrow & the various court cases that junctioned this particular film.However, I also found some of his late 80s early 90s films a trifle vague, indulgent, Bergmanesque,(especially films like September, Alice and Husbands & Wives). Although these films were quite favourable with highbrow critics I think a lot of his true fans found them to be rather detached & remote from the Allen we all know and love.The great thing about Allen is his unique writing style. It would be too easy just to pigeonhole him as some kind of wise cracking stand-up comic; a lot of his humour is very subtle with a generous helping of heavy irony mixed in with regards life's many mysteries & contradictions. I think that's why he finds it easy to hide behind his neurotic outer skin much easier to cast satirical barbs from within.Manhattan Murder Mystery (MMM), is a return to form for the Meister in spite of all his personal problems being aired over the TV networks at around this time. I think it was just as well he chose Keaton rather than Farrow for the part of his wife, not just because of the off-screen problems but the chemistry for a comedy is perfect with Keaton & Allen together.Okay so its not much of a mystery (not many murders either). We're not talking Agatha Christie indepth style of detective analysis either. Instead WA plays it straight down the line some mild slapstick, witty one-liners, keen social observations, the usual paranoias/neurosis and of course some intellectual jousting with fellow chattering-class types.Anjelica Huston works surprisingly well here too. Not generally renowned for this kind of staged comedy, she does a pretty goody job as Alan Alda's potential girlfriend, come amateur detective. There's also plenty of adlibbing going on as you might expect from an Allen script. He writes so freely there's plenty of room for self expression from all of the actors without deflecting too much away from the mood & pace of the story.The ending is a little goofy & tiresome, and somehow doesn't seem to fit in with the rest of the film, which is a great shame. But either way MMM is a good entertaining film if you feel like sitting back in a comfy chair without the need to think too hard.It's a welcome return to the old-style Allen of yesteryear. Not quite in the same league as Annie Hall or Manhattan, but neither does it quite fall in the same bracket as the slapstick extreme of  say Sleeper or Bananas to the more darker & impersonal September or H&W at the other.If you like the Old Allen then you're going to love this.***/***** "},{"Title":"Annie's Other Doors","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" One of the greatest pleasures I have in film is imagining - and therefore internally watching &#151; films that aren't there. Orson Welles is great for this since all but two of his projects were tinkered with by dummies and many others never made it to us. Also in this category are films that you know the filmmaker had in mind, perhaps great films, but that because of lack or talent, skill or resources came through imperfect.Its a sort of detective story, a sort of scholarship into uninstanced imagination. One of the most interesting of these is the missing mystery in Annie Hall. It was originally envisioned as a massive collection of narrative devices, a survey of storytelling tricks, each one elaborated cinematically and perhaps folded into some of the others. We know from Woody since that he is meticulous in his examination and categorization of these effects, and apparently he had too much to cover. So (as the story goes) his producer and some friends who form valued counsel talked him into jettisoning the mystery and editing to a romance.What we ended up with is a relatively coherent collection of introspective narrative devices. But we wonder what the mystery was and how it could have fit in. Supposedly the missing piece has been reworked for this. It also is a tour of noir reversals and cinematic tricks. Its not as clever. Its not as coherent. Its not as invisible, which is what you want in a Woody project. You don't want just bones and scaffolding; you want a real being.But its enjoyable, partly because it itself explores what the missing piece of Lady from Shanghai would have been. But you know, the missing mystery I imagined from Annie Hall? It was better.I always like restaurant table talk about movies in movies. He blows that up in Melinda and Melinda. All Woody things are connected. Some day someone will create a web service that allows someone to easily make and see the connections. Won't that be nice?Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "},{"Title":"Only the 3rd Woody film I've seen, and 3 out of 3 ain't bad...","Date":"12 September 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Manhattan Murder Mystery, 1993. On clearout at my video store.Despite the title, more of a comedy than a thriller, but enough of both for most, I'd hazard. Jerry Adler plays an newly-widowed (or should that be 'widowered'?) neighbour who Woody's wife (Keaton) suspects has killed his own wife. Our Woody initially thinks his better half is crazy to suspect such a nice, stamp-collecting avuncular chap, but as the evidence mounts and she gains recruits to her cause from their circle of friends, Woody starts to assist her...not giving away too much here, but the resolution and Woody's involvement in it should produce a satisfying mental 'click' in your brain.Woody at his best, but let me first get some negative energy out of my system...I found Diane Keaton and Alan Alda a tad weak...Keaton's 'maladjusted rich girl now nearing 50' routine and Alda's constant dirty leers in her direction got a little tiring after a few viewings. I didn't know Alda until this film, and when I saw an 1974 ep of Mash recently, and I'm amazed at how little he changed physically over two decades.On the positive, Anjelica Huston and Woody are a breeze, both together and with anyone else. Her steel-trap mind and subtle seduction of Woody are wondrous to behold, while Woody himself just reeks of professionalism and his usual widely loved neurotic, Jewish, New Yorker, sarcastic selfI just can't listen to that much Wagner, I start to get this uncontrollable urge to conquer Poland! "},{"Title":"not quite to die for","Date":"28 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Woody makes a return to straight comedy here after detours into drama such as Crimes and Misdemeanors and Husbands and Wives,  and confused efforts such as Alice. Here the story concerns a middle aged Manhattan couple who become involved in the death of the wife of their across-the-hall neighbor. Keaton, as Allen's wife, becomes more and more suspicious about the death and starts to play amateur detective, much to the wise-cracking Woody's dismay. (my favorite line There's nothing wrong with you a little Prozac and a polo mallet can't fix.).Despite Woody's humorous presence, the story never evolves from a murder mystery into the expected zany Allen adventure. There are no tricks or plot surprises here; rather, the story settles into an actual (and rather mundane) murder mystery, enlivened only by Woody's witty lines and a lame love interest between Keaton and Alda. There is an actual suspenseful plot culmination which seems gratingly out of place in an Allen comedy, and the close of the movie seems to stop rather than end. All in all, a subpar effort from the Woodmeister.  "},{"Title":"Good, but...","Date":"10 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is a very good movie. It could have been a classic if only it had been done by someone else. Woody Allen is an excellent comic whose character is well established. I was a fan of his stand up routines on Ed Sullivan's show many years ago. I like most of his movies.This movie is more than just watchable. It is quite enjoyable, but...If Sir Alfred had done this same basic story with the Hitchcock air of suspense and some haunting music and a cast of someone like James Stewart or Cary Grant and Doris Day (as she was in The Man Who Knew Too Much or Midnight Lace, or keep Diane Keaton and lose the one liners)it could have been better. It needs a little comedy but not rat a tat funny lines that sound like a routine.I think I read somewhere that Cary Grant and James Stewart are not answering their phones now, but there must be someone in Hollywood who could fill parts of their shoes. Matt Damon or Mark Wahlberg or Matthew Broderick as the person suddenly drug into a mystery. Nicolas Cage maybe. Christina Applegate. Michelle Pfeiffer.It could still have a bit of comedy but more mystery and perhaps a younger lady in the role of the heart attack victim so there is a bit of doubt. I'm just sayin'.And does it have to be Manhatten? Frisco Murder Mystery... Muscle Beach Murder Mystery... Calumet City Murder Mystery... "},{"Title":"only in America, and only from Woody Allen","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Having portrayed a serial killer in Shadows and Fog, Woody Allen looked at murder again in Mahattan Murder Mystery, in which he and Diane Keaton play a couple who uncover what might be a murder. The movie has Woody Allen written all over it, complete with the clever lines. Providing great support are Alan Alda and Anjelica Huston as some acquaintances. Like any of his other movies, this one is sure to make you fall in love with New York. Maybe it's not the sort of movie that we can really take seriously, but that misses the point. The point of this movie is to get enthralled. And I'm sure that you will.Prozac and a polo mallet. Ha! "},{"Title":"Creaky plot redeemed by good ensemble playing","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Any synopsis of the plot of this film would read like that of a creaky Miss Marple TV movie. That is about its level. Although in showing a clip from Double Indemnity, Allen is unwisely inviting more exalted comparisons. What sets the film slightly above Agatha Christie is Allen's script and good ensemble playing from the four main characters. Some of the clichés of the genre are amusingly done Keaton, searching the suspect's flat and having to hide under the bed when he returns unexpectedly, the body that disappears before the police arrive, the &#145;dead' woman on the bus. One gets the impression that Allen wrote this frothy confection as therapy during what was, for him, a troubled time and that he called on three of his most tried and trusted repertory of actors, including Dianne Keaton, for moral support.I thought Allen got the idea for the &#145;dead' woman on the bus driving through New York from the  E L Doctorow's novel The Waterworks but when I checked the chronology I found that the novel was published in 1994, a year after the film was made.Allen's choice of jazz standards as incidental music for his films continues to delight. This time it is Out of Nowhere by Coleman Hawkins, Big Noise from Winetka by Bob Crosby and Sing Sing Sing by Benny Goodman  "},{"Title":"Not one of Woody's best","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Watching a Woody Allen film is always rewarding, and this one has the advantage of his re-casting with Diane Keaton, as well as Alan Alda. So there is no question but that it's worth a viewing for any Woody fan. But I would not rate it among his best, and maybe not even among his 'better' output. It gets off to a good start . . . let us say a typical Woody Allen start, and it runs along in characteristic Woody grooves of angst and self-demeanment (one knows what to expect from Woody), but along about two-thirds through the film it suddenly gets unrealistically kooky, seeming to shift, at that point, from the calculated and well-paced humor into a kind of frenetic intensity of faux detective action with the characters suddenly OUT of character and doing things that had no reasonable basis in the earlier buildup of the tale. Seriously, I felt it came across like a schizophrenic directorial job, which of course has to be laid at the feet of Allen, himself. Thumbs not exactly down on this one, but leaning quite heavily toward the horizontal. "},{"Title":"Not for the thriller fans","Date":"9 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Watched this movie after watching another Woody Allen film - Match Point, which had impressed me so much but this one was disappointing. Woody and Diane are a couple living in uptown Manhattan who love to frequent Oprah's and musicals. The movie begins on an interesting note with the wife of the Woody's neighbor found dead in her apartment and her husband looking like he is least bothered about it. The plot develops making Diane suspicious about the way she died with the couple's friend pitching in looking at possible theories to her death starting from strangling to making the old woman run on the treadmill with speed set at Olympic level. The dialogues between Woody and Diane make the clanging of a bunch of vessels more interesting. Woody's dead pan expression and one liners are not impressive to say the least as Diane plays her role a bit over enthusiastically. Do yourself a favor and skip this one. "}{"Title":"Mild comedy, lame thriller","Date":"28 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I am writing this review hating and loving Woody Allen's movies at the same time. There are his movies that, in theme and structure, seem very similar to me, like Manhattan, Annie Hall and Whatever Works, which also were the movies that first introduced me to his filmography. The awkwardness of his main characters never really struck a chord with me, which is the main gripe I had upon viewing Manahattan Murder Mystery.The alliterative title intrigued me as it suggests a movie in the crime/thriller genre. Hoping this movie wouldn't fall into his usual comedy/romance/drama type of film I was soon very disappointed to find familiar romantic themes like jealousy, infidelity and the resulting, reoccurring matrimonial arguments at the center of the movie rather than a thought-provoking plot. Even though the main characters, Larry and Carol, take on the task of resolving the case of a suspected murder by their neighbor, the film never quite feels like a crime movie. The camera puts the viewer right at the center of the investigation while we watch the scenes unfold from behind of a flowerpot, through a door-frame or a rainy car window. But, unfortunately, the camera not only zooms in on the suspects but more frequently sways to and fro between our main characters during their relentless arguments. While Woody Allen again plays the same role he most often appears to play, I found his hectic, gibberish talking and awkward gestures more off-putting and overdone than in his other movies. By comparison, Dian Keaton's role as Carol was more compelling as, for example, compared to the moment Allen proclaims at the height of the action Adrenaline is leaking out of my ears! in the same monotone voice he uses while talking in the conjugal bed. Other common Woody Allen themes are present. Like the title suggests the film takes place in his beloved New York and of course classic movies (e.g. Double Indemnity) appear and are discussed, which I always enjoy about his works. Furthermore, some of the major scenes take place in a cinema which serves as a good setting and is a welcome sight after witnessing tiring disputes in their apartment. After many a quarrel about their further procedure to solve the case and clumsy investigations, that, for me, failed to attach a comedic aspect to the movie the story reaches a rather anticlimactic finale after which the case is rapidly summed up for the viewer.While I like many Allen movies like Zelig, Match Point and Sweet and Lowdown that differ from his generic formula. Sadly, Manhattan Murder Mystery, for me, was not one of them. If you are a fan of his works chances are you will like this movie, but, in my opinion, it is neither a funny comedy nor a gripping thriller. Still I will keep on working my way through his films in hope for another one or two positive surprises. "},{"Title":"Get your detective head on! 5/10","Date":"22 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Review Haven't these people got anything interesting going on in there lives why they have to be spending all there time working out if there is a killer living in there building? Anyway, I enjoyed this old school murder mystery which is a bit far fetched in parts but you still want to find out if the neighbour is a murderer. It's good to see Woody Allen make a film which has nothing to do with relationships, although he does questioned Diane Keaton about her feelings for his friend half of the time. It's amazing how Allen doesn't really show any interest in the whole conspiracy until Keaton pairs up with Alda to unravel the clues, but that's what made the movie funny. When Huston gets introduced to Alda, she cleverly pieces the whole thing together which brings to light, the true crime that took place. Anyway, it's great writing by Allen and light hearted fun. Watchable!Round-Up I much prefer the toned down version of Woody Allen to his usual million words per minute movies because you actually have a chance to get his jokes. The chemistry between the whole cast really does work and Anjelica Huston was a great addition to the crime busting pack of misfits. Although the movie came out in 1993, it's still watchable today and the storyline does get a little out of hand near the end but it's still enjoyable.Budget $13.5million Worldwide Gross $11millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there Woody Allen detective dramas, about a couple who try and work out if there neighbour is a murderer. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The gang is back for a little bit of murder mystery","Date":"8 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Larry (Woody Allen) and Carol Lipton (Diane Keaton) are a middle age NYC couple. Their next door neighbors are an elderly couple Paul (Jerry Adler) and Lillian House (Lynn Cohen). When Lillian ends up dead, Carol is suspicious of Paul who is a little too perky. Their divorced friend Ted (Alan Alda) helps out causing a bit of jealousy from Larry. Marcia Fox (Anjelica Huston) is a card playing novelist and editor Larry tries to set her up with Ted.The gang is back for a little bit of a murder mystery. It has the fun chemistry of an older Woody and Diane pairing. Woody is his neurotic alter-ego. Diane's driven investigation is charming. They are still hilarious together. The pacing is a steady stream of nervous talking and I do wish that Woody breaks it up with something more intense. It does turn into more of a caper in the end. It's a fine movie for Woody fans. "},{"Title":"Not Woody at his very best!","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" I must admit that I'm very surprised this little movie enjoyed such favorable reviews. Admittedly, a movie budgeted at $13.5 million puts it into a top bracket, but the money seems to have been spent mainly on the cast and on greasing hands for all the NYC location shots. And of course, although reviewers loved this movie, it was far from a success with picturegoers. Even accounting for TV and video sales, it would have been lucky to break even. Shot in a freewheeling style on actual Manhattan locations, it re-teams Woody with Diane Keaton. Also along for the ride are Alan Alda and Anjelica Huston, plus an overweight Jerry Adler as the mysterious Mr. House. I'll readily admit that if you're not expecting too much from the movie, it's quite enjoyable, but it's a long way from Allen at his early best or even the Allen of Shadows and Fog, made only two years earlier! True, the on-screen Allen character is still intact, but he seems to lack the on-screen charisma of even a Broadway Danny Rose. Now he's just an irritatingly over-argumentative little guy who has to be talked into everything until he eventually gives in! Available on an excellent Columbia/Tristar DVD. "},{"Title":"one of Woody Allen's best trifles- more going on than I would've thought","Date":"26 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" On the surface Manhattan Murder Mystery's story is something close to being a whole lot of adventure stirred into a pot until marked for ready and poured out into Allen's brand of 'wacky' comedy (par for the course of wacky in the 90s as opposed to early 70s). It's close to being a slew of MacGuffins, or something out of a Thin Man movie. But knowing more about Allen's personal history during the period there's an awful lot of subtext to the piece, scenes where the more conventional aspects of the story are stripped away and we see the bare emotions of these characters in their marriage. It's not as harsh and astounding a view as with Husbands and Wives, but there is something that made it more substantial than I would've expected- behind the comedy, which isn't at all third-tier Allen work and is often pretty funny, and which represents a kind of movie level of Allen entertainment, the tension and doubt in Larry and Carol's relationship is hard to count out as more than just a part of the story.Not that I would ever expect Allen to rip open the covers on his personal life and use that for fodder for his movies, far from it (although, to be fair, I'm sure as any auteur he goes back to themes that impact him from his own life or at least movies he connects with). But it's something that makes Manhattan Murder Mystery feel like more than just a trifle, a throwaway treat to his fans that in comparison to the recent Scoop feels a lot more like a good slice of fun murder mystery. Larry and Carol have a neighbor that the latter suspect murdered his wife and covered it up in 'perfect-crime' style, and who can blame her with all the signs that seem to be appearing to her. Larry wants none of it, to just leave well alone, but she can't and involves her close friend Ted (Alan Alda) into the self-made investigation. Meanwhile one of book publisher Larry's new clients, author Marcia (Huston) might be catching his eye, though not on immediate sight. Eventually though they both get equally wrapped up in the case as it unfolds with more twists than the average pretzel stand.Many lines here work well (i.e. Wagner joke, jokey wife-beating-with-a-pole one-liner, menopause, jokes about movies themselves like Double Indemnity and Casablanca), and are indeed probably what one could call carry-overs; the script was originally part of a longer draft of what was, in all matter of fact, Annie Hall (the characters of Larry and Carol are like older and still more than a bit nuts couple Annie and Alvy), and contains some nuggets of gold involving Allen's classic persona, Keaton's excited heroine, and some very clever in-jokes. The best of the in-jokes is, of course, the climax that's a play on the climax of the Lady from Shanghai. As a comedy Manhattan Murder Myster works fine, not as a great film from the Woodman and not as anything less than a solid stab (pun intended) at making a whodunit out of old Hollywood and timing from vintage 70s Allen. As a personal effort, one that came as the first film following the break-up from Farrow and (possibly) the last team up of Allen with Keaton, it grows even more interesting as it goes along. "},{"Title":"Scared Stiff","Date":"28 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the better Woody Allen efforts and it seems to be on the cusp of his earlier gag-filled-plot-irrelevant titles and the later work where the gags were sparser and the plotting tighter. Of course any film that opens with Bobby Short performing a Cole Porter gem over the credits has me hooked and will have to work at disappointing me and when you have Cole Porter AND Alan Alda what's not to like. Allen and Keaton work well as a long-married couple and Allen was clearly nodding to the Garson Kanin-Ruth Gordon 'Adam's Rib' by adding Alan Alda as the extra man playing essentially the David Wayne role against Spencer Tracey and Katherine Hepburn. Throw in some tasty New York landmarks for the talented trio to play against and it all adds up to a pleasant time-passer. "},{"Title":"Good comedy, awful mystery","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" After many Allen's movies I was really curious about this mystery-twist but as you can read from the title it was a bit disappointing. Let's start with the good things with it though the comedy here is really well pointed, it reminded me both his classics and some recent like Bullets over Broadway and Smalltime Crooks. It really kept me interested through the first half of the movie thanks also to Allen's usual suspicious relationships between the characters. Anyway the second half was kinda boring, the mystery in this isn't really anything special, I would rather say that it was really bad constructed and clichèd, completely overshadowing the entire movie. It missed balance between laughs and suspense (if we can call that this way...), a chance missed but it contains (as always) some memorable quotes. "},{"Title":"decent Allen comedy, but far from his finest","Date":"17 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" SPOILERS There are few Jewish comedians who provide as many wisecracking lines as Woody Allen. With a glittering history of successful comedies, the man is a natural born comedian. In 1993 he reunited with Annie Hall star Diane Keaton to write and star in this familiar comedy which, whilst not his finest work, is still fun to watch.Larry and Carol Lipton (Allen and Keaton) are a happily married couple who return home one day to be invited in for drinks with their neighbours, Paul and Lillian House (Jerry Adler and Lynn Cohen). Enjoying their time with their new friends, Larry and Carol are stunned to discover the following day that Lillian has had a heart attack and died. As events unfold however, Carol begins to suspect foul play and enlisting friend Ted (Alan Alda), she sets out to solve the case.Actually dating for a long time, there's little surprise to see so much chemistry between Woody Allen and Diane Keaton. Playing off each other's personalities, both actors always thrive when they work together. Just like in Annie Hall (1977), they both perform admirably as the married couple who find their marriage unravelling as he fails to appreciate her concerns.In support as well, Alda and Angelica Huston are brilliant as the separate objects of desire for both Allen and Keaton. Providing a jealous edge to the marriage, these two actors flirt and joke their way through much of the film.Ultimately though, what makes the finest Woody Allen films truly amazing is the flow of the story. In films like Sleeper and Annie Hall, Allen is a genius at combining the fast paced and the slow into one story and making them connect with ease. In Manhatten Murder Mystery though, the story is let down by an awkward scene in a lift and in the pitch black where the music and the acting create a faster pace which just doesn't belong in the film. The scene is crucial to the story, there is no denying that, but sadly it could have been handled better.Throughout his films, Woody Allen is always a comedy genius. Making us laugh from start to finish, he is witty and sarcastic and we love him for it. Sadly though, in Manhattan Murder Mystery his work is ruined by one short five minute piece which is awkward, excessively speedy, and frankly rather annoying. Without that scene, this film would be up there amongst his best, sadly with those irritating five minutes, it goes wrong. "},{"Title":"Perfectly ok light comedy thriller - but very tame.","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  When Woody Allen wrote Annie Hall he included a side-plot about a neighbour that died in mysterious circumstances (inspired by real events). However the film didn't have time for it. Here he returns to recycle some of his old ideas.Clever observation of real life (well the one according to Woody) and some funny lines, but this is so stretched out that you fear it is going to fall apart at the seams. Lots of this comes across as a rehash (Woody is in the literary world (again!) and Keaton is a dits (again!) and Alda is an intellectual writer!) and if you haven't been a fan of his over previous work then this is NOT going to win you over.The one problem with Woody Allen is that some people see his yacking classes as satire, but I don't think it is. He thinks that is how everybody lives, behaves and talks People live in nice apartments, eat out a lot, have nice friends who swap barbs. He opened up a bit by including four letter words and sexual references later, but this is part of his old school.The problem with this piece is that the thriller part has nowhere to go other than the track it is clearly on. Given that it doesn't seem to be anything other than a make-weight I have problems taking it seriously. Woody, If you want to write a thriller, write a thriller, but you seemed frightened of doing it, so you opted to add a bit thriller business to your usual same-old same-old.  "},{"Title":"Worse Than The Chicken At Tresky's","Date":"6 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This frantic comedy, released during the tumultuous tabloid scandal between Woody Allen and Mia Farrow, is co-scripted by Marshall Brickman, Allen's writing partner for MANHATTAN and ANNIE HALL. ANNIE HALL was originally conceived as a murder mystery before reimagined as the rom-com we know and love, and here's a double-whammy collaboration Diane Keaton, Woody's co-star/love interest during the seventies, returns to the iconic director's canon. And the results are disastrous.Allen and Keaton play a THIN MAN Nick and Nora like couple who meet their elderly neighbors &#x96; a seemingly normal stamp collecting coot and his talkative wife. The wife dies and the husband doesn't seem very jaded. Keaton, overacting desperately, investigates the possible murder, which at first seems a long shot. When she's not tailing the accused through the New York, or teaming up with her charming friend Alan Alda, the film consists of tedious dialog between Allen and Keaton, whose chemistry is, to quote Alvy Singer in ANNIE HALL, A dead shark. Woody Allen delivers flat one-liners like a sleepy clown after the circus has let out. And when the convoluted mystery is solved there's still twenty minutes to figure out what exactly? Although the climax, homage to Orson Welle's THE LADY FROM SHANGHAI using actual scenes of the famous Fun House montage, is a clever twist, the rest is a failed class reunion. And even worse than the chicken at Tresky's.For More Reviews www.cultfilmfreaks.com "}{"Title":"parody of film noir---last half hour dreadful","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" This movie started out great but after about an hour and a half (after a body is found) it deteriorates into garbage.Woody still managed to make me laugh from time to time but sorry a lot of this film was contrived and badly written and not like the Woody Allen I remember.These aging actors just can't convincingly pull off badly scripted marital jealousies and drama. Seriously at 57 (the age of Allen in film) he is wondering how often a couple should have sex? Only it is not supposed to be funny in that way.The worst part is the parody of a film noir murder mystery deteriorates into a frenetic unbelievable tired terrible last half hour. At least good film noir mysteries had captivating and somewhat believable stories this film did not. It is not funny it is nothing but boring and contrived. These aged reunions are usually a depressing flop and this was no exception. "},{"Title":"Plain bad","Date":"25 October 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Manhattan Murder Mystery basically comprises every characteristic of a bad Woody Allen movie. The plot is ultra basic, not to say simplistic and unfolds in a total linearity. A lot of scenes are just extremely talkative, drag on, and often give the impression they serve only one purpose which is Allen's annoying and unfunny mannerisms. The twists and turns are predictable, often completely ridiculous and have no effect on the viewer whatsoever. As for the plot, it fizzles out by a totally far-fetched justification. And what about the sloppy direction, these approximative shots and big zoom-ins worthy of the worst productions ? There is clearly nothing to save from this long, slow and boring Woody Allen's. "},{"Title":"funny throughout, but certainly not one of Allen's best","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Allen's wife (Diane Keaton) becomes suspicious by how unaffected their neighbor seems by his wife's recent death.  She and Alan Alda (a widower, who like Keaton is bored with life) try to uncover the real cause of the neighbor's death, much to the chagrin of Allen.  Allen is as funny as ever, and seems remarkably normal in this role.  But, the movie ends up undermining itself by making quiet clear that it is parodying a typical murder movie.  The treatment of domestic unrest is rather mundane and does not mesh very well with the murder plot.  Like Mighty Aphrodite, this movie tries to be too cute sometimes.  But it is funny enough to warrant a look. "},{"Title":"Hugely Disappointing Reunion of Keaton & Allen","Date":"14 March 2004","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is a lot like watching a very bad Old Timer's Baseball game.  You look forward to the reunion of the greatest heroes of your youth.  But now, Boog Powell is just a fat old man and Brooks Robinson has trouble picking up a routine ground ball.  Keaton & Allen starred in two of the very best American romantic comedies of all time, Annie Hall and Manhattan.  Their dialog with each other had a magical comic cadence with overtones of angst-ridden melancholia that was pure brilliance.  In this movie, that chemistry is completely gone.  Diane Keaton gamely tries to get something going, but Woody is numb and in his own space.  The result is that the attempted repartee comes off as hollow and annoying chatter that goes absolutely nowhere.As their friends, veterans Angelica Huston and Alan Alda fare much better seizing all four of the amusing moments this movie has to offer.  More than offsetting their welcome contributions is the inexplicable casting of Jerry Adler as the Raymond-Burr-like villain of the piece.  Except he's no Raymond Burr.  He's no Ray Milland.  He's not even a Ray J. Johnson.  He is just the most inept actor I have seen be given a pivotal role in the past 20 years.  He is disgustingly awful with a pacing that just stops the film.  Does Jerry Adler have secret pictures of Woody Allen?  If not, there should be an investigation into how he got this role.  He's AWFUL.In short, the mystery here makes no sense.  Only Huston and Alda are worth watching among the actors.  The script is trite and banal, the direction is painfully slow, and the photography is annoying.The real Mystery is how this has a rating on IMDB over 7! "},{"Title":"Woody Allen-lite, but it's still a lot of fun","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Larry and Carol live by themselves in New York.  They become friendly with their neighbours, Paul and Lillian House and are shocked by the death of Lillian.  Much to the derision of Larry, Carol suspects that Paul has something to hide and may have murdered her.  With Carol spending more time with their friend Ted on the investigation, Larry reluctantly begins to help her.When Allen made Annie Hall he had originally planned to write an element of a murder mystery into the story.  He wisely didn't do this but the idea remained with him and he turned it into this movie.  The story is very light and totally detached from reality.  Allen is a Bob Hope-esque coward, mixing his fear and panic with one liners.  The story slows occasionally when it loses motion and gets bogged down, however when it is moving quickly with plenty of humour then you tend to forget how light the story is.  The conclusion is a little daft, but is a nice homage to `Lady from Shanghai'.Allen and Keaton have a great partnership that hasn't faded with time.  They are both good but Allen's coward is by far the more enjoyable.  Alan Alda puts in one of his best roles for ages and is really relaxed, witty and charismatic.  Huston is underused but is still good.  Jerry Alder is also good, but doesn't convincingly change towards the end.Overall this is a nice, light film that sees Allen trying to lighten his image and do more comedy again.  It's not as funny as his 1970's stuff, but then it's a lot more structured and less surreal to boot.  If you're not an Allen fan then the silly story may annoy you, but most Allen fans will find much to enjoy here. "},{"Title":"Worst","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":" Worst film I've ever seen! Plot line was interesting but didn't care for the over character chatting. It actually caused headaches! Woody Allen's diatribe of neurosis is awful. Actually frustrating!!. As always, the compound insanity that he delivers, the one liners that insult himself and New York, and other things that convince you that you may not be the craziest person in the world make the film entertaining. Manhattan Murder Mystery is visually dizzy as well, since Mr. Allen has directed his cinematographer, Carlo Di Palma, to rely on hand-held camera work. In Husbands and Wives, the jerkiness of the camera's movement was less frequent and more apt, and it grew more naturally out of the turbulence of that film's story. Here, with the camera swivelling restlessly from one room to another, or zooming in abruptly for a close look at a clue, the style seems a more meaningless affectation. "},{"Title":"Dreary, tedious - forget it!","Date":"28 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, so there's a dead body, and questions arise about whose and why. However, 80% of this movie consists of just Woody and Diane doing what seems like third-rate improv which fails to advance the story and tells us little except that their bickering is second nature.  Allen witticisms sparsely strewn about fall totally flat for lack of timing, good delivery, and suitable contextual mood.  When Alan Alda and Anjelica Houston enter the scene, the contrast between professional delivery of scripted lines and ad-libbed(?) banalities is jarring.It wouldn't have taken a Hitchcock to develop this small murder plot into a good, if minor, suspense flick.  The mystery is why talent and resources were wasted on this . "},{"Title":"Woody Allen at the top of his game.","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  MMM shows Allen and Keaton as a married couple who become increasingly suspicious that a neighbor may have murdered his wife. Set in Manhattan with two hours of the nonstop stuttering repartee which is Allen's hallmark, MMM is not a great murder mystery or a great comedy or a great drama or a great anything. It is, however, all Woody in fine form as director, actor, and writer. A must see for Woody fans and an okay flick for others. "},{"Title":"bad","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Mystery","Review":"  really Bad acting in this mediocre movie. The storyline is so thin I think it's got anorectic, must be one of his worst films. I got so bored watching this film, my girlfriend fell asleep. We usually love Allen's films, but this is crap. I feel dizzy now. Think I need to sleep. Or watch something more stimulating at least. O.k. I must write more about how bad Woody Allen's acting is. So over the top. I want to hurt him.  "}]