[{"Title":"The critics couldn't be more off-target!","Date":"1 November 2001","Score":"126 out of 146 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  While I've been enjoying this film for years, I only recently decided to read some reviews for it, and am shocked!  The truth is, this film is a wonderfully comical and charming tale of three Salem witches that are resurrected by a teenage boy, who, with the help of his little sister and love interest, must try to stop them from stealing the souls of children. This movie really sparkles in the representations of the witches, who are all cast perfectly.  Bette Midler provides for a hilarious and almost frightening Winifred (the leader), Sarah Jessica Parker shines as the sexy, dim-witted Sarah, and Kathy Najimy is marvelous as the funny, perky Mary. What makes the film even better is that there are two stunning musical numbers--Midler's delightful I Put a Spell on You and Parker's hypnotic Come, Little Children.  Ignore the critics, Hocus Pocus is perfect not only for Halloween, but for any time of the year! "},{"Title":"**** out of ****","Date":"9 October 1999","Score":"92 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't what the critics were talking about, but I found Hocus Pocus to be extreme fun, from start to finish.  The use of color and the sets is all magical, giving the movie a strange fairy-tale feel.  I also found it to be very funny with great special-effects.  The movie's just plain fun.  The three witches, thankfully, aren't flat and dull.  This movie is scary without being profane (ala Mighty Joe Young) or super duper frightening. A great film that's much better than most Disney live-action films today. "},{"Title":"They'll Put A Spell On You!","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"69 out of 82 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" A traditional Halloween Ghost Story turns into a real life adventure for 3 kids who break the spell of the Sanderson Sisters. The story is an engaging one and will have even grown-ups pay close attention. The Sanderson Sisters (wonderfully played by Bette Midler, Sarah Jessica Parker and Kathy Najimy), convicted of witchcraft in Colonial Salem, Massachusetts and put to death some 300 years ago, are brought back to life when a virgin lights the black candle. It's up to two teenagers and an 8 year old to stop the wicked witches from succeeding with their sinister plan to lure the town's children to their witch house and drink their life-force away from them.Bette Midler steals the show when the sisters crash a Halloween party, singing I Put A Spell On You. There are many time jokes as well, having the 17th century sisters confused when they experience 20th century life Blinded by a truck's head lights, they are convinced the sun is rising; they frantically avoid stepping on a blacktop driveway when they are told that it is a black lake of death; unable to find a broomstick, one of the sisters heads for the sky on a Hoover vacuum cleaner. The jokes are pretty good, and I was entertained throughout the film. I have watched Hocus Pocus several times already, and will watch it again and again. This is another example of a movie made for kids, but enjoyed by grown-ups as well. Recommended! "},{"Title":"Bewitching.","Date":"8 December 2000","Score":"70 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I prepared my self when I sat down to watch this movie, expecting a boring Disney film not for my generation. But this movie was hilarious! Bette Midler, Kathy Najimy and Sarah Jessica Parker were fantastic in their roles as the witches, especially Midler in her role as Winifred. Unfortunately there is no soundtrack to this film, which is a shame but not a tragedy. Overall a fantastic film that the whole family should enjoy. "},{"Title":"Childrens Film","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"38 out of 56 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  First of all, anyone watching this film has to remember that it is aimed towards children.  You cannot have the expectations that there is some deep meaning connected with this film, or that it is going to be another Bette Midler comedy with R-rated humor.  If that is what you are looking for, watch Ruthless People.  This film is funny and cute.  That is all.  If I was a 10 year old child, I would love this movie.  It is a family film and nobody should expect anything more.  Secondly, it has Bette Midler and a wonderfully funny Kathy Najimy and dim-witted Sarah Jessica Parker......so, ENJOY! "},{"Title":"Charming, Endearing, and Under-Appreciated Tale of Three Heinous Practitioners of the Dark Arts.","Date":"22 April 2007","Score":"26 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is the story of three nefarious practitioners of Darkly-aligned Magick and the mark they left on the town which sentenced them to death.Disney is known to openly endorse and promote the use of the Old Ways. Whether a good Witch (Bedknobs and Broomsticks) or a bad Witch (Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs), Disney loves Magick and those who use it.These Witches, however, are the worst kind of rabble, and while we attempt to defeat them, character development occurs. This movie is quite entertaining, however it is too dark and scary for younger audiences, and may be considered too juvenile for adults, but the older children and tweens seem to love it.It rates an 8.7/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Bewitching Bette","Date":"5 July 2005","Score":"27 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is funny, scary, but warm and human all at once. It emphasizes the value of families working together to help each other and does not create confusing messages about good and evil. It's a fast-paced comedy that does not trivialize the characters. Bette Midler's rendition of I've Put a Spell on You shows the depth of her talent as a singer/stage performer. The divine Ms. Bette has great chemistry with both Kathy Naijimy (how does she get her mouth to do that?), and Sarah Jessica Parker (amok, amok, amok). While the scary factor with corpses and death may not be appropriate for very small children, the movie is lots of fun for the whole family. "},{"Title":"A+ 5 Stars","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"24 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought this movie was a good movie for the whole family. There is something for everyone in this movie.... singing,comedy,some action,very good music and thrills (for the younger audience). The director spiced the movie up with musical numbers by Sarah Jessica Parker and Bette Midler. There were also some good stars in the movie; Sarah Jessica Parker, Bette Midler, and a young Thora Birch (she was so cute in this movie).It's terrible that the only score for this movie was a promo CD (which is very hard to find and very expensive if you do find it)... and not a soundtrack. I really hope that Disney or some company re-releases the DVD version of this great movie.  "},{"Title":"10/10","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"27 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie came out when i was 5 years old, I had seen the trailers for it and I couldn't wait for it to come out. Back then it was my favourite movie of all time. I would watch it every day, sometimes twice a day... (I know, sad, right? Now i am 18 and it is still among the best movies EVER!!! I wish that they would do a sequel with the original cast! That would be so cool! Something like... They come back to get revenge on Danny and her new boyfriend or son or something. I don't think they will though! I would love to be in it! ! ! It is such an amazing mix of history, drama, comedy, supernatural and playfulness. I read that this was originally going to be a TV movie for the Disney channel and not have Sarah, Bette and Kathy in it at all. Boy are we lucky they were. I know that it sounds like I am babbling on a bit and not making much sense but they won't let me post this message if it is less than 10 lines! How ridiculous is that? It would be better if I could just write what I want to say and not have to fill the ten lines with nonsense just so I can post a comment! "},{"Title":"A hilarious and exciting Halloween film","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Hocus Pocus is one of those movies that I have enjoyed greatly for many years, even if it is a seasonal/holiday based film. This movie is just so fascinating to me for those fun aspects and qualities it contains that I could enjoy it on any watch. It has the right amount of funny that kept my eyes on the TV the whole time and my mouth wide open with laughter, and it seems many people forget that sometimes that's all we need from a movie to truly love and enjoy it.With Bette Midler and Sarah Jessica Parker being some of my favorite actresses, I decided that this was going to be a great Halloween flick to begin with, and it certainly turned out to be, for all the three witches put smiles on my faces, and even though this movie had some humorous features without the main three women casted in the film, they really were the most enjoyable and lovable of the film and most of the reason it is as enjoyable and lovable as it is, honestly. After watching this movie, Kathy Najimy actually turned out to be my favorite character though, because she was just plain out hilarious as her ditsy self, like when she flew on a vacuum. All the Sanderson Sisters turned out to be funny and special in their own way, and like I said, Midler, Parker and Najimy's portrayal of them is really what makes this film for me, even though the story and other characters are just as entertaining and fun. Hocus Pocus is one of the movies that people just have to see at least once if they haven't, because after they see it they will want to watch it again and again, because it really is one of my favorite movies in general, and I hope more people will discover it and view it as greatly as I do. This movie is a magnificent, entertaining, really great and laughable adventure that will leave you in awe. I recommend it to everyone. "}{"Title":"Pretty average although very funny in places.","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"16 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I do like this film, though only moderately. In some places it's really funny and includes some adult humour as well as stuff for the kids, but a lot of it is predictable and has a pretty basic story line. I thought that Bette Midler's performance was brilliant (as usual) and that over all, I would watch this film again, but I wouldn't go out of my way to see it. "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is great! Some people say that its a bad movie because the parts that are supposed to be scary aren't. They aren't supposed to be scary they're supposed to be funny! And some say the actors aren't good at being witches because they're not scary either, again not supposed to be. Winnie (Midler), Mary (Najimy) and Sarah (Parker) are supposed to be villains that make people laugh not frighten people.The three witches themselves are so well developed. Winnie is the leader, who is seriously evil, and wants to steal the lives of children to redeem her own.Mary is the suck up of the three She is always trying to please Winnie and make sure that Sarah doesn't ruin Winnie's happiness. She is always making sure that Winnie is please with herself and whenever she is upset, she offers Winne to allow her to hit her to see if that will make her feel better.And finally the youngest,ditsy, spider-eating Sister Sarah. She is always getting herself side tracked. In the party when she is supposed to be looking for Max, Allison, and Danni, Winnie catches her making out with one of the boys at the party. She never has a clue and is always caught wondering what is going on the whole time, when she is turned young at the beginning her first words are Oh boys will love me! So in the long run this movie in my opinion will always be a Halloween classic. All the Halloween movies are either too scary, too corny, or too gory. During the Halloween season this movie is one of few movies that you'll see on TV (Besides the Great Pumpkin Charlie Brown..) that doesn't involve blood and gore in it. "},{"Title":"My child-hood movie!","Date":"30 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have this movie on VHS (yeah that sounds ancient now!), and I've had it since it was released in 1993, so my poor knackered video tape is 13 years old. I recently bought it on DVD as my VHS quality was getting poor (probably because I watched it over and over when I was young!).My oh my...it bought back some good memories. As sad as this is, I use to remember EVERY single word in this movie when I was a little whipper snapper, and I use to speak along with the cast! This movie sparked up those memories!! It's a classic film for anyone I would say. I love how it still makes me laugh and I love singing along to the classic numbers I put a spell on you and come little children.An awesome awesome film about 3 witches who come back to life after 300 years of being dead. If I have children when I get abit older, I will Definitely be showing this one to them as this is NOT a film to miss! And I didn't actually realise that the little girl in the movie is Thora Birch (well I did, I just didn't pay attention to the fact). She's a great actress and even then at such a young age! Just go ahead and watch it...doesn't need to be saved for halloween, it's a great film that can be watched all year round ) "},{"Title":"The cat is the real hero!","Date":"26 November 2000","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie boasts an excellent cast, with the wonderful comedic  talents of Bette Midler and Sarah Jessica Parker. Omri Katz is  well-qualified for this movie at times, it plays like an  extended version of Katz's 1991 TV series Eerie, IndianaUnfortunately, the script is lame. Warning bells started to  ring when I realised that the movie's running joke was about Max's virginity, and it goes downhill from there. The parts which are supposed to be funny don't make me laugh, and the  parts which are supposed to be scary wouldn't frighten a  7-year-old.Max is the supposed hero of the story, and he would be if it  weren't for the fact that his tampering caused the trouble with the witches in the first place (and what's with his tie-dyed  shirt in the classroom scene at the start?!). The real hero of  the movie is Thackery Binx, the immortal black cat who pulls  Max & Co. out of various scrapes.Having said that, if it's a rainy Saturday afternoon and this  movie happens to be on TV, there are worse ways to waste your  time than to watch it, if only for the excellent musical score. "},{"Title":"Strange Mixture of Kid Stuff and Sexual Innuendos","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have seen Hocus Pocus recommended as a kids movie. Well, I would say that with big reservations. For kids 8 and over might be more a more accurate recommendation, if that.The movie includes a living corpse character brought back to life from the dead part of the humor is that his body parts keep falling off. There is a lot in this movie that might seriously freak out little children!And then there's the running gag about the boy who is the hero being a virgin. Be prepared, if you watch this with your little kids, to be asked to explain what a virgin is. The local bus driver picks up the three witches, who are pretty freaky, and seems to be extremely attracted to them. When they tell him they desire children (another really frightening concept in this movie), he replies, It could take a while, but I think I could do that for you. And witch Sarah Jessica Parker displays a lot of cleavage (who knew?!). And much more of the same type of innuendo occurs, which is more on the level of a teen movie than a kids movie. (And teenagers will say it's too kiddish for them.)The movie veers back and forth between light-hearted comedy and gloomy, scary, violent scenes, in a way that turns out to be rather badly balanced. The expectation of a Disney movie doesn't prepare parents and kids for some of the contents of Hocus Pocus. For instance, when the witches kidnap the hero's young sister from her bedroom, this is really a frightening thing for kids (and parents).And then having to look at Bette Midler with her buck teeth, and Kathy Najimy, who appears to be continually on the verge of drooling--now that's disturbing! "},{"Title":"Exciting and Fun Halloween Movie","Date":"30 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Hocus Pocus is a great Halloween Movie for any age. The plot is interesting because through out the movie three children are going against three witches and they steal their spell book. The low key lighting in the scene before the children enter the school at night creates suspense and a nerve-racking image. The part where the witches and the children are inside the movie gets because you can hear the lightning outside and again there's low key lighting, but there's a little bit of light from the candles. You can also hear the chandelier squeaky noise and swinging back and forth constantly from the wind. The special effects of the spell casting is cool to see because of the colors that appear on the screen and it has some sort of like lighting sound to it. There's really only medium lighting in the beginning, but it makes sense sense it is a Halloween movie. Hocus Pocus is also a comedy. Mostly for children, but I still watch it because it's not to scary and just a fun movie to watch with anyone. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite childhood movies...","Date":"10 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I absolutely love this movie. I have seen it so many times and it doesn't get old or boring at all. I saw it for the first time when I was probably about seven or eight years old. It was a little scary at first, but it is just a funny, interesting movie now. My favorite character is Winifred because I love the way she acts, talks and treats her sisters. This movie is about three witches who died in 1693, and on Halloween night, 1993, Max, a teenager new to Salem, lights the Black Flame Candle, which resurrects the three witches. They have to suck the life out of children in order to stay young and survive when the sun comes up the next morning. The entire night, Max, his sister, Dani and his crush, Allison, try to stop the witches. It's very funny to see the three sisters, Winifred, Mary and Sarah react to the new world. Best part of the movie Pretty much anything with the witches.Worst part of the movie When Billy is chasing the kids.Recommended for Everyone.Overall, I give this movie a 9 out of 10, which in my ratings book is Amazing. "},{"Title":"A tone of improbable goofiness","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" If you grew up in the nineties, you've probably seen Hocus Pocus a few hundred times. I think most every generation gets their own kid-friendly horror-lite Halloween movie. Gremlins probably filled that role for a lot of eighties kids and hopefully Coraline is the pick for the modern 6-10 crowd. Hocus Pocus is nowhere near as good as either of those movies but I've seen it a bunch anyway. Probably more, since my Mom has long been a Bette Midler fan.Of course, even goofy kid's flicks like this have new information to reveal. I had no idea that Mick Garris, veteran horror screenwriter, co-wrote this one. Nor did I know that Doug Jones, probably the most famous creature actor today, played the zombie in this. Was there any other new information waiting me? The movie actually holds up alright. The decent premise is classic horror stuff. Set in Salem, of course, the child-stealing Sarandon sisters were executed but not before doing a few things Turning a local teen into an immortal black cat, draining his little sister's life force, and, more pressingly, placing a curse on the town. Should a virgin ever light the black candle, they will return. Of course, this happens. Recently relocated teen Max, dragging his little sister and high school crush with him, lights that candle, revives the witch sisters, and leads to a bunch of wacky antics.The cast and characters make the film far more likable then it would have been otherwise. Bette Midler goes far over the top as lead witch Winnifred. Her make-up is cartoonish, including frizzy red hair, perpetually pursed lips, and comically exaggerated buckteeth. Midler's acting is on the same level. She hoots, hollers, squeals, and delivers every line with comic-stripe panache. Even her facial expressions and body language are calculated for goofiness. She plays off the other two sisters nicely. Sarah Jackson Parker, before everyone started calling her a horse, brings a manic energy to the part. She jumps around, repeats dialogue, and actually conveys a wacky sexiness. Kathy Najimi is similarly silly, acting like an overgrown dofus.Much of the humor comes from typical fish out of water shenanigans. The witches are baffled and occasionally delighted by asphalt, a bus, TV, remotes, and the concept of Halloween. Some of this is more entertaining then others. The interaction with a horny bus driver or Garry Marshall dressed as the Devil get genuine laughs. The trio constantly being fooled by fire sprinklers or headlights proves less so. Some of the overly goofy gags prove better then others. The witches having their brooms snatched by young look-a-likes is amusing. Them jumping on mops and vacuums are the sorts of goofy, kid's movie jokes you'd hope the movie would avoid. Midler and crew deliver their frequently corny dialogue like pros, never loosing that ridiculous cartoon tone.It's not uncommon for the kids in the kids' movies to be punch-worthy. Hocus Pocus mostly avoids that too. The movie's theme boils down to one of sibling love. Surprisingly, this is incorporated organically into the story. Binx, the talking cat, lost his sister and is driven by the hope of being reunited with her. Max comes to appreciate and love his sister over the course of the story. It fits in and isn't overdone. The improbably named Ormi Katz finds a decent balance between grouchy, angsty teenager and proactive protagonist. A tiny Thora Birch also comes close to annoying. Her emotional interactions with the brother and the talking cat make the character relatively real. Vanessa Shaw is lovely and shows some genuinely comedic skills as Max's love interest. Only the ridiculous bully characters overdo it.The movie couldn't cast Bette Midler in the lead without getting her to sing. The whole movie's tone of improbable goofiness is best summed up when a three-hundred year-old witch walks on-stage and sings a choreographed song-and-dance number. Yet that's probably the most memorable moment in the film. The zombie antics, with his head and fingers getting knocked off, are nicely gruesome for a kid's flick. Hocus Pocus even has a moment of eerie beauty, when Parker lures the children of the town away with a siren song. The music is ethereal and the image of hundreds of kids, some still in their Halloween costumes, walking the streets at night sticks with you. The special effects don't hold up and the whole movie is a goofy trifle. As far as nineties nostalgia go? Hocus Pocus is one of the better examples from my childhood. "},{"Title":"Excellent Family Movie","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie was a staple in our household for many years as a quality way to spend a spooky Halloween evening together. Now that the kids are grown, I am hoping (and expect) that our grandchildren will be just as enchanted. The target audience is families with children from 6 to preteen, so any negative reviews that ignore this are just not thinking about the goals of a certain genre of movie. This was back in the day when Disney family movies and TV were truly doing a great job... now I don't want to sound like a codger, but my impression is that even Disney has moved past the age of innocence and is putting out material that is very narcissistic and full of empty calories. Lastly, I would have to say that I truly think that Sarah Jessica Parker delivered the best performance of her career in this film. Of course, I don't think her work after this film really could be deemed as high quality, but she was so funny in this movie that I think she squandered a career of playing sexy/ditsy roles that would have been spellbinding. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable kids stuff.","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I just saw this film on ABC--an American network owned by Disney. Well, after doing this, I DON'T recommend you do this yourself! Instead, rent the movie, as ABC inserted so many commercials that it was driving my poor daughter mad as we watched. They chopped out portions of the movie so they could insert more commercials! Because of this, important parts of the film were missing--such as what happened to the parents who were STILL dancing as well as what happened to the bullies. On the other hand, the film inexplicably has a few obscenities (odd for a kids movie) and ABC sanitized them--a plus for parent concerned about their kids hearing this sort of stuff. As for me, I'd rather hear a few obscenities and actually get the whole film. Curse you Disney! While I did not love this film, I watched both my daughters (the one who hated the ads plus my other one) and they were absolutely fixated on it. Throughout, they laughed and had a wonderful time. And, given that I did not grow up watching this film (like my kids did), I enjoyed it well enough. Overall, a clever story with enough to interest kids and parents alike. As for me, I loved the scene where the witches met Satan--quite clever. "}{"Title":"I love this movie!!!!","Date":"13 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is by far one of the best Halloween movies I've ever seen! I watch it every Halloween, every time it comes on TV (and yes, I have it on DVD too). All the actors did such a great job I can't imagine anyone else in their roles. It's got it all! The scary, the funny, that childlike, sentimental Trick or Treat feeling of Halloweens gone by and the beauty of Salem/New England that makes you feel like you can almost feel the autumn chill in the air while Billy the Zombie is chasing you! I don't think Leonard Di Caprio could have outdone Omri Katz and Sex In The City's Sarah Jessica Parker was fantastic playing the dim witted sister Sarah. And who doesn't love Mary Sanderson played by Kathy Najimy? And we can't forget darling little Thora Birch as Dani Dennison! (My, how she's grown since then). Oh, and I must not forget to mention the great soundtrack. You can't beat the vocals of the Divine Miss M! All in all, a great movie for the whole family to be seen again and again. In fact, I suspect this movie has become a Halloween tradition for many Hocus Pocus fans. "},{"Title":"Were the critics watching this with bags on their heads?","Date":"21 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Hocus Pocus, a film that only comes around once a year...October. I wait all year long to watch this film, and have been doing so since I was very young. I have never purchased it because they play it nearly a dozen f!#%ing times during the month of October. At the same time, this film is great year round. I chose this as my first review because I just watched it and feel that the film in under-appreciated. This is a charming little film about three Salem witches resurrected from the dead by a teenage virgin whom lights a black flame candle. Max must stop these witched from stealing the souls of children. He does so with the help of his adorable little sister, Allison (whom he pines over at night), and a helpful talking (cursed) cat called Binx. The casting is absolutely perfect, right down to Omri Katz as Max. Bette Midler does a fantastic job as the evil, scheming, mastermind Winnie. Sarah Jessica Parker plays the flighty, dumb, and playfully flirty Sarah. She goes back and forth between a hypnotic come hither persona and then will burst into random chants and fits of joy over disturbing things such fresh dead man's toes. Kathy Najimy plays Mary, the chubby witch with sometimes wrongfully placed optimism. There are two musical numbers in the film, most notably Bette Midler's rendition of I Put a Spell on You which is both humorous and pleasing to the ear. When you watch this film, you cannot take it too seriously, in fact don't take it seriously at all. You will have a much better viewing experience this way. This film is absurd, and cliché, that's the beauty of it! It is also very comical with laughs for children and adults alike. There is a point in the film where Mary, Kathy Najimy's character, is flying on a vacuum cleaner. This is just one example that stands out because it has had me cracking up since I was six years - old. Ignore what others say about Hocus Pocus, the critics reviews are baloney. (I couldn't find something similar to the phrase Hocus Pocus that would be witty and fitting to describe their reviews. Sorry. Baloney it is.)This film is marvelous and entertaining for all ages, all year round. If you haven't seen it yet, go watch it. Then you too will consider it a quirky classic.(8/10) "},{"Title":"Another example where critics let an enjoyable film slip through their hands.","Date":"11 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is not Kieslowski. This is not Wajda. This is not Goddard. This is not Bergman. This is a children's movie based on the legends and myths of the witch trials in Salem, Massachusetts. It uses its setting to great effect and establishes a very enjoyable autumn mood throughout the entire running time. Critics fall victim to their own pretensions. Yes, we all love The Seventh Seal but not every film needs to blast me in the face with serious moral dilemmas and deep philosophical questions. Can you imagine a world where all art did that? No thanks.This is a fun little film for kids and the adults will enjoy it also. I have had the pleasure of seeing this in Salem, Massachusetts at Cinema Salem more than once which was a nice touch. This story of witches and the kids who try to thwart them will really engage your children around Halloween time. The actors all have great chemistry together and make this into a fun movie you can watch every year.Critics be damned. Hocus Pocus is a great Halloween film. "},{"Title":"This movie is great and here's why","Date":"7 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I was shocked to find out that so many people left negative reviews for this movie! First of all, the movie is rated PG. Moms, if you thought this would be a good movie for your 6 year old and then got angry when it contained naughty words on the level of doodie, well, you shoulda read the MPAA rating on the VHS tape.I don't know what kind of stereotypes people are talking about that are in this movie, but if you're offended by this movie then I imagine Shirley Temple classics would probably offend you as well.Anyway, I LOVE this movie. I don't want to make it sound like it's the greatest movie ever, but as far as a fun Halloween movie, it really delivers on many levels.I had actually first seen this movie when I was around 11 years old and I thought that one which with the long silvery hair was really hot. Then years later I learned that she's played by Mr. Ed! Oh, I mean Sarah Jessica Parker. I guess she wasn't so bad looking years ago.The acting is decent all-around. I can relate to the main character because my hometown is LA, and when I have moved to different places I'll say I'm from Los Angeles, and people say Huh? Then I have to say You know, LA. The fact that the main character had to go through the same thing really cracked me up.Anyway, if you don't like horror movies but you'd like a spooky movie to watch on Halloween, give Hocus Pocus a try! "},{"Title":"Love this movie!","Date":"17 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw this movie in the theater when it first came out, it was one of my favorites then and still is. The story is based around 2 teenagers, a little sister and a talking cat. Its very thrilling without a moment of dullness and lets kids escape the world of parents for just over an hour. This is a very cute movie that introduces young viewer to ghoulish creatures like witches and zombies, without scaring them to pieces. From beginning to end it is very well put together with lots of humour to enjoy.All three witches are charming (as are the other characters in the movie)and almost have you rooting for them. The only bad part of the movie is that it only has two musical numbers, which are both very catchy and well done. Both my Children ages 3&4 love this movie. Excellent entertainment for the whole family. "},{"Title":"Hocus Pocus","Date":"10 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I LOVE THIS MOVIE! its a hilarious movie and i hope newer generations will love this movie to. i like the part where the witches are singing to the parents hypnotizing them. and when they put the witches into the walk in oven and they turned on and they freak out. also when when Winifred feels all bummed out and says good bye cruel world and also when Sarah says ugly by Winifred and makes her cry. and when Winifred hits her sisters. i think they chose good actors for the movie and the song got stuck in my head for just watching it twice. My favorite actor is Kathy Najimy. i like her in this movie is when shes trying to sniff out the kids she goes ive lost my powers and starts crying. and gets wrong kids by mistake and says when she hits different kids. Sarah was also funny cause she didn't have a brain. "},{"Title":"It may work for the kids","Date":"1 November 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" It's been 300 years since the Sanderson sisters Winifred (Bette Midler), Sarah (Sarah Jessica Parker) and Mary (Kathy Najimy) were hung for sucking the life force from a girl. They vow to return to Salem with the help of a virgin and suck the life force from all the children. Max Dennison is a new in town. He's not into Halloween. Pretty girl Allison (Vinessa Shaw) gives his number back to him. Bullies steal his shoes. He is forced to take his sister Dani (Thora Birch) trick or treating. Trying to impress Allison, he and Dani go with her to the old Sanderson house and light the black flame candle. This brings the sisters back from the dead.This is definitely a children's horror movie. There is nothing here for everybody else. I don't like the kids. I really don't like the boy. Thora Birch is fine but she's more bratty than lovable. Vinessa Shaw is a blank. The three witches are not funny. They're not scary either, at least for adults. This may work for the kids. That's the best that I can say about it. "},{"Title":"Great film!","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Twelve years after being released, this film has become a children's classic. Now 21 years old, I can still watch this film any day of the week and be completely entertained. It has also been a love of mine since I was a young kid - great fantastical sets and story, fun witches who are a riot to watch, a compelling plot, and some really great music.I realize that the majority of the people who have given this film a bad review are those over the age of 40, and that would make sense. This is not an adult movie. It is a movie for kids, and for those of us who can still recognize that little kid in all of us who loves a good scare and a good old fashioned story about Halloween.I would highly recommend this to anyone who wants to watch a light-hearted, exciting film with some truly great acting in it (ala Bette Midler, Kathy Najimi and especially a young, pre Sex and the City Sarah Jessica Parker). Keep your ears out for the wonderful soundtrack in this film as well...Sarah Jessica Parker's singing of Come Little Children will mesmerize you - much like the rest of this film. "},{"Title":"Good One; Give it a try","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is really funny and gave me a few laughs. This movie has three different genres and they have three sisters who each represent a different one, to give you a bit of each. Winifred, who represents Horror. Mary, who represents Comedy. And Sarah, who represents Fantasy. Don't hesitate, Give this movie a try. You wont regret it. "},{"Title":"Pleasant enjoyable Disney movie!","Date":"23 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" It's just a bunch of Hocus Pocus! Or so they thought........ These Salem Massachusetts kids are in for a big surprise! Bette Midler, Kathy Najimy, and Sarah Jessica Parker all team up here as the Sanderson sisters, 3 witch sisters raised from the dead from on of the teenagers. This Disney movie is honestly one of my absolute favorites by Disney! Hocus Pocus is a great, entertaining, and family friendly movie for all ages to enjoy. You'll laugh your ass off watching this fun flick. Also, the special effects are very good and cool to see, lots of flying on brooms, shooting lightning, and more..... The plot is well constructed as well, it'll make u laugh, cry, and just have a lot of fun! All the actors do a great job with the film, Bette midler in particular! She was amazing as the lead sister, Winnifred Sanderson. So families at Halloween time, I've got a good one for you! And there isn't really anything inappropriate in it, the word virgin is used a few times, it's kinda integral to the plot. And Danny's mom is dressed up as Madonna, wearing big pointed shells on her breasts. Other than that, you should be all set!! 10/10 for Hocus Pocus, flawless Halloween film! "}{"Title":"Funny Halloween flick","Date":"31 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The proof is in the pudding! I need to always remind myself of this line. Too many times I have not watched certain movies due to the premise not appealing to me or having seen terrible reviews. Then I have to remind myself of 2 things (1) Most movies nowadays pretty much suck out of the gate, AND (2) Many movies of yesteryear actually hold up because they by default have so much going for them genuine dialogue, more practical effects, better and original stories. There are films that I never dared watch as a kid that I have since re-visited that have become personal faves.This Halloween treat HOCUS POCUS (1993) has become a holiday favorite of mine having seen it for the first time marathon-ing a slew of Halloween-themed movies. While it's definitely flawed, it's funnier than 99.9% of the comedies now. Hell, let's just for the even 100! Hocus Pocus is the tale of 3 Salem witch siblings who were persecuted in the 17th century, but are revived 300 years later on All Hallows Eve 1993 by the opening of their book of spells by an unwitting teenager named Max (skillfully played by Omri Katz of Dallas fame; he played the character John Ross Ewing for the longest time frame in the original series). Katz does a commendable job carrying the kid portion of the film, but it's the witches themselves who steal the show!The 3 witches are hilariously realized by Bette Midler (Winifred), Kathy Najimy (Mary), and Sarah Jessica Parker (Sarah). Midler, Najimy, and Parker are a laugh riot throughout, with Midler the crafty, witty, wisecracking oldest sister, Najimy the goofy middle sister, and Parker the ditzy youngest sister. I even dare say that as hilarious as Midler and Najimy were, it was Parker who stole the show perfectly playing the brainless blonde bombshell! Parker is so effortlessy ditzy and sexy in this, I'm surprised she never really played another role like this at any other time in her career. She's almost unrecognizable. Also, this is perhaps my favorite of all of Midler's comic performances. She really lets loose here as this is probably her most broad comic role. Midler also makes the best, most funny facial expressions. And Najimy's acting choice of making her character slur her speech totally works and would have sunk in the hands of a lesser comedic talent. And I love the way the 3 actresses show the symbiotic relationship of the witches and do things in sync throughout the fim.The kid cast isn't half bad either. The aforementioned Katz is all in and exudes charisma as the put-upon teenage newcomer to Salem, as his family has just moved from LA to put down roots in the infamous, historical town. Katz gets great support from then-child actress and scene-stealer Thora Birch (playing Max's precocious younger sister Dani) and fashion-model-actress Vinessa Shaw (as Max's love interest Allison). Shaw is kind of the weak link among the kids as she is obviously more mature than Katz and it's somewhat of a stretch at times she'd be attracted to Max's clutzy, innocent character. Although it's always nice when the nerd gets the girl! Also, there are a few memorable minor characters, most notably the zombified Billy Butcherson (played memorably by Doug Jones), and also the 2 teen bullies who harass Max and steal candy from the trick-or-treaters, the bus driver who has the hots for the witches, the cop who doesn't believe the kids story about the witches, and none other than Garry and Penny Marshall, who play a rather creepy married couple. Also, there's Thackery the cat! Can't forget his contribution.There are even a couple of musical numbers, as Midler gets to show off her singing prowess with a memorable number I Put a Spell on You. Also, Parker gets to show off her singing chops with a spellbinding rendition of Come Little Children during the film's climax. The movie boasts an upbeat and fast pace, nonstop laughs, and 3 iconic comic performances from Midler, Najimy, and Parker. The actresses comedic chemistry and timing is something to behold. I really enjoyed how Winifred was the brains and her younger sisters Mary and Sarah spent virtually the entire film mimicking her. It was like they were all sharing Winifred's brain! LOL I will say that the kid's storyline kind of lacked the humor when they were on their own and really amped up when they were in the presence of the 3 witches, which makes sense as the 3 actresses were noticeably more adept and skilled at comedy and comic timing than the younger ones. But, trust me, I've seen a lot worse child actors, a LOT worse! This is one of those movies that further supports my theory that film critics know jack squat about entertaining movies. Last time I looked, comedies were supposed to be FUNNY! If they don't pass that test, they fail completely. Thankfully, Hocus Pocus succeeds! "},{"Title":"It puts a spell on you","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The current generation of youngsters have the 'Harry Potter' franchise. Wonderful as it may be, the books and films are not the first to use witchcraft in something family friendly. For my generation it was films like 'Teen Witch' and 'The Worst Witch.' Then in the 90s, Disney would release something a little darker than their usual output. By that point there had been so many film's set around Christmas, it was time for one to celebrate Halloween. The outcome is one of the most fun times one could have at the movies.Pros Solid performances. Fun score. Stylish direction. Clever writing. Gorgeous New England scenery. Often hilarious. Some great special effects. Excellent costume and production design. Moves at a lightning pace.Cons A little dated. Leaves you wanting more.Final thoughts For some reason, 'Hocus Pocus' didn't do all that well at the Box Office. Hard to see why considering how fun and stylish it is, but there you have it. It does however have a loyal cult following and is shown on TV every October. Some family films plays it safe and are too sickeningly sweet. This film however has a little edge to it and has really held up.My rating 4.5/5 "},{"Title":"Brings Back Childhood Memories!","Date":"26 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Hocus Pocus is a movie that I used to watch all the time on Halloween as a little kid. As I got older, I stopped watching this film. Recently, I decided to watch it again just to review it as an older person. I thought this movie is incredibly cheesy but it is just perfect for the children.This film is about a group of kids who wake up a bunch of dormant witches whose goals are to kidnap children and take away their youth.The acting is okay. I actually think that this is Sarah Jessica Parker's best role. I also liked Bette Midler as the main Sanderson witch.Overall, this is just a fun movie for kids. It's creepy but not scary. I guess all the people who gave this bad reviews lost the feeling of what it's like to be a kid again. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"three sisters reappear after 300 years - watch out!","Date":"29 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Bette Midler, Kathy Najimy, and Sarah Jessica Parker are the Sanderson Sisters, three witches who reappear after 300 years, in Hocus Pocus, a 1993 film.We first see the girls - Winifred, Mary, and Sarah -- back in 1683 when they stealing children and doing all kinds of wicked things. When two teens, Max and Allison (Omri Katz, Vinessa Shaw) enter the witches' old home with Max's little sister Dani (Thora Birch), they find a candle that is supposed to be lit by a virgin. One of the kids, Zachary Binx, trying to save his sister Emily, is turned into a black cat. Eventually they are destroyed, but not before Winifred does one last potion from her very important recipe book.Fast forward to Halloween 1993 when two teens, Max and Allison (Omri Katz and Vinessa Shaw) along with Max's little sister Dani get into the Sanderson house. There they found a candle which is to be lit by a virgin. Max lights it and brings the three witches back to life. They still have their powers, but are thrown off by modern times. If they can't steal a child and take over her youth, at dawn, they will disappear forever.Truly delightful, fun, and heartwarming film with Midler, Najimy and Parker in top form as they attempt to wreak havoc on Salem. Midler has a big number, I Put a Spell on You, at the parents' Halloween dance, and she's terrific. This is supposedly her favorite film, though had she accepted the lead in Sister Act, that might have beat it.The film is loaded with funny moments, one of which is when three little girls steal the witches' brooms, and the sisters have to make do. Najimy ends up with a vacuum cleaner.Great Halloween movie. "},{"Title":"Hocus Pocus review","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I liked the colourful costumes and lighting in this film, and I think the three witches were very amusing and camp, with the three stars getting stuck in with no egos spoiling things.I actually only saw two thirds of the movie up to where the enchantment song is sung by Jessica Sarah Parker or whatever she's called lol.Also I am dying to know if the girl is a virgin too lol.The start of the film is interesting, with the lad in 1693 etc and the movie seems to follow a traditional storyline which is good too.Visually the film is wonderful and I'd love to see it on a big 40 inch TV with surround sound.Sad that 20 years has elapsed since it was made.A lovely film to cherish, and I really like that song,I really need to get the film and watch it all. "},{"Title":"This movie will put a spell on you.","Date":"30 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Ah, Hocus Pocus. As a child, this movie would creep me out sometimes, but nonetheless it's still a fun Disney flick. It has memorable characters, funny moments, and a zombie that looks like Johnny Depp.Under the full moon on a Halloween night, three witches, the Sanderson Sisters (Winifred, Mary, and Sarah), who have been dead for 300 years are accidentally resurrected and plan on living forever by sucking the lives of children via a special potion. All that stand in the way of these powerful but somewhat clueless sisters are a teenage boy, his younger sister, his newfound love interest, and an immortal cursed boy-turned-cat.All so full of charm, this movie is highly entertaining, especially during October. Seeing the witches interact with the modern world is practically hilarious and the song I Put A Spell On You is a load of fun. With a few slightly adult jokes thrown in, you will most likely enjoy this film that is bound to make you fall under its enchantment. "},{"Title":"It's just a bunch of Hocus Pocus!","Date":"25 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Hocus Pocus centers around new kid in Salem, Max Dennison, his little sister Dani, and Max's crush, Allison. I can't say enough good things about the dynamic between these three. Max's flippant Hollywood attitude, Dani's irritating little sister routine and Allison's Salem native know-it-all spirit make the movie more than a little endearing.As if this fantastic trifecta weren't enough, we also have the three Sanderson sisters Winifred, Mary, and Sarah. These heinous witches and their flesh-bound book have been sucking the lives out of Salem's children since the 1600s. After being captured by the townsfolk of Salem, they are to be hanged for their crimes, but not before chanting a spell that will bring them back for one night when a virgin lights their black flame candle. I can't put into words why these three actresses work so well together. You literally have to watch to understand just how humorous - and terrifying - these three can be.Cue 1993, when Max and his girls head to the Sanderson museum, conveniently located in the old home of the Sanderson witches. Max is seeking a convenient opportunity to impress Allison, while Dani just wants to get back to trick-or-treating. The unbelieving Max lights the black flame candle (a virgin, ooohhhhhh!) and Winnie, Mary, and Sarah return in search of children so they may be young and beautiful forever.The hilarity and spooks that ensue are priceless. This movie has been a staple in my home every Halloween since 1999, when I was ten years old. The characters are lovable and the relationship between Max and Dani is what I always expected from a brother and sister. At the end when he says, Well I'm your brother I always get a bit emotional. Hocus Pocus deserves its title as a cult classic, and if you haven't seen it, do yourself a forever and buy this one for the Halloween season. "},{"Title":"One of a kind","Date":"17 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie has always been my favorite even as I've gotten older. it is that movie you can watch over and over yet it won't get old. It has those characters you will never forget and seems real the actors did a wonderful job. It's a movie for all ages that will be loved by the whole family(I know it sounds cheesy but it's the truth). It has actors that did there best and created a movie thats still shown every year for 18 years, that says some thing about how good it is. Now the person in charge of picking out the actors/actresses did awesome because each actor/actress fit each role wonderfully even though one actors voice isn't even used, but that was to give it more reality. Which made it even better of a movie everyone involved knew what they were doing and did it well. Its a classic now one that I hope and am sure will always be loved and watched. ) "},{"Title":"A terrific movie.","Date":"24 June 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This film is not meant to be serious, nor is it meant to appear high-end. The reviews stating that the set-up, costumes, and acting don't fit par are appalling. The movie is delightfully hilarious, with a surprisingly good plot, despite first glance. But above all, the cast could not be better...particularly for the Salem witches. Sarah Jessica Parker and Bette Midler simply throw the delightfully comedic, yes appropriate movie over the top. Anyone denouncing the movie as poorly constructed must immediately have their head examined. With a movie like this you can't look overly deep into it, or analyze it. You simply need to watch and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Good moral lessons","Date":"26 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This film is not only entertaining, but contains some really good moral stuff for those who look for it. First of all, Max being a virgin and having the ability to therefore bring back the witches is a very nice twist on the old tale of it always being a girl. His admitting to this, also says something to the youth of the country, that it's no shame to be a virgin while a teen.Also, Max being willing to sacrifice himself for his sister says a lot for family values and sibling love and was quite nicely done. All in all, the character is written quite heroically and I found that refreshing.Performances in the film were far above average and it's the perfect Halloweeen movie. Enjoy. "}{"Title":"Awesome Halloween Fun!!!","Date":"24 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is awesome. It takes place on one of my favorite holidays, it's funny, and it could be for teenagers (like me!) It has a great plot about three witch sisters from the Salem witch era are resurrected 300 years later by a virgin who lit a candle. Max, his sister, his new girlfriend, and a talking cat named Thackery spend all HALLOWEEN night trying to figure out how to kill the witches. Once the flame from the candle is out, the witches will die. During this time, Sarah Jessica Parker was hot. I kind of had a crush on her, but not anymore. I always wished that they would make Hocus Pocus 2. If you love comedy, and HALLOWEEN, you'll love HOCUS POCUS!!! "},{"Title":"It'll put a spell on you","Date":"24 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I must say I like this movie! Whenever I see it, I get a proper Disney, warm, fuzzy feeling. It's a prime example of what is now commonplace in movies, but wasn't when this was released; it appeals to both adults and children.It has some genuine laugh-out-loud moments, in the main, due to Bette Midler's wonderfully over the top performance as Winifred. Kathy Najimy is also great and Doug Jones as Billy is very funny.It's all here Comedy, nice little scares and that Disney factor. On the whole, minus the odd cringe-worthy moment, this isn't bad. It's a lovely little comedy with a heart of gold. If you haven't seen it, do. It's definitely worth a watch "},{"Title":"Great Kids 'Scary Movie'","Date":"9 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw this when I was a kid at the movies and it really scared me! I watched it again as an adult purely by accident and found it to be one of the few children's movies that can be watched by adults without too much pain. Beware though, there are all-singing, all-dancing parts! As I'm not American, I found that it was a great insight into the Halloween and trick or treating traditions. As the movie is set in New England, the addition of stories of and witches and witch-hunts is tied in nicely. Although this movie is not going to win any awards, I found it entertaining and would definitely be a good 'scary movie' for kids. "},{"Title":"More filmmakers who don't know who they're making a movie for","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I didn't like this movie at all. It felt more like an episode of Power Rangers than a Halloween classic. One problem I have with most of the Disney Channel movies is that they follow a very small group of characters around, trying to deal with whatever problem for just long enough to fill a feature length running time. They end up feeling very insular and formulaic, like the Hardy Boys mysteries that all had about the same number of pages in them. Hocus Pocus had a few good ideas, but no one was interested in developing the story further than a basic repetitive chase sequence. The performances were terrible. The three leads--the witch sisters-- should have been fun, over-the-top characters, but without the right direction, they didn't find the right tone. It's too embarrassingly silly for anyone over 8, but also a little scary and graphic for very young children--and did they have to mention that the protagonist was a virgin so many times? You make a movie that's too stupid for almost any age, then throw in concepts that are inappropriate for your already limited audience? Disney's main feature studios are extremely good at developing scripts that can be enjoyed by all ages, but the other arms of the company just seem to churn out junk like this quickly. "},{"Title":"great light Halloween film","Date":"24 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This film is just enjoyable to watch. From the start the characters all seem appealing and likable even the three witches. My favourite character has to be Zachary Binks the boy trapped in the cats body he really does just melt my heart as he has a soft spot for Danni and seems to get closest to her. I like how in the end we come to think Max and Allison have some chemistry. The song I put a spell on you is also very catchy and fun to listen too, the film is just good all around, good story, good costumes, good sets and overall just good! It really is beyond me how people can criticise this film it really is harmless fun it's not too scary but it does have some horror elements friendly enough for younger children. It's a non gory different Halloween film for everyone in the family. "},{"Title":"Too cute, and fun","Date":"24 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  WELL this is a fun movie, and Bette is just so talented, love her voice! Siblings and what they will do for each other to keep each other safe, about personal sacrifices and love.  OK it sounds corny but its really got some FUNNY moments in it, and children 5 and above will love it.  Some are kinda scary for little ones, but it has a happy ending.... OK well a happy as can be ending. "},{"Title":"Yuck.","Date":"26 October 2014","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" After seeing this the only thing I can think of Kathy Najimy's stomach turning pervy act. She didn't do or say anything that was funny. Sarah Jessica Parker acted like she had suffered from a severe brain injury and Bette Midler&#x85;&#x85;tired, tired, tired.And another thing, the constant elbow in the stomach act? Please. That is so Love American Style or Tim Conway from Carol Burnett Show. Really? That was supposed to be funny?The only positives from this film were the sets and the lighting. The only truly clever act was perhaps the corpse that comes back to live and dances around the graveyard but then, suddenly this isn't a film for kids. Horrible. Just horrible. "},{"Title":"Sarah Jessica Parker is hilarious.","Date":"26 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This was my first time watching Hocus Pocus, and it's actually a pretty good movie. The cast was fine, and I'll say that Anne Hathaway in Alice In Wonderland was emulating this version of Sarah Jessica Parker. Some parts of the plot, like how the witches got out of the oven and the virgin gag, were either annoying or unexplained, but overall it was a fun movie with some really great lines. I liked the romantic storyline between Max and Allison, and I loved seeing Dani and Max get along so well. I thought that the whole zombie thing was stupid, but I still enjoyed it and can see myself watching it every few years around Halloween. "},{"Title":"Adore it but why oh why...","Date":"13 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I absolutely adored this movie. Viewed it four times over Halloween this year with my family. Bette Midler and her companions were in my view truly outstanding. The story and the flashback elements handled fantastically well. Many cameos stand out, not least the use of substitute brooms complete with cord. Wonderful@Biggest annoyance for me, and from our family perspective, was the totally unnecessary obsession with virginity throughout the entire movie. If only the script writer had used innocence instead of virginity it would have been entirely suitable for all ages in my view. Personally I did not have a problem with the Madonna bra scene but I did literally edit out the superfluous objectionable exchange with the motorcycle cop on virginity at each showing. The joke exchange concerning breasts on arrival in the house, and the reference to virginity in the closing scene, were both totally unnecessary in my view, and spoiled an otherwise excellent movie. "},{"Title":"They'll put a spell on you!","Date":"31 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I have loved this film since the moment I first saw it, Bette Midler steals the show as Winnie Sanderson, closely followed by roles in the form of Sarah Jessica Parker as Sarah Sanderson (who knew she could sing?), and Kathy Najimy as Mary Sanderson.The plot is just your basic Disney movie I suppose, boy brings witches back from the dead on Halloween, they cause havoc, eventually boy, girl and sister defeat the witches and life carries on.But what makes this film magical (pun intended) is it's great lead cast (the witches) and good supporting cast (the kids).Bette Midler steals almost every scene she is in, but at the town hall ball, where she performs 'I put a spell on you,' shows the depth of her talent as an actress and singer. This is one of my favourite films of all time and will probably remain so well into my life.One questions remains however, how does Kathy Najimy do that thing with her mouth??? "}{"Title":"its my favourite film","Date":"27 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" this is one of the greatest films ever made i have it on DVD and i think its amazing every time i watch it i cry at the end its really is brilliant!!!! i suggest watching it to see for your self to find out what the films really about. i have recommended this film to all of my friends and family i have even had them round to watch it and all comments they have made about the film have been positive. i don't understand how anyone can doubt the film its just amazing like i said watch it!!! my personal opinion will differ to other but this film has so many laughs in it it has laughs for the children and laughs for the adults. please watch it and see for your self what I'm talking about!!! "},{"Title":"Great Movie!","Date":"22 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" There are no words to actually describe this movie, being a fan of Salem, MA and of Bette Midler......it was just fantastic! It was scary in a very funny way. Kathy Najimy and Sarah Jessica Parker were great as well. I've seen it around 100 times by now and will continue to watch it. The guys in the cemetery also were to funny, especially when the Sanderson Sisters put the in the little cages like birds. I also thought that Thackery Binx was a good looking young guy. He was adorable as the cat also. Thumbs up to all the actors in this movie. Hopefully more movies will be made along the same theme. Even my 7 year old daughter loves this movie.Thank you! "},{"Title":"Personal Childhood Favorite of Mine...","Date":"23 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Hocus Pocus is a childhood favorite of mine that I grew up watching every Halloween as a kid. The film is about Max Dennison (Omri Katz) and his little sister, Dani (Thora Birch). He and his family move from Los Angeles all the way across the US to Salem, Massachusetts, the location of the infamous Salem witch trials, where three sisters were accused of witchcraft and murdering innocent children. Max develops a crush on a girl named Allison (Vinessa Shaw) that goes to his school, and is bullied by some peers. On Halloween, while taking Dani trick or treating, he lights the black candle in the Sanderson sisters old house, unlocking the curse and freeing the sisters. Now the sisters are back, and Max, Allison, and Dani, with the help of a 300 year old cat who was formerly a boy (thanks to a curse enacted by the sisters), must stop them before they continue their rampage.Every time I watch this movie it reminds me of my childhood, so the nostalgia factor is definitely what makes me enjoy this movie so much. But aside from the memories it brings back, Hocus Pocus still has some good things to offer. The story is well paced, the jokes are right on par, and the Halloween/fall atmosphere brought to life by the settings and the filming locations is really heavy, making this a seasonal film by default. The cast is fairly impressive, the Sanderson sisters consist of Bette Midler, Kathy Najimy, and Sarah Jessica Parker, who all play their evil yet likable characters well. The protagonists are lead by Omri Katz playing Max, who never really went onto any other large projects, although his performance wasn't bad. Thora Birch plays the innocent Dani perfectly, and Ms. Birch went on to develop an impressive film career (for me, her performance in American Beauty was remarkable). Lastly, Allison, the likable girl next door is played by Vinessa Shaw, who went on to star in the brutal 2006 Hills Have Eyes remake.Overall, Hocus Pocus is a well done, fun little family-friendly Halloween horror movie that is perfect for the younger kids. I've always been a fan of horror films, even as a small child, so films like this (plus Scooby Doo episodes) may have contributed to my love of the genre. Definitely one of the better family-aimed Halloween-themed films out there, I grew up watching it every Halloween and still do. 8/10. "},{"Title":"A classic Halloween tradition for the family","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I fell in love with this movie the first time I saw it, when I was 7 years old, and I'm still loving it 10 years later. It's become a family tradition to watch this movie every Halloween, and it's something I definitely want to continue doing. Along with the other fans, I'm shocked at the poor reviews I read from other people. I admit that some scenes may be intimidating for the real young ones, but that's why it has a PG rating! The funnies quickly overshadow any scene that could be considered mildly frightening. A lame script? What more could you expect from a children's/family movie? If you want a deep, epic and intricate plot, go watch The Lord of the Rings. Luckily, I'm not hearing many complaints from the acting, and I'm glad for it. Bette Midler, Katy Najimy and Sarah Jessica Parker are the highlights of the movie with their hilarious portrayals of the Sanderson sisters. Midler's rendition of I'll Put a Spell On You and Parker's Come Little Children are wonderfully done; I was humming the tunes for days after seeing the film for the first time, and I still do whenever I watch it. And, of course, I can't leave out Omri Katz and co.'s acting, to which I give two thumbs up. Truly, this is a movie for all ages, whether you're 7 or 70. Those who can't appreciate the film's humour must have therefore lost sense of their own. Watching Hocus Pocus is sure to sprinkle a bit of magic onto your Halloween night, and bring out the kid in you to play. "},{"Title":"Best Halloween Comedy About Witches Ever","Date":"5 October 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I love this movie. I grew up watching this movie with my parents and whenever this movie would come on i would go crazy over it. anyway this movie is fun for the whole family. This will most definitely go down as a classic movie for Halloween. this is one of those movies you never get tired of watching. I personally love this movie cause of the Sanderson sisters and because you see how smart but stupid they can be at times. this movie should be owned by anyone who loves Halloween comedies or witches. I think this is a movie that you will like watching whether your 4 years old or 84 years old. If you haven't seen this movie I suggest you rent it or at least buy it cause it doesn't matter what time of year in is. this will be a movie you can watch in the winter, spring, summer, or especially fall. Overall I highly recommend this movie to all ages "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I went to see this movie when it came out in theaters. My mom took me. I have always loved Halloween. I absolutely loved it. It's one of my favorite movies to this day! A Perfect movie for family Halloween fun! I am a big fan of Bette Midler. She is a wonderful actress (well I think so). This movie has lots of Halloween fun. There is a talking black cat. A Full moon. Witches that fly on broomsticks, (or a mop or vacuum!) A Zombie that is more funny than scary. Spells and potions. Candy and trick-or-treating. And children who get to stay up all night! This is a movie I will definitely watch with my kids someday. I can't wait to make it our Halloween tradition! "},{"Title":"Stunning!","Date":"10 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This will always be my favourite film from my childhood. Every time I watch it it brings a smile to my face and I feel like running Amuk! all over again. Bette is fabulous as Winifried, with the most hilarious lines for years. Will always be very close to my heart.Not Very successful when it was first released in 1993 but has since obtained a cult following, including everyone in my old 2nd Year Class. A Family Fun Classic.NB - There is a lot of talk at the moment about 'Hocus Pocus 2' I hope that if a sequel is made that it will contain the original cast, they were an explosive combination. Hocus Pocus will be are hard act to follow. I don't think it could be possible to make a sequel as good as the original...we shall see. "},{"Title":"Magical!!!","Date":"25 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Magnificent acting from all the cast especially from Bette Midler (Winifred Sanderson), Omri Katz(Max), and Thora Burch (Dani). The film is magical right from the opening scene to the spectacular finale. Hocus Pocus really is a film for the whole family, even your 86 year old granny will find this amazing film spectacular. Hocus Pocus is first set in the late 19th century where the Sanderson Sisters take the life of a little girl named Emily Binx to make them young but Emily's brother is too late to save her and the witches turn him into a black cat named Binx. The town folk are furious and they hang the witches only for them to be bought back from the grave by a virgin... "},{"Title":"I love Hocus Pocus....","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a great movie!! I have three girls and we all love it!! I love the costumes, characters, plot, setting and ..... what is not to love????? I think the cast was cast perfectly just as it was. Nobody could have made it better. Ienjoyed the sarcasm from Winnie tremendously!! Bette Midler is fantastic!!!!!!! However so were Kathy and Sarah.... I would love to live in this town.... it is gorgeous! Great movie!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Oh, and Billy was just too much! I do not know who played his part, but he did it absolutely perfect! Allison was very good, as was Max. The background sets were awesome and the plot was very funny! All in all... 3 thumbs up!! "},{"Title":"Great Family Movie !","Date":"1 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I remember I didn't go to see this one when it was released as the reviews were all quite bad. Bette Midler is one of my favorite actresses and after seeing the movie, I am an even bigger fan ! I don't understand all the negative reviews this movie got. If you take and accept this is 1) A Disney Movie (so not a horror movie !) 2) About Halloween, then the result is no less than magnificent. The movie has fun for all at different levels (children and adults !)and is very entertaining. The 3 witches are delightful (but both Sarah & Kathy are of course overshadowed by Bette, who really steals the show) The storyline is creepy enough though (some reviewers say it is too creepy for small children, others say it would never scare anyone.. so), the special effects are great and the costumes and settings all have this fairy-tale touch to it. Some of the lines really had me laughing.. Bette's delivering of je veux mon livre, after being locked up in the school, is hilarious. The musical number I put a spell on you, is great and confirms again the different talents of Mrs. Midler. The only thing in the story I don't get is that the witches do overcome the school oven.. The children's acting is not great, but effective and has the young Thora Birch (from American Beauty). If you doubted to see this movie, don't .. Go and see it and let it's spell work on you "}{"Title":"A true halloween classic","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is still my favorite halloween movie. Ever since I saw it on Disney waaay back i've really enjoyed it. No matter what month I watch it in, it always brings back the smell of apple cider and the flickering of jack-o-lanterns. Definitely a movie that the whole family can enjoy. It's a shame that this movie is ripped apart by the critics. I will recommend this movie to anyone who wants to see a good family-halloween film. This is one of my top 10 favorite movies of all time. If your looking for a scare-you-out-of-your-mind movie, than this isn't the film for you. But if you want good, warm hearted fun and humor, than Hocus Pocus is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"old days","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" i saw the movie when it was in theaters too! its the first one i can remember seeing in theaters, i was four years old! i love it its a classic! i am kinda confused though, is the person that does the voice of Thackery Bynx the same person that plays him (as a person)? i actually just rented it again because it brings back old memories, i used to watch it every Halloween, man i miss being little!OK i really don't think that i am going to be able to get to ten lines, that was really all that i had to sat but I'm going to ramble for a second. MAN ten lines is really a lot i mean that pretty much eliminates simple answers doesn't it?! "},{"Title":"Thouraghly enjoyed this movie. 'tis a classic for people of all ages.","Date":"7 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Firstly, My grandma looks like Winfred though Grandma's prettier.This movie is one of the few that you can watch over and over again without getting bored. The jokes that were sneaked into the movie made my whole family laugh. I would rate this movie higher then Ten if I could. I especially liked the way Danny could manipulate her older brother in such a way. My mother has let us watch this movie since we were bubs and 'tis one that I can never forget. Sarah Sanderson's song was enchanting and hasn't left my head though I haven't watched the movie for a week now. I loved the way the director made it so the three sisters had the blonde and beautiful one, the leader of the pack and well, then there was the one in between. "},{"Title":"Pretty cute","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I'd actually lost this film for a long time - in other words, I couldn't remember for the life of me what the name of it was. And I found that shame, since I thought it was pretty cute when I was little. As you can see, though, I found it.Something hit me when I was reading through the comments the people who can't spell, or can't write in full sentences or say cool or rock at least every three words all loved it. The people who were writing normal English didn't like it. I wonder if that's supposed to mean something? But to shoot my own theory to pieces, I do an awful lot of English proofreading - yet I liked it.I actually watched Real Women Have Curves a while ago (pretty good film - I gave it a six because it needed a few loose ends tied up) and liked it. It's a movie about a Mexican American girl who goes to high school in Beverly Hills. The film opens when her mother is asking her to stay home and cook breakfast for everybody - on her last day of high school. The film continues like this.. but in the end, she actually learns something. You see true character development.This week while I was home sick I watched Bend It Like Beckham. If you don't know it, it's about an Indian girl in England who is a talented football (soccer for the Americans) player, but her parents refuse to let her play. I could tell you a lot more, but I'll just make my point.I compared the two movies in my head what kind of vote would I give Bend It Like Beckham? Was it better than Real Women Have Curves or not? I finally concluded that Real Women Have Curves had more depth... Bend It Like Beckham was more cliche. But... no, I'm not done. I refuse to give Bend It Like Beckham a bad score - I actually watched it twice. So what's the difference?A film doesn't have to be a piece of literature or whatever just to be entertaining. I was entertained by both, even though Real Women Have Curves definitely affected me more. My point is that Hocus Pocus might not be a masterpiece - but it IS fun and entertaining. It may not have won awards.. but I think it's worth watching.Thanks for reading my rant. "},{"Title":"Fun-filled fantasy","Date":"12 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  WARNING  May contain spoilers.Lonely teen, Max (Omri Katz Eerie, Indiana) moves to Salem, Massachusetts with his family and finds fitting in difficult until he meets the towne beauty, Alison (Vinessa Shaw Ladybugs) and is smitten.  When he is forced to take his little sister Dani (Thora Birch Parenthood) out trick-or-treating the trio wind up at the historical home of three witches Winifred, Sarah and Mary Sanderson (Bette Midler Beaches; Sarah Jessica Parker Honeymoon In Vegas; Kathy Najimy Sister Act) who were hung 300 years before.  When Max lights the Black Flame Candle he inadvertently resurrects the witches who must use their dark magic to syphon the lives from the children of Salem before sunrise in order to remain alive indefinitely.  The children must out-wit the witches until sunrise and save all of the children in the process.  Thakery Binx (Sean Murray This Boy's Life; and Jason Marsden White Squall), a boy cursed 300 years ago to live eternally as a cat, aids the kids in their battle against the witches.I absolutely adored this movie.  It was very much a fun-filled adventure. Great for older kids, but not advisable for little ones due to the horror themes.  All in all it is more comedy than anything.  Midler, Parker and Najimy are an absolute magical trio to begin with and Midler's rendition of, I Put A Spell On You is sure to apease the musical tastes of her fans. Parker also sings in this one! It also has hilarious uncredited appearances by Gary and Penny Marshall.The film is a fabulous modern day Grimm's fairytale and if you see it with that attitude then you'll enjoy it a lot more then if watch it while expecting too much from it.I believe it flopped for two reasons.  Primarily, because it was uncharacteristic of Disney to make such a film.  Secondly because it was too kiddified for the adults and too adult for the kiddies.  Much of the humor may be lost on many children. "},{"Title":"Memories","Date":"23 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I can still remember the day that my mom took my sister and I to see Hocus Pocus. I was around 5 years old&#133;and I fell in love with the movie! That day when we got home my sister and I and our friend Keith decided to play Hocus Pocus. I was Danny my sister was Alison and our friend was Max. Now, 12 years later it is still one of my favorite films. It is entertaining for all age groups. Hocus Pocus is a movie that you can watch over and over again and still not get bored with it! It is a perfect film for the Halloween season and jammed packed with laughter and good times. The cast is amazing, and is a great family film. I recommend Hocus Pocus to anyone. "},{"Title":"An Underrated and Timeless Classic!","Date":"27 November 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I always make an effort to watch this film every Halloween, and it never disappoints! If you like Halloween films that are more comedic than scary, then this film is for you. It's fun for the whole family, really! The main plot of the film revolves around the Sanderson sisters, Winifred, Mary, and Sarah, who were hanged in Salem, Massachusetts in 1693 for the spiritual and untimely death of Emily Binx (the witches literally sucked the youth out of her), sister of Thackery Binx, who was later cursed by the sisters to eternally live as a feline after attempts to save his sister from the witches, failed. However, before their deaths, the witches cast out a spell which will resurrect them once a virgin lights the black flamed candle on Halloween night. Once the sisters are hung in front of the whole town, Thackery Binx ends up guarding the Sanderson sisters home for the next 300 years. However, on October 31, 1993, the witches are brought back to life after a curious virgin, Max Dennison, lights the black flamed candle in the witches former residence. Upon doing so, all three witches immediately come back to life, astounded at how much has changed in the world since they were last alive. After Max, his younger sister Dani, and his girlfriend from school, Allison, flee from the cottage after meeting Binx the cat and stealing the witches unique spell book with a moving eye, the Sanderson sisters, after being sprayed with water from the sprinkler system in their home, which was later converted into a museum for historical purposes, then come to the realization that the water is harmless and that the spell they cast only calls for them to be alive on that Halloween night. Knowing this information, the sisters then go on a hunt for their stolen book and the kids that have it. Mayhem ensues as they attempt, and fail, to capture the kids throughout the film. The sisters are then lured into a high school, where they are tricked into an incinerator, burned up and reduced to smoke. However, they survive and return home. Later on, Max and Allison eventually end up opening the spell book to see what's inside. By doing so, a strong green light emits from it, which immediately alerts the witches of its whereabouts. Knowing this information, the witches travel to Max's house, retrieve the book and kidnap Dani and Binx. In response to this, Max and Allison slowly make their way, by car, to the Sanderson's cottage due to all of the children in the street thanks to Sarah's hypnotizing song. Upon their arrival, Max then tricks the sisters into thinking that the sun is coming up using the headlights of their Ford Explorer, with Max jokingly referring to it as daylight savings time. They all then make a break for the cemetery, where they run into Billy Butcherson, who is a former deceased and mummified lover of Winnie, and who was also poisoned by her after having an affair with Sarah. Billy unwillingly follows Winnie's orders to go after the kids, only to ignore her as time goes on. Dani is later captured by Winnie again, and at that point, Max manages to steal the potion from Winnie, which was only enough for one child after Max tipped over and spoiled most of the potion earlier in the film. In any case, Max then threatens to smash the bottle in an effort to let his sister live. Winnie then threatens to kill Dani in return. Max then drinks the potion himself, which causes her to let go of Dani and pick up Max, who puts up more of a struggle. However, Max then manages to knock Winnie off of her broom, with her other two sisters following suit. Because the cemetery is hallowed ground, the witches turn to stone, with the sun rising not long after, and their statues explode into dust. After their battle is won, Billy returns to his grave, once again entering into eternal rest, and because the witches are gone, the spell on Binx is rescinded, who therefore dies. Binx then re-emerges in spirit with his sister Emily, thanking them for what they have done. After many years of being apart, Binx and Emily then walk off together into eternal life.Bette Midler, Sarah Jessica Parker and Kathy Najimy all put on a fine performance in this film and I would definitely recommend it to anyone who is a fan of family friendly Halloween films. "},{"Title":"Is This a Kid's Movie or Not?","Date":"3 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Three soul-sucking witch sisters from the 17th Century return to Earth on Halloween Eve after being summoned back-to-life by a virgin. Sounds like something Wes Craven dreamed up, right? Wrong. It's a Halloween comedy aimed at teenagers and little kids, from Touchstone (Disney) Pictures. Just like Disney's Black Hole it can't decide if it's cute or cruel, funny or scary. So, after sucking out the lifeforce of a little girl, the 3 Sanderson Witches get hanged and can only come back-to-life if a virgin lights the black candle of doom at their 300-year-old house, which is a closed museum. So a young teenaged boy lights it, of course. The witches are all funny up to a point, and Bette Midler sings I Put a Spell On You, a catchy little tune and turns all the town's adults into dancing fools at a Halloween party, so they can suck up all the kids essence. Sarah Jessica Parker then sings Come Little Children and all the kids converge on the witches' house, in a trance. Actually much funnier and better than it sounds. It even has a bewitched talking black cat (like Salem on Sabrina) and a friendly zombie. It contradicts itself, because at first the witches are barred from the cemetery (it's hallowed ground) and then the final battle happens there. The witches all go poof when the sun comes up, and the talking cat is reunited with the little girl, who was the witches' victim 300 years ago. Too much emphasis on cleavage, between Sarah Jessica Parkers' push-up bra and a young teenaged girl. Kind of a weird cross between Scooby Do and Ghostbusters. Good special effects, and one of the witches rides a Hoover when she can't find a broom. It makes adults look like fools but it's too scary for little kids and too childish for adults. Look for Gary and Penny Marshall in an unbilled cameo, as the witches think that Gary, in his costume, is the real Devil. Hauntingly enjoyable, in spite of all it's many faults! "},{"Title":"A Childhood Favorite Full Of Tricks & Plenty Of Laughs","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I was only 7 years old when Hocus Pocus was released and it instantly became one of my favourite films to watch on Halloween and any day of the year. Bette Midler, Kathy Najimy & Sarah Jessica Parker delivered hilarious performances as a trio of witches brought back to life to cause mischief and mayhem on the scariest night of the year. Why anyone would give it a bad review is beyond me? This film is good for fans of all ages.In 1693 the Sanderson sisters Winifred (Midler) Mary (Najimy) and Sarah (Parker) convicted of witchcraft and the death of Emily Binx (Rivera) were hanged by the townsfolk but before their death Winifred vowed they would return when a virgin would light a candle and the life force from all the children will be for them.Approximately 300 years later in 1993 teenager Max Dennison (Katz) has moved with his family from Los Angeles to the town of Salem Massachusetts, where the legend of the Sanderson sisters is still popular he believes it to be nothing more than just a stupid Halloween story made up by a candy company. He ends up taking his 8 year old sister Dani (Birch) trick or treating while his parents attend a party at town hall. They stop at house where Allison (Shaw) the girl Max has a crush on and classmate from school is holding a party, she tells them her knowledge of the sisters and that the house they lived in is now a museum. Wanting to impress his dream girl they all go to the old house where Winifred's spell book still is in a glass case. As soon as the black flame candle is lit trouble begins when the Sanderson sisters return from the grave. Aiding Max, Dani, & Allison in the battle to stop the witches from taking all the children's life force is Thackery Binx (Murray)a teenager from the 16th century who had a spell of immortality placed on him and was transformed into a black cat as punishment for trying to stop the the enemy and has lived with the guilt of not being able to save his sister for centuries.I'm not going to spoil the ending for those who have yet to see the movie all I can say is that you have to see it to believe it. "},{"Title":"One of the all time great kids Halloween movie","Date":"7 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Max is new in town and finds the local history of witches boring, but he does find his fellow class-mate 'Alison' interesting. During Halloween, Max is forced to take his sister trick or treating and runs into Alison who wants to tag along.In order to impress Alison by breaking into a museum which was once home to the infamous Sanderson sisters, unknowingly Max brings back the witches from hell by lighting a candle and all hell breaks loose. Now Max must stop the witches with the help of Alison and Dani, as well as a cat named Thackery, once a boy forced to live as a cat by the evil sisters.Growing up I loved this movie and it always came on television on the weekend leading up to Halloween or after. The film had a brilliant introduction that threw you into the madness of Salem, and then brought you to the present. It had an eerie tone which thrilled me as a child and had a good strong cast who sold their roles brilliantly. As a youngster of nine, ten; I adored Alison played by the elegant Vinessa Shaw and jumped with joy from beginning to end; I find it quite odd that there has not been a Halloween kids movie since that has been as good as Hocus Pocus.Simply a thrilling and magnificent Halloween movie. "}{"Title":"Bette Midler was born to do this role!","Date":"20 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie when I was 6 years old and I loved it. It was one of my childhood movies. I'm now 19 and just rewatched it. I have to say it's still as good as ever! I still love it, but just in a very different way of seeing it than I did when I was 6.I swear Bette Midler was born to do this role. I never ever EVER saw her doing a role anything like this, but she did and she was so Oscar Worthy! Very underrated performance. The other actors are good too, but the 3 main witches Bette Midler, Kathy Najimy and Sarah Jessica Parker are the best actors and all of them are well casted.Great fun Halloween movie. Sure, it's unoriginal and we've seen it before, but it's fantastic Halloween fun! Still love the movie 13 years later! 9/10 "},{"Title":"I know it's cheesy but Midler, Parker, and Najimy make it work.","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" You'd expect a witch to be ugly right? Well, with Hocus Pocus, that is the case with two out of three of the main witches. Bette Midler, Sarah Jessica Parker, and Kathy Najimy star as three old hags in Hocus Pocus, a cheesy film that is actually quite funny. They star as the Sanderson sisters, three witches who would kidnap children, suck their souls, and become young again. They are hung. So, many, many, many years later, Salem Massachusetts(what a cliché') is huge on Halloween. But a teen named Max is not. On Halloween night, him, his sister(a younger Thora Birch)and his crush Allison go to the Sanderson house and bring them bitches, excuse me, witches back to life. So when Max steals their magic spell book, they chase after the three youngsters. And try to continue their plans to suck souls and get younger again. If they don't make a potion by sunset, they will turn to dust. That's another reason why they want the book back.I liked this movie. Though it's cheesy at times and kind of a cliché', it's funny. I know it's not a great movie, but I give it a thumbs up anyways. It's a fun Halloween movie with some great stars. And oh by the way. Two out of three of these witches are indeed ugly looking. But Sarah Jessica Parker, to me, looks better than ever. Just saying. I don't want to be rude. But it's true.Hocus Pocus***/**** "},{"Title":"When Disney was Good","Date":"7 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I saw this movie as a kid and remembered liking it, but I liked a lot of things back then.Recently I sat down and watched this expecting it to be a horrendous movie, but I was surprised to find myself actually enjoying it. I found the plot to be about as interesting as any of those other made for TV movies that kids watch now. How many movies are out there where some I'm too cool for this pre-teen does something stupid just to make a point and end up unleashing some horrible monster exist? Aside from childhood nostalgia, what saved this movie for both my friends and I were a handful of the jokes. Oh yes, they go there a few times. But don't worry parents, there are not that many and I still consider this an appropriate movie for kids.Obviously I am reviewing this from an adult's perspective. I'm not going to watch again this any time soon, but if I have to put on a movie for some kids I'd rather watch this and not be bored to tears. "},{"Title":"It is my favourite movie.","Date":"31 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I love Hocus Pocus. It is full of talented actors and actresses. I just love Emily Binx (Amanda Shepherd). She is just so sweet. She is actully an important character, because if the withces didn't take her, than Thackery wouldn't have told his friend to round up the people who would hang the withces, who would put the spell on to make them come back to life and so on. Dani Dennison (Thora Birch) is adorable too. She was a better actress then rather than now. She is still good though. Overall, this is one of my favourite movies. "},{"Title":"Very Awesome Halloween Movie for everyone!!!","Date":"30 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I recently watched this movie and realized how funny it actually is. It's a great movie for halloween as well as fall. The setting of the movie just depicts the fall and the summer so well. It really is a great movie. It's a tradition for me to watch it every fall and is well worth watching!! "},{"Title":"great film, even a bit too sad for me!","Date":"29 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I liked the characters in this film, well most of them. Of course theres the predictable bully, and hero boy and three wicked witches but its still quite a good movie, I thought the boy who was turned into a cat for 300 years was a bit sad, and I can't rightly remember but i think i cried at the end when he and his sisters ghosts went the cemetery gates and left, I mean how lonely would you get being isolated as a cat for 300 years and he was only a boy, er... I'm going on a bit now, I'll stop. Anyway great, good for anyone except witches and bullies!!!!!9 out of 10Francesca Orrbig buffy and friends fan! "},{"Title":"A very good freaky movieD","Date":"18 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  When I first watched this movie I was nine years old! and it's never gotten old no matter how many times I watch it) I only wish they could make a continuation in the story! Hocus Pocus 2 maybe? I would definitely watch it) A very good family film) And I recommend it for one of those Halloween-movie-watching nights) "},{"Title":"Family choice every year whether it is Halloween or not","Date":"17 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  We enjoy watching this wonderful movie when it comes on during the Halloween season and we also check it out of the local Blockbuster when it is off-season. It is a complete movie...the characters stay true to character, the history is intact, the story is mainline USA kids situations that they have to deal with everyday when it comes to dealing with a new school, location, parents, and peers.  Comedy is the result of the fine interweaving of all of these threads.  There is the occasional cross-over between the cultures that leaps the boundaries but nothing that is not expected in a movie.The pluses are the actors and actresses who play the lead and supporting roles.  Bette Midler appears to relish her character and the song she sings at the Halloween Ball ( I put a spell on you) should be available to the public.  Kathy N and Jessica P. are believable in their roles as well. Comedy is a glance or eye-shot but it is very effective.  "},{"Title":"So damn entertaining","Date":"23 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Hocus Pocus is outstandingly one of the best films i have ever seen, Appart from the fact my favourite Actress Kathy Najimy is in it, it proves to be entertaining, a little spooky and down right funny. The one thing that pist me off about the whole thing is that there is No soundtrack ( if there is can someone let me know) Bette Middlers rendition of I put a spell on you rocked........Rock on Bette. The one part of the film that sucked was having that little twirp playing the sister of max---------and boy was she ugly. I watch this film a few times every year and i never seis loving it. Email me if your a hocus Pocus Lover.............Signing off Josh "},{"Title":"Loved it!","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I was only 7 when this movie came out but I loved it then and I still love it now. Never have I seen such a unique scary story turned in great Disney fun. 4 stars! and two Thumbs up to all the people who were in the movie. Bravo Bette, Sarah, and Kathy. "}{"Title":"A NEW CULT CLASSIC","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  An excellent film. My family  and I bought this film after viewing it several times. It is a great story and a Halloween classic.  My 7 y.o. and her cousins fell in love with it and are going to be the Sanderson Sisters for Halloween this year.  There aren't many films that I like to view that often but this one gets a once a month billing in our household. "},{"Title":"Total Halloween fun.","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Hocus Pocus, to this day, is still one of my all time favorite Halloween movies.  Bette Midler, Kathy Najimy and Sarah Jessica Parker are hilarious as the three Sanderson sisters bought back from the dead by the virgin Max (Omri Katz), his sister Dani (Thora Birch) and love interest Allison (Vinessa Shaw).Full of magic, fun, witches, the walking dead and a talking cat, this movie is definitely a classic.  So pull up a couch, cuddle with the kiddies and enjoy this all around great family film. "},{"Title":"My favorite Disney movie!","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I think this is the best Disney movie on ancient witches! I just absolutely love it. I wish there can be a part two, with all the same people that were in it. If I had the power to do so, believe me, I'll find each and every person that was on that movie, and make a sequel or just a Part 2. Keep up the great work! "},{"Title":"It gets me in the mood... for Halloween.","Date":"25 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie.  Bette, Sarah, and Kathy were great! It was the building block for Thora Birch's movie career. An A+ for Vanessa Shaw also.  Light-hearted Halloween fun! "},{"Title":"A wild and zany Halloween romp.","Date":"21 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I felt that this movie was an excellent family film.  It had many jokes that were funny to young children, but were even more so to the adults who fully understood them.  A sad thing, however, is the fact that no soundtrack is avalible for this film.  Bette Midler's hilarious I Put a Spell on You and Sarah Jessica Parker's frightningly seductive Come, Little Children would be a great listening experience, along with the haunting score.  All in all, this is one of my favorite Disney movies. "},{"Title":"Best Halloween Movie","Date":"29 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I absolutely love this movie! I can watch it over and over. And never get tired of it. Plus I love how it has its own history within the movie. It's hilarious! And a great movie for the whole family. I wouldn't mind seeing a sequel. But only if the original cast were up to it. I'm surprised my DVD hasn't messed up yet. This movie is goofy and it has its serious moments as well. The actors and actresses do a great job. Sarah Jessica Parker's character is absolutely funny. Bette Midler does an amazing job as Winnie. Kathy Najimy keeps me laughing for sure. I recommend this movie for Halloween most definitely. Or unless you just want to watch a funny movie. My favorite Halloween movie by far. ) "},{"Title":"I was rooting for the witches.","Date":"11 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Here is a family fantasy Disney movie starring Bette Midler, Kathy Najimy and Sarah Michelle Parker as three resurrected witches from Salem, Massachusetts who want to achieve immortal life and continue their reign of terror. Therefore, it is up to teenagers Max (Omri Katz) and Allison (Vinessa Shaw), young girl Dani (Thora Birch) and an immortal black cat to stop the witches.The movie's story is simple and childish, nothing too intriguing or suspenseful. The supposedly evil witches were portrayed as whimsical and mischievous, not the devilish, cold-hearted, and morbid types that would scare the pants off of you. I actually enjoyed watching the witches' villainous yet funny roles on screen - much better than the amateurish, sappy, lovey-dovey teenagers portrayal. The kids annoyed me so much that I was actually rooting for the witches to succeed in their plans.It's a predictable movie that is best suited for kids. Adults should stay away.Grade D+ "},{"Title":"The best Kid's Witch film of all time!","Date":"1 February 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Just wanted to leave a super quick review of one of my favourite films of all time, a Witch film, that just ticks so many boxes for me it's unreal. I know this was 1993, and it's probably lost a great deal of it's momentum, but I'm here to state that in my mind it is one of the finest children's spooky witch film that takes everything to a whole new level & still hits the spot to entertain Kids and Adults. ( *SOME POTENTIAL MILD SPOILERS BELOW*) 1st off, It's a Disney film. now we all know Disney is a lot more liberal these days on what they can and can't show and say. Disney films are riddled with dark humour especially new ones like Despicable Me etc, but back when Hocus Pocus was about, there really wasn't many films alike at that time, which is why it stands out to me, it really went heavy on the content & still hit the PG rating. within the first 10-15 minutes you see a girl get the life sucked out of her, directly after that you see Witches getting hanged, by the time the witches return from the dead, words like Virgin are being thrown around, And he's a Virgin Are you a Virgin? surely at some point some kid is going to ask his parents what a virgin is! A spell book with an eyeball in it, given to Winnie by the devil himself, in Satan's house, the wife calls Sarah Tart Face and the whole tone of the film is really extreme for a family friendly Halloween film. I'm not complaining about these things, they are what made it for me, to this day they still stand out and i don't know how Disney got away with it. Think that Kenny Ortega is doing High School Musical etc now, it's totally different to what Hocus Pocus was like, most people don't actually believe hocus Pocus is Disney when i bring it up in conversation. (Continued Review) The casting was brilliant, Sarah Jessica Parker looks out of this world then compared to now, they look so different, she was beautiful in this, Bette Middler just nailed the character of Winnie so well, all of them were buck mad, eccentric and over the top and zany! I don't know how they were able to get into that crazy mode and speak the way they did, it's certainly not an American Accent I heard off them, it was just undesirable! It's fun for Adults, and it's fun for kids, it really isn't scary, however everything from the movie soundtrack, to the script and set pieces and not to mention incredible special effects all go perfectly. They touch a wee bit on the whole Macbeth 3 witches thing, the big bubbling cauldron, zombies, magic, talking cats, it's just brilliant. You see movies like Harry Potter today and see him whizzing round the Quidditch Match on like a manual broom with a green screen on it, or even completely computer generated at some points and compare it to these witches flying, on wires the proper way, you can see they are flying for real there, no trickery, that's why it's perfect for me, they tried to do as many things as real as possible.The movie is just so much fun, I seriously believe it's underrated, and I think that some other movies tried to take little bits out of Hocus Pocus, like look at Rohl Daul's The Witches, first off, the very opening scene? it has a camera high in the air flying over white snowy mountains as the credits role, i'm sorry but that had nothing to do witches because none of the witches flew in that movie, in Hocus Pocus however, there is a camera high in the air flying over Salem, with a witches silhouette, it just seemed too similar as if they were nudging towards Hocus Pocus, oh and as for Casper Meets Wendy? three witches round a big dry ice filled cauldron, one witch peering out the window, the other one making jokes to the more aggressive leader witch, and then she says things like Ugh, What did i do to deserve sisters like this? ... Hocus Pocus Winnie - Why, Why Why was I cursed with such idiot sisters?!! ...If you ask me.. Hocus Pocus is the ULTIMATE WITCH FILM AND ALWAYS WILL BE!!!!! "},{"Title":"Yes, the film is patchy, but overall it is an under-appreciated and perfectly watchable movie","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Hocus Pocus is a decent movie. I agree that it is one of the lesser live-action Disney efforts, but it is a watchable and I think under-appreciated Halloween movie. I honestly thought My Favourite Martian was worse, despite it having the wonderful Christopher Lloyd in it. Back to Hocus Pocus, it does have its flaws, the script has its weak spots, the direction is at times lifeless and Omri Katz never quite convinces in the lead. On a positive note, everything else ranges from decent to very good. Bette Midler steals the show, while having the most screen time, she is evidently relishing her role. Her co-stars Sarah Jessica Parker and Kathy Najimy equally delight, and all three women are suitably scary and hammy. The music is very nice, I loved the catchy Put a Spell on You and I thought the beginning of the movie was superb. The camera work was good, and the special effects were decent. What I loved most though was the original storyline, there are some funny and scary moments. Kids will definitely love it, adults not so much, though my dad did like it. Overall, patchy but enjoyable. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Excellent Halloween film you'll love which will leave you feeling good","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" HOCUS POCUS, in my opinion, is an excellent Halloween film you'll love which will leave you feeling good. The only thing about it that scared me was when the witches (Bette Midler, Sarah Jessica Parker, and Kathy Najimy) suddenly appeared out of nowhere. Other than that, I didn't get scared at all. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone involved in this film did an excellent job. In conclusion, to all you horror film lovers that have not seen this excellent Halloween film you'll love which will leave you feeling good, I highly recommend it! You're in for a good time as well as some pure chills and thrills, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, turn down the lights, lock all your doors and windows, and enjoy! "}{"Title":"The Best Disney Film Ever!!!","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Hocus Pocus is a funny, and entertaining movie. I couldn't find a better movie than this. The best PG movie and Disney movie ever made. I thought it would be a boring witch movie like every other witch movie but I was wrong. It's the nuttiest movie and funniest movie ever made. This is my favorite movie. Ill give 3 Thumbs up (if I had 3 Thumbs) and **** out of ****. "},{"Title":"You have to Love this","Date":"26 March 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie Rocked of course i was 9 when it came out and it scared the crap out of me and now i just watch it and enjoy.  This movie has some of today's top hollywood actresses Sarah Jessica Parker, and Kathy Najimy and known recording artist Bette Milder. They were great as the Sanderson Sisters. Omri Katz and thora Birch you have to love they rocked and made it awesome. Vinessa Shaw was funny and great and Ernie/Ice and jay made you laugh in hysterics with their stupidity. I love Sean Murray as Thackery Binx him and Omri made you have little crushes on them. All in all this movie put a spell on you, and you can't resist it halloween greatness.  Recommened by 5 out of 5 family halloween movies. "},{"Title":"A Walt Disney update of Jim Henson's classic The Witches!","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I first saw this film when it came out on pay-per-view and when I was 9-years-old. Now I am 23 and not only is it a favorite of mine, but a classic with my 7-year-old little sister, Miracle. Probably our favorite character (or mine anyway) is Thackery Binx whom I like both as a cantankerous black kitty and as a dashing young man played by Sean Murray. I also love the bond that develops through the film between Thackery and Dani, Max's little sister, Dani. I like the scene where Dani takes Binx home as her new cat and the two snuggle together while Binx purrs himself to sleep. However, my favorite scene in the whole movie is the ending where Dani and Binx say good-bye and Binx kisses Dani on the cheek. As for disturbing parts of the film, the only one that some people might be troubled by is the scene at the very beginning when the witches suck the life force completely from Thackery's little sister, Emily. The theme of the plot represents the bonds between siblings. But it does this without becoming too heavy or sugary. Great family Halloween film that I recommend! "},{"Title":"Fun, Family, Halloween Flick","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie is NOT for people looking for deep, meaningful, award-winning fare. It is a fun flick that everyone in the family can be entertained by. Some of it may be a bit frightening for kids under 5, but my 6 & 7-year-old think it is just cheesy and fun.The story is not particularly fabulous, and most of the entertainment value for adults is seeing all the 'big name' stars who appear in this film. The rest is in watching your kids watch the film! There are funny scenes that only adults will (should) get, but the rest is just a fanciful romp on Halloween Night.The kids like it because children are the heroes and adults are either villains or incompetent. It was an amusing way for my family to spend the evening together without the kids being bored or the adults wishing they were somewhere else.  "},{"Title":"Great Halloween Movie For The Kids (Possible Spoilers!)","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Sanderson sisters(Middler, Najimy and Parker)are witches that steal the essence of children to keep them young and immortal. 300 years after their hanging, a virgin (Actually a teenage boy)lights a black candle at their old home. This brings the sisters back to life. The sisters get to work to maintain their immortality, or else they'll be dust by the light of day. The boy, his young sister and his girlfriend works to stop them and are aided by Binx, a black cat that is under a curse. It seems that Binx's little sister was killed by the sisters and he was transformed into a cat by the sisters in an attempt to save her. A pretty good film, with a lot of scares for the children (Although some may be bothered by what the witches do to the children)and the end leaves you a bit teary eyed (Years later, I STILL cry when I watch the end!), but overall a good movie. Worth renting and having in your collection. "},{"Title":"Funny and lighthearted!","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  In this world of serious issues, this movie is a fun escape.  It is a movie that definitely can be seen by my whole family.  It also gets you into the Halloween spirit!  There are really funny scenes and heart warming ones too. My favorite scene is when the Sanderson sisters sing I Put A Spell On You at the town halloween party. It's definitely classic material and I will never get tired of it's charm. "},{"Title":"It is great","Date":"2 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I love Hocus Pocus. It is my favourite movie. Amanda Shepherd was great as Emily Binx. I wish she had a bigger part. Thora Birch was adorable. I never knew who she was until I saw her in this. Then I noticed her in Alaska aswell. I was just 2 when this came out, but when I was 7, it was on t.v and my mum recorded it. Now the tapes old and broken, I get it all the time from the video shop. It is a great movie, there should be another one. My overall all rating is 9/10. The missing point is for not letting Amanda have a bigger part. "},{"Title":"It's Just a Bunch of Hocus Pocus","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS         Our story opens in 1693 in Salem, Massachusettes. Three evil witch sisters Winifred the dominant one and her two dim-witted sisters Sarah the sexy one and Mary the hungry one, brewed a potion to make themselves younger by sucking the life out of children. They first captured a little girl, Emily Binx, but her brother Thackery was right on their trail. The witches sucked her life out then turned Thackery into a cat, as well as giving him immortality. Suddenly, the townspeople arrive and lynch the witches, but not before Winnie reads a passage from her spell book that foretells that a virgin will summon them from beyond the grave on Halloween night.          300 years later, a history teacher tells the story of the Sanderson sisters to her class. Only newcomer Max Dennison was unimpressed. He explained to everybody that Halloween was merely a conspiracy invented by the candy companies. But a classmate, Allison, corrects him by stating it's based on All Hallows Eve, the one night of the year when spirits of the dead can return to earth. Max gave her his phone number just in case Jimi Hendrix showed up. On the ride home he was confronted by the neighborhood bullies Jay and Ernie (a.k.a Ice) or Ice The Bully Formerly Known as Ernie. They steal Max's shoes. At home, Max finds out he's been roped into taking his little sister, Dani trick-or-treating. On their route they visit Allison's house. She and Dani are in to the Sanderson sisters, so they travel up to their old house. Max discovers the black flame candle that once lit by a virgin on Halloween night, will summon the sisters back to life. So Max got out a lighter and proclaimed, let's light the sucker and meet the old broads. Bad move. Winnie, Sarah and Mary showed up then. Max, Dani and Allison ran for it. The witches decided to continue what they started 300 years ago to suck the lives out of the children of Salem to become younger, because unless they did so by the time the candle ran out, they would be reduced to dust.        The witches go after the kids because they took Winnie's spell book. Also accompanying them was Binx the cat (Thackery). Winnie resurrected her old flame, Billy Butcherson, to catch them; nobody believes Max, Dani and Allison when they say the Sanderson sisters have returned from the dead. They try burning the witches in the high school kiln, but it fails. They kidnap Dani, Binx and the book. Max and Allison rescue them and rush off to the graveyard for a showdown. Bullies Jay and Ice were captured by the witches because Jay made the mistake of calling them ugly chicks. Luckily, the sun soon rises and the witches evaporate. Binx's soul is released and is finally reunited with his sister.         A pretty good movie. A cute idea. Got a big name star cast here. Bette Midler is Winifred. Sarah Jessica Parker plays Sarah, who went on to be on Sex in the City. Kathy Najimy is Mary, who later went on to do the voice of self-obsessed Texan Peggy Hill on King of the Hill. Eerie, Indiana's Omri Katz is Max. Also here is Saturday Night Live's Charles Rocket. So in conclusion, if you're looking for a frightfully funny film to watch on Halloween while passing out candy and whatnot, this one's for you!- "},{"Title":"Good Halloween Fun!","Date":"4 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  The Sanderson Sisters are three witches who were sentenced to death more then three hundred years ago in Salem, Massachusetts and a young boy was turned into a black cat. Three Hundred years on and it's Halloween. The three witches are back to cause havoc on the mortal world. It's up to the black cat and a couple of teenagers, Max, Dani and Allison to save the day and everyone else.  Hocus Pocus features a great cast, including the brilliant Omri Katz who is so gorgeous and talented, Bette Midler, Sarah Jessica Parker and Thora Birch. They all give really great performances here as usual. The only problem in the movie though is the awful Kathy Najimy. Why does she have to be here. Hocus Pocus is good, but she ruins it. She's such a horrible actress. Let's hope I don't get see anything else with her.Hocus Pocus is a fun, Halloween movie. The music goes well with the movie too and Bette Midler and Sarah Jessica Parker's rendition of witchy songs are funny and good. Disney always bring out good movies which all ages will like and there's no exception here. This is great. Just FORGET the awful Kathy Najimy!    "},{"Title":"Very Entertaining","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I love this movie.  I tend to watch it several times during the Halloween or Fall season.  It is beautifully photographed, the acting is very good...Of course, Bette Midler is the main attraction!  Her portrayal of Winifred Sanderson is exquisite.  This is the only movie I can stand to see Sarah Jessica Parker act in.  And Kathy Najimy...well, she is hilarious!  Omri Katz, gives and excellent performance as Max Dennison, but seemed to disappear from the spotlight afte this movie????  Thora Birch is adorable as Danni Denison...She is a talented actress....The film looks great...the colors and scenes are beautiful.  The comedy is here and the special effects are plentiful.  Though, the only thing I really didn't like, is the way electrical currents or the lightening effect was used while Winifred was using her magic to throw people around.  I have never been a fan of that type of CGI to show magic.Excellent family or anyone film.9 out 10 "}{"Title":"Nuts to the critics--this one's fun!","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  Given the cool reception this film received from the critics, I wasn't expecting much.  What a surprise to find that Hocus Pocus is a Halloween delight!  Characterizations are strong and distinct; plot is cleverly constructed (great climax in the cemetery!); performances are top notch. Nuts to the critics--this one's too much fun to miss! "},{"Title":"Saw it today for the first time as an adult as I never seen it since I was a kid. Not a bad film","Date":"19 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Hocus Pocus is a Disney movie starring singer turned actress Bette Medler,Sarah Jessica Parker,and Katy Najmy. The film tells the story of three witches long ago who sucked the life of a child in order to stay young and they turn the young girl's brother Zachary into a black cat as punishment. So the three witches got hanged and the film later cuts to the year 1993 where a boy who doesn't believe in ghouls has a crush on this girl in school called Alison. He just moved from California to go to the place where the witches were hanged many years ago and hates the sight of this new state. Of course during a Halloween outing with his sister and Alison he goes into the Sanderson Sister's house and lights the candle with the black flame,causing the three Sanderson sisters to com back to life and finish what they started,many years go.So what is good about this movie? Well I liked the effects and the backgrounds look nice and Bette Midler sings in this movie too called I've Got A Spell On You and yeah she was great as the witch. As the other two they were good too. As for a horror film(and I hate horror films btw as they scare the crap out of me) but this one wasn't scary at all. If you have younger kids they would be afraid of it. And now for the bad,this film has something against virgins. Now as a kid I didn't notice it but when I was watching it today I was shocked that the writers would thrown in this scenario. Like seriously this is a children's movie NOT for grown ups like me.Overall it wasn't a bad film not the best film ever made but since its Halloween soon I'd say go ahead and watch it.Overall its a 5/10. "},{"Title":"Hocus Pocus is spellbinding! It's an entertaining kid movie.","Date":"28 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This kid movie might not seem very controversial at the time, but if you look at it, today. You might be asking yourself, wait a minute, this movie was made for children? First off, the language is a bit harsh- Many of the characters swear, mostly referring to hell, and condemning people to hell. While, I don't like the reference to the Occult, bad like other critics because the fact that it's set during Halloween. I did had a problem with the movie problem with virginity in teenagers. Honestly, for a kid's movie by Disney, I thought they wouldn't be promoting underage sex, but this movie loves to mention a billion times, that being a virgin will cause witches to come back alive, and try to steal your youth. The film loves to focus on the fact that the main character is embarrassed of being a virgin and that some people have a problem with him still being a virgin. Come on, movie. The kid has just became a teenager. Do you really feel that he should knock up some girl or have multiply partners to the point that he gets STDs or AIDS? I felt that this movie teaches children to lose their virginity quickly which is wrong. There is nothing wrong with being a virgin in your teenager years. This is very unusual for Disney to promote. The movie is selling sex like crazy in this film, from his mother wearing a Madonna pointy bra to his little sister calling attention to his girlfriend's breast. It's like the movie was a pre-teen horn dog. Directed by Kenny Ortega, the movie focus on three witches known as the Sanderson Sisters. The first witch is Sarah Sanderson (Sarah Jessica Parker), the youngest witch sister who has the dumb slutty blonde archetype. It's weird in a way, because this movie is made for children, yet her character is always trying to grind on the laps of men throughout the film and her breasts are always partially exposed. In my opinion, it's one of the few movies where I find Sarah Jessica Parker, kinda attractive. The other sister is Mary Sanderson, who looks and acts like the cannibal Witch Hazel from the Looney Toons cartoon. The last is Winifred 'Winnie' Sanderson (Bette Midler), the buck-toothed leader of the Sanderson sisters who hates being call ugly. The three witches were inadvertently resurrected by a virgin teenager Max (Omri Katz) along with his sister Dani (Thora Birch) and classmate Allison (Vinessa Shaw). Now, they must fix their mistake, by stopping the witches with the help of Thackery Binx (Sean Murray) who been turn into a cat, years ago in 1693. For a kid's movie, it's one of the few movies Disney movies that has a children die on screen. Oh my God, the overacting in this movie is way too much. It was a bit over the top. The movie does have some funny moments that was this pretty laughable even if this movie is a bit dated. Amok! Amok, amok, amok, amok! Still, makes me laugh. Still, it had some sloppy writing. I do like the Penny and Gary Marshall cameo as 'the Master'. I Put A Spell On You music number in the middle of the film seems fun, but how on earth, did the Sanderson sisters know the lyrics, if they been dead for 300 years? Come little children was a pretty haunting creepy lullaby and Jessica Sarah Parker did a great song with the song. Like I said before, I don't know how this movie was ever made for children, but it was indeed made. The movie has this weird tone, as its seems to poke out of the box of safe Disney movies, just a small bit, that parents wouldn't question it too much. What other Disney movies can you see a cat get ran over or a zombie name Billy Bitcherson (Doug Jones) get his head kick off. Yes, a lot of gruesome body parts scenes in this movie. The 1990's special effects were pretty OK at the time. I agree that practical effects often look better but this film is far from that proof and holds up very well and seems to gain an even larger following as time progresses. While, never a huge hit in the box office, the film was released to VHS and was rebroadcast annually on television during Halloween, which I happen to find this movie. Overall it's a good movie that had a lot of dark humor, that you wouldn't see much in the tamer more modern Disney movies. Despite the PG-rating, there are some things parents might want to know before showing this to their children. Still, check it out. "},{"Title":"Tweeny Halloween Film Too Lame for Tweenies","Date":"27 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" At just two minutes or so into this film I realized it was a Kiddie Movie with a distinct problem some subject material made it unsuitable for kids under about 8 years old, but the storyline and script were incredibly lame for kids older than about 10. It's a Tweeny Flick but only for the first couple years of the demographic. The storyline is too hokey for older Tweenies with all too predictable and sappy plot elements.Unlike some other films that have subtle elements to entertain at an adult level such as Beetlejuice, Corpse Bride, Frankenweenie, or Tim Burton's Chocolate Factory or his Alice in Wonderland (the remakes), it has near nothing to maintain the interest of anyone 11 or older. That is not just a problem, it's the films failure. We're fortunate there's never been the thought of inflicting a sequel on mankind.I'm not opposed to films targeting the young, but to create one that's only suitable for children spanning just a few years in age is a travesty. They should work for a wider age range than the incredibly narrow one this film serves. "},{"Title":"Too much hocus, a lot of pocus, not much focus","Date":"2 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Consider me the one who stands awkwardly in a crowd of people laughing, joking, and having a good time. Hocus Pocus, a film which has gone on to be something of a cult classic, gaining replay countless times around Halloween and constantly coming up in the conversation around this time of year, to me, was a very strange, uncomfortable movie experience, mainly because of all the hocus and the pocus, none of it memorable or quite fun.This is a film of many strong stars, various special effects, and stylistic trademarks, however, they are put in a black cauldron and are not stirred properly, if at all. There's smoke boiling all over the top of the cauldron, but what goes on inside of it is nothing shy of uneventful. If anything, the film should be memorialized as a Disney film that tried to at least do something different, creating a darker, more tween-oriented story than their previous films. We open in Salem, Massachusetts, around 1693, where we meet the three Sanderson witches, Winifred (Bette Midler), Mary (Kathy Najimy), and Sarah (Sarah Jessica Parker), who we learn prey on young children. Their goal is to suck the lives purely out of them to be able to practice witchcraft, but their plan is failed when they are killed by an angry mob of townfolk. Before dying, however, the witches enact a spell which will bring them back to life if a virgin were to light a specific candle on All Hallows' Eve.Fast-forward three hundred years later, on October 31, 1993, and we have our subjects; Max Dennison (Omri Katz), a Los Angeles native who is upset with having to move to Salem, where he lacks any friends and has become the social pariah of the school. Reluctantly agreeing to take his annoying little sister, Dani (Thora Birch) trick-or-treating, he stumbles upon the house of his crush named Allison, played by Vinessa Shaw. Out of pure curiosity, and because they are filled with the inconsequential Halloween feeling, they venture out to an abandoned museum, where Max will light the candle naively and resurrect the Sanderson sisters, effectively establishing that the rumor all these years was true and that witches do in fact haunt the town of Salem.The remainder of the film is chaotic to say the least; a cockamamie blend of a third-rate farce, a distorted premise, drastically unpleasant characters, lame jokes, and a ton of special effects which, more often than not, consume the screen in a murky fashion. While punctuated with scenes providing some entertainment, there are a whole lot of dry spots that plague Hocus Pocus, many of them being with the humans rather than the witches.Yet the Sanderson sisters, the characters which the movie is built around, are not given much interesting to do. They are stereotypical witch archetypes, played by character actors clearly sagacious and intelligent enough to choose better roles. Bette Midler, while being the most entertaining, is still buried under a plethora of makeup which can't disguise her character's lack of soul and wit, and Najimy and Parker's characters might as well be low-rent versions of Larry and Curly of The Three Stooges.There's an audience for a film like this, which has already been established by the mention and existence of a cult. If only I were able to belong to that noble group. Hocus Pocus pleased me with its ambition and versatility, yet bored me with its listless agenda. It favors chaos over pacing, special effects over characters, and shells over identifiable people. And considering that there are many more films aimed at this same market of tween obscurity, that pack stronger morals and more substance, and there are some too that just have the let's have fun message, to pick up and rent Hocus Pocus for the twelfth time on Halloween is like being a witch who continuously haunts the same town every year. Don't you want to try and branch out? Starring Bette Midler, Kathy Najimy, Sarah Jessica Parker, Omri Katz, Thora Birch, and Vinessa Shaw. Directed by Kenny Ortega. "},{"Title":"Too much of the teenagers, not enough jokes for the witches","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Sanderson sisters, witches hung in Salem some 300 years ago, are revived in the modern day by three super-cynical kids. Good-looking picture has some great ideas and a fine, hammy cast, but someone made the bad move of focusing much of the piece AWAY from the goofy witches and spotlighting the too-hip teenagers. These teen-terribles do more damage to the movie than that iceberg did to the Titanic (when a talking cat tells the kids his incredible story, all three look about ready to nod off). Bette Midler gets big laughs however, and she works well with Sarah Jessica Parker and Kathy Najimy, but the jokes for this fantastic trio are wan, and the pauses after their comic lines are pregnant with unease. Disney fantasy probably looked sure-fire on paper, but not enough wit hit the screen. ** from **** "},{"Title":"It's a cute little Halloween flick","Date":"7 September 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  When I was a kid, I adored this movie. In fact, I thought it was the Citizen Kane of all movies. D But I was only 8 when I saw this in 1993. I showed it to my little cousin, because it was a rainy day. He loved it. Of course, my opinion changed a little. I still have to say though that this is a great movie for kids. Especially if they like horror flicks. I'd suggest try and stick to the clean stuff like Hocus Pocus. It has some laughs, even for the adults. Anyone could get into it. So, if you know a little one who comes in from Trick-or-Treating, show them Hocus Pocus. I think they'll enjoy it. Who knows, maybe even you will. D6/10  "},{"Title":"Buck Teeth and Yabbos","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Hocus Pocus (1993) ** (out of 4) Three-hundred years after being hung, witches Winifred (Bette Midler), Sarah (Sarah Jessica Parker) and Mary (Kathy Najimy) return to Salem, MA to seek children so that they can get eternal life but it's up to three kids and a talking cat to put their plan to rest. HOCUS POCUS is a film I remember seeing when it was first released. I still remember walking out of the theater hating it and I honestly never planned to revisit it until several friends started talking about how much they loved it. It appears that the film gained a pretty good cult following over the years due to countless television showings around Halloween time but sadly the end result isn't nearly as good as some make it out to be. The film has some good ideas but none of them are really brought out to their full potential for a number of reasons but we'll start with the screenplay. The screenplay to this has a pretty good set-up or at least an interesting idea. Three witches return on Halloween night and aren't used to anything around them. This here leads to a couple good scenes where the witches meet others in costumes and don't fully realize what's going on. There's a scene with a man dressed as the devil, which is pretty funny since the witches think he's the real thing. Another decent moment happens when Midler gets to sing the 1956 song I Put a Spell on You but of course there's some nice eye candy as we see all sorts of costumes dancing to the music. On a visual level the film is pretty good as it does at least catch the spirit of Halloween and there's no question that the set design perfectly captures the seasons. With that said, there's really not too much going on here because the story is rather lacking and one-note. The worst thing for me is the fact that all three witches are rather annoying and I couldn't help but want to scratch my eyes out at times. I think one's enjoyment of this will depend on how you find the witches. As I found them annoying it made the entire film's comedy just seem way too forced. I'm guessing those who find the act charming will be laughing at it. The three lead actresses all do fine work in their roles but poor Midler is hidden by some ugly buck teeth and it's hard to look past that. The kid actors, including Thora Birch, are good if not totally award-worthy. HOCUS POCUS wasn't a huge hit when it was released and the critics hate it. The film was forgotten but like many films like this, it's cult audience eventually found it on television. The movie isn't awful but then again I wouldn't watch it again unless I really cared for someone wanting me to watch it with them. "},{"Title":"Honestly, not that bad","Date":"24 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Childhood nostalgia. Only until very recently, have I been looking through these movies to see if something holds up after all these years. There's Willy Wonka and Casper but this is a slow revisit to these memories. I picked this up because... for some weird reason, aside from Willy Wonka I find the supernatural kids films that I watched to be the better ones. But does this really hold up? In my opinion it does.Now the plot. It is about witches being found and hanged in 1600's Salem. Before that happened the witches killed a little girl and turned her older brother into an immortal cat (just roll with it! Besides it's not like this is the weirdest I've seen through children's fantasy). 300 years later we are introduced to out main character Max, who has this being told to his class. He is skeptical (to say the very least) and he is asked by his parents to take his sister trick or treating. While that happens they meet his crush from School, Allison. They go to the Witches' house and he lights the candle to resurrect the sisters.As that happens the immortal cat (I just sound weird when I type that don't I?) gets them to take the book and run away with it. Then it is a pursuit, to keep the book away from the witches until sunlight and they will die.Now the acting isn't that bad. The people playing the villains are okay at doing fish-out-of water gags. Thora Birch was pretty good as Dani, I mean she was annoying in some scenes but in others she was actually quite good. I found Vanessa Shaw to be okay as Allison. Omri Katz and Sean Murray were a little wooden in their roles.So if you want your kids to watch something or revisit some childhood nostalgia then this movie is a good pick (depending on the age of your kid). It is worth a watch, but that's about it. "},{"Title":"Hocus Pocus is Silly But On Focus **1/2","Date":"28 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The Sanderson Sisters of Salem become alive again and return to Salem to wreak absolute havoc in this inane Disney film of 1993.Bette Midler is terrific as the oldest and ugliest sister. She is ably supported by fellow sisters Sarah Jessica Parker and Kathy Najimy. They want to gobble up the children of Salem so that they can remain alive.The movie becomes slap-shot in nature as the 3 witches battle a young man and his sister, recent arrivals from California along with a beautiful young girl of the town. We have some very silly dialogue here. The thought of Najimy, so heavy and riding through the air with a vacuum cleaner is a little hard to take. "}{"Title":"My experience with the movie and how i feel about the movie...","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Okay, this movie is so great! I love it! I remember when it came out and me and my friends watched it everyday all day! I just found out like 2 years ago that my friends were scared to death of that movie! They only watched it because I liked it. For some reason I find that hilarious! This movie is a fun movie you can sit back and watch with your whole family. It's scary but funny and really cute. But i want to warn you..there are some parts that are a little weird or gross if you will. Just...this is a really great movie. You will want to watch this movie over and over and over again...seriously. Trust me on this...ITS A GREAT MOVIE! "},{"Title":"This film ROCKS!!!!!!!!!! We a need Hocus Pocus 2!!!!!!!","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" We have watched this film every year, and it rocks!, I can't believe it flopped.(which critics watched it??? - did they watch the same film??) Our favourite lines are the What do you call them Max -Yabbos!!!! one and Hello Salem my names Winifred - whats yours? and from the song  its been 300 years right down to the day, and now the witches are back, and there's hell to pay!!!. We seriously need a Hocus Pocus 2 follow up to be made, but only with the same actors, cos no one could play the sisters better than them. All my kids love this film. One knows all the lines and can near enough recite the lot! The story is great, the costumes are fabulous, and the acting and music are superb. "},{"Title":"Three witches who are hilariously funny and who are a little naughty.","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" An amazing move. Awesome direction by Kenny Ortega and it's a shame that it did not get voted for Disney Channels Click It To Pick It movie versus Twitches. It has an awesome plot and it's not corny in the least. 3 lovable characters that you cannot seem to forget. They are hilarious and you will be saying their jokes over and over again. If you don't like the movie you have no sense of humor and are just plain crazy. It has a storyline that you will fall in love with and that you will never forget. If you're young or old you will have an amazing time watching Hocus Pocus. You can watch it with anyone and they will get a kick out of it. The characters are wonderfully INSANE!!! "},{"Title":"Three witches are after young kids so they can live forever.","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I had a second cousin that would always babysit me when i was three because I broke my collar bone and couldn't go to daycare and she would watch me while my parents were at work. The memory with her i remember the most is always watching Hocus Pocus like everyday, I loved it I would laugh and smile and really enjoy it, my favorite witch was the stupid one dressed in purple with the long blonde hair. It was our thing, now I'm going to see her today and it's her birthday and I decided to buy her it on DVD for sentimental value. It's a great, awesome, sick movie and I encourage all to watch it. It's funny and sweet, and really really cute and I think that all will love it. I give it ten out of ten because it's provided me with one of my favorite memories ever, me and my cousin spending time together. "},{"Title":"This is a good film!","Date":"13 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is a great kids film, I was p*****d at the 5 out of 10 rating it got! I remember me, my brother and my friends watched it a ton when it came out. Maybe it shouldn't really be the adults rating it on here. Apparently this comment has to be ten lines long. Erm okay then. once i was walking. walking is fun. pigeons fly whilst walking also, and also, I'm sure that other people have made comments that aren't ten whole lines long. ten lines is a large amount of writing. look at me. I'm not even using capitals when i begin a sentence. how rebellious am i! More rebellious than a rebel! I think so! oooh I'm nearly finished doing ten lines. well, not sexually, cus that would just be ridiculous. Woo, I'm done. "},{"Title":"On my list of best Halloween flicks, hands down.","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The story is a classic Halloween yarn about three witches from Salem in the late seventeenth century. They were discovered to be using witchcraft, so they were hanged. But before they went, the older sister, Winnie, cast a spell so that on Halloween night when a virgin lit a candle used in Dark spells called the Black Flame Candle, they would rise again. Three hundred years later, a teenager named Max lit the candle to show off for his crush and to scare his sister. Unfortunately, the magic worked and they had to defeat the witches.All three witches were cast perfectly. All three ladies are so incredibly funny together. This is a very good movie to watch around Halloween. The whole atmosphere is just filled with the fun and mysteries of that night... boo! Sorry for ending my review cornily. "},{"Title":"Hocus Pocus","Date":"2 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Hocus Pocus is a fun family film which contains some really good and exciting characters. I have watched this film a lot and enjoy it each time i watch it. I admire Bette Midler for all her work in all her movies and songs she has performed and think she is a brilliant actress and makes this movie really good and exciting.It's amazing how much work was put in this film and all the tricks of the camera really make this film real. There is a lot of comedy in this film and i think thats what makes it so good. The scenery is amazing and think that this movie is 10/10 for defanate. Also i think that when the olden times were done at the beginning made the film more real and made you continue watching it to find the outcome of the movie. "},{"Title":"Hocus Pocus is bewitching fun!","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" OK this is my favorite Halloween movie. 300 years ago, 3 witches kill 2 children and are sentenced to death by the people of Salem, Mass. One of the children who is supposedly dead is actually a black cat who has taken to protecting the house from crazy teenagers, such as Max, his sister Danni, and his hopeful girlfriend, Allison. Max brings the witches back to life by accident and then the three kids have to get rid of them with the cat's(Zachery Binks)help before they suck the souls of every child in Salem, hoping to gain youth and beauty. Close encounters, zombies,the three kooky witches, and their Hocus Pocus spells create a terrific Halloween thriller. Be sure to bring you salt. "},{"Title":"Watch this excellent movie!","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" This is my favorite movie of all time! I saw it for the first time when I was 11, when it came out in the movie theater. Since then I see it at the very least, on Halloween, every year with my brother. It's my favorite part of the year, and the celebration! Watch it with your kids, or your nephews, or your siblings, or just by yourself! You won't be wasting your time. The cast is truly magical! The three witches are hilarious. The entire plot is suited for the entire family, doesn't matter if you're 2 years old or 100! Every time I watch it, it makes me laugh. The movie contains important lessons about family, love and friendship. Watch it now, be it on Halloween or any time of the year. "},{"Title":"3 witches, a cat who is a guy, and 3 kids all on Halloween only Disney could do it!","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I really like this film Bette is great as the lead witch especially with her catchy rendition of I Put A Spell On you does anyone know where i can buy it!?! Yes the story line is a bit childish but for heaven sakes it's meant to be it's a Disney film, thats one of the reasons i love it, it's a bit more grown up than the animated classics, but it has some great jokes and if your a bit over sensitive like me get the box of tissues ready to dry those tears! the songs don't dominate the film like many Disney films and its a bit of all round family fun definitely something the whole family can enjoy! the whole coming of age thing for the pre-teens is also covered well, it's just a great movie! "}{"Title":"sequel? be careful about it!","Date":"19 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Making a sequel of this movie isn't a good idea... it could end up being redundant to the first part, with the witches trying to get their book but keep getting tricked by Max, it wont go well. and other plots wouldn't be easy to come up with either... if they still only have one night to make the potion and absorb souls, that means the black flame candle would have to be remade somehow, or something that could turn out quite well is if some unsuspecting person happens to go by their house, and opens the book and reads a random spell that happens to bring the witches back for good... and the new plot would be to kill them once and for all rather than to keep running from them until sunrise. if they make a sequel, they need to be careful because other movies that were great originally were made to look stupid after their sequels, like dumb and dumberer (even tho its a prequel) and son of the mask (even tho the main problem was most likely that Jim Carey wasn't in it) "},{"Title":"I Love Bette Midler, and this Movie!","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  I think this is one of the best Bette Midler films that I have ever seen (and I have seen them all, Isn't She Great, being the best.) It has some great acting and a sensational cast! Sarah Jessica Parker and Kathy Najimy are good. But the spotlight has to go to Bette Midler. It deals with 3 witches from the 17th century that cast a spell and come back in the 19th century. Bette Midler plays Winnie Anderson, Sarah Jessica Parker plays Sarah, and Kathy Najimy plays Mary. I don't want to spoil it for you but I just want to let you know that it is really worth getting and I highly suggest it. In my opinion it's a 10 star movie. Therfore, I give it a 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"Not as good as I remember","Date":"23 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" The story of Hocus Pocus was a classic from my childhood. I would watch this movie every Halloween with my cousins after we scrambled up and down every street in our neighborhood trolling for candy. We would dump out our pillow cases on the living room floor, organize our stash, and pop this movie in the VCR while we inhaled chocolate, caramel, chips, popcorn, and all manner of candy. I loved this movie. Unfortunately, it's been a few years since I have partaken in this particular tradition, so I haven't seen Hocus Pocus in well over ten years. So, when it was on television the other day, I just had to watch it. What I saw was rather disappointing. In the beginning of this movie, three sisters, Winnie, Sarah, and Mary Sanderson are hanged for practicing witchcraft in Salem, Massachusetts. After 300 years, a virgin boy unknowingly brings the witches back to life. Max, his sister, and his love interest are the only ones who can stop the Sanderson sisters as they try to obtain eternal life my sucking the souls out of children. Watching it as an adult, I have absorbed a lot more of the movies subtleties. There are several sexual innuendos throughout this movie. The most obvious occurs when the witches come across a bus and the creepy bus driver tells them that buses are used to convey such beautiful creatures such as yourselves to your most... forbidden desires. Winnie then reveals that she and her sisters desire children,to which the driver replies, Hey, it may take me a couple of tries, but I don't think there will be a problem. When I was a kid, I thought that the bus driver was going to help them kidnap children, now I know better. Another running joke is that the hero of the story, Max, is the virgin who made the witches return from the grave. I never knew what a virgin was as a kid, but I probably asked my parents about it, and they probably thought it was hilarious. The last thing that I struggled with as an adult was the scene where the teen trio lures the witches into the school. The kids end up locking them in ovens where the pottery is made, and burning the witches alive. After they do that, they run around celebrating on the front lawn. This was a big problem for me. Where was the compassion, where was the guilt? Hello, they just killed three people and are happy about it? What happened to a fair trial? What happened to innocent until proved guilty? Besides the lingering nostalgia, I no longer have a love for this movie. However, I would watch it again for the same reason I would watch Even Stephens; to remember a time when I did not know what a virgin was. "},{"Title":"i actually thought this was good when i was a kid","Date":"12 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" i will always remember this film because it was a favourite of mine when i was young. watching it these days really shows how cheesy and stupid and childish it is, hence the reason I've rated it five stars. i still think its a pretty OK film now but it is only aimed for young teenagers and under.the film basically goes a little like this...... a new family move to a town called Salem. the two children, one being a young teen lad and his younger sister are trying to get to grips with the change of moving homes. on Halloween night they go trick or treating with another girl that the young lad has a crush on but end up at an old abandoned shack that was the home of three evil witch's 300 years ago. they then make the mistake of lighting a candle that releases the witch's from a mystical prison and brought back to Salem. thats a little of what happens in the film.the acting is cheesy but OK. i will always remember this film even though its not as good now i'm older. worth a watch if your under 14 years old. if your older then maybe you should leave it, i know i would....... 5/10.......j.d Seaton "},{"Title":"Hocus Pocus","Date":"14 September 2007","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I knew I had seen tiny snippets of this Disney film and knew of the three quite big female leads, so I suppose I was kind of keen to see it. Basically, 300 years ago (1693), the Sanderson sisters Winifred 'Winnie' (Bette Midler), Sarah (Sarah Jessica Parker) and Mary Sanderson (Kathy Najimy) were sentenced to death for their unforgivable witchcraft, oh, and before they died they turned teenager Thackery Binx (Sean Murray) into an immortal black cat. In the present day (1993), it is Halloween, and Max (Omri Katz) and Dani Dennison (young Thora Birch), along with Max's new love interest Allison (Vinessa Shaw) have gone out trick or treating. But when they explore the old Salem Sanderson sisters' mansion, Max lights a candle and unknowingly brings the three sisters back to life. The sisters are now attempting to gather as many children to help them steal their youth, while the three kids, along with talking cat Binx are trying to find a way to put them back in their graves. Also starring Amanda Shepherd as Emily Binx, Larry Bagby as Ernie/'Ice', Tobias Jelinek as Jay, Stephanie Faracy as Jenny Dennison and Charles Rocket as Dave Dennison. The special effects and action is very slightly tame, and the three actresses make themselves look pretty ridiculous (that's their job), but the kids will obviously enjoy it. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"There should be no excuse for this movie","Date":"18 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" I see that this is a movie for the children. Is this the excuse Disney uses for lazy writing, poor camera-work, shoddy editing, worthless stereotyping, unpleasant and unengaging characters, cheap and cheerful sets, poor quality effects and nasty makeup? Because that is what you have throughout this film. And I couldn't stop watching; it was my daughter's birthday treat. She still thinks it was fun. Let us start with the witty use of colour. The start of the film is seen under candlelight so everything is orange tinted from the flaimes. Actually, that is a cunning ruse to cover over the fact that watching this film gives you haemorrhages in your retina. As soon as Bette Midler comes on the screen you know the film has missed the point already. She is a wonderful actress; she is a fine looking woman who can look like anything she wants (just watch her in Ruthless People...) so why make her look like a red squirrel being rogered by a horse? Then the infant leads. Male lead; who cares? Dork of the week meets wuss of the year and leads to the sort of fine piece of work who will rat out his kid sister in double time when faced by a pair of failed bullies one step below Noddy's goblins in the fear ratings. Female teen lead falls for him on first sight anyway; why? She is hot, rich and did I mention rich and hot? And did I mention he's a worthless ratfink chicken butt? Wow, opposites do attract! OK, skip the rest because I can feel myself weeping blood just thinking about it; let me just pour bile over the supposed showdown at the end complete with the sort of Should I move now Mr De Mille shots that only come from really hard work from an editing room insisting on keeping the cutting room floor clean and removing any excitement or tension from the climax of the film. In summary; if there were any characters, I don't care what happened to them. If there was any fun to be had, I never saw it. If the witches were relying on abducting and killing children to live, why make them unrelentingly, muggingly, hammingly unthreatening and so-called amusing? Answer Because this film is dreck of the very worst kind. "},{"Title":"Disturbing For a Disney Film","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"8 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  *CONTAINS SPOILERS*Hocus Pocus was one of the worst Disney films ever released.  I saw in the movies when it first came out when I was six years old.  The movie was so scary that I had trouble sleeping for the next few weeks.Then I saw the movie again this past Halloween and I realized this movie wasn't scary it was just plain stupid.  But for little kids this movie would be scary.  Especially when the witches are in the sky singing Come little children....  Thats freaky.The only thing I liked about this movie was the actor Omri Katz playing the role of Max.  I was a big fan of Omri Katz in the T.V. show Eerie Indiana.  I also liked the cat, he was cute. I give this movie 4/10 stars and suggest little kids should avoid this movie. "},{"Title":"Not even Bette Midler can save it.","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" What should have been one of the coolest movies of 1993 gets drug down by inept dialogue and over-usage of special effects. Portraying three witches (Bette Midler, Sarah Jessica Parker, Kathy Najimy) coming back to life after 300 years to take revenge on Salem, Massachusetts, Hocus Pocus makes you roll your eyes. Just how did the usually dependable Bette Midler get involved in this swill? And by the 1990s, wasn't it more chic to portray witches as good (ever since Bewitched?).And one more thing how could Omri Katz go from something as cool as Matinee to this? Oh well. At least most of the people involved in it have done good things since (namely Thora Birch). But seriously folks, why waste your time on this junk when there are so many good movies out there? The title should be Hokey Pocus. "},{"Title":"Unwatchable.","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"9 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  If you're home sick, and can't get out of bed, and there's nothing on TV but soaps & talk shows, and you STILL eject a movie before the end, you know it's as bad as they get.Anything that isn't hammed past the point of tolerably funny overacting is as wooden as the gallows these dreadful witches were supposedly hung from back in the 1600s. The nauseating camp of the three witches makes the stiffly unpleasant amateurishness of the teens almost a relief. Almost.I already knew that Bette Midler could go too far over the top. I never knew how far. I looked to Sarah Jessica Parker for respite. She provided none.All in all, I'd rather watch Jenny Jones.  "},{"Title":"PANTS","Date":"12 July 2002","Score":"8 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":"  How can anyone watch this film and remain awake.I'd rather swim with a great white.IT MAKES ED THE DUCK LOOK LIKE A MASTERPIECE.CONDEMN THIS FILM TO ITS GRAVE. "}{"Title":"Terrible Film","Date":"5 April 2008","Score":"6 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family, Fantasy","Review":" Highly offensive film that exploits witch stereotypes in the worst possible ways.I wonder if Sarah Jessica Parker is proud of making this film. She should be ashamed.And what's up with boob-love comments by an eight-year-old and other forms of sexual innuendo? No child should ever watch this film, despite some of the comments posted on IMDb, because it blends quite frightening themes of child abduction, cannibalism, Satanism, and necromancy into a story basically about teenage kids.Bette Midler has lost all of my respect and so has Kathy Najimy. Their willingness to whore themselves for such stereotypical garbage is embarrassing. And Hollywood's enduring connection between witchcraft and Satanism is both poorly informed and highly destructive.This film is, in short, a careless exploitation of witchcraft for petty profit. Leave it on the shelf. "}]