[{"Title":"Great comedy!","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is easily one the 5 best movies I've seen in my life and all the comments here are so critical.Such a warm and wonderful movie.Except for the girl everyone in the movie fits their character absolutely perfectly,and the conclusion is the best part of the movie!I guess the ones who critisized the movie would have never understood in the first place.Well if you ask me,this is a must,must,must,must,must see.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie....Great Cast...A lot better than expected!","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a great movie and michael J. Fox does excellent in this role! This is the movie that marked the beginning of the career of christina vidal, although some others may not agree I thought she did great. As the little tough girl from the streets of brooklyn she does an excellent job. This movie is something I bought after seeing this on HBO and to me is a classic. This is definitley worth a look and I give it 4 1/2 to 5 out of 5 stars. One thing to know about this movie. Don't think about it. JUST WATCH! "},{"Title":"What Can I say.....","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  except this movie was great! It was funny and the acting was great! Michael J Fox was awesome.....and for Christina Vidal's first performance she didn't do too bad either! I would definitely  recommend this movie to any Michael J Fox fans or anyone just looking for a good laugh! "},{"Title":"Nice & splendid........fantastic!","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Some people say that it's like a category-3 film but I don't agree...in my country, it's shown in Children Festival...it's funny than anyone had expected. Please don't misjudge this film by saying it as a Category-3 film...both kinds are different as Life With Mikey is suitable for kids but a Category-3 film isn't... "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable movie.","Date":"25 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've always enjoyed Michael J. Fox in Family Ties and this film is perfect entertainment for fans of that show.Along with Fox, we have the cute, talented Christina Vidal Who for some reason we don't see anymore. She is perfectly poised in her scenes with Fox. And quite wonderful as we see her transform from a street-smart toughie, into this warm-hearted little girl.All in all, great family entertainment with a great ending and a lot of good laughs. 3 out of 4 stars.  "},{"Title":"The best comedy that nobody could expect. Worth a view.","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I haven't watched this movie in a long time, but it still holds clear in my mind Michael J Fox is a child actor turned talent agency rep. The gist is that they are going down the tubes and it will take a definite miracle to pull things back together. Fox is charming to the last, and also brings light to an issue that was becoming more and more prominent in the early 90's- smoking and trying to quit. Nathan Lane was very funny and sociable with Fox in this film, and Angie was a devious, but reliable kid. I didn't realize Cyndi Lauper was Geena until I wrote this summary. I've heard about her being a celeb, but I didn't realize I had a film with her in it. "},{"Title":"This is a funny movie.","Date":"25 October 1998","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Michael J. Fox, Nathan Lane, Cyndi Lauper, and Christina Vidal star in this really, really funny movie. Michael J. Fox is Michael Chapman, a washed up actor that starred in his own television show as a child. Now he's a children's talent agent looking for that big break. Nathan Lane is his brother who's working together with Michael at Chapman & Chapman Talent Agency. Cyndi Lauper is funny with her Brooklyn accent as their secretary. Christina Vidal is Angie Vega, a wise-talking con artist who could be Michael's only break at any type of future. This movie is great and everybody in the family will enjoy this. "},{"Title":"typical kids movie, but fun","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Michael J. Fox plays Michael Chapman, who once upon a time was a wise-cracking child star on a situation comedy called Life With Mikey. Now in his thirties and on the skids, Michael makes personal appearances at grand openings of hamburger stands, and runs an unsuccessful talent agency that specializes in kids with his brother Ed (Nathan Lane). The agency's only successful client is Barry Corman (the great Jewish actor, David Krumholtz), a 14 year old with an attitude who is known as the cereal king for his appearances on television commercials. Ed is trying to talk Michael into closing the agency and Barry is threatening to go elsewhere when a sprightly 10 year old reprobate named Angie (Christina Vidal) tries to pick his pocket. When Angie delivers a heart rendering tale of questionable honesty about being an orphan from Queens, Michael realizes that Angie would be perfect for a Sunburst Cookie commercial. She clicks in the commercial, and both her career and the agency's soar. In the meantime, Angie movies in with Michael, and as they bond, Michael realizes how to act like an adult and Angie realizes how to act like a child. I liked Life With Mikey, I know its nothing new as a plot, but still funny with the great Fox and entertaining Lane heading the cast. "},{"Title":"It's another adjective that means great","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is an underrated movie with one of Fox's most subtley comical moments. The irony was not lost watching Fox portray an ex-sitcom star.  Watching Fox as a smarmy, sleazy agent was so wonderfully different from anything he had done up to that point.  The movie was made for watching after sleeping in over half the day on Sunday.  Also, a great turns by Nathan Lane, who I didn't recognize in the role for many years, and a young David Krumholtz who is going to ascend the throne as the next John Turturro. "},{"Title":"A Tailor-Made Role for Michael J. Fox","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Michael J. Fox's considerable on screen charm was used to good advantage in LIFE WITH MIKEY, in which he played the former child star of a sitcom called Life with Mikey who now is partnered with his brother (Nathan Lane) in running a children's talent agency, even though his brother does most of the work. Things look up when Mike literally bumps into 10-year old shoplifter (Kristina Vidal)who Mike sees as a possible gold mine for their agency and does manage to get her a lucrative commercial deal as cookie salesgirl. This movie is watchable thanks to a charming performance by Fox, who imbues his own experience as a former child star into this character and this performance. It's very sad whenever you watch Mike go into one of his stories about his days on the sitcom and how whoever he's sharing it with looks completely bored. Lane offers comic relief as Mike's brother and Cyndi Lauper steals every scene she is in as the agency's receptionist. There are also some laugh-out-loud hysterical sequences of children with varying levels of talent auditioning for the agency. Between these scenes and Fox's performance, this film can hold your interest. "}{"Title":"Awesome movie","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was so awesome! One of the best movies ever! All the actors did a great job. It was hilarious! Everyone should see it. I have watched it about three million times and I still have not gotten sick of it. Funny! Funny! Funny! ) "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I love Michael J. Fox, so while I was channel surfing and caught a glimpse of him Life With Mikey, naturally I kept watching.  I thought that both Fox and Lane were wonderful, and the movie also sparked an interest in David Krumholtz, who plays the pretentious (and annoying) child actor.  I thought that the script was very funny, and it was acted well too.  4 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"From Rude to Riches","Date":"26 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Former Life with Mikey kid Michael J. Fox (as Michael Mikey Chapman) is now a thirty-something New York City agent for young performers. The ex-TV sit-com star is the slacker half of a partnership with brother Nathan Lane (as Ed Chapman). Their receptionist is loyal Cyndi Lauper (as Geena), who most memorably sang Girls Just Want to Have Fun (1984) as a pop star. Presently, Mr. Fox and Mr. Lane survive mainly due to the success of obnoxious David Krumholtz (as Barry Corman); this film parallels Mr. Krumholtz' scripted contribution as his is the most satisfying characterization...Fox hopes their fortunes increase with the signing of mature 10-year-old Christina Vidal (as Angela Angie Vega), a girl he meets under odd circumstances. A violent street thief, young Vidal includes Fox in a round of pick-pocketing. Fox figures her out and tries to retrieve his wallet. Vidal assaults Fox and threatens him with a knife. Wounded from a kick, Fox manages to catch up with Vidal and is impressed with her acting. He estimates she will make $250,000, including his 10% commission...However, there are complications...Throughout the story, youngsters audition poorly. Late in the running time, listen for one, Anaysha Figueroa (as Kimberly Denise Jackson), to end the unrelentingly awful auditions with a fine vocal. Most of the other kids must be better than they sound here. Vidal is cute, though her character's flaws make her unworthy of fame and fortune. However, she is a vegetarian. Fox performs capably, as he knows how to do in comedy situations. It's not enough to lift this flat material. As you might be expecting with this sort of film, Vidal and Fox learn from each other and get on with their lives. You should, too.*** Life with Mikey (6/4/93) James Lapine ~ Michael J. Fox, Christina Vidal, Nathan Lane, David Krumholtz "},{"Title":"A happy, feel-good movie","Date":"29 October 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I love this movie - Michael J Fox and Nathan Lane, you wouldn't expect anything but genuine comedy. The entry of this movie is one of the reasons why I do not want to give much respect to IMDb ratings. Everyone wants to be an arty or an intellect here, when movies like these (though not very intellectual, having brilliant entertainment value sans rubbish) get lost with low ratings.There are some insanely funny scenes - at the same time there are some wonderfully touching moments as well. I watched this movie 10 yrs ago - I love it now as much as I loved it back then. The atmosphere of the film is simple, entertaining and funny.This is a must watch, if you enjoy light-hearted, genuinely funny comedies. Very good movie 9/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent. As Long As There Are Kids In The Industry This will Always Remain Timely Subject Matter.","Date":"26 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" very good film. don't let the light touch and the cute humor fool you. this film is actually about something more relevant than it appears at first, and especially in the wake (not a pun) of child star Gary Coleman's unfortunate passing. very timely.i've always thought Michael j Fox was an excellent actor who is capable of both humorous and serious performances. whichever the case he is always good. and despite his small stature, we know in real life he is a great man fighting a really big battle and doing big things. love the actor and the real life man.getting back to the movie. 'Mikey' on a superficial level seems like overly light family entertainment made to appeal to the crowd that likes celebrity family films. you know the kind of family fare that features big name stars in modest kid friendly films. movies like Sandler's 'Big Daddy' or Eddie Murphy in something like 'Daddy Day Care'. 'Mikey' is deeper and has more thoughtful subject matter than these films usually have although it doesn't try to be overt or pretentious about it.the film covers all the bases about child actors in the media. Mikey himself is a former child actor in the film, it shows how the situation can corrupt the kid and make him greedy,it spoofs stage parents and overly precocious kids, it even makes fun of the whole catch phrase thing that is often popular in child star sitcoms. and it manages to do it all without becoming too preachy or depressing and cynical.it's also great to see Cyndi Lauper in a movie role (just about her only one as far as i know). Cyndi looks great and is very likable, cute and charming. it would have been nice to see her offered more roles like Madonna was (Lauper, i always thought, was the more talented musician).this was a fun movie and it offered genuine insights into kids (and adults for that matter), and it was a film that tells us in it's message to introspect our experiences rather than simply letting them just happen to us or control us. nice film. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable little comedy","Date":"15 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie has enough laughs and touching moments to make it very worth watching.  My favorite part is the child auditioning at the end and singing her heart out.  Cyndi Lauper is very funny too. "},{"Title":"May not be so exciting but fit your eyes.","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  this is a film that is about a former kid-star (Mikey Chapman by MJF) who become kid-star-manager. he had met Angie (Christina Vidal, Freaky Friday's red hair girl, u make me cry out, I want to get out) coz angie steal his wallet in a street...then mikey find angie have talent...it's a very touching film that you should try watch once. some words inside may not be good to hear...like one scene when mikey return home, angie say a adult male item. don't say here coz comments better not contain sex or sth like that. I don't think that this film is very boring but some ppl may feel it boring. that is your own tolerance ...This may not be a very exciting or very interesting film but at least it's decent to watch and not contain nudity. I suggest all my friend to watch.one thing to show to you why I love this movie, My christian name is Mikey. hahaha...but anyways, read once...watch once and you will say why don't you enjoy this film b4.though frighteners is 1000 times better than mikey, life with mikey is also being easily forgotten !  "},{"Title":"Great Movie about a Casting Agent","Date":"20 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie has a great summary. The Stars (Michael J. Fox, Nathan Lane, David Krumholtz,) are great. It's about a casting agent trying to get a girl to star in a commercial. It has a great ending, and I recommend, that all comedy lovers watch it. "},{"Title":"Funny and great Disney movie with Michael J Fox","Date":"8 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Give me a break is a very great movie that it may contain boring elements or adult things (condom) but this movie is actually a very great movie describing Christmas and being a MJF fan I have to watch this one to support Michael. Michael Chapman (Mikey) is a star agent. the story that he discovered a girl Angie Vega and brought her to cast (Casting) that she stole things ...... that they later found that she stole the manager/boss things and afterwords the 2 main cast also voiced in Stuart Little as Stuart little and cat snow-bell. without this movie, nobody would know that Michael J Fox can also play brilliantly in Disney movies. I like this movie. I rarely watch Disney movies due to they are for kids. but this one.This one I watch for Michael J Fox. and yes this movie is a great movie that I had finally got more than what I expected from this movie. my friend calls Mikey due to this movie. "},{"Title":"May have excited Mr Fox's sense of deja-vu but did little for me..","Date":"9 February 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Life with Mikey covers similar territory to Broadway Danny Rose except the Talent are stagestruck juveniles rather than worn-out wannabes.Marooned at the bottom of the showbiz foodchain,agent Michael J. Fox is basically living on long memories and sympathy from his own time as a child star.When a cute kiddie down on her luck tries to pick his pocket he thinks he recognises potential star material in her. He gets her a role in a cookie commercial and sits back to count the cash-but things don't quite go according to plan........ Mr Fox is convincingly slobbed out and seedy and his clients as hopeless as you might expect,but there is very little spark to this movie. The scenes in the TV studio just aren't funny because the commercials are so self-aware that they are beyond parody.Mr Fox's cute little poppet herself is 11 going on 25 and Miss Cindy Lauper looks and sounds as though she was auditioning for a part in Roxie Hart. I had never heard of this movie when it popped up on the digital channels the other afternoon and,to be honest,it won't stay long in my memory,but it does have its moments,mostly involving the child actor playing The Cereal King who possesses an awfulness that is,in it's own way,quite spellbinding. Made when the excellent Mr Fox's career was in the doldrums,Life with Mikey may well have excited his sense of deja-vu,but,for me,it belongs in that odd category of movies I file under the heading Curate's Egg. "}{"Title":"Life With Mikey","Date":"12 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Ahh yes, Life With Mikey.It's a cutesy little film about a former child star, Michael Chapman, who is now working in a talent agency alongside his brother, Ed Chapman. However, Michael has been neglecting the agency and piles pretty much all of the work on poor Ed. He also lives in a messy apartment, appears to be a heavy smoker and has missed out on a lot of education from his childhood due to his stardom. His adult life is a wreck.One day Michael is pick-pocketed by a young girl, Angie. He sees her again later and she appears to have been caught attempting to pick-pocket somebody else. At this point she bursts into tears and blurts out some dramatic dribble about her family, winning the sympathy of passers-by. Michael witnesses her performance and tells her that she could use her acting skills to become wealthy.Later we discover that Angie does, in fact, have domestic problems. Her mother is dead and her father is at a rehabilitation centre. She has to live with her older sister and her boyfriend who push her aside, and do not take good care of her at all. Angie decides to go and live with Michael, giving him the responsibility of taking care of her.This film has its high points and low points. It appealed to me because Michael J. Fox, Nathan Lane and Cyndi Lauper are in it. It was lovely to see these familiar faces, and they each gave a good performance. However, the plot itself was a bit all-over-the-place. It is difficult to give the full summary of what happens but I think that Michael's responsibility for Angie is where the majority of the plot lies. I also found some scenes in this film painfully cheesy. The happy birthday scenes, the auditions and the wrestling scene in particular were a bit of a let-down for me.Overall, I think this film is alright. It's not exactly a must-see film but, hey, you might enjoy some of it. "},{"Title":"Not a great film but has a certain charm if you're in an undemanding mood","Date":"7 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Michael Chapman is a washed up child star who now runs an agency representing child talent &#150; albeit without a great deal of success.  When Michael has his wallet stolen by a street urchin he chases her until a crowd surrounds the young thief.  Seeing Angie turn on the waterworks and con her victims with a performance of woe, he sees her as a potential actress.  Signing her as a client, he gets her an important audition, which she wins with her mix of refreshing honesty and directness.  However her background is not clear and it is apparent that she'll be a lot harder work that any of the firm's other clientsI came to this film with no idea what it was about, but just that it had Michael J Fox in it and maybe that was worth a look.  The plot is a little cutesy and doesn't make any logical sense whatsoever, but that doesn't matter too much.  Nor is it very funny, it has moments which are funny (the auditions are good) or characters which bring a bit of life into it (The Cereal King is great fun) but mostly it just ambles along easily enough.  Part of the reason for this is that it does have a certain amount of harmless charm which is easy going and not a problem for anyone!  What I mean is if you're in a relaxed, undemanding mood then this film has just enough charm to cover it's weaknesses and you may like it.Credit for much of this charm must go to the cast, and in particular the main couple of leads.  Fox is not great but he is OK, he doesn't try very hard and seems to relax into the movie, which I felt kind of encouraged the audience to do the same.  Supporting him is a great little performance from Vidal.   Before I realised where I knew her face from I was thinking to myself that she would make a great actress when she gets older.  However if Taina is anything to go by she has just kept doing the same role as an adult!  The support cast is great and features plenty of funny kids as well as quite a few well known adults including Lane (pretty funny), Lauper (although God knows why), Krumholtz and Garber.Overall this is NOT a very good film.  It isn't very funny and it's plot is so obvious and weak that you wonder if one of the children in the cast couldn't have helped make it a bit stronger!  However it does have an easy charm about it and, while not being great fun, is amusing in it's own way and maybe worth a watch on a lazy evening. "},{"Title":"You guys are unbelievable!","Date":"28 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Now C'mon gimme a break!This is easily one the 5 best movies I've seen in my life and all the comments here are so critical.Such a warm and wonderful movie.Except for the girl everyone in the movie fits their character absolutely perfectly,and the conclusion is the best part of the movie!I guess the ones who critisized the movie would have never understood in the 1st place.Well if you ask me,this is a must,must,must,must,must see. "},{"Title":"A sentimental mix of moods; not very funny...","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" Disappointing comedy-drama with sentimental coating has Michael J. Fox ideally cast as a former child star who now runs a talent agency for thespian tots; Nathan Lane and Cyndi Lauper are his assistants. This all sounds as if it can't miss, however too much of the scenario is given over to strident Christina Vidal as a streetwise tyke whom Fox believes will be the next big thing. They quickly lock horns, and the bantering, back-and-forth dialogue takes them to an uninteresting, formulaic finish. Fox and Lane are both appealing, but the energy of the early scenes gives way to treacle. Slickly-produced, but ultimately stale. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"The auditions saved this one","Date":"20 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Take a couple of great actors and give them a poor script and not even they can't make it good.  This film had its moments, but the only real memorable ones are during the child stars' auditions.  All in all, I remember it being really funny when I was younger and now I found it watchable, but nothing special, and especially not in my top five or even ten.  I was actually surprised that there were so many positive reviews on here. "},{"Title":"Complete Turkey","Date":"5 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":" I can only imagine that the rave reviews here are solely due to fanatic adoration of Michael J. Fox. This is the worst sort of movie-making, no better than than the worst amateur effort. It's embarrassing to think that Fox had to do this sort of thing, and that in the 80's-90's Hollywood failed him and us so miserably.It's dull, poorly conceived, and poorly executed. Miscast, misguided and miscarried. Bad writing, no story, no production values, no plot. It's not even about anything, much less what it aims to be about show business. Hands down, it's the worst movie Fox ever made, and that's saying a lot, because most of his movies were unworthy and unforgiving of a great talent. "},{"Title":"good to watch if there's nothing else on tv","Date":"16 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I still and always will enjoy watching Michael J. Fox.  Some of the children auditioning were well, obnoxious!  Lane and Lauper are entertaning, but the girl who played Angie was an ugly annoying little troll who thought she knew everything.  I didn't think she came off as natural either.  On a scale of 1 to 10, I give this movie 6. "},{"Title":"One that stays with you...","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  I haven't watched this movie in a long time, but it still holds clear in my mind Michael J Fox is a child actor turned talent agency rep. The gist is that they are going down the tubes and it will take a definite miracle to pull things back together. Fox is charming to the last, and also brings light to an issue that was becoming more and more prominent in the early 90's- smoking and trying to quit. Nathan Lane was very funny and sociable with Fox in this film, and Angie was a devious, but reliable kid. I didn't realize Cyndi Lauper was Geena until I wrote this summary. I've heard about her being a celeb, but I didn't realize I had a film with her in it. "},{"Title":"Michael J. Fox saves it a little","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  For some reason I have always liked Michael J. Fox from Family Ties and Back to the Future to Spin City and the voice of Stuart Little. That is also the reason that Life with Mikey is not a total disaster.As a family film it is okay, but as a comedy it is nothing. Fox is nice and sometimes you can laugh about him, but that's it for the jokes. It also feels as if the movie isn't really finished. It ends kind of sudden.5/10 is the best I can give it, but at least two points are added because of Michael J. Fox. "},{"Title":"Not funny, just a little cute","Date":"23 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Fox was the largest influence on me renting this, and by reading the back of the box, I wasn't expecting very much.  Good thing I wasn't expecting any laughs, since this is very dull as a comedy, but I believe it makes a great family movie, based on it cuteness and morals. "}{"Title":"Good, not great","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This isn't a bad movie. It's fun to watch for the first time. However it has absolutely no replay value at all. When you try to watch it again it gets so boring you have to turn it off. I give this movie a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A bad film with only one highlight","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  And that highlight was Cyndi Lauper. She had only a small role but she was the only one in the film who was funny (well,Nathan Lane had some funny lines too) but Michael J. Fox was very dull and not his usually funny self and the little girl in the film (Christine Vidal) was sooo annoying ( a good little actress but annoying) the film is just boring. "},{"Title":"This movie was sorry","Date":"26 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was so incredibly boring, Michael J. Fox could've done so much better.  Sorry, but it's true for all you people who liked the movie "},{"Title":"Greatest piece of cinema one could ever ask for.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Michael J. Fox delivers an emotional and electrifying performance in this gem. This movie changed my life. Barry the Cereal King... What can I say about Barry the Cereal King that hasn't been written in the history books before... he truly is the most ingenious and complex character in film history. The man has everything, he may very likely be the Lord Jesus himself, you may call me a blasphemer but if you've seen the film, you'll understand, I pray to him for guidance every day. This movie is dark, deep, and significant to an entire generation. Cherish it folks, they just don't make them like this anymore. Thank you James Lapine for bringing the whole world together with your beautiful art. "},{"Title":"All time low point for Michael J. Fox","Date":"27 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie has got to be one of the all-time lows of Michael J. Fox's generally respectable career.  I should have known how awful this movie was when I rented it and found the movie only half viewed and not rewound by the previous renter.  Never a good sign!  Fox plays a grown up child star who's now an agent for other show business kids.  His character is delusional in that he still believes that everyone should love him for being Mikey. His big break comes when he meets Angie Vega, a talented child.  Vega is abrasive and not at all likeable.  In fact, the only likeable character in the whole movie is Cyndi Lauper as a Brooklyn accented receptionist for the agency.  One of those movies that makes me want to stick a post-it note to the box warning others not to waste their time! "},{"Title":"Another Yawner From Michael J. Fox","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Life With Mikey is an unimpressive film about a talent agent for children (Michael J. Fox) and his adventures with those brats.  Fox tries hard, but he cannot save a sorry screenplay which plays more like a 106-minute sitcom than a motion picture.  Nathan Lane and Cyndi Lauper both prove once again that they are no actors as they struggle throughout.  The direction is sorry and overall the film is sorry.  2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Sigh.","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Family","Review":"  Yet another cookie-cutter movie about a hardened adult who meets an adorable, street-smart kid (Cop and 1/2, Gloria, etc).  And once again, it is not funny or interesting, for anyone to watch - kids or adults.  I'm sure some people might find this movie amusing, but I have no earthly idea why. Once again, I feel sorry for the poor kids who were forced to work in this movie, so that everyone else and their parents could make some bucks at the price of a cheesy cheesy movie. "}]