[{"Title":"A new perspective to the Vietnam War","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"46 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  As he did with his first two Vietnam films, Platoon and Born on the 4th of July, Oliver Stone creates a powerful tale of the devastation of the Vietnam War.  What makes this movie so unique, both from Stone's earlier work and virtually every other American movie about the Vietnam War, is that Heaven and Earth is told from the perspective of a Vietnamese woman. This movie is based on two books of memoirs written by Le Ly Hayslip, a Vietnamese woman who grew up in a simple farming village in central Vietnam but whose life --- and those of most Vietnamese people, we can infer --- is turned upside-down by the madness of the Vietnam War.Strictly as a movie, this is a good but not great film.  Even at almost 2 1/2 hours, the structure is a bit stilted in order to accommodate such an extensive story.  The first 30 minutes are mostly voice-overs and the movie doesn't pick up steam until later, when scenes are allowed to flow for extended amounts of time and we become caught in the drama.  Tommy Lee Jones gives another brutally realistic performance as a lifetime military man who can't leave the war behind.  Hiep Thi Ly is okay as Le Ly Hayslip; not Tommy Lee Jones caliber acting, but she competently plays a very difficult role. I read she was an amateur actress only chosen after an extensive casting call, and I'm glad that they decided to go with an actual young Vietnamese woman instead of choosing a generic asian actress.  It might not make a difference to most, but it certainly felt more real to me with an authentic Vietnamese-American in the main role.  Oliver Stone shows his mastery of mood and camerawork as he jumps from the beauty of the Vietnam countryside, to the ravages of war, to the shocking (for Le Ly) wealth of suburban America.  The movie occasionally drags but overall I'd still give it an 8 out of 10 because it's such a powerful and important addition to the cinematic depiction of the Vietnam War.The movie also inspired me to read the 2 books (When Heaven and Earth Changed Places and Child of War, Woman of Peace) it was based on. Stone had to compress many events in order to fit the run time; for example, the Tommy Lee Jones character is a fabrication based on 3 different men (and probably meshed into one man as much for the drama such an explosive character provides as for the time constraints), while her books spend extensive time on all 3 relationships.  However, the dialogue for several key scenes were taken almost word for word from her books, and I thought it captured the spirit of the story remarkably well, especially for a major studio movie.  I highly recommend anyone interested in the film or in the war to read these books, and I commend Oliver Stone for making a trilogy of important films not just for cinema, but for American history.  "},{"Title":"Forget Vietnam","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"50 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I don't understand why most people don't appreciate this movie. I guess one reason is that it's not easy to look at your own people, US soldiers, as enemies, or at your country - in the final - as the land of fatty meaninglessnes. Or maybe they were expecting something different from Stone, something more than that history - not so unusual as someone observed - of a simple vietnamese country girl. The point, for me, is that this is not a film about the vietnam war, which is only the background. If you make the effort to forget the vietnam war, its historical and cultural legacy, to avoid being on the side of one of the armies (maybe is easier for me, being an italian), you'll discover one of the most intense movie about the family and the bonds with the earth where you belong. Stone through the story of this simple girl succeeded in telling the story of entire humankind, analizing those which are its roots, its ties, its hopes, its condemnations. Honestly, one of the best movies I've ever seen. Sincere, profound, touching. True. "},{"Title":"Powerful, Accurate View of the American War","Date":"4 July 2001","Score":"35 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  I should state this up frontI'm an American who was born in 1970 towards the end of the Vietnam War and I know very little about it *first-hand*.  Most of what I know is from school and the media -- the men in my family who were there just don't talk about it.  My wife and my closest friend for the past 9 years was born in Danang, (central) Vietnam, in 1969 and remembers some personal experiences as a child at the end of the war and after until she escaped without her family in 1982 to Hong Kong.I've *been* to Vietnam including the areas where this movie takes place. This movie very accurately expresses a common view of the war by many Vietnamese people of the era -- that when a civil war like this occurs around you and your home with both sides there day and night your concept of right and wrong can easily change.  (or heaven & earth change places as they put it in the movie)If you can possibly get the DVD, you can see deleted scenes including an alternate/extended beginning to the movie.  It was actually a 30 minute clip that was cut down to be the first 5 minutes of the released movie. It's very interesting because it illustrates many basic parts of Vietnamese life (mainly rural life) as it has been for hundreds or thousands of years.Yes, this movie contrasts pre-war, war, and post-war life for the Vietnamese (for the ones who stayed there and also for Viet Kieu or overseas Vietnamese like my wife) sometimes in a ridiculously extreme way.  Even though life was idyllic before the war and horrible during and after, the Vietnamese have fought for literally thousands of years to retain their national identity and independence not just against Americans but also the French, Japanese, and Chinese to name a few.If you've been moved by other Vietnam War movies, but haven't seen this one then you have only seen the story told from our viewpoint, which is absolutely vain.  If you haven't, you must see this movie for their view of the American war.  Hopefully it will inspire you as it did me to learn more about the Vietnamese people and their long, proud history spanning thousands of years. "},{"Title":"Thanks for showing us a different Vietnam Mr. Stone ....","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Oliver Stone has always had a special bond with Vietnam. He is a veteran of that war and the theme about a veteran trying to cope with his war experiences is a subject that comes back in several of his movies. This is the last movie in his Vietnam trilogy. His first movie was Platoon (1986), his second Born on the Fourth of July (1989) and the third one was Heaven & Earth (1993).In Heaven & Earth he tells the true story of a Vietnamese village girl who survives a life of suffering and hardship during and after the Vietnam war. Before she meets and marries the U.S. marine Steve Butler, she already has had an entire life behind her. She once fled for the violence of the Viet Cong, leaving her farming village for Saigon together with her mother. But soon she disgraced herself by becoming pregnant with her new master's child and as an unmarried mother, she tried to make a living by being a freedom fighter, a hustler and sometimes a prostitute. As soon as they are married, they move to the USA, but life on the other side of the ocean certainly isn't as perfect as she imagined it to be...Some people say that it is a good thing that Oliver Stone has finally made a movie that shows the Vietnamese perspective of the war and I agree, but only to a certain extend. It's true that we only get to see movies that show the American side of the story and that we need other movies that give us a broader view on the matter, but Heaven & Earth isn't the only 'reversed' Vietnam film. Perhaps not many people know this, but the French movie Indochine (1992) does approximately the same. The main difference with Heaven & Earth is that it doesn't talk about the 'American' period, but about the French colonial period that proceeded it and in which time the Vietnam war really started (The French had almost lost all their battles when the Americans came to help them and thereby got completely stuck into the war themselves...). But it is true, Oliver Stone has done a nice job with this movie. He has made it an interesting character study, with the war always present in the background. The acting is very good and I don't think there could have been a better actor than Tommy Lee Jones to play the role of Major Steve Butler. The other actors all did a good job too, in fact, I might say that Stone has had an excellent cast to work with and he probably got the most and the best out of them.If there is one lesser point to this movie, although only a small one, than it must be the language. The Vietnamese all start by speaking almost perfect English to each other, but when they speak to Americans their English is poor, yet when they speak to each other in front of an American its in Vietnamese. I believe it would have been better if Stone had chosen to let the Vietnamese speak their own language all the time and to speak with an accent when speaking to the Americans. But as I already said, I only see this as a minor detail and it certainly didn't spoil the good times that I had with this movie. This is an underrated movie that deserves to be seen by a great audience. I give it a 7.5/10 at least, perhaps even an 8/10. "},{"Title":"an unrecognised masterpiece","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"26 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I don't understand why this film has been rated so poorly, it really deserves better. The breath-taking landscapes, subtle imagery, the overall excellent craftsmanship alone make this movie worth seeing.The unique and very personal perspective of this movie makes it hard to keep your distance. Some scenes are rather brutal, but these scenes are necessary for telling a realistic story. Definitely no Disney family movie though.I give it a 9 out of 10, because even with 140 minutes runtime the story feels rushed and crammed. Sometimes less is more, I shall read the books now. "},{"Title":"An underrated film","Date":"18 July 2003","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Oliver Stone's Heaven and Earth is a fantastic film that shows what the effects of war are on the human spirt.   Now, more than ever this film is very poignant.  The movie is based upon two of Lelay Hayslip's memoirs which chronicle her growing up in Vietnam and the effects of war upon her, her family and her country.  It was fascinating and at times very difficult to watch.  I couldn't help but thank God that as Americans we have not had to experience what the Vietnamese went through.  The view of war that Stone portrays is very humanistic. One line in the film was especially riveting.... Rebuilding a country after war is like having a family thru rape.  We see how the war throws apart Lelay's family.  If you haven't seen this film.. I highly recommend it! "},{"Title":"A Different Perspective of War","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" A different perspective of war, and very much needed one. This story covers the lives affected by war. The male lead undergoes emotional strain while the female lead contrastingly grows strength from, or perhaps in spite of the war.The movie's subtext is thankfully never handed to you in a Hollywood-direct manner - yet the movie develops it thoroughly for the viewer. This is the most plain statement there is that war is much more than the sides of the conflict, the survivors, the wounded, the dead. And, it makes clear that the trauma caused affects many for a long long time, and for each it is their own journey.Oliver Stone is obviously a master movie maker. He is a great story teller and you are always provided a visual and sound experience like no other. This movie contains some incredibly beautiful shots which all by themselves are worth the viewing. When combined with the plot, the beauty contrasts with the brutatilty to help develop the subtext mentioned above.You might notice I have never said if I like the film. Because the subject matter makes me queasy, uneasy, I don't think I could ever say I like this. But, this is a very powerful film that got under my skin. So, here I am recognizing the movie for its message and method, not necessarily for providing me a Pavlovian reaction seeking more.Instead of plopping in another war DVD, try this one. I bet you will walk away and it will continue to live with you. "},{"Title":"Not too bad","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  After a long string of box office and critical successes, Oliver Stone tried making a different kind of war film, this one being shown from a Vietnamese woman's perspective.  Very interesting and entertaining throughout, but it does have some extremely unpleasant and cruel scenes, not unlike many other war films.  The first hour of the film takes place in Vietnam during the war and is full of Vietnamese culture and feeling.  As soon as Tommy Lee Jones comes into the picture as an unstable American soldier, the film soon feels and becomes much more Americanized and eventually very depressing.  An interesting work from Oliver Stone that unfortunately was barely released in 1993 and received lukewarm reviews from critics.  Still, its worth watching, and its never boring.  7/10. "},{"Title":"So many things happened in such a short life.","Date":"28 July 2008","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Wow, some people live their lives the same way like robots till their death, but this woman lives her life with so many dramas. Same thing is happening in Iraq now, people here in the US are enjoying their lives to the fullest while so many innocent Iraqi people are suffering with no end.I am surprised that the rating is not too high. The movie Deer hunter which was also about Vietname war, it was so slow and boring. If it didn't win some Oscars, I would have stopped watching in the middle of it. This movie is about the same feature length, but this one is much more emotional, and not boring at all.It is another tear-jerking movie. This movie helped me to understand the pain that Vietnamese people suffered during the war. It is very authentic. Those are the common people who just want to make the best out of their lives, they just want to live. It was especially touching when she finally came back to her village, and her brother told her about how he felt throughout the years. She is not a hero, but she is such a brave woman who suffered so much, who almost died. How many of us will ever live a life like hers. In the end, this movie makes all of us to treasure the life that we have now, there are so many people who are living in this world who still don't have the things that we take for granted.Thank you for all those who worked on this great movie. "},{"Title":"****1/2 out of 5","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Different skin, same suffering. Only a director such as Oliver Stone, who is not afraid to take risks and say what needs to be said could make a set of films so daring and powerful that they almost beg to be watched. For those who don't know Stone himself fought in Vietnam. He has since made, not only three of the best films on Vietnam, but three of the best war films period. The first is the award-winning Platoon, followed by Born on the Fourth of July and finally this one. What makes this trilogy so good is that instead of making three war films he has made on war film and two other character studies to accent it. Also these films are not just about huge battles and high body counts like a lot of today's war films. Stone is just as concerned in showing the war going on inside every man on the battle field just as much as the war at hand. Platoon was based on Stone's personal experience in Vietnam, he made an atmosphere where every step could bring death and there was no sympathy. It was hailed as a masterpiece, winning Stone an Oscar for best director and also placing it as one of the greatest war films ever made. Instead of travelling back to Vietnam, Stone decided to follow up Platoon with a look into the decayed life of a worn down veteran. When We Were Soldiers came out last year it was praised as being one of the only films to show that the soldiers were just as human as your or I. Obviously these people didn't see Heaven and Earth because this film bases itself almost entirely on showcasing the life and struggle of a war victim. The only difference here is that it is the life of the enemy. Can anyone honestly say that while watching a war film they think of how whenever an enemy is killed it is someone's son or brother dying or, how the war is effecting the innocent ones? I can say that I haven't and this film has helped me see Vietnam through an all new set of eyes. That is why Stone is such a great director, even though he fought and killed these people he still finds it in his heart to show both sides of the story. This film often gets mixed reviews and I guess that is because it is being compared to Platoon, but to say that one is better than the other would be missing the point. Although they are entirely separate films they all function as one entity and must all be seen in order to see Stone's vision, and a hell of a vision it is, these are three of the most realistic and horrifying war films to date. This is the true story of a young, Vietnamese girl named Le Ly who lives in a small village that is being ravaged by war. The inhabitants spend most of their day peacefully growing rice because it is their only food source. We worked like slaves and all we wanted was a bowel of rice and another day alive says Le Ly's father, a line that is important towards the second half of the film. She is then taken away and tortured for information. These torture scenes are brutal ad were particularly hard to watch due to their brutal realism. She is then released on a bribe from her parents that has the whole town questioning their ties with the government. She is the taken away by the Viet Cong and raped because they suspected she gave away information. Her and her mother then move to the city to become servants but are soon asked to leave after Le Ly gets pregnant with her masters son. She then meets Steve; a solider that she thinks just wants sex before he goes home. It turns out Steve is a nice guy. The two get married and go back to Chicago to live in America. Suddenly she sees that America is not what it is cracked up to be. Even though she now has more she was at least happy at home in Vietnam. Now she finds herself seeing tables of food wasted and is living with a family of plastic people who are following the American dream. The film actually functions as two separate works. The best being the first half that is possibly the saddest and most heart-wrenching depiction of a war stricken human being these eyes have ever seen, it truly is powerful stuff. When Le Ly and Steve move to American it stops being a war film and Stone gets a little carried away. He chooses an other-the-top style of direction to show every American as shallow pigs who are blinded by all their material possessions and look down upon the relationship. They don't understand, but I do. Says Steve. But Stone is smart in how he shows that even though America has much more than Vietnam that doesn't mean it is better. In Vietnam you had to work together and function as a team in order to achieve anything. Everyone loved each other and the people were happy with that. In America it is either push or be pushed, there is no sympathy for anyone. Although this was a smart way to contrast the war, after an hour and a half of watching the horror of Vietnam I felt a little obscure when then film suddenly changed from a war picture. Especially when just coming out of hardships that are enough to twist anyone's heart into knots. This then levels off and we are left with a study of bigotry and how one mans possessions can corrupt his mind and blind his eyes. Stone shows us that although war can leave a life torn and mangled, the people who came out of it are not cold and alone. These people are human beings as well. I don't think people realise this because in most war films we don't see the face of the enemy, they are just nobodies who have set out to be killed. This film helps us realise that they can love, they can hurt, they can feel and the can bleed just like the rest of us. Stone has not just placed a solider and a Vietnamese girl together and sees what happens. He has placed a human and a human together to see how they adapt and grow as one and as separate parties. We see how certain things react with certain emotions and how certain feelings are flared in different situations. Le Ly is not some character that has been made up; she was a real life human being who went through real life struggle. She was a human who lived in a human world. Stone does a fabulous job at showing that Le Ly was a human and he gets us so deep inside of her we can't help but feel for her. Stone filmed on location and the scenery is beautiful. Stone soars his camera across the stunning green plains, through the swaying rice fields, atop the tree and up into the shimmering blue sky. His use of scenery also helps to feel the tragedy when all the beauty is swept away and the horror of war begins. Stone also wrote the screenplay which he based on the two memoirs written by the real life Le Ly. Again he does an amazing job if showing the horrors of war, but this time without using mounds of violence. He also does a great job of contrasting the life in Vietnam as compared to that in America by making them seem like almost separate worlds. I also love the dialogue in this film. It is touching, heart-breaking and empowering all at the same time and that is rare in war films. The acting is also superb from Hiep Thi Le as Le Ly. This girl can show all of her inner torture yet innocence just through her eyes. Tommy Lee Jones is also good as her partner yet enemy Steve. Both of the actors show their humanity on their faces and their struggle in their eyes and easily change emotion from environment to environment, even from minute to minute. Because Stone can make a film like this, showing and saying what many would be afraid to, he truly is one of the greatest directors of our time (only being matched by David Lynch). It is nice to see that someone cares enough to show us that even though they were our enemy, the people of Vietnam were just as effected by this war as anyone in America and that they people just like us. Even though the two films following Platoon didn't reach the success or praise of the first film, Stone has made has made a great American trilogy. Three war films that have just as much to say as they do to show and it would be a tragedy to pass any of them up. Whether you are interested in Vietnam or just want a war film with something more than endless violence, this one is worth checking out.  "}{"Title":"Oliver Stone's most overlooked film","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  *some spoilers*To the best of my knowledge, Oliver Stone's Heaven & Earth is the only major American film to depict the Vietnam conflict from the other side. It's difficult for a filmmaker to believably capture a whole different culture, but Stone does just that, to the point where the audience looks at even the U.S. troops as foreigners, certainly no easy task. It was risky project to tackle, but it works incredibly well. After Platoon and Born on the Fourth of July, which dealt with the American experience in Vietnam, Stone comes full circle to the heart of the matter with this autobiographical story, based upon the memoirs of Vietnam native Le Ly Hayslip, who eventually escaped an uncertain future by marrying an American soldier.She was a peasant farmer whose life was forever altered by the tragedy that tore a nation apart. When she first makes her appearance in the film, she inhabits a peaceful village where life has been more or less the same for hundreds, even thousands, of years. However, all this is forever gone in a very short time, as the French and Americans intrude upon their way of life. Hiep Thi Le does a credible job in her acting debut, making it possible for the audience to sympathize with her character, even if we do not entirely understand her cultural background. The second half of the film deals with her marriage to an American soldier, effectively played by Tommy Lee Jones. As we look through her eyes, we realize with a shock that from her perspective, the United States is just as foreign as any far-off land would seem to us, encouraging us to reevaluate our definition of that term. These scenes are deliberately exaggerated, made to appear as overwhelming and intense as possible. Its effect foreshadows Stone's digs at popular culture in his next film, Natural Born Killers.Joan Chen and Haing S. Ngor both offer solid performances as the protagonist's parents, who have not weathered the passage of time nearly as well as she has, adding further dimensions to the material. Both performers have had the difficulty of adapting to U.S. culture after being raised in Asian nations, so they're perfectly suited for the material. Ngor, in particular, has gone through experiences uncomfortably similar to Le's character, being tortured in Cambodia before his escape. Debbie Reynolds appears as Jone's mother; her role is basically a cameo though she gets billed in the opening credits.Note that neither the United States nor Vietnam are regarded as heroic. Every side committed their share of atrocities; the U.S., the Viet Cong, South Vietnam (aided by the U.S.), and the French, who colonized the area decades earlier. In fact, the rather grim implication is that no one is truly innocent, that all concerned bear a degree of responsibility for the tragedy. This was a very brave move on Stone's part, taking a potentially unpopular, controversial political stand. Then again, that comes as no surprise; he made this right after JFK. Not since he directed Salvador has a major filmmaker attacked his own country's imperialist actions. This powerful film, masterfully photographed and directed, deserves to be ranked with the best of his other works.***1/2 (out of ****)Released by Warner Bros.  "},{"Title":"Heaven & Earth","Date":"18 September 2007","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is Oliver Stones third trip to Vietnam but unfortunately also the least interesting and successful. That's a shame given that Stones previous efforts where at least very solid, but even more because this was the first US-American film to put a Vietnamese victim into its centre. The Vietnam films of US-production companies never gave much thought to the victims, even if they were very critical of the United States' role in the war. Heaven & Earth, however, fails to give the viewer an insight into the pain and sorrow the victims really suffered, because it wants to be too dramatic and meaningful. Much more seriousness and much less sensationalism would have been able to turn this into a good film. The closer the film gets to its end it loses and loses credibility. Tommy Lee Jones' storyline was unfitting and wrong for me, that I almost lost my complete interest in this woman's story, because I just didn't believe it anymore. "},{"Title":"The war from the Vietnamese perspective","Date":"10 June 2003","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Heaven and Earth follows the life of a Buddhist Vietnamese peasant girl through the protracted and convulsive American-Vietnam war, the aftermath and reconstruction. A solid three star flick, H&E is important inasmuch as it casts in concrete for posterity the Vietnamese perspective of the epic American fiasco in an entertaining movie format. As a stand-alone piece of work, H&E may grow somewhat tiresome after 2+ hours under the heavy-handed Stone auteuresmanship. Nonetheless, the film should have value for those who only know about the war from the typically biased American film point of view. (B) "},{"Title":"Lasting victories are won in the heart.","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" ''Heaven & Earth '' is an amazing story of a woman called Le Ly,and I consider it to be specially a story of not only survival, but victory in life.The fact that this story was real,makes this film even better,since we can see that optimism and a real power to go ahead,can make our lives change for the best. Le Ly is a Vietnamese village woman, who lives during the hard times of Vietnam war. She passes through the worst things in her life, since being tortured by Vietcong,being a fighter and also a teenager mother,who needs to be a prostitute in order to have something to her and her son to eat. When she marries an USA soldier called Steve Butler and goes to America,her life was about to change for the best,but years passed and Steve became a violent man and also an alcoholic,and again, Le Ly have big problems in her life. The good thing is that she will become a rich woman with her business in USA,and even today (yeah, she is alive!) she helps many people from Vietnam. "},{"Title":"A Great Film, another great performance by Mr. Jones.","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Never seeing the first two movies in this trilogy, I rented this copy from my local Blockbuster, thus crossing it off my list of films I have been meaning to see for a while. Being an avid fan of Tommy Lee Jones, I watched this movie in anticipation. The movie follows the life of a young woman (Lee Ley) in Vietnam, her struggles, outcasting, and finally her seemingly stabilization in her life while raising her young son, and her country, torn apart by war, while the Americans become familiar to the landscape. Disappointed in life, and love, Lee Ley meets American GI Steve Butler -Jones- marries, and moves to America. I won't get too much further into this movie at the risk of revealing spoilers, which I won't do to anyone who hasn't seen this film. I enjoyed this movie, and thrilled at the reunions contained within it, the cinematography was excellent, as were Jones's performance, he has yet to truly let me down, the cast was well chosen, and the movie well directed. The reason I am only giving this movie 8 out of 10, is because I really would've enjoyed to see more about their life in America, we find out bits and pieces and the final, tragic results, but never any story in between them, or what happened to lead up to them, it is a trial of patience and does end with more left to be desired, and questions unanswered, Stone could've gone into better detail in almost 150 minutes, but still a great film, that I recommend.  "},{"Title":"Best unknown Vietnam movie around","Date":"7 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" This movie gives a passionate and realistic view of the war. Things that really happened such as army guys trying to bring Vietnamese wives back to American and trying to make it work out. Like others have commented it makes you question who really started this war and for what reasons. Tommy Lee Jones character says it all in that quiet whisper that turns into an ugly argument when he tells his wife his mission is and has always been from the beginning to sell arms to countries such as her country. So it gets you thinking about what war is really about. Obviously the soldiers are trained to follow orders and not think about or question those orders. That would result in discharge. And for many in the war it dragged on for years on end and eventually people realize the pointlessness of it. How can the supposed most powerful nation on earth loose a war? You can break their backs with superior technology but you can't break their spirit. And you can never completely eradicate a poor people from their own country. There will aways be a resistance no matter how small. So you can never really win. It's like the old school yard bully who beats up on all the small guys. But as long as people despise the power and strength of the arrogant and evil bully there will always be resistance until the bully eventually pulls back and his pride injured. This has happened throughout all of history in all the world empires. Why is it we believe we are something different? This movie in someways gets you to think about that. Could it possibly be that we are the ones to blame? That we are where the problems started? But of course no one wants to consider that when it is so much easier to and cowardly to blame other people. That is why this film wasn't as well known and didn't rake in the multi-millions as other more popular Rambo movies. "},{"Title":"Eye-opening Vietman War Drama","Date":"20 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" The third, and most likely final , film in Oliver Stone's trilogy about the Vietnam war is here.In Platoon we learned of the horrors of war through the eyes of new recruit Chris Taylor, Born on the Fourth of July covered the story of Vietnam veteran come anti-war activist Ron Kovic, and Heaven and Earth finally completes the picture by giving us the Vietnam perspective.Based on two autobiographical novels by Le Ly Hayslip, this high powered drama concerns her struggle for survival in war torn Vietnam, as both the allied forces and the North Vietnamese Army constantly threaten her village with death and destruction.Once again stone has created a thought provoking and disturbing piece of cinema, as we follow young Le through her tragic life from ravaged Vietnam to the United States. Hiep Thi Li is very impressive as Hayslip in her film debut, while Tommy Lee Jones, Haing S. Ngor and Joan Chen are strong in support. The cinematography (Robert Richardson) is quite superb as is the sweeping score (Kitaro).Unfortunately Heaven and Earth is not as forceful and powerful as the previous films, but this can be attributed to the fact that it is once again not as focused a work as its predecessors, and also because we've seen it before in Stone's earlier war epics, thus it doesn't have the same shocking effect.However, little else can be faulted in yet another eye opening drama from Oliver Stone.Wednesday, January 26, 1994 - Knox District CentreThe final part in Oliver Stone's Vietnam experience is told from the Vietnamese perspective with both compassion and conviction.Based on Le Ly Hayslip's (pronounced Lay Lee) autobiographical books When Heaven and Earth Changed Places and Child of War, Woman of Peace, our director's screenplay tells the heartbreaking story of a young woman's devastating journey through life, from an innocent victim of war, to the troubled wife of a U.S. Marine.Following on from his powerful war epics Platoon and Born on the Fourth of July, Stone has crafted a very different and somehow more emotionally involving drama. A magnificent performance from newcomer Hiep Thi Le brings us close to Le Ly's plight as she is first tortured by the Allies and the V.C., then forced to leave her village and try to survive on the streets of Saigon.Strong support comes from Academy Award winner Dr. Haing S. Ngor, Joan Chen and Tommy Lee Jones. Robert Richardson returns to again bring us some startling images of war, as well as some impacting pictures of western society (one particular wide lens shot of a refrigerator alone manages to put our indulgent, wasteful culture to shame). Kitaro provides a sweeping score and the Art Direction and Set Decoration keep things very authentic.As in J.F.K., Oliver Stone has crammed so much into Heaven and Earth that it's a lot like trying to cope with Reader's Digest. Yet, though it starts slowly, Stone shows for a third successive time the evil of war and the way in which it destroys lives, families, villages and entire countries. Heaven and Earth is also a sobering reminder of our flamboyant and richly blessed lifestyle, and one that's free of the ravages of war.If you don't object to being bludgeoned with a point of view, then all three of Oliver Stone's Vietnam works come highly recommended.Sunday, October 23, 1994 - Video "},{"Title":"One of the best films about Vietnam","Date":"19 February 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Oliver stone did a great job in this film,it's nice to watch a film that goes through the  Vietnam war from a Vietnamese point of view.All the characters are well studied and well performed,as a director of course Oliver stone did a great job,it's not like any other Vietnam movie.Oliver stone is the greatest. "},{"Title":"Devalued by Stone's tactless and shouty delivery","Date":"4 August 2006","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" In a small Vietnamese village, Le Ly finds her whole world shattered by the Vietcong and the conflict within her country. After suffering torture, abuse and rape she leaves the village with her mother and heads to Saigon. Continuing to find herself taken advantage of, Le Ly's life continues to be shaped by the influence of men, whether it is bosses and soldiers or the politicians who guide and create the wars that bring the men into her otherwise peaceful life.Opening with sweeping music, beautiful landscapes and happy Vietnamese villagers going about their happy lives in happy ways, this film immediately had alarm bells ringing. It is of course commendable that Stone completed his trilogy of Vietnam films with a story from the Vietnamese point of view and it had the potential to be clever and subtle. Sadly neither of these words get a look in here. The true story itself offers much pain, many harsh judgements and much sadness; it also offers a portrayal of male/female relationship that works well as an analogy for the countries themselves. However Stone was not the person to deliver a sensitive piece that speaks for itself &#150; instead he seems to doubt his audience and insists on ramming it down our throats from start to finish. It is the equivalent of having him come into your home, stand an inch from your face and yell at you for 2 hours; and it is a long two hours.The cast are more or less lost in the storm that Stone creates. Hiep Thi Le gets on with portraying Le Ly by just doing the best she can to suffer convincingly. I didn't think I got to grips with her as a person but this is perhaps less to do with her performance and more to do with Stone apparently not having a lot of interest in her as such. The support cast all turn in their simple characters well enough and most can point to the screenplay in their defence &#150; Chen, Jones, Reynolds and a few other famous faces do their thing but it is Stone that dominates every scene and the film is weaker as a result.Overall then a commendable close to the trilogy in terms of approach but not at all in terms of delivery. I could discuss the finer points of plotting and performances or the factual nature of the story but these have all been nullified by Stone's hammering delivery, that squeezes all the emotion, intelligence and importance out of the story and leaves a film that is miserable and lacking subtlety and certainly not one that deserves Le Ly's life to work with. "},{"Title":"Vietnam from Vietnamese POV","Date":"10 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Le Ly is a village girl from the country as she becomes intertwined with her country's struggle. Oliver Stone is looking at the Vietnam war from the POV of the Vietnamese. It is probably as important as his other Vietnam movies.Hiep Thi Le is a great find. She's able to give it heart and soul. It's a big job for somebody in her first big role. It's an almost impossible job.Tommy Lee Jones has a bit too much intensity. The chemistry is off to me. It's probably more real than I realize. It's a relationship that foreshadows trouble ahead. For a movie goer, I lust for that cinematic romance. But this is not that kind of movie.The last section in the States is not as compelling. It's almost a completely different movie. That's the weakness here. It's not a simple movie. It's a life story. "}{"Title":"One of the Best from Director Oliver Stone","Date":"11 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" To me, this and JFK are the best movies from director Oliver Stone, but the two are world apart as far as the movie goes.First the backdrop of each scene of this movie makes you yearn for somewhere to go home to. Then you see the tanks, the soldiers, and of course the war shows that home is being ravaged into a place where you can't go any more. I actually feel being torn away from the place of my heart, and I'm not even Vietnamese. So I'd say the visual impact of this movie is high.South Viet Nam was a relatively wealthy country in Southeast Asia because they had the perfect climate for growing rice and crops, but just because of the war, you see people becoming destitute. The way the story and the visuals comes together in this movie is one of the best I've seen. It really provokes something in the heart. I've never had a movie experience like this before or since I've seen this movie. The only negative I can see is the poor quality of Asian female actors. Except for Hiep who played the lead role, everyone else was bad to the point of being painful to watch.If a movie is supposed to tell the story and give the simulated experience of the people who are in the story, this is without a doubt one of the best movie I've ever seen. "},{"Title":"Good Show, Old Man.","Date":"23 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Heaven and Earth (1993) follows Platoon (1986) and Born of the Fourth of July (1989) to conclude director Oliver Stone's Vietnam War trilogy. Where Stone won Best Director Oscars for both previous films, Heaven and Earth proved a box-office disaster and went unrecognized by the Academy, though Kitaro bagged a Golden Globe for his haunting score. It's hard not to suspect that racism underlay the commercial failure, for where the hit movies addressed the sufferings of white American soldiers played by Hollywood stars, Heaven and Earth focused on the fundamental victims, adapting the true story of a young Vietnamese woman, Le Ly, who goes from village girl to freedom fighter to wife of a US marine struggling to adjust to life in America to reconciliation in Vietnam. Superbly made, with a stunning performance by Hiep Thi Le as Le Ly, and powerful support from Tommy Lee Jones, this is intelligent, harrowing film-making that attempts to understand and bridge the divide between nations traumatized by war. "},{"Title":"Between Heaven and Earth...","Date":"23 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" The third of Oliver Stone's trilogy on the Vietnam war, is also the least known of the three. However, that does not reflect on its quality in any way. I found this as compelling, if not more, a portrait of the effects of war on the human psyche.The story is based on the true life memoirs of Le Ly Hayslip, a woman caught in a Vietnamese village during the Vietnam war, and who later flourished in the US. While, some of the characters may have been fictional, by and large it seems to be a faithful adaptation. The cinematography in the village (supposed to be Vietnam, but I heard is Thailand) is breathtakingly beautiful, and I can only imagine how wonderful it would have been to see this on the big screen.The movie follows the life of Le Ly, as she grows up in a peaceful village in Vietnam, farming with her parents and siblings. Life seems idyllic till the VietCong appear. Their propaganda against the government influences some of the villagers to support them. Eventually the government forces come and start taking away villagers for questioning (torture). One such day, Le Ly is taken away. The sequences depicting the torture are pretty graphic and not for the faint of heart. Eventually, after she is released, she makes her way to the city with her mother, and her story continues, eventually ending up with meeting a marine, Steve Butler (Tommy Lee Jones, who makes his appearance after an hour into the movie) and flying to the US.The story quite beautifully captures the effect the war has on different individuals, including an amazing transformation in the character of Steve Butler, as he is tormented in the USA by images of the war and by his own failures afterwards. The acting is very good mostly, including a brilliant turn by Haing S. Ngor, who shot to prominence with his role in 'The Killing Fields'. The story eventually manages to capture the spirit of this lady, who overcame some bitter hardships in life. "},{"Title":"Bread And Bhuddha","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" It's interesting that when this film was released in 1993 that the prominent scene shown in film review shows is the scene where the South Vietnamese Army enter the village of Le Ly and come under attack by the VC . This gives the impression you're going to be watching a Vietnam film and the early part of the film does concentrate on the history of Vietnam . Too much so because if you do have a rough outline of Vietnamese history then you'll find the main story is being held up by Le Ly's potted history of Vietnam at every opportunity . There is a train of thought that if a film is too reliant on voice over then the film is failing on that level and this may well be a case in point That's not the only flaw . The way everything is shot gives an idealised view of a far off exotic land . If the Vietnamese government want to do a plug for visiting Vietnam then director Oliver Stone has done the country a big favour . There's a war on don't you and no matter what Le Ly's village still manages to look like a Utopian destination and despite people getting frequently killed and raped one wonders why on Earth anyone would want to leave here . Indeed the cynic in me wonders if Stone is seeking a personal redemption by making this film . I know Stone volunteered for military service in Vietnam and I know prior to that he volunteered to be an English language teacher in Vietnam but yet I never felt I was watching a real world view of Vietnam , more of a clichéd Lonely Planet romanticised Westerner view of the country There's also another flaw and that is Stone seems obsessed with Eastern mysticism . Heaven and Earth ? Ying and Yang ? Slumdog non millionaire and other new age nonsense as Stone concentrates on Karma and other metaphysical nonsense . The Vietnam war came about via Cold War politics and had nothing to do with nature or anything else outside of human engineered power struggles . Stone wants us to believe that a spiritual force is controlling everything but I'm afraid I'm more likely to listen to historians and scientists rather than soothsayers . The main flaw of the movie is that the story is ugly but the visuals are beautiful and while the audience can understand the point Stone is making via this technique it doesn't make new age thinking anymore credible "},{"Title":"An Unsung Gem","Date":"27 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Stone looks objectively at the spiritual way of life led by a Vietnamese village, how they mind immaterial happiness to be able to survive the misery of their corporeal lives. The film begins as an exposition of the village, then begins to focus on one of its resident families, and all the while slowly tightens more and more into a study of one of the daughters, an impassioned girl named Le Ly, whose view of life is not much different than that of the rest of her family but embodies the journey that affirms the importance of their spiritual experience. She is born into a babe-in-the-woods atmosphere, in which her village lives as they have for centuries. All is in its place like the ancestors who are buried on land that has been in the same family for so long. Then a warplane screams across the sky, and in a heartbeat all she knows is sieged. What she believes to be her fate will take her from the rice patties of the Central Highlands to the sprawling bubble of California.Oliver Stone has made films about Vietnam from the point of view of a combat infantryman and a paralyzed veteran, and now in this unsung gem he punctuates an indispensable installment into a trilogy by seeing the war through the eyes of a Vietnamese woman. The story is true, as were Platoon, drawn from his own first-hand experience, and Born on the Fourth of July, based on the autobiography of Ron Kovic.I feel safe in saying that the seminal spirituality of this film is objective, and vitally so, because there are many things about this film that seem externally uncharacteristic of Stone's body of work. For instance, he is not known for films about women. This is the first time he has had to place himself inside a woman's thoughts, and that he indiscriminately does owes no small piece to Hiep Thi Le's performance in the leading role. Having been born in Vietnam, come to America as a child, knowing both worlds, is perfectly cast for such a culturally and realistically complicated character to portray. Seeing the war through her eyes, watching as foreign troops beeline across the fields of her family, we are asked by Stone to see how radically antagonistic the American strategy in Vietnam was. The long-term aim was to win the hearts and minds of the Vietnamese people. With this intent, we displaced them from the land of their ancestors, and shepherded them into strategic hamlets made to force the Viet Cong out, even if they worked more like camps to keep the residents in. This strife indeed emboldened them to relate to the Cong, who appreciated their same ideals.For common growers who wanted just to farm, the war brought nightmarish dilemmas. Into her life one day comes a towering, rugged American named Steve Butler, in one of Tommy Lee Jones's becoming, persuasive and mood-swinging performances, who does not want her as a hooker, but as a wife. He is kind, compassionate, determined, yet maybe if she were less hard up she would discern a worrying connotation when he claims, I want an Oriental wife. His image of her is desperately entwined with his own internal debilitations, his need for a woman who will concurrently absolve him, and submit to him.Le Ly returns to America as Mrs. Steve Butler, to a land where the supermarket shelves seem to sprawl infinitely in all vectors and the in-laws treat her as something between a darling and an embarrassment. One of her American relatives is played, through skillful casting, by Debbie Reynolds. Le Ly has issues adapting, but not as many as her husband, who learns that his groundwork and 20 years as a military adviser have left him despairingly unfit for civilian life. Jones shows his talent for characters who are never scarier than when they are simpatico.The anamorphic cinematography by the great Robert Richardson dials up the color palette so that the transition from the horrific chaos in Vietnam and the commodified epic pleasantry of America is almost explosively surreal. We follow Le Ly and her new husband into supermarkets and split-level San Diego kitchens with relentless wide angle lenses and sometimes even the out-of-sync slow motion Stone would soon fall in love with while making Natural Born Killers.Part of what made Stone such a draw in the earlier half of his career and a deterrent in his latter half is that he treasures politically controversial topics. When the Vietnam War was the most vital in contemporary American history, just Stone made it his work as a filmmaker. Movies are a very different course to make a meaningful assertion than one which can be accompanied by explanatory notes. Movies interface in the ways things show, sense, sound. In Platoon, Born on the Fourth of July and now Heaven and Earth, Stone has us see through eyes that saw three bases of that atrocity. "},{"Title":"The Cinema of Oliver Stone Heaven & Earth","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" Heaven & Earth (1993) was the final part of Oliver Stone's Viet-Nam Trilogy. The story follows a Vietnamese Peasant girl named Ly Le who's idyllic life in her village is changed forever by a civil war in her country. Both sides deal horrific atrocities against her and the rest of the village. Can Ly Le weather the storm that is the Vietnam War and keep her head up? What will happen to her village as the war gets more violent and brutal on both sides? How far can the human condition be under such extremes and still remain sane? You'll have to find out by watching this harrowing film Heaven & Earth.I really like this movie, Oliver Stone is such a masterful storyteller and the acting, directing and writing kept me on edge throughout the entire film. I have to highly recommend this film. Joan Chen (who still looks hot underneath the make-up), Tommy Lee Jones, Dr. Haing S. Ngor co-star as well.Highly recommended "},{"Title":"typical oliver stone film","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  oliver stone's films are so good because they are both very realistic and emotional at the same time. this combination works very good. i like oliver stone's films very much, and probably 100 years from now they will be still watched, which can't be said for most of the films which are successful today. he and james cameron are my favorite directors, can't decide who is better, on third place is kubrick.  "},{"Title":"Not Stone's best, but still a good film","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" This is the third movie in director Olvier Stone's unofficial Vietnam War trilogy after Platoon and Born On The Fourth July. It is the least known of these movies and also the worst of them. Which doesn't mean it's bad, far from it, it's actually pretty good.Like Born On The Fourth Of July (and many other Oliver Stone films), Heaven & Earth is based on a true story, this time around that of Vietnamese humanitarian Phung Thi Le Ly Hayslip. Though the Vietnam War is very much present in this movie, it is less a war movie than the previous two, instead more of a biography film. And one of the problems with this movie is that though the main character goes through many ordeals and suffers many hardships, you never really feel for her, connect with her. Or at least I didn't, and often found her to be somewhat annoying. Despite his prominent presence in the posters, Tommy Lee Jones is really more of a secondary character here and only appears about an hour and ten minutes into the movie, as a fictional character that was merged from two separate men in Le Ly Hayslip's life.Oliver Stone does have detractors and his latest films haven't been his strongest, but he's generally accepted as one of the good directors in Hollywood. Heaven & Earth isn't his best film, but it's still a very well-made one, with some beautiful shots of Vietnam (actually Thailand) and particularly brilliant scenes in America. I wouldn't necessarily recommend this film strongly, but once again, there's still some very good stuff in there, so if you're into Oliver Stone, movies about Vietnam War, or movies in general for that matter, it's a nice one to watch. "},{"Title":"What a reflection on a similar situation in Iraq !","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" I watched Heaven & Earth for the first time recently and missed the opening credits, title etc.. But the film is so gripping and so un-predictable (to the end) that you want to know more about it.Heaven & Earth reflects the impact of war on ordinary people. It is more realistic than most war movies, and as an opener to the turbulent world of the 90's/00's, tops in my opinion any other film war movie including the much ballyhooed Saving Private Ryan ! The script obviously suffers from obvious problems of Bussaro Sanruk's accent, but the camera action, editing, superb Oliver Stone direction, and musical score (by Kitaro) makes up for everything. And it still manages to be an un-predictable film to boot.Incidentally, no one has credited a superb performance from the heroine Bussaro Sanruck (Ley Ley) in IMDb !! Finally, how strange that history repeats itself in the suffering of the people of Iraq in 2007 ! Is any Hollywood director interested in their plight to make a similar film, or just the usual slam bam Rambo-style war hero films ?? It is time for another Black Hawk Down for Iraq... "},{"Title":"A highly emotional and visually compelling story of how the Vietnam War effected the life of a peasant girl.","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Oliver Stone portrays so vividly the very essence of the injustices and deprivations brought upon the innocents of war.  Your heart will feel the pain and agony of this young Vietnamese woman. This film is one the best Vietnam War stories I have seen, second only to Platoon.  "}{"Title":"Touching, sad, realistic","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Oliver Stone is magnificent director. This movie ends his trilogy from the Vietnam war, and I would say it's the best. This time, the story is told from the view of Vietnamese woman, Le Ly Hayslip, who's novel the story is based. The life is rough for the young Le Ly who have to struggle first through the civil war which is tearing her country, and then with the French and rest, the American. The true, unspeakable face of war is seen in the movie, and in the style of Oliver Stone, there is clear pacifistic message seen. Also American way of life don't go without criticism, which is definably wonderful thing. Kitaro's music is wonderful as ever. And I couldn't imagine better actor than Tommy Lee Jones to the role of Steven Butler, US soldier whose life is somewhat unstable after the war. I rated this movie with 10 since I couldn't find reason to give 9. "},{"Title":"Heaven & Earth","Date":"1 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" You could call this the last film in a trilogy of Vietnam films from director Oliver Stone, following Platoon and Born on the Fourth of July, except in this one it is based in Vietnamese themselves. Based on a true story, this film tells the story of Le Ly (a great introduction by Hiep Thi Le) and her struggles to find her happiness in her home land, or another. For the first hour of the film it focuses on her rape, an unwanted pregnancy and her Mama (Joan Chen) disgracing her. Then after this time you finally see the main (and probably only big) American soldier (and star) that she would eventually fall in love with, Sergeant Steve Butler (a terrific Tommy Lee Jones). When they eventually move to America, California, they seem to have a good life, even with her attempting to learn the new culture. But it is after many arguments that the relationship seems to crumble, and Steve seems to have turned into a psychotic, oh, and he kills himself after she phones and says she loves him! So returns back to Vietnam with her children, to her Mama and lives the rest of her life in Vietnam, making other lives better. Also starring Haing S. Ngor as Papa, Singin' in the Rain's Debbie Reynolds as Eugenia and an uncredited very quick cameo by Beetle Juice's Jeffrey Jones as a Priest. It won the Golden Globe for Best Original Score for Kitaro, a very deserved award for such powerful and moving music. Very good! "},{"Title":"War lasts longer than anyone can imagine.","Date":"16 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  As part of Stone's Vietnam trilogy, this movie does a good job of depicting how war affected the people of Vietnam and the soldiers that went there.  It was a little long, but the shots of the rice fields and the chaos of the evacuation were relevant. Most of all Tommy Lee Jones gives a moving performance as Steve Butler- the soldier who only knows how to kill.  I was moved beyond words at his desperation- shown so well in the scene with Ly Lip where he goes from wanting to kill her to trying to kill himself.  Jones grasps the hopelessness of his character so well. With this last film it seems Stone's ghosts are finally exorcised.  "},{"Title":"is it a true story?","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":" silly questionbut is it a true account? and anyone know if it is based on a book? i saw this movie many years ago, it made me cry...definitely worth watching anyone know any more Vietnam war type movies based on the people in Vietnam during the war? i remember the story when she moved to the USA with tommy lee..it was really good to see her adapt to life there. And tommy lee did an excellent job, sad ending though..which i will not expose.okay a newbie to IMDb and its not letting me submit this because it has to be ten lines of text so i am just blabbering on and on because i really cant remember the details of the film, apart from the fact that it was strikingly powerful and very moving and very good..okay more than ten lines now "},{"Title":"Heaven and Hell","Date":"2 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Biography, Drama","Review":"  Heaven and Earth does present us with a welcome and new perspective. The Vietnamese peasant has rarely been considered other than as a prop or static / background characters. Sadly, Le Ly, the village girl does not tell an unusual or unique story. The film succeeds in depicting how literally damned villagers were if they do and were damned if they don't, when it came to the forces that swept through constantly molesting and looting them.Le Ly was guilty of signaling the ambush (the scene where she is taking off the jacket as she walked through the field.) This speaks to Michael Herr's comment on innocent, which again is something that we are being brought to believe about Le Ly. How innocent one is when they give the signal to someone waiting in ambush becomes rather untenable, especially when it results in death. She is then rounded up as a VC. I certainly don't advocate the physical and psychological torture administered to her by the ARVN and supervised by an American. But she had certainly become more than an innocent bystander.Her mother wins her release through a bribe, depicting the often-represented theme of corruption within the GVN/ARVN ranks. The idealism of the propaganda fed to the villagers (her included) is quickly shattered as VC boys of her own village rape her. Sadly, this situation, being suspect by both ARVN and VC operating in her village's area compels her and her mother (who has also become suspect by winning the release of her daughter) to go to the city where they can live and become more anonymous.The `master' seduction scene demonstrates that it is not only the Anglo foreigners with a `Lord Jim' wish to fulfill. He is quite happy to have a young county-bumpkin wrapped like a dog &#145;round his feet. But even this misfortune is too good to last. As tortured physically and psychologically, as she has been, dear old mom supplies another assault by demeaning her while pleading to the master as she tries to maintain their position with the aristocratic family.The Chinese had a saying during the Cultural Revolution, `alive in the bitter sea' and such is Le Ly's saga. No matter where she turns she is stymied. The corruption of the government is again seen on its operative level when the infamous `white-mice' shake her down when she is caught hawking goods on the street.  (Her life is one big shake down.  So were many of the lives of the boat people, who also had to endure Thai pirates pulling out gold filled teeth and other depravations on the high seas...)Up to this point she had all my sympathy. Enter Tommy Lee Jones. `Steve' is, to borrow a line from Mad Max, 'a one-way suicide machine.' His fuse had been lit long before their lives collide. By the time his time bomb detonates, there is already plenty of wreckage for the family to crawl out from. His detestable objectifying of her `a good oriental woman' and Larry's Thanksgiving comment `I had me one of them in Okinawa' expresses an amalgamation of chauvinism and racism. Le Ly's resilience is a nice quasi-feminist answer to those self-destructive male characters.The so-called Buddhist elements were lacking in what they seemed to be attempting. The compulsion Stone has for heavy-handed platitudes in the narration of his films, such as `Same suffering, different skin' actually erode the compelling nature of the story for me. Ultimately, though I like and appreciate Stone's work in films such as Salvador, Platoon, and others that he has been involved with directing or producing, he also maintains a body of work that aren't quite there.  I thought Heaven and Earth was an important film, but I feel that this film might have been better if Tony Bui or someone else directed it. Lastly, the true-life story of the actor who played Le Ly's father, Haing S. Ngor, is HIGHLY recommended for those who haven't seen `The Killing Fields.'  "}]