[{"Title":"Accurate?  Who Cares? Just Enjoy It.","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"42 out of 49 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" How much of this is true, I cannot say. Perhaps I should do some research on it knowing how accurate most Hollywood historical films tend to be. For years, the white man was always the good guy; the Indian, the bad guy. Then came, the present day political correctness era where the Indian is the good guy and the white man is the bad guy. Frankly, I don't care in this case because this movie is simply a very entertaining film that is enjoyable to watch....and that's what movies are supposed to be entertaining. What makes it so entertaining?1) a very interesting saga of the famous Apache Geronimo, fighting for his people and also living a life dedicated to revenge; 2) A great portrayal of him by actor Wes Studi, who has the perfect face and voice for the role; 3) a very solid all-male cast, with memorable leads played by Jason Patric, Robert Duvall, Gene Hackman and Matt Damon; 4) wonderful golden-hued cinematography, filmed in the mountainous area of Moab, Utah; 5) Not excessive violence nor a lot of profanity, rare for a Walter Hill directed movie. This is one of the stylish Hill's classier efforts. 6) Good sound if you have the DVD and a surround sound system.Yes, this leans in the PC class with big-time leanings toward the Indian cause, but the Apache people apparently had a good case for their cause, at least with Geronimo's convincing question near the end of the movie There is plenty of land. Why do you want it all? "},{"Title":"A worthile and incisive film on this subject.","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"34 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":"  'Let's start with this All written history is revisionist. The actual events are revisited and revised in the perspective of the re-visitor. That said, this remarkably well written, well acted, and generally well executed movie is likely the best account of the Geronimo Campaign out there. Head and shoulders above much of the other junk out there about this important American figure. It is, to boot, beautifully filmed and deftly directed. And the narrative approach worked perfectly with this subject. Well worth a couple of viewing hours by anyone who sincerely wants to know what was up with all that.'  "},{"Title":"Jason Patric is Magnificent in this Great Epic","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"25 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":"  With its superb acting, writing and directing, this masterpiece by Walter Hill is unique, not only in the way it maintains its epic quality in the span of two hours, but in the strong chemistry between the two main characters. The majestic music and scenic photography combine perfectly to compliment the stunning performances of Wes Studi as Geronimo and the breath-taking Jason Patric as Lt. Charles Gatewood. The special friendship shared between the two grand, thoughtful men is the main interest that holds this film together, with Patric's performance being the most exceptional, amid a talented supporting cast of big names.As a righteous officer and gentleman who remains loyal but unpoisoned by excessive patriotism, Gatewood is a tough but calming influence in the face of great danger, while displaying a maturity that bewilders his more primitive companion Al Sieber (Robert Duvall) who exclaims, You don't love who you're fighting for and you don't hate who you're fighting against! In this way, Gatewood is just as complex as he is likable, immediately gaining the trust and admiration of both his friends and enemies.Whether he assumes the role of an ambassador with his deep eyes and charismatic presence or that of a soldier with his masterful horsemanship (performed by the actor himself), Jason Patric brings a special depth and beauty to Gatewood, making him one of the most impressive and under rated heroes ever captured on film. His presence alone makes this film a great classic, as well as a thought provoking treasure! "},{"Title":"my personal feelings","Date":"14 August 2004","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":"  IN I993 I had my first viewing of this great film. I was proud to see how the story of the apache was displayed and the harsh treatment they suffered and all they lost.I feel the truth was shown in this film.I am part native American myself.I was especially interested.My friends and I saw the film together and I must say at the end when they are on the train to Florida after Geronimo's final surrender all of us were stunned.It was one of the most powerfully emotional scenes I have ever viewed.some people cried,and the emotions in the theatre were so sad.Geronimo's final words moved me and I remember No one knows why the One God let the white eye take our land.this is to never be answered and gone forever.I was haunted for years after this film.  "},{"Title":"intelligence at drama's expense","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"28 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":"  This film was part of the revival the western genre had in the beginning of the 90's in the wake of Dances With Wolves. Not all of the westerns from this period are worth seeing (Bad Girls is a good example of that) but there are gems among them. This film, Geronimo An American Legend being one. It makes an intelligent comment regarding the frankly despicable treatment the Apaches, among other American Indian tribes, recieved at the hands of the American government. In this lies the films strength and the presentation of this theme is the focus of the film's plot. It plays like a historical thesis or argument. This being terrific for people who are looking to know exactly what happened to the Apaches.However, people who search for great dramaturgical nerve in films should avoid this film. Because there is none. The plot faithfully depicts the historical progress of events and refuses to completely demonize the Whites (although they clearly are being portrayed as the expansionist aggressors)in order to build a protagonist-antagonist plot-structure. This makes the movie slow, and for non-buffs a tedious experience.Finally, the film has a terrific soundtrack by Ry Cooder and a knock-out performance by Wes Studi as Geronimo! "},{"Title":"Above-average historical treatment","Date":"6 February 2003","Score":"19 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":"  As others have said, this is an excellent example of a revisionist Western, successful both as a 'quest' film and as history. Despite minor examples of the invariable desire of film-makers to embellish events (Al Sieber in fact died years later when a rock rolled on him while he was clearing a road) this is as close as you'll get to a historically and visually accurate movie account of the pursuit of Geronimo. "},{"Title":"No heroes on both sides","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"16 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" This underrated Western (in Germany Hills picture disappears after one week from the cinema) convinces with an excellent script (I realize again, John Milius is much better in writing as directing), a stunning photography and outstanding performances of the lead characters. Studi is great, a wonderful study of pride and his understanding that he never can win his war against white men. Especially this poetic and realistic movie is by comparison with other Indian sagas not a fairy tale from far west. Hill tells the truth and so we see only desperate people and no heroes - on both sides. Great - a must see for fans. I give 8 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"More history than drama, but still revisionist","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" The valiant, if doomed, Chiricahua Apache tried (as did so many other tribes) to be accommodating after being hounded to the breaking point. Their famous chief, Geronimo, gave himself up voluntarily and tried to lead his people onto the reservation. But, as happened so many times, even after capitulation they were attacked in unwarranted fashion and reacted by leaving the reservation whereupon they were hunted, and hunted, and harried. Some people don't like this film because it tells history more like it was than most movies do about the conquering of the American west ... it shows both sides of the story, not just one. With this movie, you can't identify with the hero on one side and the villain or the other. Both are sympathetic, both are reprehensible (isn't that the way a historical drama really ought to be played? In my book, this is a plus). As a native of Arizona, where much of the historical action took place, I find it disturbing that the countryside in which the movie was made is either in some other state or in the wrong part of Arizona, that characters seem to be able to get from Tombstone to San Carlos in one day on horseback (either they had multiple horses, or one dead one), and that there is a bit of overstatement about the honor among the various Apache bands (with reference to the reason that members of some Apache groups served as scouts against other groups). All in all, though, I vote for this one over all the other Geronimo movies that have been made. "},{"Title":"A remarkable film about one of history's most infamous individuals","Date":"11 July 2002","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":"  One of the many films which are overlooked,  the stark portrayal of the American Army couldn't  have been more refreshing. While we are  constantly exposed to the goodness of our  forefathers, at least this film proved to be a little  diligent to a true portrayal. Anyway, this film was  excellent in the scope of its cinematography,  scope and powerful script. Sadly, while Jason  Patric has done little to enhance his career  since this film, at least he shined for a few  short moments, particularly in this movie. Wes  Studi's performance as Geronimo was superb,  adding depth to the legend which few people  have only heard about through old wives tales  and abridged history books. Robert Duvall and  Gene Hackman were both excellent in this film.  I also felt Matt Damon was excellent in this film,  further giving precedence to the idea of him  being a superior actor to his terrible actor-friend  in Ben Affleck. A Truly excellent movie. "},{"Title":"A Must-See for Fans of Sandy Epics","Date":"23 September 1999","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":"  Echoes of John Ford westerns and 'Lawrence of Arabia' abound, both visually and thematically, in this gripping character study of the relentlessly proud Apache. A career high for Walter Hill and John Milius, this is also an excellent introduction to the ambiguous nature of the Indian Wars, where even the Indian heroes are guilty of killing unarmed men. Wes Studi and Robert Duvall give outstanding performances. "}{"Title":"Agreeable movie about  the famous Indian leader and set on  spectacular landscapes","Date":"7 January 2005","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" The film talks upon Geronimo (Wes Studi), chief of Apaches Chiricaguas. The continuous humiliation in reservoir of San Carlos caused the bursting of riots commanded by Geronimo and his group of Indians . They will confront American cavalry in charge of General Crook (Gene Hackman) , but later he'll be replaced by another hardest commander. Two officers (Jason Patrick and Matt Damon) will go out looking for Geronimo to make a peace treatise. In the film there are wonderful outdoors shot on location in Utah territory , and it displays action , shootouts , violence and though is slow-moving , isn't tiring , neither dreary . The picture is based on historical characters  Geronimo , Cohise and general Crook . At the main and supporting cast are the actors who usually play Indian roles  Wes Studi , Rodney A. Gant , Steve Reeves because being native origin . The motion picture was well directed by Walter Hill , though he never liked the title of the movie Geronimo An American Legend because he never felt the movie was about Geronimo but about the men who had caught Geronimo . He stated there is a longer version to the movie, he was forced to cut it down by 12 minutes ; in his own words, he describes the version as a damn good rendition . Director Walter Hill gets too much experience on western genre ,thus  ¨The long riders¨ , ¨Will Bill¨. Besides , he has modern westerns  ¨Streets of fire¨ and ¨Extreme prejudice¨. ¨The Long Riders¨ is deemed to be an excellent movie but ¨Will Bill¨ is considered boring and overlong . ¨Geronimo¨ is similar height to ¨Long Riders¨ . The motion picture didn't obtain success and was a real flop in box office , in spite of the extraordinary sets , glimmer cinematography and atmospheric as well as evocative Ry Cooder's musical score . The movie will appeal to Indian western fans. Rating good . Well catching. "},{"Title":"One Who Was Actually There","Date":"14 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" Geronimo An American Legend was the last of the fearsome Indians whose very name spread terror to the white settlers of the American West. The film is based on the actual memoirs of the real life character Matt Damon plays. Damon's character Brittain Davis wrote the book in 1929, in the film Damon is a young shave-tail lieutenant newly minted from West Point and assigned to the 6th Cavalry in the Arizona territory. Damon narrates the film and it's through his eyes that we see the action unfold.Army politics factors big in the hunt for Geronimo, General George Crook who was the Army general best known for subduing the Indians had his policy questioned by the officials in Washington and after he captures Geronimo once and then through some gross stupidity an incident happens on the reservation that sets Geronimo on the warpath again, Crook played by Gene Hackman is replaced by General Nelson Miles who is portrayed by Kevin Tighe.That's above the heads of army lieutenant Charles Gatewood who actually does the negotiations to bring Geronimo in and is played by Jason Patric. It's also so much nonsense to army chief of scouts Al Sieber who Robert Duvall plays. They're the ones along with Damon who are actually in the trenches so to speak.The Indian wars of the Arizona Territory are played even handedly in this film showing the courage and brutality on both sides. Geronimo An American Legend is a fact based tale told from the perspective of one who was actually there. It's a most worthwhile film. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and thought-provoking","Date":"17 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":"  This is one of the few movies that you can watch many times.  Studi's portrayal of Geronimo shows him as proud, wise and above all, human.  The only fault I can find with this movie is the fact that not enough is made of Chato and what ultimately happened to him.  Apart from that this is a truly excellent movie, and a brilliant glimpse of America's unsettling history. "},{"Title":"If you want to learn Geronimo, don't watch this movie.","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" I don't like this movie at all. I adore and admire the apaches as a people, and for fighting both Mexican and American soldiers for centuries. I am a great fan of Geronimo (indian name Goklayeh), and have read all books written about him (most recommended Forrest Carter's Watch for Me on the Mountain). This film does not show a veracious proclamation of Geronimo and contains many false facts. For example there's one scene where Geronimo killed some new settlers without any reason, something he never did. He was not a barbarian, and had a reason behind every action. You can't see the genius and the mastermind Geronimo in this movie, neither can you see the greatest guerrilla warrior ever lived. Geronimo is a lost man in the film, fighting in vain. As a matter of fact he never surrendered without a reason, there were always a plan behind every action. He was clever, smart, astute and sluly. If Geronimo not surrendered as a volunteer, the army would never manage to capture him. In the film you see him hide with some warriors on a mountain cliff, before he is forced to surrender for the last time. That was not what happened. He surrendered for the last time in 1886, with the only purpose to make sure the tribe would live. The glorification is to much focused on General Crook, yes indeed he was a good man, but he does not deserve to be remembered as the hero in a movie about Geronimo. "},{"Title":"must see for Wes Studi's performance alone","Date":"2 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" In my humble opinion, this film spent a lot of screen time making U.S. Army characters appear honorable. Yet, those officers were carrying out evil orders from an evil regime. They were stealing the land of the Apache, moving those people to barren wasteland and denying them freedom of religion. When the U.S. Army shot the medicine man, how was that any different that a Nazi shooting a rabbi during a service? I suspect that film makers must insert white heroes into a movie or it will not get distribution.Nonetheless, this movie is still worth seeing and moved me deeply. It does show the basic facts of the Apache genocide and Geronimo's life. Jason Patric's performance as Gatewood is outstanding, understated and overlooked. His stunt work/horse skills are impressive; nothing flashy, he looks like so natural and efficient. (Just like a Cavalry officer of that era would be.)Now on to the heart of the matter Wes Studi is a great actor and deserved an Oscar for this performance. This movie is worth seeing for him alone. The director gave the final scene (train to Florida) the proper time, editing and pacing. I will not give away any of the words in that final scene. They are too powerful and beautiful coming out of Wes Studi's mouth. It is an appropriate eulogy to the Apache people.In conclusion, this is a beautiful movie. Please give it the proper attention that it deserves. "},{"Title":"An historical western deserving classic status.","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":"  A superior western in every respect. It is deserving of classic status, a must see film as history lived by it's participants. Like The Killing Fields, it only touches the reality. The film reality is awesome. See it. Learn from it. "},{"Title":"I give it *****","Date":"26 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":"  I loved this movie. I have watched it six times. The plot was superb, the acting was excellent, the actors even better, and the movie in itself goes on my top ten list. "},{"Title":"Revisionist History Provides Some Insight to Geronimo","Date":"29 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" From the 80's onwards, movies and television stories have introduced us to many heroic individuals living during the late 1800s with amazingly modern attitudes towards Native Americans. I'm starting to wonder how the hostiles were designated hostile when there were so many of these stand-up-and-be-heard PC types running around. (In the army, no less, which is just the place *I* would go if I wanted to find to a peaceful solution with the native American people.) I do wish that the movies would just show what happened without the characters of Basil Exposition and The Preacher, so we can form our own conclusions.This movie is no exception, focusing on the Apache War, with Jason Patric playing Lt. Gatewood - speaking the very language of the Apache - pointing out to his commanding officer the errors of Indian policy. Matt Daman trots along in his wake and explains other concerns helpfully. Both look sincere and concerned, with Jason showing religious fervor and Matt looking terribly naive. Robert Duvall is excellent (as always); Wes Studi is solid as Geronimo.The scenery (if you neglect to note the transportation implications as they race from one lovely monument several hours by car to another while raiding in the space of minutes) is lovely, and the soldiers look suitably tired and scruffy. I did find it dreadfully distracting (sorry to be so obsessive) that each actor had a mouthful of beautiful white teeth in the 1800s when dental care was a mere rumour.And the facts. Well, so, as one reviewer pointed out, we weren't there, but we do know some details because the people that were there kept diaries and wrote letters, and we can compare what people wrote, and they all agreed on certain things. Unfortunately, Hollywood used what was handy and ignored a few important details.So now some viewers will probably think they know something about Geronimo's life that isn't true, especially the poor junior high school kid cheating on some report by watching the movie. It's just irresponsible for movie makers to distort basic and important facts for the sake of the story.This movie was beautifully photographed, well acted, and brings visibility in an highly poignant fashion to the suffering of the Native American to those who may have missed all the other movies. If they'd ridden their horses just a little closer to the facts, they would have had a much tighter story on Geronimo. "},{"Title":"A movie to watch in Widescreen","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":"  First off, If you don't have this film on DVD so you can watch the wide screen, uncropped version, get it friend. This is a very well done affair. While I am not knowledgeable enough to know how well the movie sticks to all the truths, I can say that the beautiful panoramic shots, and attention to authenticity for the era, such as dress and firearms, for example, is real good. Nothings perfect, but its definitely one you can watch more then once. In fact, I'm posting this on at 8pm Sept 4th Alaska time, which is 1200am Sept 5th, EST which is the anniversary of Geronimos surrender. Good enough reason to pull it out for me. Watching it as I type this....Enjoy......  "},{"Title":"Soldier Blue","Date":"12 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" I don't feel we did wrong in taking this great country away from them. There were great numbers of people who needed new land, and the Indians were selfishly trying to keep it for themselves. &#x96; John Wayne (interview) Two thousand years of history, could not be wiped away so easily. &#x96; Bob Marley The Indians must conform to the white man's ways, peaceably if they will, forcibly if they must. They must adjust themselves to their environment, and conform their mode of living substantially to our civilization. This civilization may not be the best possible, but it is the best the Indians can get. They cannot escape it, and must either conform to it or be crushed by it. The tribal relations should be broken up, socialism destroyed, and the family and the autonomy of the individual substituted. - Commissioner Thomas MorganAfter demonizing Native American Indians for several decades, Hollywood suddenly began releasing a slew of revisionist westerns in the late 60s and early 70s. Enter films like Buffalo Bill, Ulzana's Raid, A Man Called Horse and Soldier Blue, all of which forced their audiences to empathise with subjugated natives whilst portraying the white man as genocidal brutes bent on conquest. Even John Ford, one-time king of racist caricatures, tried to make amends with Cheyenne Autumn, his apology for past pictures.Meanwhile, on the other side of the Atlantic, French, Italian and British film-makers were treading similar ground. With the dismantling of the British Empire, British directors began releasing a spread of anti Colonial war films, whilst European directors like Gavras, Wertmuller and Pontecorvo protested the treatment of Algerians and the aggressions of the French Empire.With the battle for history won, films in the early 90s then began to treat this subject in a much more elegiac fashion. Films like Dances With Wolves, Thunderheart, Squanto, Geronimo and The Last of the Mohicans serve up romantic myths, treating Native Americans with a mixture of reverence, nostalgia and melancholy.Released at the end of this wave, Walter Hill's Geronimo focuses on the Geronimo Campaign, a period of history between 1885 and 1886 in which five thousand US cavalry men attempted to hunt and kill a group of Apache Indians. As is typical of these films, the US Cavalry is portrayed as an aggressive invader whilst the Indians are treated as a band of unfairly persecuted freedom fighters. With the Apaches placed in reservations (ie, concentration camps), caged in trains like Holocaust victims and betrayed by fellow Indians seduced by the false promises of white men, the film is implicitly critical of a certain brand of Colonialism.It's all familiar stuff, very superficially drawn, but the film nevertheless differentiates itself from revisionist westerns in several ways. It revokes the cliché of having an enlightened white man shedding his white ways and fighting for the red skins, and instead adopts a tone of total futility. Here, the battle is already lost, the natives already defeated, and our white hero has long resigned to the horrors of his own actions. Thus, rather than having a white man joining forces with the natives and taking up arms with them against the invaders - your typical Avatar narrative - we have a white man attempting to reason with natives such that they accept their own loss. Such that they come to terms with their defeat and stop wasting the lives of their few remaining tribesmen in a futile fight against a technologically and numerically superior foe. Because of this stance, the film plays less like a drama or action fantasy, than a kind of detached tragedy. The weight of a hundred years of history has already determined the outcome of the film, the typical Hollywood fantasies (the flights of fancy where audiences woop with joy as the Indians rebel) rejected entirely. The battle is over. Victory is impossible. History is defeat. This may make for less satisfying viewing, but it gets under your skin.Another bold choice is the resignation of the white officer at the end of the film. Whilst most films in this genre actualise the white man's rage by having him join forces with the enemy and fight against his homeland, the truth is, doing nothing is often a much braver act. Violence is not necessarily action. Social structures are run by action, and, contrary to popular opinion, it is violence that makes sure things stay the way they are. Sometimes the truly violent act is to do nothing, a radical refusal often undermining the status quo. Sometimes the only authentic stance to take in dark times is to do nothing, to refuse all commitment (see Renoir's The Devil Probably). 7.9/10 - Though directed by Walter Hill, screenwriter John Milius is the real auteur of this picture. Milius' lug-headed politics and passions ooze from every scene, whilst director Walter Hill is simply content to use the tale as an excuse to indulge in his love for his mentors, Peckinpah and Siegel. The film is perhaps better than Dances With Wolves, but loses points for some middlebrow sermonising. And though critical of US Calvary men and policy makers, the film is nevertheless heavily whitewashed, too fearful to deal with some of the darker truths which occurred during the era. See Europa Europa. "}{"Title":"Excellent in all ways","Date":"8 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" This is a beautifully filmed and clearly told movie.The politically correct aspect about the injustices towards the Native population wasn't rammed down your throat. It was just matter of factly shown with greater impact. A little more of Geronimo's life prior to the start of the incidents in this movie could have been shown.Matt Damon is good as the idealistic young officer. Jason Patric is quite convincing too. There aren't too many annoying and one dimensionally good or evil characters like in some of the other recent movies of this genre.Do watch it if you can. "},{"Title":"Nice Attempt ... missed opportunity","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" I write about the Apache in the Desert Exposure newspaper, and I hike Apacheria in New Mexico. While there are many other Native American groups in both AZ and NM, the Jicarilla, Mescalero, and Eastern Chiricahua are the dominant of the Apacheans. This a film represented a tremendous opportunity, with such a fine actor as Wes Studi, to allow the story to be told through Geronimo's eyes. It missed that chance. Studi gives an excellent performance as Geronimo. He certainly best resembles Geronimo among Native actors that I can think of. Geronimo was likely a sociopath. He killed remorselessly. He was a gas bag,impressed with himself. He was, the most vigilant of all the Apache. Within New Mexico, just west of the Rio Grande, and east of the Arizona line, we had Chihuahua; Geronimo; Loco; Lozen (the woman warrior); Mangas Coloradas; Nana; Victorio; Ulzana (Jolsany). The country around Moab isn't New Mexico. Moab represented a view of the West Hollywood wanted to perpetuate. Also,Moab had amenities that no southern New Mexican towns would have offered. Silver City, where I am, has hosted most recently, North Country. There is plenty of desert, but also, high mountains, to given the most realistic view of where Geronimo was from & where he fought, since he was born & raised in the Gila Wilderness, north of Silver City.He mostly fought the latter years in the Chiricahuas, & in Chihuahua and Sonora, Mexico. Studi would have given Geronimo the understanding the man had with having lost his entire family to the Mexicans & the intense hatred he had for them from then on. Geronimo isn't universally loved on the Mescalero & Ft. Sill Reservations, because many Chiricahua Apachewanted to give up the struggle before he did.Gene Hackman plays a superb Gen. Crook, as a no-nonsense general. He'd chased many less truculent Apaches, and put them on reservations. He was a born cavalryman, was unassuming, & was the first to understand that only Apache could find other Apache. Until then, and afterwards, when Gen. Nelson Miles took command of the campaign against Geronimo, failed to find him, and resorted to using Lt. Charles Gatewood and two principle Apaches (Martine and Kayetah), did he find Geronimo.Gatewood was a very decent man. He was respected by the Apache, since he'd been on reservation with them, & also, been in the Victorio Campaigns, among others. He was so trusted by them that Geronimo asked him, @ Canyon Embudos, in Chihuahua, in March, 1886, What would you do?(Would you surrender?). Gatewood told them he would.Britton (Braa ton) Davis (played by Matt Damon), by the 1885-1886 period, was no longer centrally involved in the final chase. He was at Ft. Apache when Geronimo left. Al Sieber, played by Robert Duval, was so drunk that when Britton Davis received word that the Apaches were making tizwin (tiz ween), acquivalent to 3.2 beer, and asked for advice, Sieber told him to not worry about it.Geronimo and Sieber both were negatively affected by alcohol. Geronimo, died on a drunk, in 1909, @ Ft. Sill, OK. He made many bad choices because of booze. Sieber may have made more than his share, too. As far as the characters they played, I think Studi, Hackman, the guy who plays Nelson Miles, Damon, Patric, and Duvall are all solid. Patric is weakest as Gatewood. Gatewood was tall, thin,stoic, and taciturn. He was very down to earth, and for some reason, the affected southern drawl displayed by Patric seemed too affected.Gatewood, Martine and Kayitah were the ones who went in to find Geronimo. They were the last to surrender because as a group, they were hypervigilent and the toughest the Apache had.Walking and Hiking Apacheria, in temperatures up to 106º just this week, I can attest to the incredible physical prowess the Apache had. I hike with lots of gear, often alone. They lived, rode and walked with a minimum amount of gear, and were confidently self-reliant in this country. To think of even running (as they did) 75 miles, or break it down, to deduct for exaggeration, 25 miles, in that heat, in this country, where one small cañon can be incredibly rugged, steep, full of cacti, severe heights, cliffs, all kinds of problems with rattlesnakes, scorpions, tarantulas, spiders, no water to speak of ... to even go 25 miles is incredible to grasp, once you try it.They were the Spartans of Native Americans.Having been many places where they were, I can say I love NM enough to understand why they didn't want to leave. To roam alone in this country is an awesome experience. If someone had given Wes Studi some opportunity to display even a few minutes of that aloneness in a vast emptiness, they might have gotten a great performance.This is revisionist history, for sure.But, the film's worth watching more than once.I've become far too involved with the details, now, to tolerate the entire film being shot in Utah. It's too bad Millius, Hill, etc., didn't allow the narrative to be from Geronimo's point of view, rather than Davis'. Put a protractor point on Silver City, NM, scale the device to measure out 150 miles, & draw a circle, you'll see the country where the last couple of years of the Geronimo Wars were fought. Fly over it at 1000 feet, you can grasp how rugged the country is, and how it was such a part of the entire Legend, of Geronimo. "},{"Title":"A wonderful and underrated movie about a great Apache!","Date":"26 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" First of all I'm not US Citizen, have Indian Origin or studied the so called Apache Wars in detail. But I enjoy western and when a western have at least some historical accuracy I like it even more. I have to say I was really surprised of this movie. If you expect to see a Western about heroic Indians and evil soldiers or an action loaded cowboys versus apache film don't watch it. In my opinion it's a decent portray of a great historian figure. Wes Studi did a fantastic job and is very believable as Geronimo. A strong acting from his side. It's a wonderful cast of actors in thismovie Gene Hackman as General George Crook, Robert Duvall as Scout AlSieber, Jason Patric as 1.Lt. Charles Gatewood and a young Matt Damonas 2nd Lt. Britton Davis. Damon is doing such a fine acting as he showsin so many movies after. He is also the narrator voice of this sad story in American history too. Robert Duvall seems to play the only John Wayne like Character in this movie. He also has some wonderful Action Scenes and is good and motivated as ever. Same goes to Gene Hackman and Jason Patric. As mentioned before there are Action Scenes, mostly shootouts, battles and horse riding scenes. All of these aregreat cinematographic work and of course the pictures of the landscapesare incredible too. It seems that Director Walter Hill wanted to do hisown Homage to legends like John Ford. The Music is bit melancholic pretty decent, sometimes slow but never over the top or too much of all. The choice was excellent for this movie.Walter Hill impressed me with this beautiful and sad movie. It's a decent Western but not too slow or too boring. Walter Hill shows a fantastic picture about the people in this infamous and tragic story of a brave warrior and his tribe. "},{"Title":"Sad chapter in American History","Date":"4 August 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" Whatever one thinks of Gernoimo (valiant warrior trying to save his people or serial murderer), it is obvious that the U.S. was shameless in their dealings and treaties with the American Indian. I think this movie does a good job of portraying how ruthless the US was in taking Indian land and not following through on any promises made. I do think the treatment of Geronimo was a little on the sympathetic side and I think he was a much harsher man than portrayed.However, I still liked the movie and found it well made. The photography is breathtaking. The music score is quite haunting and organic in the Indian tradition. I found the stunt work in the clashes between the Calvary & the Apache quite realistic. It's hard to imagine that any horses weren't hurt, but we are assured in the credits that they weren't. But they had some great riders and handlers.My biggest annoyance was Jason Patric's accent as Lt. Gatewood. I kept trying to figure out where he was form in the beginning - was he English... blue blood Yankee...? And then he says he is from Virginia. I am a Southerner myself and live in northern NC, less than 1 hour from VA. I also spent summers in college working in VA. That is definitely the worst southern accent. But I found Patric's acting to be quite sincere and effective otherwise.Other notable performances came from Gene Hackman and Robert Duvall. I also think Matt Damon did quite well as this is very early in his career (Good Will Hunting is still 4 years away). "},{"Title":"The sand is scorched with shame","Date":"13 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" This movie should have had a deeper resonance with the American public than say a film such as 'S. List'. The reason being, is that it basically deals with the genocide of it's own original people, the North American Indians (although I understand that the subject matter is far too close to home). I know historically it's starting to become a very long time ago but the great Geronimo and his fellow Apaches (together with all of the other Indian tribes) got well and truly 'screwed over' (sorry but i could not think of a nicer way to describe their fate), by the people they only new as the 'White Eye'. Visually 'Geronimo' is stunning and morally so 'bang on the money'. Never has a true story ever contained a clearer example of right versus wrong (again you could make a loose comparison to 'S. List'). Living on a reservation was pure hell, to a people like the Plains Indians and many would much rather die in 'Raiding Parties', than to exist as a virtual nonentity. In the movie 'Ulzana's Raid' a scout described the agency as having an old smell of women, children and dogs. Apache like new smell of 'fire, bullets and pony riding. The last scene where an Apache scout (who helped the 'Blue Coats'), deeply regrets his actions against Geronimo, is extremely moving. Walter Hill is the finest living western director full-stop. 'Geronimo' should have won the 'Best Picture Award' for 93 but shamefully not even nominated (and whatever won was surely the wrong choice). A strong companion film to the mighty 'Ulzana's Raid'. "},{"Title":"Historically Speaking","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" GERONIMO represented a great emotional feeling of Native American alliance and compassion in the late 20th Century which should not be forgotten. With the more fashionable present war against Irac and others, it is, simply dropped from memory. But we must not forget our own history. The Native American Consciousness that was healthy in the 1990's must indeed not be forgotten, for we are they, and they are we. And we, in this 21st Century, are finally, one.Geronimo loved Western Clothing and western alcohol. He embraced the ways of the white Euro, but he was a symbol of the way of the Apache able to live and move in a reptyllic heat of his environment. The movie GERONIMO depicted this multiplicity of this unusual man. Studi was great, the movie with Ry Cooder's score, along with Jason Patric, was WELL DONE. "},{"Title":"Geronimo and the Chiricahua Apache deserve a better movie","Date":"23 October 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" Despite the creative presence of Walter Hill and John Milius behind it, the movie gets a lot of things wrong. Matt Damon's grating voice-over is handled with little care and is nothing more than the grappling hook that drags the movie from one episode to the next as though we're reading an encyclopedic entry rather than watching a fully fleshed movie. The point-of-view is never allowed to remain within one side or group of characters long enough for them to come alive as anything than cutouts from a history page. We don't stay long enough to learn the actual problems that plagued the Chiricahua (and other Apache bands) in the San Carlos and White River reservations and we don't stay long enough with General Crook and his cavalry to begin to understand the tightrope the sympathetic General (who no less came to the Southwest after slaughtering Cheyennes in the North) has to walk in trying to appease an anxious government in the East while doing his best to save what remains of the Apaches from the encroachment of white settlers into their lands. As a piece of history the movie is naturally inadequate because the Indian affairs in the Southwest were more complex than a movie can afford to depict. As a gritty western action movie (the kind which Walter Hill is the expert) it's too sprawling and incoherent to ever get enough steam. We get the occasional slow-motion gunfight and a pretty good saloon standoff but they're not enough to save the movie from rumbling mediocrity. "},{"Title":"Watch first, read comments next is a good policy.","Date":"4 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" An unfortunate lousy attempt at portraying Geronimo was the featured review. YET, the reviewer, admittedly was NOT Apache, NOT Cheracowa, NOT even an American and obviously was NOT there in person and has NO MORE STANDING to make this sort of comment AND be believed than, say, a Sudanese dentist in Des Moines would, per se.Folks, history is tricky. We weren't there. We CAN study REAL accounts, judge etc. BUT simply stating a movie is an unfortunate lousy attempt, etc. seems silly to me.Yes, the subject matter still hurts many Americans. Yes, some American indigenous OF the the Cheracowa group, should any direct descendants be alive, might know things no one else KNOWS, but who else actually does? Entertainment's first duty IS to entertain. IF this can be done accurately, do any of you think the studios don't have the resources to do a LOT more research than most of us? Even the actors often do their homework.Anyway, I liked the film, photography, star's, viewpoints etc. I never comment on spoilers or even the point of a film since this itself is pointless and potentially spoiling. IT was a grand scale Western, updated, likely researched well and well worth watching.My personal preference IN watching a film is to follow actors. My joy in watching them is finding new actors OR new depths in one's I have seen before. Wes Studi, Geronimo, was one of the latter.Robin, "},{"Title":"Great Modern Western","Date":"24 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" I love these kind of movies, I had a vague recollection of it even existing and I caught it one lazy Sunday afternoon. Great performances by Wes Studi, the underrated Jason Patric, and the always good Hackman and Duval. I see most of the negative reviews seem to question the historical accuracy, while they may be right, I feel the movie does an excellent job of telling the story of Western civilization's colonizing the state's and the conflicted and differing feeling they had to the treatment of the native American Indians. But mostly it is just a well acted and well told story that is very enjoyable to watch on a quiet afternoon. "},{"Title":"The white-eye displaces the Apache with the U.S. Army in the mix","Date":"9 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" Geronimo An American Legend (1993) is a fine late western, well-directed by the veteran Walter Hill. I define a late western as anything after about 1970. At that point, the coloration, costumes, and stories became more realistic, seeking more accurate period detail. Geronimo as a movie tells an interesting story, whether or not one is a history buff on Geronimo or has seen other works about him. The action scenes are excellent. The scenery is beautiful. There is some stunt work that is outstanding. The film has a bit too much narration for my taste, and it sounds too modern coming from Matt Damon. The actor playing Geronimo, Wes Studi, did just great. The cast is strong, what with Gene Hackman, Robert Duvall and Jason Patric. The story has an episodic feel, but this is not at all bad. Each episode has rising tension to it and some sort of climax. It's a well-constructed story as these link together. I liked the point of view adopted by the writers, which was one of respect for an ancient way of life that was being erased by settlers taking possession of lands once used by the Apache. The writing did not make this too one-sided, however, by showing also the range of attitudes held by settlers, good and bad. Similarly, the ambiguous position of the U.S. military was brought out. The settling of the West raised land ownership and possession issues that have never been worked out satisfactorily and justly where territorial conflicts over use prevail.Geronimo's final reflection on the mystery of the white-eye taking over is apt. "}{"Title":"Most of all, Apache go where the best fight is.","Date":"19 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" I thought the movie was fairly even handed in the way it portrayed the Cavalry and the Apaches with both sides having it's share of upstanding and vicious characters. The film spoke to the inevitability of America's westward expansion and what it meant for the Indian nations, and in that respect there was sympathy shown for the way Native Americans of all tribes were treated and forced to live in ways contrary to their nature. Told through the eyes of a narrator, Second Lieutenant Britton Davis (Matt Damon), the viewer is brought along much like a green West Point graduate assigned to a frontier outpost who acquires on the job training by riding with an experienced officer. Jason Patric is effective in his role as Davis's commanding officer, Lieutenant Charles Gatewood, who's knowledge and understanding of Chiricahua Apache life is instrumental in dealing with the legendary Geronimo (Wes Studi). Historically, some elements of the story are overlooked or disregarded entirely. For example, it was one of Al Sieber's (Robert Duvall) former scouts, Tom Horn, who became a point man for the Army against renegade Apaches and eventually led the troop that captured Geronimo in 1886 after Sieber's retirement. Sieber did not die in a gun battle as depicted in this story, so as in the case of many Western movie accounts, a degree of liberty is taken with the facts in connection with the film. Over all though, this is a generally well told character study of an American West legend who found it impossible to reconcile his humanity to reservation life. "},{"Title":"Geronimo Reluctant to Retire To Florida.","Date":"15 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" I found this historical flick about the relationship between the Apache chief Geronimo (1829 - 1907) pretty interesting. I was mainly impressed by two things the picturesque landscape that falls just short of epic, and what I took to be reasonable or at least a convincing facsimile of historical accuracy.It isn't really a traditional Western in the sense of good guys and bad guys. Nor is it patronizing towards the Indians, as Fort Apache was. Like life, the universe is more complex than that, and more confusing. For the most part, General Crook (Gene Hackman) tries to compromise. His successor,General Miles (Kevin Tighe, good actor, perennial bad man), is a lying bastard.It's no wonder Geronimo (Wes Studi) is torn between trying to raise corn within the strictures of reservation life and taking off for the hills with a band of resentful warriors and their families. The Apache were pretty rough on captives too. They were artists of torture and the film doesn't shy away from it, although it doesn't get into the arrangements in any detail.Geronimo and his group wind up as prisoners of war in various place, beginning in Florida and ending at Fort Sill, Oklahoma. He was a POW for the rest of his life, but also a celebrity. He appeared at fairs, rode in Teddy Roosevelt's inaugural parade and so forth. The movie gives the impression that he spent the rest of his life behind bars.That's misleading but not entirely false. Other incidents, I would guess, are fabricated -- an encounter between a few soldiers and some bounty hunters in which the famous scout Al Sieber (Robert Duvall) is killed. He actually died when a boulder fell on him at a construction site. The honorable Lieutenant Gatewood (Jason Patric) was a real figure who admired the Apache and spoke their language but was betrayed by the Army.For what it's worth, if the US Army treated the Apache poorly, the Mexican Army did even worse. "},{"Title":"Compelling history","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" Brig. Gen. George Crook (Gene Hackman) leads a war on the Chiricahua to bring them to their reservation. Geronimo (Wes Studi) agrees to go in peace. Lt. Britton Davis (Matt Damon) is new from Texas. He accompanies Lt. Charles Gatewood (Jason Patric) to go bring Geronimo in. Gatewood befriends Geronimo. Al Sieber (Robert Duvall) is a scout with a proper hatred and respect for the enemy Apache. The army tries to stop a medicine man dancing and a violent incident results. Geronimo escapes the reservation with a group of Apache. That's when the Geronimo Campaign begins.It's a historical drama without the overdramatization that normally accompanies westerns. There are no easy villains in this. The circumstances keep conspiring to force the groups to clash. There are great actors in this. Most impressive is Wes Studi. His presence makes Geronimo come alive. "},{"Title":"Wes Studi rocks Geronimo","Date":"12 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" An interesting movie. It is more character-driven than action-oriented, although there is plenty of action. When Studi is on-screen, this movie pulsates with life--he's just great as Geronimo. In comparison, everyone else seems to be kind of walking through their parts. This may well be the director's attempt to portray the contrast between the organic and passionate lifestyle of living with the Earth versus the mechanical and passionless bureaucratic bulldozer-like takeover by soldiers and settlers. However, the portrayal of passionlessness should not be quite so studied and passionless.Again, Wes Studi is great. Watching his performance makes the whole thing more than worthwhile. This movie and this actor should be more well-known. And his name belongs on the cover sleeve, however the actual screen time of each actor works out. At one important point in the story he makes a speech that is not in English, and the language makes no difference. The meaning is there. "},{"Title":"Genocide 101...","Date":"15 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" Wes Studi, so hateful in LAST OF THE MOHICANS, is about as sympathetic a character as you can get in GERONIMO, and Walter Hill's direction is about as tight as it gets (which is saying a lot for a director of Hill's caliber). The cinematography, if nothing else, should've won some kind of award. One thing I would've liked to have seen in a movie like this is the root cause of The American Indian Wars. According to Robert M. Utley, it all began when Indians were being starved by buffalo hunters out for furs, who decimated the great herds, leaving the meat to rot and the Natives to starve. At a meeting called between the townsfolk and the Indians, one townie reportedly said If they're hungry, let 'em eat grass. When the smoke cleared, the townie was found dead, with his mouth stuffed full of grass. A LOT of mythinformation came out of the genocide that followed. General Custer, a Civil War vet, was nicknamed The Son of the Morning Star because he liked to attack unguarded Indian villages at sunup. His preferred method was to wait for the braves to go off to hunt, leaving the women, children, and elderly alone and unarmed. Sherman, another vet who put the South to the torch, coined a popular phrase when he said that the only GOOD Indian is a DEAD Indian. U.$. Army soldiers, foreshadowing the likes of the Nazis and Ed Gein, made purses from the genitalia of murdered Indian women (it's out there; look it up). GERONIMO is and isn't historically accurate; what it most definitely IS is a great movie. "},{"Title":"The Geronimo Solemnity","Date":"31 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" Geronimo An American Legend is directed by Walter Hill and written by John Milius. It stars Wes Studi, Jason Patric, Robert Duvall, Gene Hackman, Matt Damon and Pato Hoffman. Music is by Ry Cooder and cinematography by Lloyd Ahern. Story tells of what led Geronimo to being the most wanted Apache warrior on the American Government list, and his subsequent capture/surrender in 1886. Walter Hill takes his Westerns seriously, striving for authenticity in look, feel and narrative. He achieves all of these in Geronimo, only that this is hardly a biography of Geronimo the man. Film chronicles the great Apache leader courtesy of the memoirs of one of the cavalrymen who hunted him down, this thread is surrounded by historical points of worth such as land rights, the changing of the West, cultural clashes, racism and etc. Add in some lush Utah photography, traditional Western staples such as horseback chases, fights and shootouts, and it's just under two hours of good Western movie entertainment. But the screenplay doesn't open up Geronimo the man, in fact not really affording the excellent Studi (Geronimo) all that much screen time in the process. Film would have been better titled as Geronimo, Charles B. Gatewood (Patric) and Britton Davis (Damon), since the latter two are dealt with as much as the Apache warrior is. It's a good film that only deals in under two years of the Geronimo Campaign. Yes it redresses the balance by attempting to show both sides of the coin, and for sure it isn't found wanting for accuracy. But under developing the title character is a major problem. This should have been much much better and leaves us still waiting for a definitive Geronimo story. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Worthy biopic of a proud hero","Date":"21 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" Walter Hill's biopic of the Apache hero brings to life the political struggle between Native Americans and the US army in the 19th century. It's a fast paced, well made movie that's more educational than everything else; as a viewer to whom the story was completely new, I enjoyed learning about the tensions and situations along with the historical backdrop.However, I can't help but feel the film is lacking something it has a made for TV feel and never has the 'bite' or heart that make other biopics so affecting. This one goes through the motions and utilises a powerful cast to bring the characters to life, but you watch it in the same way you watch a history documentary to learn rather than feel. The blame has to go to John Milius's script, I think.Still, both Hackman and Duvall contribute seasoned turns as grizzled old war veterans, and it's great to see a fresh-faced Matt Damon taking on a leading role and handling it comfortably so early on in his career. What a surprise, too, to discover that Jason Patric (THE LOST BOYS) could actually act back in the day. The best cast member is Wes Studi as Geronimo himself playing his character stony-faced most of the time, he gets the man's humility, strength and sense of quiet honour just right. "},{"Title":"No guns, no bullets could ever kill me. That was my power... Now my time is over.","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" Walter Hill is a true, seasoned action deliverer. Just look at his stellar films and this is why his one of my favourite directors. Still need to see his highly regarded western The Long Riders though. Nevertheless his take on the American legend Geronimo was not what I was expecting. It's quite a tone down piece (but not on the drama front), still his professional handling of the bravado action contains that walloping punch we have come to expect (like the sequence in a Mexican bar), but the thoughtfully mediative (if a tad stuffy and not entirely correct) material (by John Milius) and productively detailed characters are what takes centre stage. The outstanding performances led by a cast of Gene Hackman, Robert Duvall, Jason Patric, Wes Studi, Matt Damon, Rodney A. Grant and Kevin Tighe really do cement the humane edge of brave men with moralistic stances. Patric is a revelation in his role, bringing the right idealistic balance and so is a pre-stardom Damon. Duvall brings a solidly noble complexity and Hackman aims up with one of his respectably collected turns. Studi is picture-perfect as Geronimo, who embraces the legend and crafts out a mythical mark. Hill mechanically stages it with a certain ruggedness that's never lost amongst its fetching tailoring, as he does a presentable job covering the sprawling Arizona and Utah foregrounds in getting every little detail of the terrain into the shot. While not flashy, the imagery does linger (as well as some explosive and bloody confrontations) and the scenic cinematography is earthly projected for a genuine look and feel. Ry Cooder (a prolific contributor for Hill) orchestrates a poignantly majestic and spiritually mannered score that enhances its epic framework. A favourably gripping western. "},{"Title":"Ghost Dance","Date":"21 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" Regardless of the absolute historical veracity of the film, GERONIMOAN American LEGEND is, first and foremost, an engaging piece of motion picture entertainment. Written by John Milius, and directed by Walter Hill (with a dynamite soundtrack by Ry Cooder), the film attempts an evenhanded examination of the final chapters in America's war-torn and bloody relationship with The Apache Nation. Most historians would agree that the government of the United States enacted legislative policies concerning the Apache which were less than honest, and led to senseless acts of mayhem and violence. America's inept handling of these Native Americans attests to the sad fact that spurious 'short-term fixes' very often can lead to onerous and unintended diplomatic protocol. Neither the US or the Indians could claim the moral or ethical high ground, because such a position did not exist. Both sides were guilty of genocidal madness. At least this film attempts to present the issues and shed some light on the reasons that led to this decades long, violent and ill fated conflict. Jason Patric, as 1st Lt. Charles B. Gatewood, and Wes Studi, as Geronimo, convincingly embody the conflicting aims and strategies of the United States Government and the Apache Nation. Each man is portrayed as an honorable individual who tries to find common ground in an impossible situation where neither man has complete control. The film is a deft balancing act between an action adventure motion picture, and a thoughtful meditation on an almost insoluble clash between two cultures. THREE AND A HALF STARS. "},{"Title":"Revisiting Geronimo","Date":"13 June 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" The saga of the great Apache warrior Geronimo has played a great part in the history of the white man's settling at the American West, though it is a history that for many decades and centuries has been deified beyond all reason at the expense of truth. The U.S. Army's attempts at pacifying the Apache onto reservations along the US/Mexico border in Arizona during the 1880s led Geronimo on a campaign of getting revenge, a campaign that ended with his permanent surrender and consignment to what the Army hoped would be historical obscurity on September 4, 1886. Over the years, the saga has been told both in history books and, inevitably, in movies, with a 1962 version (featuring a rather miscast Chuck Connors as the great Apache warrior) being perhaps the most prominent. But perhaps the finest retelling could be found through the mind of director Walter Hill (The Long Riders) in his 1993 film GERONIMO AN American LEGEND.In decades past, particularly if his opponent had been portrayed by someone like John Wayne, Geronimo would have been seen on screen as a thoroughly villainous figure. But real life rarely ever squared with the Duke's view of the Native American; and it is that fact that Hill and screenwriters John Milius and Larry Gross go after. Jason Patric (as Lt. Charles Gatewood) and Matt Damon (as 2nd Lt. Britton Davis) are the U.S. Cavalry officers assigned to bring Geronimo in for surrender upon orders of General George Crook (Gene Hackman), and with help from the expert scout Al Sieber (Robert Duvall). But when the cavalry break up a medicine man ritual on the Apache reservation at Turkey Creek, Geronimo (superbly played by Wes Studi) goes on the warpath. The film concerns itself with the dichotomy that the U.S. Army faced when dealing with the Apache in Arizona during the 1880s. On the one hand, they were the only true protection the Apache had against incoming white settlers who wanted to remove all traces of Native American life from the West; on the other hand, the Army was also being used as a tool by those same settlers. Such a bind is broken when Hackman's place is taken over by General Nelson A. Miles (Kevin Tighe), his much more hard-nosed, by-the-book successor who, as Patric learns in a hurry, has no intention of honoring any of the agreements for Apache surrender that the Army has made.Given both the cinematic reputations of Hill and Milius, both of whom are of the hardened Peckinpah school of Western demythologizing and violence, GERONIMO AN American LEGEND could very easily have been just as violent as, say, other pro-Indian films like ULZANA'S RAID or SOLDIER BLUE. With a PG-13 rating, of course, such is not the case. But neither Hill, Milius, nor co-screenwriter Larry Gross shy too far from the historical record that shows the Army/Apache battles were very costly on both sides. And indeed, like history, the film itself is ambiguous, with that ambiguity represented in Patric's Lt. Gatewood, who knows Studi well and questions the Army's willingness to adhere to agreements it signed, which earns something of a questioning from Duvall's scout in this exchangeSIEBER I just think you're a real sad case. You don't love who you're fightin' for, and you don't hate who you're fightin' against.GATEWOOD Perhaps I could learn to hate with the proper vigor from you, Al.Soon, even Duvall's hardened scout comes to see that the White Man's conflict with the Apache is written not in black and white, but in shades of gray, and sometimes in red blood. And as the film shows us, America's Manifest Destiny, regardless of what John Wayne may have led generations of Americans to believe, isn't something we can boast about any longer.Hackman and Duvall, not surprisingly, show themselves for the seasoned pros they are; they give their characters the proper vigor. Patric and Damon, who were all but totally unknown at the time, also show their mettle. However, it is Studi who gives the film's greatest performance as the legendary Apache warrior; he is shown as a man of honor who fights only because he has been pushed. Such was true for all Indian tribes throughout America's westward migration. The period score by roots rock musician Ry Cooder also does a lot to add to the atmosphere of the film.In the end, GERONIMO AN American LEGEND is a probing look at a distorted part of American history that needs to be set straight, and a critique of wrongs against a whole race that have still yet to be righted. We still haven't come to terms with our mistreatment of the Indian (or for that matter, anyone who doesn't adhere to American standards), but there are ways for such errors to be corrected. Good film-making has proved to be a catalyst for this; and in that regard and many others, GERONIMO AN American LEGEND is great film-making. "}{"Title":"good but not as great as the last of the Mohican's","Date":"14 June 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" first let me say the this is a graphic movie lots of shootouts and bloody wounds its rated pg-13 for frontier violence witch i think it should have been rated R for frontier violence.the acting was wonderful by Gene Hackman and Wes Studi, now Jason Patric was mostly bull and boring.for people looking for a accurate history movie this isn't for you but if you like a good western drama like Dancing With Wolves this is for you. now Geronimo is in no way better than The Last Of The Mohicans or Dancing With Wolves but this is a good movie to relax, kick up your feet and lay on the couch for 2 hours with family member or friend and enjoy the movie about the legend of Geronimo "},{"Title":"Fine flick, decent potrayal.","Date":"24 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":"  I couldn't tell you if this is as close to Geronimo's actual tale as the filmmakers would have us believe, I do know it is well acted, nicely plotted, and filmed on location. Having just seen Jason Patric in 'Narc', I was again reminded of how good a talent he can be, and what a committed actor he is. Strange he isn't a bigger name. (Fun trivia-Jackie Gleason's grandkid).     You also get to see baby faced Matt Damon(!) 4 years before his breakthrough role in  'Good Will Hunting'-he is clearly still learning his craft here. Nice turns by familiar ace in the holes Hackman and Duvall lift this outta the routine-but-good rank and into the 'shoulda been a contender' one.    I also enjoyed seeing half the 'Dances w/ Wolves' crew-Grant, Studi, etc in here as well. Clearly they were trying to crib as much of that flicks karma as possible here in '94. It almost works.*** outta ****. More depth might have helped.  "},{"Title":"Great Movie, but don't Forget REAL HISTORY!","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" This was a great movie. One of the few I could watch more than once. It inspires great emotion and sympathy for the American Indian. As has been stated before, THIS IS A REVISIONIST MOVIE! The old movies where the Indian was the bad guy were just as bereft of fact as the current slate of movies where the Indian is the all-good Mother Earth Child. Every country in the world owns it's established borders by use of force! At one point in time or another, one tribe, one race, one banded group of people, defeated another banded group of people and took over their land for whatever reason (good, bad, real, imagined, or made up). The Apache are no different! They took their land by killing and enslaving other more peaceful native tribes. From excavations of native living areas, a few of these Mother Earth Child Tribes have even been proved to be cannibals (not Apache)! This knowledge is gleaned from knife cut and scrape marks on piles of discarded bones.While it is true that the way the American Indian was treated was absolutely SHAMEFUL! Not just the Apache, but every tribe. We made treaties with them, but as soon as gold, silver, oil, or whatever was valuable was found on their reservations, were they bought out? NOPE! They were kicked off of their reservations to even more remote and desolate places. This happened over and over again. The reason many Indians rebelled was because they were tired of being relocated, and felt that they were being pushed into oblivion. It was either die a quiet and cowardly death or die like a warrior. Many chose the latter. If you are going to die anyway, die bravely. "},{"Title":"Jason Patrick in Command","Date":"14 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" Charles Gatewood is a calvary officer who has no love for his country, and feels no hate towards his enemy.  With smoldering intensity Jason Patrick leads a wonderful cast in a well crafted movie.  As ROOTS showed us that slavery was an American reality, as COME SEE THE PARADISE taught us that the USA acted unethically during WWII, as the DEAR HUNTER told us that the troubles of Vietnam were deeper than the reports on the evening news; GERONIMO reminds us that the taking of the West was an ugly affair devoid of justice.  "},{"Title":"Too much like a boring history lesson, but still a worthwhile Western","Date":"8 June 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" If you like Westerns, 1993's Geronimo An American Legend is worth checking out; it's just not as good as you would expect from such an exemplary cast & crew.With the likes of Walter Hill, John Milius, Gene Hackman, Robert Duvall, Jason Patric, Wes Studi and Matt Damon you'd expect greatness on the level of Last of the Mohicans, Dances with Wolves or even Wyatt Earp, instead it's merely watchable.This is likely because, more than anything else, it comes across as a humdrum history lesson. At the same time, it's not bad. So, if you're a fan of Westerns, I encourage you to add it too your collection. Just don't expect anything outstanding.The film runs 115 minutes and was shot mostly in Southern Utah, but also Old Tucson, Arizona.GRADE C+ "},{"Title":"Creative history mars this epic film.","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":"  For historians of the period of this tale, the errors are so abundant that any significant message is lost. People and events that are completely unrelated have been combined and merged in such a way to create complete fiction out of history. The gross errors lie primarily with the main characters on the US side. If such liberties were going to be taken a fictitious character should have been used. Gen. Crook was committed to treating the native Americans with respect while others in the army were more interested in genocide. The first person sent after Geronimo was a man who had know him for years, Capt. Emmett Crawford. It was after his death by Mexican soldiers that Gen. Crook was forced to resign and the end events in this movie occurred. Geronimo and the other Apache's, including those who had loyally served the army as scouts, were sent to Florida where so many of them died. While this movie is epic in scale and drama, it lacks any real historical content and shouldn't be looked on as such. A TNT production of Geronimo's earlier life was much better done, both historically and dramatically. Although I found the story flawed, all the actors, especially Wes Studi, were spectacular in their performances. I've always thought it a shame that I could never really enjoy a movie starring such great talent. "},{"Title":"White Man's Hokum!!!","Date":"3 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" Some say that Geronimo An American Legend is revisionist but there is no getting away from the fact that this movie is poorly made hokum. The story begins and firmly stays with the point of view of the white man. One of the first scenes sets the tone for the following nonsense by having the American Cavalry officer played by Gene Hackman stress to his men the desire to allow the Indian women and children to escape to safety before they ride in to capture the renegade Indians.This cynical attempt at stressing the concern or at least the benevolence of the American Cavalry is ridiculous considering the well documented indiscriminate slaughter of Indian women and children perpetrated by American forces in the west.This travesty continues with Charles B. Gatewood played with angelic wetness by Jason Patric espousing an extraordinary and relentless knowledge of Apache customs, beliefs and spirituality to the young impressionable Lt. Britton Davis (Matt Damon). Ignorance and a want to stay ignorant of the Indian and their beliefs was standard for US soldiers and civilians alike at the time.The image of the Red Indian as created by Hollywood is perpetuated in this production without any attempt to shed new light on the subject. The revisionist Hollywood cliché is that the American Forces accidentally start the carnage and slaughter because of some simple misunderstanding. That the brutality is somehow impelled because of some small yet legitimate action by the Indian. Flying in the face of documented history, the general impression created by Hollywood is that the wholesale murder of the Red Indian was all a terrible mistake.The fact that Geronimo was never made a Chief because he was too impetuous and irresponsible is not broached. He is seen talking as if a Chief with retrained wisdom and thought. Many of Geromimo's own tribe found him to be dangerous and unreliable. Some still to this day wonder why Geronimo has become such an icon for white America. On a technical level this production is shot like a TV movie and the editing is especially bad. The dialogue is atrocious and unoriginal, an example being when Geronimo shoots a jug out of the hand of a Marshall at distance That was a good shot!.......No, I was aiming for his head! "},{"Title":"Wrong Approach to the Subject Matter","Date":"23 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":"  Geronimo An American Legend, takes a leisurely, almost plodding approach to the Geronimo Wars in which the US Cavalry subjugated the Chiricahua Apache. Told in the voice of a young Army lieutenant (Matt Damon), the viewers saddle up and ride along with the cavalry as they slowly wear down Geronimo and his small warrior band.It's slow, dusty, and boring work.  This feeling is helped by a  script that's shallow and superficial possessing no drama at all.  This is a shame given the acting and directing talent assembled for the movie, not to mention the subject matter.  The gorgeous desert landscapes help, but the talented Ry Cooder fails to bring home the musical underpinnings.It's still an ok movie, at least Walter Hill brought in it under 2 hours. But for the same subject matter it can't compare with Dances With Wolves, or The Last of the Mohicans.  I give it the entertainment grade of B-, but mostly for the scenery, and deference to Hackman and Duvall who are very good in their supporting roles.  "},{"Title":"An unfortunate lousy attempt at portraying Geronimo","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":"  I believed this film to be one of the many typical negative stereotypical film about Natives that was more than likely made in Hollywood without any kind of true, accurate content in it.  I suppose the only thing that was probably correct was Wes Studi's facial features.  Mr Studi's face does resemble Geronimo's looks when he was alive.  For example, Studi's little beady eyes look a lot like the way Geronimo's would have looked like.  His high cheekbones are similar to those of Geronimo's along with the actual shoulder hair length that he also had.But............ anyways............ that's my scoop on why I gave this film the kind of review that I think it deserves.  Thanks a lot for allowing me once again to review a film on this terrific site.    "},{"Title":"Rewriting of history depicts Manson of the West as noble","Date":"2 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, History, Western","Review":" History books which depict the truth are gradually being destroyed, burned, and censored. This movie is an example of what happens when society does that.The film tries to be fair to the cavalry. However, Geronimo was never an American legend. He was hated and despised even by the Apache. His following was exactly like that of Charles Manson. His deeds and actions were exactly that, too. In fact, he was the Charles Manson of the West. He would butcher people for no reason-women, children, Native Americans, Mexicans, anyone. He was just a monster. His followers were many, but so were Manson's. They, too, were wackos.This movie depicts Geronimo as an honorable chief. All chiefs of the old West were more than willing to work with John Clum to send the Apache police to arrest him.There is a problem with rewriting History. Movies that paint Billy the Kid and Jesse James as heroes are the same, but minor since they were just outlaws who killed. Geronimo was just a mass murderer for sport and fun. Those are the facts.This is identical to a movie being made in the future in which Charles Manson will be depicted as an honorable American governor who suffers wrongs and indignation, and is in the right in his noble actions. That is the trouble with America's love of rewriting History. "}]