[{"Title":"High-Tech Whodunnit","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"35 out of 40 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is not always easy to understand but if you give it a couple of looks, which it is worthy of doing, all the pieces finally fit and it's a good two hours of entertainment.This modern-day crime movie may have a lack of action compared to others of its genre but it never loses your attention. Sean Connery, Wesley Snipes and Harvey Keitel star, along with Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa, Kevin Anderson, Mako and Tia Carrere. This is a high-tech story (at least for 1993) as two cops try to figure out who murdered a woman. It's Japanese-big business-politics intrigue with surveillance cameras being the key to figuring out a murder.Connery and Snipes complement each other as a buddy cop duo with Connery being mostly responsible for making this story interesting. The still-suave ex-James Bond plays the cool veteran and it's fun to watch him operate.The only complaint I might have is the ending, a stupid romance-type story with Snipes and Carrere that was very post-climactic and not needed. "},{"Title":"Great Book Turned Into Average Thriller on Film...","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"29 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rising SunThere is an old Japanese motto Business is war. Well, that sentence is taken to new heights in the Philip Kaufman thriller Rising Sun, based on the best-selling novel by Michael Crichton.Wesley Snipes plays Web Smith, a Japanese-American liaison officer in LA who is called on duty after a young woman is found dead at the opening party for the new Japanese company named Nakamoto. Sean Connery plays John Connor, a retired liaison officer who is an expert on Japanese customs and culture. He is requested to come on call as well, and does, trailing along with Web.When they get to Nakamoto, they find Tom Graham (Harvey Keitel) and other cops hovering over the body of the dead woman. Soon, foul play is suspected, and Smith and Connor must find the killer before it is too late.Rising Sun is taken from a great novel, and turned into an average thriller. There is nothing spectacular about the film. It stays surprisingly true to the book, but the very few things that stray from the course of the novel turn out to be the blunders.There are no sparks flying between Sean Connery and Wesley Snipes. I think that Snipes was a bad casting decision. Connery is perfect for the character of John Connor, but Snipes just doesn't fit Peter Smith - whose name was changed to Web Smith for the film, for no apparent reason other than Peter isn't a suiting name for Snipes.The director/screenplay writer of Rising Sun - Philip Kaufman, who brought us The Right Stuff - seems to have charisma and obviously tries to keep the film true to the book. Unfortunately, however, there is an element of suspense missing from the film. There are no real surprises. In the novel, Connery's character John Connor seems to know everything that is going to happen, but there is still a sense of suspense. In the film, however, Connery's Connor seems to know TOO much about everything that is going to happen. Instead of being one step ahead like he was in the book, he seems to be twenty steps ahead in the film. There is one scene that really jumped out at me where Connor walks in and says, upon discovering a man believed to be dead, Oh, I was wondering when he'd get here! In the novel, Connor gives a reason why he knew the man wasn't dead. In the film, he just seems to know the man is still alive for no apparent reason. If Connor knows everything that is happening, everything that has happened, and everything that is going to happen, why keep Web - and us - in the dark? At least Connery fit the character of Connor - it would have been about ten times worse if they had chosen someone else.Believe it or not, the film might have been better if it had NOT been so close to the book. What I mean by this, is that by making everything just like the book, Kaufman raises the expectations a notch, and when ONE SINGLE THING is changed from the book, the audience is disappointed, because by then we have come to expect everything in the movie to be like the book. Expectations wouldn't have been so high if he had made everything different from the book. Which is NOT to say I don't enjoy that he stayed true to the book. It's a confusing opinion. In some ways, I enjoy how true to the novel the film was. But there is just something missing. Even though the cast is top notch for the most part, Snipes just didn't fit. And while Connery was perfect as Connor, he seemed to know too much about what is going on. There is no real suspense. Perhaps that is the biggest flaw of the film.A great book turned into an average thriller worth seeing once.3/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Good! But not Great!","Date":"17 July 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I like this movie for its simple, yet intricate plot and interesting peek into the Japanese culture, customs, and traditions. Rising Sun has its strengths in the technological sector using mini-CD's in their security cameras, something that rare...even in 2005; unheard of in 1993. Very interesting. This Michael Chricton venture has the right mix of corporate warfare and abrasive politics in each of the characters from the racist pig and Ugly American extrordinaire Tom Graham to the mysterious techno-whiz played by Tia Carrare.But what I don't understand is how Sean Connery's character becomes such an aficionado of the Japanese culture? The explanation is very weak especially when it concerns his relationship with Eddie Sakomura. Snipes adds some bite and boldness to the mix but he plays into that not so bright sidekick stereotype that many African-Americans fall into. It would've been more interesting if the roles were reversed.The ending is one of the most compelling scenes of the entire film...yes this would be considered a FILM not a MOVIE. It shows the bond of the conspirators falling apart piece by piece. First, the senator's sexual escapade is revealed to his co-workers and his wife via fax machine. Then he interrupts an important meeting at Nakamoto headquarters by calling his co-patriot, thus revealing that Ishihara had something to do with this murder. Lastly, the killer is unmasked and flees capture only to be cornered by Eddie's allies and thrown into a vat of wet concrete to his doom. I'll admit it its a frightening way to die but the killer/ sleaze ball lawyer deserves it. But must they change this ending at the last minute to replace Ishihara with Richmond(the killer)? I thought movies were supposed to be art wrought with controversy. "},{"Title":"A solid, enjoyable film whose pace covers it despite plot holes &#150; the heavy cast also make it worth seeing","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"18 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  During a high level executive meeting between a Japanese corporation and an US weapons contractor a young woman is found murdered. Due to his connections Captain John Connor is sent to lead the investigation with Lt Web Smith. The investigation is immediately hindered by the Japanese culture, the shadowy business figures and political pressures, however before long Connor and Smith are presented with a cctv disk that shows the murder being carried out by a known suspect. When the suspect dies in a chase the investigation seems over but a closer investigation of the evidence shows that the case is far from closed.Not being a real big fan of Michael Crichton, I wasn't sure how I'd like this film &#150; I'm not a big traveler and don't buy my books in the airport when I do travel! It was apt then, that I wasn't overly taken by the plot here and felt that its pace was more responsible for it being an enjoyable thriller than any great skill in the writing. In its essence the glossy story takes in technology, big business, Japanese cool and political goings-on &#150; all these and other things combining to mean that it moves well and is consistently busy. This is not to suggest that it all fits together because it doesn't; the plot has holes and lose strands within it that distract if you think too much about it &#150; happily its pace and revelations did not give me too long to linger over these and I managed to enjoy it, the problems being forgotten in all the gloss.On top of this gloss is piled a cast that is worth seeing no matter what they are doing together, and their presence and ability further cover for a plot that doesn't always serve its many characters as well as they deserve. Connery has fun in the sort of role he seems to greatly favour now &#150; distinguished, wise men of age who can still dish it out if need be. He is easy to watch and only at times does he feel like he's forcing it (like when he suddenly shouts). Snipes does not look as confident but that may be because his 'look' has dated here and changed since 1993. However he is still good and has his moments despite being given a rather secondary role to Connery's. It the support cast that surprised me though &#150; so many well known faces in supporting or minor roles. Keitel is very good, playing an interesting character that goes nowhere but is still interesting and well delivered; Tagawa is gifted a fuller role than he often gets and does well with it. Wise is OK but he forces it and didn't convince me as much as I would have liked &#150; still did the job asked of him though. People like Mako, Carrere, von Bargen and Buscemi all add depth and make the film feel fuller than it is even with some small (and perhaps unnecessary?) characters.Overall this is a slick and enjoyable film even if it is as much style and pace as it is substance. The plot doesn't totally fit together but its mix of techno-conspiracy, political plotting, sex and intrigue all keep it moving along enjoyably enough and the impressive and rather charismatic cast only help to make it feel all the slicker. Worth a watch even if some may find it a little inconsequential in regards some bits of plotting.  "},{"Title":"Mystery killing with politics background about East-West confrontation","Date":"8 November 2007","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The background of the film is the American-Japonese business competition in L.A. where a cop (Wesley Snipes) accused by corruption teams up with old man (Sean Connery) , expert on Japanese world . They're investigating a killing case filmed in videotape recording and located at an important corporation run by powerful manager (Mako)and it implicates a senator (Ray Wise) . The homicide is committed on a boardroom table while a beautiful prostitute is strangled when having sex with her lover , being prime suspect a Japanese executive (Gary -Hiroyuki Tagawa). The identity of the murderer is taken by a security camera on a missing disk . Meantime , another tough police( Harvey Keitel) is also investigating and they're helped by a gorgeous video expert (Tia Carrere). Soon discover on the final breaking point that even the truth can lie .The tale mingles suspense , thriller , mystery , quick action , buddy movie and is quite entertaining . However , the complicated script contains some flaws and gaps , originating fails on credibility but gets its nice moments here and there . Based on controversial novel by Michael Crichton , it is adapted by Philip Kaufman and Crichton, blending business, Japanese customs, high technology and international politics, turning out some confusing and silly . For that reason, the screenplay was rewritten several times, focusing more the killing suspense and relying heavily on relationship between two leads and the differences US-Japan . Michael Crichton, author of the book and co-author of the screenplay, wrote the part of Connor with Sean Connery in mind. Writers Michael Crichton and Michael Backes quit the project largely over disagreement with director Philip Kaufman that one of the lead characters should be changed into an African-American . Evocative Japanese music score by Takemitsu (Kurosawa's usual musician) and appropriate cinematography with stylized camera techniques by Michael Chapman . This one gets acceptable direction by Philip Kaufman (Quills, Right stuff, Body snatchers) . The film will appeal to Wesley Snipes and Sean Connery fans. "},{"Title":"Get Ready To Bow","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"20 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Scenes of cowboys on horseback, and Cole Porter's Don't Fence Me In... reassuring cultural markers which quickly dissolve as we find ourselves in the steely 19990's in a Los Angeles that has been snaffled by the Japanese.  The western and the music are mere karaoke images.  Americans had better learn how to bow, because their masters are moving in.Rising Sun is a sophisticated thriller which flips neatly between fear of the sinister Japanese (electronic surveillance, big business buyouts, Yakuza) and a deep understanding of, and reverence for, Japanese culture.  Wesley Snipes plays Web Smith, a lieutenant in the LAPD assigned to investigate a murder on the Los Angeles premises of a Japanese corporation.  He has Captain John Connor attached to him (Sean Connery), an older man who is believed to have 'gone native' and sold his soul to the Japanese.At every turn, American short-sightedness is losing out to the Japanese hardball players.  One of the film's morals is, if we don't like the way they are buying up our assets, we have no business selling them in the first place.  Japanese strength comes from the social discipline and immense intellectual vigour of their way of life.  We may come from a fragmented MTV-rap-video culture, says Conner, but they do not.Conner has studied the eastern way and is respected by the Japanese for his grace and learning.  He guides Web Smith along the path of enlightenment in the course of solving the murder mystery.  They adopt the traditional sampai-kohai relationship, the tutelage of a wise elder from which a worthy young man learns.In this story of cutting-edge video fakery, the film exploits images intelligently.  We see reflections of Web and Jingo on the TV monitor as they analyse the 'ghost'.  Connor effects a clever 'look-back' on the lab's video camera, hinting at hidden permutations in the characters' relationships.  Time after time, we are led persuasively down a line of reasoning, only to find that it is a chimera.  As Connor says, When something looks too good to be true, then it's not true.There are some weaknesses in the film's structure.  'The Weasel', the journalist tracking Web, is badly misconceived.  His place in the story is negligible and his dramatic possibilities are abandoned almost as soon as he is introduced.  The reliance of Web on his old 'brothers' to intimidate the Japanese pursuers is lame and patronising, with its 'boyz'n'the hood' silliness.  To describe these 'rough neighbourhoods' as 'America's last great advantage' is patent hogwash.  The corrupt senator is the tired stock-in-trade of these thrillers, and fails to convince.  The reaction of Morton's wife to the fax transmissions is utterly unrealistic and melodramatic.  That two LAPD cops should beat up half a dozen Japanese thugs using karate is frankly insulting, even to Japanese thugs.The performance of Sean Connery is very impressive.  He plays Connor with the clear intelligence and the confidence in his own powers which such a man would surely possess.  He alone understands both cultures, and therefore he alone can solve the riddle.  Because Connery is convincing, the film is a success.   "},{"Title":"Fear of Other Cultures, Learning to Understand Them and the Seemingly Obvious","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Michael Crichton's Rising Sun is an extensive, dense, unpredictable mess. The actors have a lot of fun and the story is a splurge of entertainment, but it's not paying enough attention to a couple of things. One of them is what its focus is. Is the film about the murder, the two men solving the murder, the clash of American and Japanese cultures, or what? The other thing the film forgets could be a drawback of the first thing. It's that it doesn't tie up all its loose ends. At the end, there are strands left with no ending, even a mysterious ambiguous one. It just ends because it feels the pace of the film requires it to fade out at that particular point.The film is not bad, mostly because it's far from boring. In fact, there are many scenes of dialogue, despite a few corny scenes of dialogue, that are subtly interesting. We don't quite understand why the exchanges are interesting until later, when we realize that the characters are so deeply contemplated that the scene felt as real as the room you're sitting in. But maybe I'm giving the film too much credit for simply being a load of fun for Michael Crichton to write. After all, he wrote and directed one of the greatest heist films ever made, The Great Train Robbery, also with Sean Connery.Sean Connery, of course, is the highlight of the film, because there's hardly a way he cannot be. Despite his irrepressible suavity, he does not play himself. He plays a resentful, inflexible, self-indulgent veteran cop, and we are supposed to like Wesley Snipes more because the film centers, well, seems to want to center around his character and also we're given more backstory and information on him. However, we don't like Snipes more than him. Connery may play a stubborn old jerk, but I'd rather one of those than a pompous, intolerant, overpround young jerk like Snipes can hardly help but play.I cannot reach a verdict on this film. How can I? There are so many things to enjoy at the same time they are hazardous to the film's health. "},{"Title":"OK on its own terms","Date":"1 September 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A woman is strangled to death while having sex in a Japaneses' corporation building. Lt. Webster Smith (Wesley Snipes) and Japan expert Captain John Connor (Sean Connery) are assigned to solve it. All the evidence points to her Japanese boyfriend but there's more to this than meets the eye.Michael Crichtons novel was a frightening and powerful story about how it seemed (at the time) that Japanese corporations were taking over everything. As an adaptation to that this is a joke. Smith is made black for no good reason, the anti-Japanese slant was toned down a lot, there was no romantic interest between Snipes and Tia Carrere as is shown in this movie and the identity of the killer was completely changed! It really destroyed the book. But, if you ignore the book, this is OK on its own terms.It's well done and written and there's some good acting by Connery, Ray Wise (as a slimy senator), Harvey Keitel (as a cop) and Steve Buscemi (still not sure what he was). But the story is way too convoluted, goes on far too long and has an ending which is more than confusing. Also Connery and Snipes do not work well together. There's no spark between them--they seem to be acting in different movies. There's also plenty of pointless female nudity. This lessens what could have been a good strong movie. So it's an OK thriller. Worth catching if you're a Connery fan. The book is much better. "},{"Title":"Business is war","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It is hard to pass up a Sean Connery movie, especially one with Wesley Snipes. You can just see Lt. Smith (Snipes) learning from Captain Conner (Connery) and taking those lessons to Washington in Murder at 1600.Connery was exceptional in this thriller with multiple twists and turns, and Snipes did a great job as his student. Harvey Keitel added a great dimension as a racist dirty cop.I was also glad to see Steve Buscemi in his usual slimy role. I hadn't seen Tia Carrere since True Lies and she play a super role her as a tech wiz. And, I always like seeing Mako.Great thriller with great characters. Put this on your list to see. "},{"Title":"One of Crichton's best novels becomes a below-par thriller","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"16 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rising Sun is a textbook example of how to take a sure-fire, can't lose property and cock it up completely. It's not just a matter of the producers controversially changing the nationality of the killer that makes Rising Sun such a appointment where Michael Crichton's novel weaved a multi-stranded web, turning issues into clues and bombarding the reader with information and clues to keep you guessing, director Philip Kaufman simplifies and makes it all patently predictable. Subplots are poorly handled, often either never followed through or simply forgotten, and you don't even care that much about who done it, or why.Of course, there is a difference between what makes a good book and what makes a good film, but before the rot set in Crichton didn't just write novels that read well, he wrote novels that play - turning one of his books into a film should be more a matter of editing than adapting. Yet, extraordinarily, the producers have either dropped or diluted everything that made the novel such a huge bestseller.Crichton's strength was always his ability to put over big issue in a pulp format, but while Kaufman does tidy up his typically messy ending, hedrops most of the issues, patronisingly soft-pedalling the novel's economic/political debate, leaving just the pulp. It's rather like making The Third Man and ditching all that guff about cuckoo clocks and black marketeering, and getting rid of Orson for good measure. It may now be a gaijin who kills the girl, but it's Kaufman who kills the movie.Kaufman has shown he can take mainstream material and imbue it with a greater significance and still turn out a terrific picture with Invasion of the Body Snatchers and The Right Stuff (and let's not forget, he was one of the creators of Indiana Jones), but perhaps he'd just spent too long making art movies in the interim. Here there's a snobbery to his direction, a contempt for his material that shines through in almost every frame - he thinks he's better than this, but still comes out looking like an amateur.Where Crichton's novel was not the racist tract many claimed at the time (Crichton's criticism wass aimed directly at America's short-sighted business/political strategy), Kaufman's film comes perilously close to being just that. The xenophobia of the scene where Snipes sets some homeboys on the Japanese who are following him is an uncomfortable and tasteless exercise in ethnic stereotyping that doesn't belong in this movie.The most astonishing lapse is in the appallingly acted and staged scene where Snipes is interrogated by his superiors. While this provides the novel with an effective framing device, only a complete idiot would include the American PR man for the Japanese corporation implicated in the conspiracy and a muckraking reporter among those present. Kaufman does. Not only is he hopeless at staging action, but scenes such as the suicide are handled with an ineptitude bordering on the infantile while some of the sexual overtones are feeble beyond belief - hey, don't forget that close-up of the next door neighbour's crotch so we know what Wesley's thinking, Phil! If anything, the absolute stinker of an epilogue is even worse, coming on like the warm wrap-up to a 70s cop show and spelling out Connery and Carrere's relationship just in case we're too thick to work it out for ourselves.Much blame for this must attach itself to executive producer Sean Connery. Too many years of being denied his due as an actor and still, one suspects, trying to overcompensate for his years in Bondage have left him a sucker for a 'quality' director and a name writer, often with disastrous consequences (cf. A Good Man in Africa). Yet if Kaufman kills the movie, Connery gives it the kiss of life. Connery is never less than watchable, and he's certainly one of the few things worth watching here, whether barking Japanese in a Scottish accent or deliberately losing at golf. It's one of the best displays of pure star quality energising a moribund picture you're likely to see.Wesley Snipes is wildly miscast in a role that didn't just have Andy Garcia's name on it but his address and a photo of his wife and kids as well. Instead we get a another of his typically one-note aggressiveone-size-fits all performances. Supporting performances are dubious at best, with Mako, Carey-Hiroyuki Tagawa and Stan Egi faring best, countered by Ray Wise and Kevin Anderson, both even phonier than their roles.When Rising Sun concentrates on the plot mechanics, such as the manipulation of an incriminating recording of the murder, it's fine, but what should have been great is merely an average potboiler distinguished by Connery's presence. Rupert Murdoch, who took a strong personal interest in the picture, said that if they got it wrong they deserved a sound kick in the a**. If you happen to run into him, you might want to take him up on that. "}{"Title":"ONE OF THE BEST THRILLERS IN 90'S","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The era when in Hollywood knew how to make a good movies, apart from todays pathetic production.And also one of the best roles for Connery, close to his best performances as unforgetable mister 007. Beside him even Snipes shows up some acting abilities. The story is, honestly, nothing special, even unlogical from time to time, but nevertheless it got something inside, maybe this eastern touch that keeps viewer glued to his seat. If then movie would be little deeper (like Blade runner for instance) it would be surely a classic. But despite that and mostly because of great performance by Connery it deserves a strong8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Brilliant example of Japanese corporation trading","Date":"8 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film closely resembles the book and gives a brilliant portrayal of Japanese 'Keiretsu' company trading as just how deep and nasty things can get when a major player wants to move in. Connery is fantastic as the detective who used to give in Japan and understands 'Nihondo' (Japanese ways). The character Peter Smith has been changed to 'Wes Smith' although I cannot understand why? Maybe 'Wes' is more trendy than Peter...There are some excellent descriptions of Japanese culture and the Taiko (Japanese Drummers) are very good.I highly recommend this film to anyone with an interest in Japan or Japanese culture10/10   "},{"Title":"Great Cultural Thriller","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I actually read the book before seeing the movie, I recall at the time (many years ago) that I didn't think Snipes fit the kohai role very well. Since then I can't recall the book much and I have acclimated more to Wesley. But the focus here is on Connery, in one of his truly superb roles as Captain John Connor on special assignment to the LA PD. Connery has spent years with and among the Japanese, and when a prostitute is murdered inside Japanese corporate offices in Los Angeles, Detective Snipes and Connery are on the job. The plot as it is isn't really very exceptional, what is extraordinary is Connery's interactions with Snipes, the Japanese and everyone else, along with the (for then) astounding technology, always a Crichton staple. I can just sit back and watch Connery in this role for forever. Highly recommended just on the strength of Connery alone. "},{"Title":"odd and very funny","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Golf is how they do business.This is a really odd buddy cop mystery thriller. I don't quite know what to make of it. It's a highly entertaining film that's for sure, not heavy at all, and with a great cast, but I can't tell if it's just a straight comedy or not. It's certainly a lot of fun, and achieves hilarity whenever Sean Connery is on screen (most of the film), as every second line he has is some kind of cryptic proverb, and his sly, suave, deadpan delivery is brilliant. I'm not sure if I buy him as a liaison officer for the LAPD, and I don't really care, because to watch Sean Connery as some kind of wise warrior loved by the Japanese is just too funny, and he steals every scene he's in.To sum up the story briefly would take a while, and it's quarter to two in the morning, so I'm not going to do that. Essentially it's a murder mystery involving a Japanese corporation, and there are all sorts of twists, turns and surprises in this yarn of corruption and Japanese warlike business. It's up to a detective Webb Smith (Wesley Snipes), and the aforementioned LAPD liaison officer John Conner to solve the case.The film is stylish, but in a strange way. Almost every cut is a swipe, and it's shot in a pulpy, comic-book way. The dialogue is hilarious, from Harvey Kietel's offensive anti-Japanese slurs whoever can kiss the most asses wins a toyota to Connery's words of wisdom They say if you resort to violence, you've already lost. Apparently Connery is also a master of ninjutsu, dispatching a black belt body guard with single hit. Wesley Snipes is very funny in a cool, deadpan sort of way, and he and Connery make a great buddy cop duo. There is a great cast all round, with Ray Wise playing a senator, Mako playing a businessman with a penchant for golf, and Steve Buscemi in a small role as a snoop.Funny, entertaining, stylish and unusual film, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"The Cool Connery and the Sharp Snipes!","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Very nice murder thriller, and arguably one of Wesley Snipes' best roles in his career. And of course, he didn't want to miss being paired with the man himself, Sean Connery!Tight direction, entertaining dialogues(especially Connery's yap on Japanese traditions are hilarious), the suspense and also intense performances from Connery & Snipes make this movie a winner. I wouldn't really regard Rising Sun as an action thriller because the action factor is low. But the movie amply compensates with tense moments.The only places where I feel our attention span drops are those kinda tediously long camera footages shown of the murder and all that explanation by the hot Tia Carrere on how the video was edited blah, blah!Verdict Still, a highly engaging thriller. Racy & entertaining! "},{"Title":"A surprisingly efficient thriller","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What could have been a tired entry in the buddy-buddy cop thriller genre turns into something else at the hands of expert director and craftsman Philip Kaufman (INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS). Sure, it's no masterpiece, but this adaptation of a Michael Crichton novel makes for compelling viewing, a fun entry in the East-meets-West sub-genre of the films detailing the conflict that arises when two different cultures are forced to come together.The plot is essentially that of a murder mystery, but with Crichton as source material there's the expected preoccupation with technology (a piece of CCTV footage plays a pivotal role here, throwing up questions as to privacy and manipulation, with the film feeling way ahead of its time some twenty years later). The presence of Wesley Snipes as the lead begs the question miscasting? but I found him on top form here and a damn sight better than he was in the same year's DEMOLITION MAN. Connery bags the best role and steals all of his scenes, while Harvey Keitel gives a volatile performance and Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa is a pleasure when he's given the chance to act (and not typecast as the villain, either). Altogether the culture clash plot kept me watching to the end and I wasn't disappointed. "},{"Title":"The sun is rising, and the audience is going to sleep","Date":"20 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rising Sun falls somewhere between buddy cop film and Neo-Noir murder mystery, and it doesn't work very well as either. The whole thing feels messy and and makes no sense. This movie demands more from the audience than it gives them. It's not an unwatchable movie, but it's never that interesting, or involving.Sean Connery and Westley Snipes are indeed a mix match, but they are so in the wrong way. Snipes goes through must of the picture being patronized by Connery's Zen Zinger persona. After a while the dynamic starts to become something like a father and child. Connery gets all the good lines, but he goes through the movie never having a moments concern or a sense of jeopardy. that and the Japanese experience of his Character lead me to believe that Steven Seagal may have been more at home in the role (which doesn't demand much). Come to think of it, nobody in the cast is especially that memorable.The pay off for the whole thing is kind of disappointing, partially because nothing really gets explained. when it's all over Rising Sun ends up being a rather bland over long endurance test. "},{"Title":"Another west meets east disaster","Date":"21 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I basically watched this movie due to the fact that Toru Takemitsu for some reason got sucked into doing this ignorant film. If you have seen any of his work on Hiroshi Teshigahara's, Masaki Kobayashi's or Akira Kurosawa's films you know why I would be interested. From the opening credits I new this was going to be a train wreck when they decided to add Chinese gongs over Takemitsu's otherwise realistic Japanese style score, thus beginning the baffling ignorant betrayal of these Japanese people as sex crazed, backwards criminals whom only a westerner, well studied in Japanese culture can communicate with, as well as manipulate them like they were simpletons or something. I gather they even twisted Takemitsu's arm (who usually had a very minimalistic approach to scoring at key moments) into doing a continual Japanese score to remind us constantly that we are dealing with a mysterious and sinister culture here. Beyond this the acting is like what you would find in a a Jim Jarmusch film (ie bad), and you can't help but feel sorry for Harvey Keitel who wouldn't be able to act badly if he tried, and Sean Connery and, well, the whole cast when you think about it, who are stuck with this director and script, both of which were not up to par with the ambition they were aiming for (I'm guessing intellectual thriller). Also, is it so hard to fly over some Japanese actors or find Japanese Americans for the parts instead of getting just any Asian? Bad accents galore! I must admit, I only watched about half an hour of it, but I can guess that it doesn't get any better later. Hell, I didn't really even care about the woman who was killed anyway. "},{"Title":"Fix the problem, not the blame.","Date":"19 July 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rising Sun is directed by Philip Kaufman who also co-writes with Michael Crichton and Michael Backes, with the adaptation coming form Crichton's own novel of the same name. It stars Sean Connery, Wesley Snipes, Harvey Keitel, Ray Wise and Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa. Music is by Tōru Takemitsu and cinematography by Michael Chapman. Story sees Capt. John Connor (Connery) and Lt. Webster Web Smith (Snipes) paired together to try and solve the mystery of a woman murdered at a Japanese high corporation party. With powerful people possibly involved and relations between the American and Japanese people starting to strain, Connor and Smith must crack the case sooner rather than later. A tough ask because there's the distinct whiff of a cover up in the air and only a grainy CCTV video as evidence to go on.It was a controversial novel, a best seller for sure, but Michael Crichton was accused of crafting an anti-Japanese diatribe, though in some quarters it was heralded as a wake up call that America was losing the business war to Japan. Even though Crichton was brought in to adapt the screenplay, it ultimately stands as Kaufman's work because alterations have been made to Crichton's text to balance out, as it were, the villainy/corruption quota between the two opposing cultures. The end result is a film that has no real urgency, excitement, tension or boldness; unless the sexual deviant behaviour of the poor lady murdered counts for the latter that is? Clearly Kaufman and Crichton are not meant to be, the former's stylish leanings can't harness the intricate paranoia from Crichton's page, which ultimately leaves us with a rather routine murder mystery. Shame, because the thirst third is pretty great stuff, visually arresting and with characters formed, story simmers nicely like it's going to boil over into murky intrigue and cross cultural bitterness. Sadly it doesn't.The director tries to beef things up with some nudity, confrontations and a number of shifty characters on the edges of the frame, but these only still further bring home just how ponderous the story actually is. There's no raising the pulse for the finale either, it may try and come off as an ambiguous tester, but ultimately it's lightweight and wasn't worth the wait. Cast wise Connery and Snipes work well together in that father figure/student way (or sempai/kohai to be exactly on plotting), but the former's gruff beefy charm is diluted and Snipes is given very little to do. Keitel turns in an interesting one, as does Ray Wise, but even these portrayals tend to shine only because what's around them is borderline dull. It does look nice though, where a very modernist sheen plays host to some shifty shenanigans. Perhaps it really is a simple case of too much compromise going on in here? Hell, Kaufman even changed the killer from that of the one in the novel. But considering the talent involved in the production and a fire-cracker source to work from, this really should have been much better. A wasted chance it remains. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Insults Go Both Ways","Date":"14 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I've never understood the comments that Rising Sun is so derogatory to the Japanese, because if you pay attention to it, you'll see that Americans in the film come out much worse. Every American man in the film is either a sell-out or a sleaze bucket-- as is the murderer--and every American woman is basically a sex slave serving some old Japanese man (not to mention their breakthrough roles as Eddie Sakamura's sushi plate and sake straw).When I first saw this movie in 1993, I came out of the theater with a much more negative view of my own compatriots than I did the Japanese.Do you think it's a coincidence that the film's wise hero is a Scot, not an American?So the question I ask is, Do the Americans come out any better? "}{"Title":"Liesurely cross-cultural murder mystery.","Date":"8 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There is an ancient Japanese saying, Always leave the cage door open in case the bird returns. Another ancient Japanese saying goes, Tempus fugit. Man, is this movie dated. When this was written, what the Japanese don't already own, they seem to be buying up. Their technology was light years ahead of ours and everyone was prosperous. But the bonny economy of Japan collapsed about fifteen years ago and has lingered in the doldrums since then.Crichton wrote this when the bloom on the Japanese chrysanthemum was flush. He does a fairly decent job of explaining the differences between the two cultures and how easily they lead to misunderstandings. His protagonist here is Sean Connery. The sidekick is Wesley Snipes, an L.A. detective investigating a murder that took place in the midst of some high-level negotiations between Japanese and American businessmen. Sidekicks are useful characters, almost essential to a didactic film like this. Their role is that of the naif. You see, the expert Connery can explain to the assistant Snipes, this is how you do things around here. The dumb sidekick of course is a stand-in for the dumb audience.The sidekick, though, is also usually a source of humor, like King Lear's Fool. And here Snipes' range as an actor illustrates its limits. Nobody expect an actor of his dignity to do pratfalls or make a fool out of himself, but he's given some moment that are intended to be amusing and he doesn't pull them off. Not that they're genuine belly busters to begin with.Snipes always seems a little too much on top of things. What he doesn't understand, he treats with contempt. Punch first and ask questions later. (His problem is nothing compared to the magnitude of Sylvester Stallone's.) Connery seems on top of things too but in his case it seems acceptable. For one thing, that's his role. He's the teacher. For another, Connery, with those skeptical, asymmetrical eyebrows, may be the only durable lead actor in history to have never uttered a believable word. He is simply unable to take himself seriously, whereas Snipes is intense throughout. Snipes, though, is a fine physical actor and gets a chance to cool off some Yakuza now and then.The story revolves around the murder of a beautiful young house girl on the conference table of a board room. There is a lot of chasing around after disks and whatnot. Interesting to watch techies manipulate the data on their advanced, second-generation laser-disk readers. I hope the National Security Agency is watching this.The plot is intricate and mostly appears to be a peg to hang the moral and technological lessons on. Frankly there were times when I was lost. I'm not sure I understand the murderer's motives. But I must say I knew from the outset that it couldn't have been a Japanese because no Japanese man would be so impolite as to strangle a beautiful woman he was having sex with. At any rate I was happy to see the heavy dropped into a block of fast-drying cement and disappear beneath the surface. I didn't like his hair do anyway.The movie's nothing to get excited about, and everyone involved seemed to realize it. But it does while away the time in case you feel a need to make time fly even faster. "},{"Title":"A disgrace to the book","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you read Crichton's book, which was fantastic by the way, then please do not see this movie. To take Smith's character and make him black for some ungodly reason is beyond me. Then to change the ending and just about everything else in the book is horrible. The most interesting thing about the book was seeing how the Japanese view us, how they view themselves, and the explanations for their actions was great. It is only touched lightly in the movie. If you have seen this movie and found yourself interested in the Japanese culture and how they view us Americans I highly recommend reading the book. You will get far more out of it than this movie did. I rate it a 3 and that is being nice. "},{"Title":"Dim, dumb, this Sun is no fun","Date":"20 February 2011","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is, I'm sad to say, an awful, misguided mess of a movie. Every actor seems out of place, every line of dialogue contrived, every shlock moment of gratuitous sex or violence obviously engineered to evoke a reaction, which it does not.It has been said that this adaptation removes the anti-Japanese bias of the book, but in trying to soften the blow the filmmakers have tripped themselves up and are left with something that is still wholly offensive and startlingly obtuse in its ignorance. A Scotsman throwing a game of golf, to humour the Japanese businessmen who had joined him and to save their faces? This is for Japanese businesses what Bulletproof Monk did for Buddhism.It seems that director Philip Kaufman had a film camera in one hand and a checklist of stereotypes in the other. There are no genuine moments of action or thrills in this plodding, so-called action-thriller, and the high-tech element of digital video forensics now seems awfully dated. The entire aesthetic and feel is very reminiscent of your below-average direct-to-TV so-called action film vehicle for a past-his-prime movie star - this is a pity because at that point of time, Connery and Snipes were anything but past their prime.This was a time when Wesley Snipes was a viable action star, and yet he appears spends the whole movie in dazed disbelief. When even Sean Connery visibly gives up on the project and knows he can't save it no matter how much he tries, one knows he is in deep trouble. "},{"Title":"Rising.?","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The best moments are the ones which deal with video manipulations.That's typically Crichtonesquein mondwest,which he directed,he created a fake world,in coma,things are not what they seem.Looker reveals a threatening side of advertising,and advertising is par excellence manipulation .Let's mention that Antonioni's blow-up had already tackled the there's more to the picture than meets the eye topic though,and even DePalma's blow out displayed more care and respect for the audience.Unfortunately,Crichton does not direct here.Philip Kaufman is always showing off,his remake of body snatchers made up for the lack of new ideas with gaudy pictures and a fair share of nudity.And if you're looking for nudity,you will not be disappointed here.If you're looking for substance,suspense and relevance,it's definitely not your cup of tea.Kaufman even calls Hitchcock for helpthe murder which we see on Mako's glasses is a strangers on a train rip-off.What remains is Eagles-versus-rising sun economic feudmost of the time,it's boring,because the movie is overlong,and the killer's identity is not such a big surprise(and he dies a terrible death at that!).Sean Connery who produces this film ,teams up with Snipes and ,as a lot of actors before him, falls in the trap of hostile cops partners at the beginning,who little by little find reciprocal esteem.(We've been in this movie before) "},{"Title":"One of the weakest action thrillers I've seen in years.","Date":"23 January 2003","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rising Sun is an exercise in bad screenwriting. It presents a story about big bad Japanese businessmen/gangsters and the crooked sale of a massive corporation called Microcon. The movie starts off with a goofball karaoke scene where Eddie Sakamura, the lead bad guy in another absolutely awful performance by Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa, singing a country song called Don't Fence Me In, in a scene that's probably one of the most pathetic attempts to develop a three dimensional character in cinematic history. Ted Danson' Peter Lowenstein in Body Heat (1981) was three dimensional because he had an interest in dancing that went beyond his character's obligatory role in the film. Here, this scene is thrown in at random just so we can try to pretend that this is a real person and not the facelss, stereotypical bad guy that we see for the rest of the film. Just after this terrible scene ends, we are taken to the meeting about the sale of Microcon, and the movie again trips over itself by trying in pathetic vain to create suspense during nearly silent deliberations over this sale in a conference room, and if you manage to stay awake long enough, a seedy murder soon follows, the solution of which the rest of the movies tries to present. The worst of the screenplay writing comes in about when Sean Connery's John Connor (real creative name, guys) is introduced, and continues pretty much until the end of the film. Welsey Snipes embarrasses himself by taking on a role in which he serves no other purpose than to be Wesley Snipes so that his name can go on the cover of the movie and trick action fans into thinking this might be another fast paced Snipes film (he's not the best action hero in the world, but he has certainly come out with better stuff than THIS), and to stand around and ask questions like a confused child. From the moment that Connor comes into the story, just about every time any character says anything, it is immediately followed by another character explaining what the hell is going on. There are two lengthy scenes that come almost one right after another where Web Smith (Snipes) and Connor are driving in the car, and Connor is explaining what is going on to the baffled Smith. LAPD nothing, this guy is more clueless than a dropout from Right Hand Roger's 24 Hour Junior Police Academy. The plot continues to jump through clichéd thriller hoops, with Connor all the while wowing Smith with his tactics and vainly trying to wow the audience as well, but it is somehow very difficult to be entertained by a movie that spends the majority of its running time explaining itself, and sometimes even badly. There is a scene early in the film at the murder investigation where Connor steps into the conversation (because Smith, as he predicted, got himself into trouble) and makes an unpredictable move, and then later when he's explaining to Smith what just happened, he ends by saying, `Now Mr. Yoshida owes me a favor&#133;Deep, isn't it!'Well, since you asked, no, it's not deep. Not even a little bit. And neither is the rest of the movie. "},{"Title":"This Sun hardly rises","Date":"13 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm a firm believer that book and film should be kept apart, especially if you're going to rate a movie; but sometimes the comparison is unavoidable. Crichton's Rising Sun isn't my favorite of his books, particularly because it's more doomsayer than novel. I get it, Japan's corporate practices on the world stage are underhanded and malicious, but couldn't it be couched in a better yarn? What I really did like about the novel was elder detective guiding the younger through the mysterious Japanese culture. Sean Connery's a great fit for this character; I had him in mind while reading it.But for the big screen version, this was all but stripped away in favor of a boiled-down mismatched cops flick. To that end, I do like the pairing of Connery and Snipes; and were they in a different movie, you'd have something. But their drama is in the service of a lifeless corporate whodunit. And there's a lot of talent peppered throughout the cast, and to see it wasted on something so dull is frustrating.There's one good scene in which Snipes uses a rough neighborhood to elude some East Asian bad guys. But the scene ends, and it's back to drudgery.5/10 "},{"Title":"Super entertainment","Date":"22 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" My favourite buddy cop film and one of my favourite films simply because of how entertaining, unusual, laid back and fun it is. This is a film that took me by surprise when I first watched it because of how chill and easygoing it is, much like character John Conner, played by Sean Connery, an eccentric detective and friend of the Japanese businessmen they're investigating, who knows the Japanese inside out and is therefore the best man for the case. It's almost comical to see Connery deal with the Japanese and give wisdom to his Kohai played by Wesley Snipes, knock out opponents like a ninja and spout mind-bending expressions, putting the American police department he derides to shame all the way, especially an arrogant, crooked detective played by Harvey Keitel. Connery couldn't be more perfect as he knocks out a tough body guard and then quips to the other they say if you have to resort to violence you've already lost...would you like to find out Jeff? He's justifiably and hilariously pleased with himself, but not the point of smugness as having learned from a superior culture as opposed to the fragmented mtv rap video culture of America he's basically a far better detective. The Japanese expect to be caught in Japan, but in America they take advantage because they think the American authorities are crooked and stupid, and aren't often wrong, so when a murder occurs in the Nakumora building during vital business negotiations, an obsequious, highly Americanized little subordinate thinks he can sloppily cover up a scandal with murder and forged evidence. It's up to John Conner to casually play golf with the head of the company get free membership and gain information on the Japanese' terms while Snipes learns and becomes a better detective. It's also a bit of an educational film about the way the Japanese do things, far more direct, simple and precise, and with honour of course, and I guess some kind of strange Japanese/American relations film. It's light entertainment, colourful and fun with a great cast all round, also including Steve Buscemi as a reporter who gets told by Sean Connery. Sean Connery steals the show in quite possibly my favourite performance of his so far, and it's worth watching for him alone. Also it was great to watch Ray Wise from Twin Peaks play a senator. There's a Twin Peaks reference at one point, and there's some Leland Palmer in his performance. "},{"Title":"Sean Connery and Wesley Snipes face a Japanese corporate cover-up of a murder","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Rising Sun (1993) is a neo-noir mystery. Its many themes concern the rising influence of Japanese companies upon the American economy, racial frictions and fears, cultural disparities, changes in power and status relations, differences in knowledge, and the influence of technology on historical records and truth. It now looks overdone. This is a film with any number of flaws, as critics have duly noted. As a thriller, it runs out of steam and tension, becoming uninvolving. It has accurately been described as limp, heavy-handed and half-baked. Its entertainment value is middling. It's not a total flop or turkey, by any means. Sean Connery, Wesley Snipes and Harvey Keitel see to that.One big theme is that there is a Japanese industrial and technological invasion of American business turf that evens threatens secrets that have national security implications. American companies are pictured as lacking in financing, know-how and organizational expertise; they are ripe for takeover and the storyline focuses on the negotiations to take over one company, named MicroCon. These negotiations are going on in Los Angeles in the newly-built Nakamoto Towers, a symbol of the Japanese business invasion. The negotiations and the grand opening of the building are interrupted by the murder of a 23-year old white female in the Nakamoto boardroom. The Japanese have their own security people and want to hush it up, cover it over. A disc with a camera recording goes missing. Sean Connery and Wesley Snipes are Special Services liaison people while Harvey Keitel is an LA detective. The story is a whodunit.The overriding theme of Japanese superiority and invasion has in retrospect been proved to be vacuous. It already lacked substance at the time, but it made a good subject for popular fears and prejudices. It sold books for Michael Crichton.The Japanese stock market had already peaked in 1989. The real estate bubble deflated. The economy followed. Japanese real GDP has grown only at a 1% rate since 1989, and the stock market is still only one-fourth of its 1989 level. American business has led the way and proved adaptable and innovative in a number of tech-heavy sectors. America's National Security State is technologically savvy and more than willing to surveil everyone on the planet. These facts make Rising Sun a dated movie. It's still of interest for what it shows about the fears and prejudices of the time. Such fears and prejudices alter in content over time but retain form and power.The movie opens with an excellent metaphor for Japanese takeover. The prime murder suspect, Eddie Sakamura, is shown singing Don't Fence Me In at a karaoke. The lyrics are provocative. One of his amatory conquests, the murder victim, walks out on his singing and he rushes after her, forcing her into his Delorean car. Keitel is justifiably angry that his police authority is challenged at the Towers. His character bemoans the absence of American labor in the construction, the break on property taxes, and giving this country away. The elevator speaking in Japanese annoys him. He's rightfully angry when the victim is said to be a woman of no importance as compared with the grand opening and when the Japanese contaminate the murder scene. But he also propounds derogatory stereotypes, saying that They all want to f**k a Rose Bowl queen and these guys are known perversion freaks. For the most part, the screenplay makes the Japanese corporate underlings into the bad guys. They spy on the Americans during the negotiations. They want to cover up a murder. They have bedrooms for sex near the boardroom. They manipulate evidence. They work around laws. They corrupt a senator so that he changes his vote to allow the sale of MicroCon. They're out to take over America through business. Japan Inc. is made into the enemy.Connery is the master and Snipes is the apprentice. Snipes knows how to deal with Japanese cultural differences and he knows some of the language, but Connery is presented as superior in all these respects. Although he treats Snipes as a co-worker, emphasizing teamwork and attaining their objective, Connery is condescending and smug. Snipes doesn't get the girl he wants, the half-black, half Asian woman (Tia Carrere), because she's already the lover of Connery! Snipes's main contribution is to use his ghetto buddies to help him and Connery escape from Japanese pursuers. Snipes has a very strong, intelligent and likable screen presence; on this score he holds his own with Connery. He almost gets to put Connery in his place now and then. Without shame, Connery accepts a golf club membership from his Japanese top executive buddy worth $100,000 because that's supposedly essential as a liaison. Snipes, by contrast, has in the past accepted a much smaller bribe (with Keitel) for the sake of his family and he's shown having to admit and defend it to Connery. Fortunately, Snipes went on to some more independent leading roles such as in Passenger 57 and Murder at 1600.Crichton's novel was apparently didactic and difficult to turn into a thriller with a master/apprentice center to it doing an investigation. The movie comes across in places as not much different from Hollywood depictions of the Japanese menace in and around World War 2. There is one big difference, which is the cozy relationship between Connery and the top Nakamoto executive in America. The story accepts this. It is an accommodation built on a degree of corruption. Like the subversion of the U.S. senator (Ray Wise), the picture being painted is one of foreign interests capable of undermining America from within by using money and sex. "},{"Title":"OK, but no sparks, no wow effect","Date":"30 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have not read the book, so my disappointment is based only on acting.The movie is not bad, but the acting and scenes seem stiff and unnatural. My disappointment is not based on a particular actor - no one in particular is bad - just stiff and boring.- nice cultural ping pong- but it don't scratch beneath the surface- the emotions played in various scenes are played stiff and unnatural- the tempo is OK, the story is OK, just the acting is boring.- more stories is being told (business, cop, private). It keeps the attention of the viewer. But still boring acting. "},{"Title":"crime thriller a little too complicated","Date":"5 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A woman is found dead in a Japanese company offices in L.A. Police detective Tom Graham (Harvey Keitel) investigates. Web Smith (Wesley Snipes) is called in but he's told to bring John Connor (Sean Connery) along. He's a former police Captain and Japanese expert. The woman is a professional escort who dies during rough sex. Senator John Morton (Ray Wise) opposes a deal with the Japanese. Connor receives the surveillance footage of the murder implicating Eddie Sakamura (Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa) but it's been digitally altered.The plot is a little too complicated with hidden agendas. The Japanese sensibility was interesting at the time. It would be better if the plot has fewer twists and a bit more clarity. Connery and Snipes don't really have good chemistry. It may also be better if Smith is more of a greenhorn. That chemistry would probably be more compelling. "}{"Title":"Average Thriller Picked Up By Good Performances","Date":"4 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I have not seen this since it was first releases when I was a teenager. I remembered liking it, and I have a soft spot for old Sean Connery so gave it another go when it was on TV.Plot In A Paragraph During a party at the United States offices of a Japanese corporation, a woman is found dead, apparently after a violent sexual encounter. Police Detectives Web Smith (Wesley Snipes) and John Connor(Sean Connery), a former police Captain and expert on Japanese affairs, are sent to act as liaison between the Japanese and the investigating officer, Smith's former partner Tom Graham (Harvey Kietel).Whilst it was not as good as I remember Sean Connery does what you would expect of him in his mentor role, and he does it well. Wesley Snipes was a solid reliable actor in the early to mid nineties, and here is no exception. Whilst Harvey Keitel rarely disappoints and Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa does a fine job as Eddie Sakamura, a powerful man who may or may not be mixed up in it all. I always enjoy seeing Mako on screen. Tia Carrere has a small role, while Steve Buscemi has a smaller one as the aptly named Willy 'the Weasel' Wilhelm.My one complaint was an unnecessary romance between Snipes and Carrere at the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"Dusk . . .","Date":"9 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Michael Crichton is the king of details when comes to his books. His stories go down to the absolute detailed mechanics of their subject so that we arise knowing a little more about it then we did when we started - This is a guy who does his homework. Rising Sun was about eccentricities of a competitive Japanese conglomerate. He really got inside this world and gave you a feel for what it must be like on the inside.What aggravates me about 'Rising Sun' as a movie is that it seems to have been adapted by someone who learned by watching cop-buddy movies. It takes place in Los Angeles where a new Japanese conglomerate is just getting started. A woman is found dead in a conference room strangled to death and the killer seems to be the girl's lover Eddie Sakamura (Cary Hiroyuki-Tagawa) who is a shrewd businessman with some ties in the criminal underworld. But in order to keep the new conglomerate from looking bad right from the start, they decide to call in a crime expert.Enter John Conner (Sean Connery), a worldly-wise detective who is able to figure things out just by observation the way Sherlock Holmes might have. His Watson is Web Smith (Wesley Snipes) one of those slick movie cops who constantly insults his partner and throws out a stream of glib one-liners because well &#x96; he's a black movie cop.This combination is what sets the movie on the wrong track. For most of the movie Connery uses his knowledge of Japanese culture and motives to gather information while Snipes stands by and tosses out a joke and gives the wrong information. Why was this necessary? Why does the sidekick have to be wrong all the time. Why isn't he able to counter Connery's information with his own knowledge? I could imagine a good sidekick being played by, say Giancarlo Giannini. You would have two very intelligent men working together instead of the approach of having Snipes say something stupid and Connery countering it.And what about the dead girl? There is never an attempt to give us much emotional interest in her. She is just a sexy model, killed in a kinky murder to be the movie's McGuffin. There is actually more time spent on the video of the murder then on the victim. A video disk was taken of the killer with the face blotted out and covered with the image of someone else, but who cares? This is a movie with so little emotional interest. "},{"Title":"This sun rises","Date":"10 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Here's another film that cops too much flack. It's an underrated movie, which at times loses it's punch, but it becomes such an engrossing movie that gets with the times. It's set around a big computer organization, where everything's not black and white. We have a beautiful high priced girl/mistress, who's been accidentally strangled, or was she murdered, while engaged in a session of rough sex that got out of control. All evidence, instantly points towards Eddie Sakamoto, the son of the original owner of the business, I think, as he was in a relationship with the dead lass, and they had argued at the start while singing Don't fence me in at karaoke, where she just stormed out, where he gives chase. The exterior trick shot, outside the bar where the sports car is made to look really small as it takes off, outside the park, was a cool shot on Kaufman's part (this is the dude that made The Wanderers). Enter Connery, a cop was a mysterious past and Snipes who's assigned with him. The teaming up of these two is interesting. Like the Seagal characters, Connery's here is kept pretty secretive, as if almost boxed up. He's flawlessly great, disposing of tight situations, with a hand to the throat, when muscle bound geezers, give him trouble. We learn too about Snipes's background some, but this film really opens our eyes, to the deception in computer graphics, and the falsity of misrepresenting images, where's Eddie's may of been planted, preferably by the killer and his goons, possible employees of the business. RS is a nice cool mixture with the just the right of amount of sex, (it's hot, especially, naked sushi scene, much alike to the one in the dreaded, Showdown in Little Tokyo). There's nice looking broads, and some action, but on the surface, it's a drama thriller, but it's a very good drama thriller, right to the end, that has you wondering, if the supposed killer that dies at the end, is really our guy. These thrillers, who's victim is killed right at the start (Saigon, Basic Instinct) where the rest of the movie you're left to guess the killer, I love. RS has it all, = one big surprise, plus some of those great actors from Reservoir Dogs, Buscemi, playing a pussy character in this too. We even have a car chase, where at Snipes request, these homeboys stall these not so happy Asians. The interrogation scenes with Snipes, the interrogated set in before or after scenario's, I liked too which really gave it an interesting and serious angle. These after scenarios could have you thinking they took place after the end of the story, which is rather cool. After all poor Snipes has got enough personal problems. Also we have same real racial hatred going, thanks to a conflict of opinions, and ill favour. Don't believe the bad hype on this. Rent it today. "},{"Title":"Murder and merger","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Michael Crichton's novel about murder and merger serves as the basis for a fine thriller of a film. For Sean Connery fans they will be pleased with what Connery does in this film.Wesley Snipes plays a Los Angeles homicide detective who has it insisted to him that he bring retired police captain Connery along with him to solve a murder committed in one of those glass tower buildings owned by a Japanese firm. The book and the film were made at a time it seemed that the Japanese were acquiring a lot of things American and were beating us at our capitalist game. Connery is quite a lover of Japanese culture and tradition in addition to possessing a keen eye for subtle nuances. His presence proves to be invaluable.The murder is that of a high priced mistress and it looks like she was strangled during some rough sex. In fact the Japanese who have a very different attitude toward privacy and tape everything and everyone have the room under video surveillance. The tape they supply shows a US Senator Ray Wise doing the deed. A lovely piece of blackmail since his vote in the Senate is a key one to get.But Connery doesn't buy it and eventually the truth is learned.Both Connery and Snipes are manipulated to a first solution and then to a correct one. The subtleties of the Oriental mind.Rising Sun is an OK thriller. It certainly gets a bit paranoiac about the Japanese taking over the country. Fears about that certainly proved to be premature.Cary-Hiroyki Tagawa as an up and coming Japanese yuppie businessman who has the solution and is part of it should be singled out for praise. As well as Harvey Keitel playing a Philistine American cop who symbolizes the ugly American in his own country. Good thing he had Snipes and Connery along. I'm agreeing with a lot of other reviewers who think Steve Buscemi was totally wasted in a role that proved superfluous to the film and went nowhere. I'm betting in the book he had a more central purpose to the plot.Sean Connery's world wide legion of fans should enjoy this. "},{"Title":"From sun rise to sun set","Date":"30 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's obviously big-budget and well constructed, but the convoluted plot and epic two-hour duration cruel this Japanese-flavoured thriller that stars Sean Connery as an emeritus captain and specialist in Oriental custom, called in to assist the investigation of a murder in a foreign-owned corporation that is apparently concealing information to contain the scandal. Wesley Snipes is the younger brash detective who learns from Connery that there's more than one way to skin a cat when the cat isn't being co-operative.Tia Carrera co-stars in a fringe role as a visual editing specialist, brought into the investigation when it becomes apparent that CCTV footage of the incident has been doctored. Ray Wise (Twin Peaks) plays a corrupt political candidate caught up in the affair, and Harvey Keitel, Stan Shaw and Mako all have significant supporting roles.Some lighthearted moments (Connery dispatches a couple of minders after he's manhandled and there's a running joke about Snipes' nickname of 'Cohai' akin to a trainee) punctuate what at times becomes little more than a forensic investigation of the CCTV DVD, such is the time dedicated to analysing its contents (and apparent omissions). Not only does the sun rise, but it will also set before you've finished watching this epic, though it offers an interesting cultural slant, can't justify the mammoth run-time. "},{"Title":"Dumbed-down, yet effective","Date":"6 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This adaptation of Crichton's novel of the same name is flawed, specially in some key casting (Snipes is wrong for the part) and tone choices (the main relationship is badly portrayed, some characters enter and leave without regard and the action scenes seem very off).However, it makes the grade into the above-average category of high-tech thrillers for the excellent Sir Connery performance and the adherence, in about 80%, to the gripping and quite scary, economically speaking, original plot.Crichton was never afraid to take a stand and the movie version, although clearly into a more action-driven-politically-correct approach, tried to present a more layered portrayal of the business war arena, without hiding the author's criticism of the American posture towards the velvet covered Japanese iron hand on such matters, which is refreshing.The pace is lightning fast, the convoluted plot is presented in a very satisfactory fashion - the audience can understand what is going on and why - and the almost 2-hour movie passes by with grace.The little disappointment goes for the last 20 minutes, that present a rather stupid conclusion (different from the book, I might add) and wastes the audience time with perfunctory developments that could, easily, have remained in the edit room floor. "},{"Title":"It will blow your mind, crew speaks for itself","Date":"7 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Ah thee film entitled Rising Sun was truly a fetching affair. Domo Arigatou Connery-Kun, you've truly out done yourself, considering the gargantuan bar you set dressed incognito as a Japanese man in that documentary-like Bond film. I regally enjoyed the clever trickery employed by our friend Eddie Sakamura when it seemed that he had indeed killed the lady of the night by a strangle-hump, bravo. Little did we know that the super advanced techniques used by the hyper mysterioso Nihon Business cadre sizzled the evidence using Nasa like editing in a lab that produced jumping robot legs... I must say that I was puzzled when Woody challenged Snipes to a B-Ball 3 on 3 mid film so as to not lose face to the Yakuza like under- lords. Oh let us not fail to mention Eddie Sakamura's fantastic nipple-Sake bomb, that was truly cinematic bombast and intriguing indeed. Good thing this classic film ended with a unseen Connery-San egging Snipes on to fondle his 60 year younger lady friend. You could say this film really suckled the sake drenched teet of success, well done!Ahh Domo Arogatou Gozaimasu "},{"Title":"Highly Enjoyable Murder Mystery","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sex. Murder. Cover-ups. Three staples of a great murder mystery, and that's what Rising Sun offers. Of course, it spins them together in a story that's different than every other story of this ilk, and that's what makes this one so much fun to watch. It's not perfect, but it's a solid entry.A young woman has been murdered at the opening gala of a Japanese corporation's new building. Homicide detective Webb Smith (Wesley Snipes) is called in to investigate. Also on hand as his partner is retired captain John Connor (Sean Connery), a man who is known for his intimate knowledge of Japanese culture. As they work to solve the case, they realize that not everything is what it seems.I love a good mystery just as much as the next guy. Seeing the pieces fall into place, watching the heroes get closer to the killer, it's all great. For the most part, Rising Sun is ably told, although some of the minute details (that aren't so minute) are slightly confusing.Apparently, Michael Crichton imagined Connery playing John Conner as he was writing the book, and that's readily apparent. Connery, an actor of great screen presence, dominates the role (and the film). Wesley Snipes is not as good, but not bad. Caro Hiroyuki-Tagawa is adequate as the main suspect who knows more than what he's saying. Tia Careere is great in a small but important role as the tech support girl, Jingo Asakuma.The film's look is great, and it's competently directed. However, the pseudo-flashback approach doesn't really work, and the depictions of Japanese culture are heavy-handed, to the point where it almost becomes insulting.Still, this is a good and engaging mystery. "},{"Title":"Dreck-o-san","Date":"3 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie has two things going for it Wesley Snipes, before he went all vampire-zombie, and Sean Connery, who's always a welcome presence. Connery's cop character is evidently Japan's roving ambassador of ass-kissing adoration. Infuriatingly smug and omniscient, he's there not so much to investigate the central murder as tell us all, through Snipes' chronically fascinated everyman, just how wildly superior are Japanese culture and business practices compared to hick-town U.S.A. They will RULE THE WORLD in Toyotas, listening to Sony's, wearing expensive Kenzo cologne. Hmm.Michael Crichton, who helped adapt the screenplay from his novel, was a doctor AND attorney. He made movies. He wrote bestseller after bestseller - not one of them above the quality of potboiler, but all moneymakers. He was a daunting overachiever. But psychic? Seer? Prophet of the socioeconomic future? Well... in that, he flopped. Rising Sun was released in 1993, the year Japan's economy plunged into a 10-year economic tank from which it still hasn't fully recovered. In that time, South Korea, China, even Taiwan have emerged as Asian powerhouses - and, in the region as well as globally, are stiff competition for the sons of heaven. So it goes.But aside from all the 'future shock' nonsense, the murder mystery itself is pinned to vast, vast conspiracies run by deep-pockets Japanese corporations on the American west coast. Any plot inconsistencies or unbelievable coincidences are written off to the nefarious puppet-masters controlling everything but jackrabbit population. It's... turgid, routine stuff, and, ultimately, ridiculous and unbelievable. The car chases are lame, too.Another creepy element The main murder at issue takes place during a session of conference-table fornication; it's all recorded on video disk and during the course of the investigation, we're treated to it about 37 times. Can we say voyeuristic? A little! That's probably no accident, since Crichton wrote a low-budget independent about that very subject in the early '70s called Extreme Close-Up. It was a... thing... with him... evidently. If it's not your own particular fetish, you'll feel your skin begin to crawl. "},{"Title":"Good movie about the book The Rising Sun","Date":"31 December 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie is adapted from the book Rising Sun (1992) written by Michael Crichton. The movie follows the book in the most parts but misses to explain the book thoroughly. People who watch the movie without reading the book might be confused but director Kaufman has done a good job. The only bad thing about the movie is the development of characters. But if you read the book it will be much clear. The movie is basically about solving a murder case that was motivated by political and business war between Japan and United States. The mystery is good but the action in the movie was sort of unnecessary. The understanding of Japanese culture is equally important. Good movie not great...I give 6.5/10. "}{"Title":"Interesting if slightly dated thriller","Date":"20 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a fairly solid thriller with great performances from Sean Connery and Wesley Snipes as Capt. Connor and Lt. Smith, two Los Angeles police officers called in when a woman is found dead on the boardroom table of a Japanese company.When the officers arrive at the crime scene they find their investigations are being impeded by the Japanese who are desperate to avoid a scandal at a time when they are negotiating to take over a major US defence contractor. After a couple of hours stonewalling they hand over the discs for the boardroom's security cameras which appears to show the murder being committed by the victim's boyfriend. There are however the possibilities that it wasn't murder but kinky sex that went too far or that the camera footage has been edited.As the investigations continue it appears that somebody does not want the case to be solved, Smith finds an allegation of corruption being made even though he'd been cleared of it years before and Connor is accused of being anti-Japanese which is a bit of a surprise given that his police colleagues suspect that he'd gone native while living in Japan.In some ways the film seems somewhat dated, Japan no longer has the sort of economy that is able to buy up any Western company they want and technological advances mean that the idea that video can be doctored is no longer shocking but something we take for granted. That doesn't spoil the film though as it is a decent story which is well acted, hhile Connery and Snipes are clearly the stars the film includes good actors like Harvey Keitel and Steve Buscemi in relatively minor roles. "},{"Title":"Old Japanese lyrics","Date":"11 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rising Sun is a reasonable action-movie, but I find Sean Connery's part and acting in this particular movie quite ridiculous. He is playing the wise old man who teaches his apprentice in Japanese manners. The way he does that is by not saying what his connections to the Japanese mafia and business leaders are, and when he is asked by Wesley Snipes he uses bad phrases, like My grandfather used to say, a rope twisted around your left ankle is better than one around the neck. Both the audience and Wesley Snipes fails to see the point in such a lyrical sentence and I think this is very humiliating to the Japanese tradition of important rules of conduct.  "},{"Title":"Time-Pass!","Date":"27 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Based on Crichton's novel of the same name, 'Rising Sun' is a Time-Pass fare, the doesn't falter as far as quick entertainment is concerned. The Fast-Pacing is spot-on & The Performances work! 'Rising Sun' Synopsis When a professional escort is found dead, apparently after a violent sexual encounter, Police Detective Web Smith & John Connor, a former police Captain and expert on Japanese affairs, are sent to investigate.'Rising Sun' is good stuff. It's Entertaining, Progressive & Fast-Paced. The Screenplay by Crichton & Michael Backes, is truly engaging & well-written. Philip Kaufman has Directed the film well. Cinematography is eye-filling. Editing is crisp. Art Design is fair.Performance-Wise Sir Sean Connery & Wesley Snipes make superb screen-heroes & share an infectious chemistry throughout. Harvey Keitel is in excellent form. Tia Carrere does her bit well. Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa is effective. Ray Wise is decent. Steve Buscemi is as usual.On the whole, 'Rising Sun' is Entertaining. "},{"Title":"Ah these guys sure know how to do business.","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Around the period when Michael Crichton adaptations seemed to be the it thing (after the success of Jurassic Park), Crichton's Rising Sun would be the next one off the ranks this time by film-maker Philip Kaufman. Two cops, one an expert in the Japanese culture are put on the case of a dead woman found in a boardroom of a Japanese Los Angeles corporation building. It was quite a modest, if thinly plotted mystery thriller with an exceptional performance by Sean Connery. While the paranoid story was a manipulative puzzle with cultural, corporation and political subtexts, things just seem to happen with little depth to why and when answered it came off too easy. Sure it could be suspenseful, but the lead characters (Snipes and Connery) never felt like they were in any real sort of threat, because they knew what was coming (well more so Connery's character). Rarely does it create a false state of mind. Kaufman's slick direction of this highly produced production is economical, but his on cruise control directing from the stuffy script. Too bad because it's a fascinating set-up, but the execution for most part is thematically lukewarm. Wesley Snipes is workable across from Connery, forming a decent chemistry. Harvey Keitel provides some bite and Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa the flair. Also the cast features Tia Carrere, Ray Wise and Mako. A diverting, but less than creative exercise. "},{"Title":"To solve a crime an investigator must try to learn from an expert in Japan culture.","Date":"1 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I enjoyed this movie quite a lot. Granted, it has Sean Connery in it and Wesley Snipes and I like both of them so it probably is no surprise that I did like this one. The movie starts out with an Asian man in karaoke bar singing while a female who is apparently his girlfriend is really not all that into it. Well said female ends up dead and all signs point to the boyfriend, however all is not what it appears to be as there are some technological aspects to the crime and it is hard to get information in this world as an investigator must try to get answers and must turn to an expert on this sort of corporate Japanese culture to find the answers behind the crime. The film is good thanks to the interplay between Snipes and Connery, there is not really a whole lot of action in this movie so it is good that they do such a good job with their roles. There is some sexuality present though in the movie and that makes for an entertaining scene in this one here and there too. It is also always nice to have a movie about another culture even when that culture is contained within the United States as it is here. There could have been more action and at times the movie gets a bit to overly complicated in presenting itself and the end is rather confusing too, but in the end it has Connery and Snipes and both of them rise this movie up a peg or two. "},{"Title":"Pretty good","Date":"28 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sean Connery....what to say?  I think I fell in love with that man when I was about 10 and saw him in the first 007 movie.  Yummy!  And did anybody except probably me and ten other people see him in Medicine Man?  That was a wonderful movie that nobody liked, but really showed a bit of depth with Connery.  Snipes, well, I liked him in the Blade movies...but he really doesn't have much depth at all.  I'd have to agree with the assessment that Snipes and Connery don't have much chemistry, but this was probably intended to be a vehicle for Snipes to move beyond that he originally did and into something far more complex.  Only this movie didn't gell well with the public.  I love this movie's preface...sort of a who done it caper with an Oriental twist.  There are also parts about honor and codes of respect that I think allow us a glimpse into another part of the world.  Although parts of the movie have well documented language usage flaws...this movie basically gets this respect message across.  The movie also shows the seediness of power and corruption.  Overall, this movie is not one I would recommend to everyone, but it's watchable.  Nothing over the top, but the cinematography is above average.   "},{"Title":"Enjoyable because of the Leads","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rising Sun, a murder mystery with two heroes investigating shady Japanese businessmen is an enjoyable thriller on the strength of the leads alone. Sean Connery has remained a remarkable presence in movies that only gets better with his age as he provides a charismatic aura for his role as the wise John Connor. Wesley Snipes compliments Connery nicely as Webb Smith although his role basically requires him to look baffled throughout the whole movie. Connery and Snipes are given able support from a great cast that includes Harvey Keitel, Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa (of Mortal Kombat fame) and Tia Carrerra. Although the film drags at times and one scene in particular seems like a blatant excuse for Snipes to show off his martial arts expertise, the presence of the two leading actors makes this flick more enjoyable than it otherwise would've been. A good Friday night rental.  "},{"Title":"one of the best movies I have seen","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i really liked this movie. I taped the movie and I kept having to go back and rerun parts so that I could figure the parts out. i never do that.I like Sean Connery was great. I liked the ending. I hope the young couple got together. The think I didn't like was the sentors wife reaction was a joke. It was like that a cut from a horror movie just thrown in as a joke. I loved the car that the victim and the accused drove off in was really cool. "},{"Title":"Lame material by today's standards","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The only reason why I had given this movie a four is because the actors who were involved in this film were trying really hard to pull their parts off all the way until the end. Before I go into my review, I want to first point out that reading the message threads to this movie A. I didn't know this was another book turned film and B. I didn't know that Japanese culture is extremely racist but then again, what else is new? C. I have never been out to Los Angeles, Japan or read the book and D. I put all of this out there so you know that despite these facts, it has no part in playing in the review. What you get is me just seeing the movie today for the second time, the first was when it had came out. Off of that, you get my mind's perception of things based off of that and that's it.Alright, my gripes with this flick is well, it was released in 1993, assumed it was made in 1992 and everything back then was just cheesy. I guess race issues was hitting the screen in a serious flux during that time because to me it just seems like the issues or scenes concerning indifference are so consciously thought out because I guess of the uncomfortably level of busting a multiracial cherry, that it's a major hit or miss mark. I particularly notice this in Spike Lee's Jungle Fever as well. Which I don't understand because there was supposedly a very steamy/seedy scene with Rachel Welsh and Jim Brown a decade and a half before that but whatever.Like for instance, the scene when Connors and Smith being chased by the would be yakuza thugs in the blue hatchback convertable through the hood in L.A., and all the brotha's came up to their car to hear their dilemma before helping them out after catching up with Smith who I assume was the neighborhood football hero. Then when the brotha's went up to the bad guys car and scared them off. I don't know about you and I don't know about Japanese thug culture but I assume from all of the other millions of references to this subject, that these guys wouldn't scare easy like that, I mean they look like a bunch of bad dudes-wouldn't you agree? And the next thing is the whole mysterious profile of Connor's the retired Liason officer called in to help Smith. Mysterious as in why did he totally convert himself to be into Japanese culture that deep and who was he or what has he done exactly in the land of the rising sun to get major respect amongst the Japanese Business executives? I don't know, maybe I went to clean up the kitchen on that part because I did get easily distracted a few times. And I don't know about you but right from the bat, I knew that Leland, lol., excuse me, the guy who played the senator and his crony lawyer were the one's responsible for that girls death. Which I also need help on that one, perhaps I walked to the bathroom on that one because was killing her really necessary other than not having a movie to go off on? Was Senator Leland so powerful that he couldn't get caught up in such a scandal? If this was the case, why do stuff like that in the first place? I would of understood because his wife was paralyzed, so what was the senator to do?Also, is it me or is there an underlying tone of the japs are taking over but now, we have to deal with it in the movie?I guess during that time, it was a good popcorn fetish but looking back at it today with an older mind, in a semi-different time, well, it's just cheesy but if you have an hour and few minutes to kill and it's on TV, I say go for it, but I wouldn't buy or rent it. I'm pretty sure there are other movies that cover similar if not the same controversies and scandals that are brilliantly executed on a lower budget. "},{"Title":"Lame material by today's standards","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The only reason why I had given this movie a four is because the actors who were involved in this film were trying really hard to pull their parts off all the way until the end. Before I go into my review, I want to first point out that reading the message threads to this movie A. I didn't know this was another book turned film and B. I didn't know that Japanese culture is extremely racist but then again, what else is new? C. I have never been out to Los Angeles, Japan or read the book and D. I put all of this out there so you know that despite these facts, it has no part in playing in the review. What you get is me just seeing the movie today for the second time, the first was when it had came out. Off of that, you get my mind's perception of things based off of that and that's it.Alright, my gripes with this flick is well, it was released in 1993, assumed it was made in 1992 and everything back then was just cheesy. I guess race issues was hitting the screen in a serious flux during that time because to me it just seems like the issues or scenes concerning indifference are so consciously thought out because I guess of the uncomfortably level of busting a multiracial cherry, that it's a major hit or miss mark. I particularly notice this in Spike Lee's Jungle Fever as well. Which I don't understand because there was supposedly a very steamy/seedy scene with Rachel Welsh and Jim Brown a decade and a half before that but whatever.Like for instance, the scene when Connors and Smith being chased by the would be yakuza thugs in the blue hatchback convertable through the hood in L.A., and all the brotha's came up to their car to hear their dilemma before helping them out after catching up with Smith who I assume was the neighborhood football hero. Then when the brotha's went up to the bad guys car and scared them off. I don't know about you and I don't know about Japanese thug culture but I assume from all of the other millions of references to this subject, that these guys wouldn't scare easy like that, I mean they look like a bunch of bad dudes-wouldn't you agree? And the next thing is the whole mysterious profile of Connor's the retired Liason officer called in to help Smith. Mysterious as in why did he totally convert himself to be into Japanese culture that deep and who was he or what has he done exactly in the land of the rising sun to get major respect amongst the Japanese Business executives? I don't know, maybe I went to clean up the kitchen on that part because I did get easily distracted a few times. And I don't know about you but right from the bat, I knew that Leland, lol., excuse me, the guy who played the senator and his crony lawyer were the one's responsible for that girls death. Which I also need help on that one, perhaps I walked to the bathroom on that one because was killing her really necessary other than not having a movie to go off on? Was Senator Leland so powerful that he couldn't get caught up in such a scandal? If this was the case, why do stuff like that in the first place? I would of understood because his wife was paralyzed, so what was the senator to do?Also, is it me or is there an underlying tone of the japs are taking over but now, we have to deal with it in the movie?I guess during that time, it was a good popcorn fetish but looking back at it today with an older mind, in a semi-different time, well, it's just cheesy but if you have an hour and few minutes to kill and it's on TV, I say go for it, but I wouldn't buy or rent it. I'm pretty sure there are other movies that cover similar if not the same controversies and scandals that are brilliantly executed on a lower budget. "}{"Title":"Read the book, forget the film.","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Crichton said in an interview that he wrote the part for Sean Connery, if you read the book you can actually hear his voice.The Japanese element of Rising Sun took advantage of the rising tide of hysteria about Japan Inc. in the late 80's and early 90's. However, it was simply a dramatic plot device as very few Americans knew anything about the the emerging Taiwanese technology industry or computers for that matter and the Japanese culture is more familiar to American audiences and readers.For Rising Sun as with many of Crichton's books, is a metaphor, not an analogy. The warning was about industrial offshoring; not Japanese ownership. At the time Rising Sun was released in print the US stepper industry was moving from Silicon Valley to Taiwan. There was a great deal of concern in the Valley media and various policy think tanks that losing control of wafer technology would impact/compromise national security and the emerging personal computer industry. However environmental and labor regulations as well as economic concerns (labor costs and liability) drove the wafer processing industry offshore. After the 1999 Taiwan earthquake much of the critical on-time delivery sector of the industry moved to the southern coast of China near Wenzhou, a formerly sleepy port city 200 mi south of Shanghai that has become the jewel in the Chinese industrial/high tech crown.Ironically, a new wafer lithography process was recently unveiled by a German-American consortium that moves the ball down the field again. So as their Japanese counterparts before them, the Chinese are playing catch up, but China does not have systemic restraints such as our economic markets or Japan's rigid Keiretsu, they will soon dominate any field or industry in which they choose to compete.I thought the movie storyline was uneven and Snipes part weak...but movie adaptations are often disappointing as the medium has different needs.As to a senator having sex in a board room, you are joking, yes? A famous senator from the Northeast was renown in the 80's for having sex under tables in swanky DC restaurants. "},{"Title":"Awesome Murder Mystery, That Has A Wonderful Big Name Cast, An Engrossing Story And Amazing Performances All Around!","Date":"22 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an awesome murder mystery that has a wonderful big name cast an engrossing story and amazing performances all around!. All the characters are wonderful, and i thought it was quite unpredictable, plus Sean Connery, Wesley Snipes and Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa are simply amazing in this!. Connery and Wesley Snipes had wonderful chemistry together, and it's really suspenseful throughout, plus the finale was pretty shocking!. Harvey Keitel was fantastic in his role, and i was really shocked by some of the plot twists, plus Tatjana Patitz's death scene is quite disturbing at the beginning. While the ending could have been a bit better, and it is a little bit long in the tooth, but it never bored me and i thought it was engrossing throughout, plus the character development isn't too shabby. All the characters are really likable, and while it has it's flaws, it's very compelling all the same, plus it also helps that it has a wonderful cast!. This is an awesome murder mystery that has a wonderful big name cast an engrossing story and amazing performances all around and i say it's a must see!. The Direction is great!. Philip Kaufman does a great job here, with awesome camera work, great angles, lots of stylish shots and he kept the film at a very fast pace!. The Acting is amazing!. Sean Connery is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, very witty, had some awesome lines, cracked me up, had fantastic chemistry with Wesley Snipes, is extremely charismatic, and was just too cool overall! (Connery Rules!). Wesley Snipes is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, had fantastic chemistry with Connery, was a perfect choice to play this role, is also extremely charismatic, was focused, and really seemed to be into his role!, he was amazing. (Snipes Rules!!!). Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa is also AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, it was really cool to see him play a different role, and he seemed more relaxed then usual,and was just utterly fascinating to watch!, wished he had more screen time though!.(Tagawa Rules!!!). Harvey Keitel is fantastic as he always is, he didn't have much to do, but had some awesome lines, and was always intense when on screen! (Keitel Rules!). Mako does what he has to do well, i really liked him. Ray Wise is good as the Senator and cracked me up. Tia Carrere is STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS!, and did fine with what she had to do, however her Japanese accent was not that great, she was still captivating though!. Tatjana Patitz and Alexandra Powers are both incredibly sexy and gorgeous and both had a memorable scene. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall a must see!. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Deeply Flawed, Despite Its Good Cast","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" By judging from its cast, Rising Sun sounded promising enough to persuade me to give it a watch. Unfortunately, I was deeply disappointed by nearly all counts. Here is why Rising Sun is about the story of two police detectives, Web Smith (Snipes), and John Connor (Connery), who are brought in hastily to investigate the murder of a prostitute inside the luxurious offices of a Japanese multinational. During their investigation, they are getting entangled in the underworld of Japanese businessmen-cum-gangsters, and they become more and more entrapped inside a web of deceit, sex, politics and cruelty. They also realize that they are practically working on this case all alone, as their own men, such as Lt. Tom Graham (Keitel), are acting erratically, to say the least.Although the plot summary sounds like it has the ingredients of a great thriller, the reality is otherwise The story is inconsistent and full of logical gaps, which only become graver in the progression of time. Moreover, the whole idea of the film is based on a completely flawed and even subtly racist assumption The Japanese are representing a pure and highly superior society, whose powerful corporations are ready to devour the decadent and incompetent America; in the process, they are ready to employ all means ruthlessly. The film even suggests that the Japanese are running their own omnipotent criminal network inside US soil, which has subjugated the American society and infrastructure under its control!Written in the early '90s, during a period when Japan was on the ascendancy worldwide, the novel by Crichton still goes way too far in its suggestions even by the Japano-phobic standards of the time. Of course, if it is judged against today's standards, a period when Japan is suffering from a decade of economic stagnation, the message of the movie is utterly laughable and displaced from reality.The problems for Rising Sun do not end here. Despite the presence of two great actors (Connery & Keitel), the acting was quite unsatisfactory. It seems as if even the actors do not really believe in the ludicrous roles they have been assigned to perform. The same can be said with Kaufman's direction which is as poor as the film overall.I was really disappointed with Rising Sun, because it failed me completely. The only reason I gave it a 3/10 and not less, is out of respect for Sean Connery and Harvey Keitel. "},{"Title":"100% actor movie","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rising sun is clearly an actor movie. My definition of an actor movie is this it's a movie people are dying to see mostly/only because of the great, gifted and well-known actors and a movie that basically works because of those recognized actors. Another example would be, let's say, James Mangold's Cop land. Sylvester Stallone, Robert De Niro, Harvey Keitel, Ray Liotta, Robert Patrick, Michael Rapaport - all appearing in a one otherwise quite basic thriller. Of course it's true marvelous cast alone can't save a film if everything else stinks. Luckily Rising sun includes a good, entertaining and exciting script and a nice story with lots of surprises.I'm still pretty sure it would be a film that's very easy to forget without the fine actors. They are the force that keeps everything else working. Sean Connery and Wesley Snipes in the leading roles are quite amusing and I have to admit, most interesting pair. Naturally everybody wants to see if they got any screen chemistry. Certainly it's also always very nice to enjoy the uncontested talents of great men like Harvey Keitel and Steve Buscemi - even if the film isn't the biggest highlight of their careers. Ray Wise is pretty terrific in a significant role as Senator Morton - even though every time I see his crooked face it only makes me think of Leland Palmer - his peculiar character in the television hit series Twin peaks. So by all means, watch Philip Kaufman's Rising sun. I know you want to. "},{"Title":"not terrible","Date":"22 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I watch this kind of movie for fun and suspend my disbelief.Rising Sun is not bad at all. It could have been much worse without Connery. I am not a big fan of oriental wisdom sound bites e.g. Leave the cage door open the bird may return. Spoken by an unintelligent actor you don't like they become a lightening rod for all your ire. Fortunately Connery is not such an actor.The senior Japanese executives look like they have irritable bowel syndrome if they smiled their faces would crack. It is exaggerated and silly but for the most part the action keeps your interest. Although, at the end I got confused as to who killed the girl. I am still not sure.It is worth renting to pass a couple hours. "},{"Title":"Rising Sun","Date":"25 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" From director Philip Kaufman (Invasion of the Body Snatchers, The Right Stuff, Quills), I had probably heard of this or seen a poster, and it was interesting to hear the two stars in a film together, I was up for seeing what it was like. Basically during a party in a Japanese corporation at the office, a woman who obviously a professional escort is found dead, this is supposedly due to rough sex. Called in to investigate the death is police detective Lt. Webster Smith (Wesley Snipes), but he is called by someone who tells him that should pick up former police Captain and an expert on Japanese affairs, John Connor (Sir Sean Connery) (not to be confused with the saviour of mankind in the Terminator films, LOL). It looks like your average nothing out of the ordinary death, Smith is sure of this, but Connor is suspicious there may have been foul play, and there is evidence to suggest murder. Using sophisticated video technology the two detective looks back at the footage captured on CCTV, from inside and out of the party. They certainly prove that Eddie Sakamura (Licence to Kill's Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa) had something to do with what happened to the hooker, he is the son of a wealthy Japanese businessman. By the end the conclusion is that she was indeed murdered by strangulation, but it is not the police who catch the criminal, it is Sakamura's friends who get him by burying him alive in wet cement, and all Connor and Smith can do is go there separate ways. Also starring Harvey Keitel as Lt. Tom Graham, True Lies' Tia Carrere as Jingo Asakuma, Tatjana Patitz as Cheryl Lynn Austin, Kevin Anderson as Bob Richmond, Mako as Yoshida-San, Ray Wise as Senator John Morton, Stan Egi as Ishihara and Steve Buscemi as Willy 'the Weasel' Wilhelm. Connery as usual gives a determined performance as the man who knows a lot about what is going on, and Snipes is alright as his partner getting his own ideas along the way, I will confess that I did not pay the fullest attention to what was going on, but it didn't really get what I watched anyway, it could have been a bit simpler, but it wasn't a bad thriller. Okay! "},{"Title":"Who the hell is this Eddie Sock-it-to-me!","Date":"25 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ***SPOILERS*** What was just a murder turned out to be far more then that in it being in danger of scudding a major power play between the US computer chip and semiconductor company Microcom and the powerful Japanese electronic Nakamoto Corps.The victim call-girl Cheryl Austin, Tatjena Patitz, was found strangled to death on the 46th floor of the Nakamoto Tower in downtown L.A where a major deal between Microcom and the Nakamoto Corps was in the process of being sealed! If Miss. Austin's murder became public it would mean curtains for the struggling Microcom company that took months, and millions in under the table pay off money, to have it finally formulate! It's when LAPD Det. Let. Tom Graham, Harvey Keitle, is called to the murder scene that it becomes apparent that he's, in his off color remarks about Japanese, not quite the man for the job. It's then that his partner Lt. Web Smith, Wesley Snipes, and expert on the Japanese language and customs Capt. John Connor, Sean Connery, are called in to help in solving this baffling murder case.It becomes apparent to Let. Smith that the Japanese honchos at the Nakamoto Tower are hiding something in who murdered Miss. Austin. It's Capt. Connor in being well versed in Japanese social customs as well as business practices knows that there's a lot more to Austin's murder then just a case of jealous rage. As Connor digs deeper into the case he uncovers an elaborate blackmail scheme to get US Senator John Morton, Ray Wise, the head of the Senate Finance Committee to change his vote in agreeing with the Microcom/Nakatomo deal that he at first was dead set against!***SPOILER****It was the married and straight as an arrow Senator's hidden passion for rough sex that was used to blackmail and have him change his mind and vote on the multi-billion dollar deal. A deal that will give Japan total control of a major part of the US Military's missile defense system!Retrieving a surveillance DVD disk of the 46th floor at the time of Miss. Austin's murder Connor and Smith see on the DVD that it was the popular Japanese actor and singer, the Clint Eastwood of Japan, action star Eddie Sakamura, Cary-Hiroyuki-Tagawa, who was Austin's murderer. Even though the evidence against Sakamura looks like a slam dunk to convict him Connor, a man who's hard to fool, discovers with the help of computer analyst Jingo Asaicuma, Tia Carrere, that Eddie in fact was air-brushed or electrically implanted into the DVD's murder scene and at the same time Austin's real killer was electrically air-bushed out of it! Even though Eddie as shown on the cleaned up, or restored, disk was at the murder scene and knows who Austin's murderer is!***SPOILERS*** In the movie we have Capt. Connor together with his partner Let. Smith go through a maze of false leads and red herrings until they finally find out who's not only behind Austin's murder but who's behind framing Eddie, who just happened to be Austin's boyfriend, in murdering her. It all boils down to greed and power in the business world in which both Austin and Eddie actually played a very small part in. The big part in all this was the shadowy Microcom Nakamoto deal that both Eddie Sakamura and Cheryl Austin had really nothing to do with. But were used by those, in front and behind the scenes, who did! Who used the two unsuspecting patsies to their own murderous and financial advantage! "},{"Title":"How Things Change- Good Movie","Date":"28 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Good movie, with Sean Connery outstanding again.  As we look back over the last 10 years I wonder how we thought that Japan would industrially take over the world.  Now the Japanese economy is a basket case and we just came off a very good economic cycle.  If you like techno-thrillers this is a very good movie even though 10 years later the technology is starting to look a little dated. 8 Stars The Doc "},{"Title":"Connery+Snipes+Keitel+Crichton = sit back and enjoy!","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rising sun is a first-rate thriller with an exceptional balance between action and suspense. The association of Connery and Snipes works on different levels and the supporting roles (Keitel,Tagawa) bring depth but also fun to the story. The film is visually captivating at times (the phantom scene on the videodisc - a great idea! You recognize Michael Crichton's touch here) and the story, although a bit confusing at times, has no real holes when you think about it. ***SPOILER***Or maybe one it may not appear very coherent that a politician who is supposed not to be born yesterday accepts to have sex in the meeting room of his enemies. Apart from that, this is one of the most solid thrillers of the past 10 years. IN NO CASE you can guess the name of the killer from the start, except if you have read the book before. Forget what the grumps say Rising sun is a perfect example of intelligent entertainment.There hasn't been so many movies of that class in the 90's. "},{"Title":"Wesley Snipes and Sean Connery","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The tall, dark, handsome Bond of the early 60's who even appeared in Hitchcock's 'Marnie' and played an antagonist alongside Ralph Richardson in 'Woman of Straw' acts in this 'buddy' film with Wesley Snipes. Snipes engages with Hollywood history by teaming up with Connery, and is fully received into the Hollywood community as a middle class artiste. "}{"Title":"Sean Connery's best!","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Never have I seen a film so very detailed and down-to-earth! Unlike most films, where events, firms (companies), and sometimes issues, are mostly made up with the director's imagination, Rising Sun is very closely knitted to real life and rightly so, where the film is based on a novel (whom the author and title shall remain anonymous) which was slammed for its typically American anti-Japan message. The key issue of the film is racism, where discriminate and pompous Americans cannot live with the fact that another Japanese company, Nakamoto, is on the verge of swiping continuing the Japanese saga in the USA by negotiating the acquisition of ailing Microcorp. Wesley Snipes plays the young thinks-he-knows-all cop (Web Smih) who is assignned to investigate the murder of a white girl at a Japanese firm. Sean Connery, impressively, takes the role of John Conner, a much older seen-all cop who proves to be a very useful ally of Smith, because of his deep knowledge of the Nipponese culture. Both prove to be very different in character, Smith being the anti-Japan American, while Conner is the more multi-cultural and learned man.Like I said before, the film is very down-to-earth, for some of its events are heavily based in real life (for example, Ishihara's remark of the American government's blocking of Fujitsu's purchase of American semi-conductor manufacturer, Fairchild, was out of racism, not fear). Very entertaining and five stars performance displayed by the entire cast, not just by Snipes or Connery, are JUST a couple of reasons why you MUST see this film. "},{"Title":"Good suspense movie","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is superb, full of suspense. No doubt it was taken from Michael Crichton's novel.After seeing the first few hours, the movie seems tell us nothing. Only the final one hour is becomes more exciting. The only things that doesn't come perfectly is the soundtrack and the lighting effect, too dark. Overall, it worth watching. "},{"Title":"Savior Sean Connery","Date":"8 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really wasn't left with much of an impression after watching Rising Sun. Of course, Sean Connery is terrific as usual, but that doesn't come as much of a surprise for anyone accustomed to his slick acting.  Unfortunately, I think Rising Sun tries to be more than it is--in the end, as the mystery of who-did-it must be solved, suddenly we are provided with so many twists and turns that it's so muddled and unbelievable we don't care anymore.  The final scene seems pretty uncalled for.  "},{"Title":"A good police thriller - A different J.Bond","Date":"20 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I rented it this movie for two reasons  (a) it was based on a M.Crichton book and (b) Sean Connery was playing. The first reason implied a good plot and the second a solid performance. I was justified on both. I am sure that Crichton had Sean Connery in mind when he was developing the character of LAPD officer John Connor  extremely clever, dressed in Armani suits, excellent golf player, fluent in Japanese, and could kill with his thumb (a different kind of J.Bond!). The  direction could have been better (the plot had material for stronger scenes).  W.Snipes does not exceed a medium performance but Keitel is excellent.  Although the hi-tech gadgets of the Japanese implicated in the film (zoom-in cameras, laser disks etc.) has become today trivial stuff, the Rising Sun is still a good police thriller to watch. I give it a 7 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"a must see scean connery","Date":"10 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one hell of a suspense story with very intriguing plot and twists & turns. Especially the charater of conner has more angles  than a ordinary mystery movie. The depth of Japanese culture is shown brilliantly. In all a must see. For those sean connery fans, this is far superior than any of his Bond movies. "},{"Title":"The best film adaptation of a Crichton book ever!","Date":"20 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" With a cast that includes the original and still the best James Bond and Wesley Snipes, as well as many character actors famous for playing heavies in movies, it would have been so easy to make a cheap, b-grade action movie out of the novel Crichton wrote. Fortunately, a skilled director and writer have restrained themselves at most points and made an impeccable, well crafted thriller concerning xenophobia and international relations.Wesley Snipes plays Webb, our main protagonist. Webb is a cop who does not play by the rules. Still relatively young, he has seen lots of crime and knows that to beat the bad guys you have to sink to their level. Connery plays the respectable John Connor, a by the books cop who insists on opposing Webb almost every step of the way - but nothing could prepare these two for the mystery they are about to unfold A body of a girl lies at the top floor of a building. There is a party there. The hosts make it clear they do not want the investigation infringing upon the party. connor and Webb try to play it by the books - but it is difficult when you face a ruthless, nameless enemy.Impeccable movie. I give it 10 out of 10. Wesley Snipes proved his worth as an actor with this film. "},{"Title":"What was the proverb?","Date":"7 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are couple of things I remember from this movie. First is the woman on table, the tapes and the girl fixing those tapes. Second thing is the old Japanese proverb. Connor quoted old Japanese proverb Nothing is more important than gardening and... I'm not sure how it continues or did it go like that! Does anyone remember it correctly, or could you check? I don't have the movie anymore. I'd like to borrow it!I liked Connery, he was very convincing. if there wasn't Wesley Snipes this would be a good movie. Is there already a Japanese version of this? I'd really like to see it. Without Hollywood crap I mean. "},{"Title":"Superb!!!","Date":"24 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  SUMMARY!!At a celebration over the completed joint venture between a Japanese company and a US defence contractor a young woman is found strangled. A retired foreign liaison with expertise on Japanese culture is called in to help the current liaison overcome resistance from the Japanese, who are actively trying to mislead the investigation. As the liaisons get closer to the truth, political pressure is applied to get them off the case, and they must race against time to resolve it. "},{"Title":"Great movie; Works best for action fans wanting suspense in one.","Date":"3 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorites. I know people are complaining that this movie does not follow the novel and it was changed around a lot. That does not make it a bad movie. From a personal standpoint I could not care less where this movies are spawned.  As an action-adventure buddy cop murder mystery movie; well they don't come better than this. The naked girls, the action, as well as a deep mystery that always twisting and turning.Connery and Snipes make a fantastic and intriguing team and work well together. I don't think we will see this every again.A definite highlight to my DVD collection.Buy this now!!!10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A solid thriller","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Sean Connery and Wesley Snipes chew up the scenery in RISING SUN, the film adaptation of Michael Crichton's best-selling novel of the same name. The two stars play cops that are as different as oil and water (almost potentianally like a LETHAL WEAPON-style cliche flick), tosolve a murder deep within the Japanese business circuit. With great performances (with Snipes as a rugged detective, or gohai, like how Connery calls him, and Connery as the cool specialist in Japanese know- how. His nickname is Sempai), and an intriguing plot, RISING SUN is a dark and moody thriller. "}{"Title":"Rising Sun","Date":"21 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The only mystery in this adaption of the Michael Cricton best seller is the obvious misfire in the pairing of Connery and Snipes. There's simply no spark between the two of them and it shows in their performances and in the film's weak plot. The suspense isn't very exciting. The crime is easily solvable within a few minutes. The supporting cast does nothing exciting to further the plot. The conclusion is disappointing, but then again, so's the entire film.   "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"4 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Rising Sun is a highly disappointing film that is confusing and overall unexceptional.  Cops Sean Connery and Wesley Snipes are trying to solve a case involving a murdered American woman and a high-class Japanese corporation.  Also involved is a high-ranking political official (Ray Wise).  Needless to say, someone is trying to keep Connery and Snipes away from the truth.  Rising Sun is so multi-layered that it is highly confusing and somewhat pretentious.  None of the performers are able to keep up the audience's interest and the finale is nothing special.  Harvey Keitel and Tia Carrere are wasted in supporting roles.  The direction is prodding and unclear.  Overall a disappointing film that could have been so much more.  2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Typically overdirected Philip Kaufman movie","Date":"19 November 2003","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Philip Kaufman has a knack of making huge productions out of the simplest stories or projects. And RISING SUN is not exception. There's nothing memorable about this, except for the shot of a beautiful woman sprawled on a conference table. Kaufman seems to confuse over-direction with greatness. This story is just a pulpy-kind of story and yet Kaufman directs it as if it was Shakespeare. Wesley Snipes is good even if his role is thankless. And Sean Connery plays, well, Sean Connery. Or James Bond as played by Sean Connery. I don't get his appeal one bit. Anyway, RISING SUN is VERY dated these days and what flashy quality it used to have in 1993 is almost all gone today, which makes the movie look even more shallow and pointless. "},{"Title":"Attempts to racially balance a bestselling story clutter it instead","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Or were the producers merely following the formula of late 80s/early 90s action movies and television (Lethal Weapon, Die Hard, Walker Texas Ranger) by portraying the combination of a white cop and a black one as some sort of novelty? Besides watering down Crichton's criticism of Japanese business practices, the screenwriters seemed determined to step up their racial cautiousness by portraying John Connor's partner, Smith, as a black man. There's nothing really outrageous about that either, but a black cop who wears a beige suit accompanied by an orange shirt and uses his ties with the Los Angeles ghetto gangs to elude Yakuza-like thugs? I welcome that sort of entertainment in an Eddie Murphy or Chris Tucker movie, but it's totally out of place here.  "},{"Title":"I guess in the USA something is only racist if it insults black people.","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just finished watching this movie for the first time in a few years, from a pure entertainment standpoint it is a pretty good thriller.That said.....The plot is driven 100% by racist paranoia and fear, sit down and watch it, EVERYTHING in the movie is designed to have you fear or dislike the Japanese.I can't believe how this movie plays on such obvious racist paranoia. OH NO THE EVIL JAPANESE ARE COMING!!!!!! should be the tag line for this movie. Everything the Japanese do in this movie is given a horrible dark twist and a sense of evil to it.Mr. Snipes character is supposed to be the Average American Joe in this flick and he is such a helpless fish out of water around the japanese - the same way the film wants US to feel about the horrible invaders. Imagine if instead of being about Asians the business men in this movie were Jewish, black, whatever...all you would have to do is change a few lines in the script and it would fit perfectly since this movie is 100% about race and nothing else.I guess this isn't real racism though, since it isn't directed against black people.  "}]