[{"Title":"$1,000,000? For a night with Robert Redford? For real? Where do I sign up?!","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"115 out of 149 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Wow, I am a little surprised by the rating. Only 5.3? Come on, this was a good movie! Was it the best? No, but it's better than most I have seen. If you were offered a million dollars, could the strength of your relationship survive it? I really got into this movie, because I knew how it would damage the couple's life. I think that they did deeply love each other, but they mention how they were childhood sweethearts, and kind of rushed into marriage. So, the point is, they've probably never been able to question if they had feelings for anyone else.Struggling financially is horrible. How far would you go to get some money? People will go the distance and sometimes take a front seat with the devil! Indecent Proposal goes all the way and shakes up human emotions. I really felt that this was a very good movie and should be watched. 5.3 is a little harsh, what was so bad about it? 8/10 "},{"Title":"Something to learn from","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"32 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Without doubt, the touchy theme makes this film worth watching.However, your opinion of it will, very likely, be influenced by what your own reaction to the 1 million dollar proposal would have been if you were in the same situation.The film doesn't condemn anybody. It just reveals the fragility of a relationship, despite the strong love that resides in it.Does it really matters if this kind of indecent proposal is not a realistic scenario? The millionaire willing to give a million dollars to spend one night with someone else's gorgeous wife is a fantasy. The consequences are, however, real.The film uses an extravagant trigger to create a convincing emotional crisis that many couples will recognize.The message is that at the end, true love wins; an attitude that I would recommend to any loving pair, attained by jealousy and resentment. "},{"Title":"Repugnant","Date":"28 August 2001","Score":"89 out of 160 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Indecent Proposal is not the worst film I've ever seen.  However, it is my most hated film. Indecent Proposal could have been a very thought provoking look at the struggle of love, fidelity and morality when money is offered, but in the far from expert hands of Adrian Lyne it's become a biased look at prostitution that's shot like an ice cream commercial.Adrian Lyne is known for making films that involve some type of male to female dilemma 9 1/2 weeks, Fatal Attraction et al.  But, as in the two mentioned films, he always seems to take the male point of view. Woody Harrelson's character is the central character in this film.  After Demi Moore sleeps with Robert Redford who does the film focus on?  Him.  We see his despair, his pain, not hers.  She seems to take to prostitution like a duck to orange sauce.  So what is Lyne saying? Is he saying its harder to become a pimp than to become a prostitute?  That's the impression I'm getting.  Look at Demi's character before and after her night with Robert Redford.  In all the scenes before she seems awkward and certainly not happy.  In all the scenes after she seems to glow with confidence and contentment.  What is Lyne saying here? Is it that money DOES buy happiness? Also, the casting is an expert exercise in marketing.  The concept of sleeping with Robert Redford for a million dollars is definitely one of the things that drew many women to this film.  I think many women would do it for their taxi fair home and no complaints.  Demi and Woody are also gorgeous enough to make it work.  Imagine if the couple were black, Hispanic or any minority group and the rich man was some slobbish red neck - the film take on a much darker tone altogether.I can understand why so many women liked this film, but the chauvinistic nature of this film is staring you right in the face.  I'd suggest people watch the film again bearing in mind the points that I've made. "},{"Title":"Where is James Mason when we need him","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"34 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Adrian Lyne does what he does beautifully, whatever that is. The gorgeous look of his films hide a serious lack of depth and a rather Machiavellian knack for attracting us, the natives, with shiny pretty things. We fall for it every time, or almost, we couldn't swallow Lolita, oh no, he should have left Lolita alone and shouldn't have made that outrageous statement, remember? James Mason was all wrong in Kubrick's version of the Nabokov novel Do me a favor Mr. Lyne, stick to Flashdance and suffer all the way to the bank. Sorry, I lost myself for a moment. Where was I? Oh yes Inidecent Proposal Imagine that premise in the hands of someone with serious intentions. A young happy couple and the devil. The stranger who, incapable of bearing goodness and happiness, decides to destroy it. Aware of their needs, he presents a solution to their problems. He doesn't care for her, he cares about their destruction. Juicy stuff. But, although Demi Moore and Woody Harrelson are great as the perfect foil for the devil's designs, the devil is Robert Redford. Mr. Redford is a personal hero of mine, instead of resting in his laurels, Sundance, the environment, Ordinary People, Quiz Show and so on and so on. But, I heard him say in a Charlie Rose interview that he would like to play different characters, dangerous, dark but nobody offered him that kind of part. What about this one Bob? This was a part that could transform this pretty candy floss into a classic. It needed guts. Where was the darkness? I looked into Redford eyes and I saw Redford. I would have gone with him for much less than a million bucks because in spite of the fact that involved accepting an indecent proposal there was no danger, really. He allows himself to be Redford all the way. The indecency is in the title in the gimmick but not in the spirit. As a result none of the promises are fulfilled and we're left with a pretty inconsequential movie. Oh well, I hope Mr Lyne learned his lesson. One never bad mouths James Mason, okay? "},{"Title":"An interesting idea is condensed into a superficial and glossy affair that does nothing of value","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"19 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" David and Diana had been in love since college and married into a dream life where both are happy and able to pursue their dreams together. However they hit upon hard times when Diana's real estate work dries up and soon the pair decide that the only option available to them is a literal last throw of the dice with their last few thousand in Vegas. Despite an early winning streak they end up worse than they started. About to head off, Diana catches the eye of gambling billionaire John Gage who uses her as a lucky charm to win another million or so. Afterwards they get together to play some pool and Gage turns the conversation to the idea of what money can and can't buy &#150; specifically offering the Murphy's a cool $1,000,000 for one night spent with Diana.When this film came out, the basic concept was enough to give it lots of free advertising by getting the nation asking itself what would I do? and all the hype over that allowed the producers of the film to avoid people finding out that there really wasn't much worth seeing passed this question. It should have been so different though, because it could have been a classic morality tale that went deep within the characters to see what is there. However it doesn't really do this and instead we are left with a rather vacuous affair that is given plenty of gloss but is essentially lacking in interesting things to say. The tensions between David and Diana never get beyond the level of strops and it never even makes an attempt at moral debate.The fact that the characters are so thin doesn't help either. David and Diana are basic but the real failing is in Gage; he should be a rather sinister figure who plays with people like he plays with his money but instead he is just a twinkling eye and a sly smile &#150; in fact, he is Robert Redford. This is part of the problem because, although the material is weak, the cast cannot do anything to improve the situation. Redford is far too smooth and playboyish to really convince in the main role &#150; he cannot tap into any darkness or complexity and his failing is just one of the film's failings. Moore doesn't help either with a basic role where she doesn't seem to understand what her character is supposed to be feeling and therefore cannot convince in many of her scenes. Meanwhile Harrelson puffs and blows on cue but adds little. The support cast features turns from Platt, Cassel, Connelly and Thornton but aside from being recognisable faces they don't add much. Lyne directs with typical glossy style but he has no clue how to get deeper into the characters and story so instead just throws in lots of exploitative but empty scenes in the hope of somehow emotionally engaging his audience.Overall this is not an awful film but it is so superficial and hollow that it is just bland and glossy. It only is made worse when you think of the potential it had to be a complex and insightful modern morally piece. Those happy with the substance and complexity of a slushy music video will enjoy it but the majority will leave it wondering what all the fuss was about and how such an interesting concept was so completely fouled up. "},{"Title":"One big disappointment.","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHOUTNot good. The movie differed completely from the book(Not that the book was exactly a classic but it really was very good.)I guess Demi Moore was OK. Actually, I don't really remember to much about her performance one way or the other. However the big disappointment wasn't with Ms. Moore.WHY did whoever did the rewrite decide to suddenly make the millionaire have a heart? (I'm referring to him as the millionaire because he also had a different name in the movie then the book version-just another change.)People who didn't read the book obviously won't know anything's different but in the BOOK version this guy is much more ruthless as well as complex overall. He is also fascinating. The fact that such a big change was made in the movie alters the whole plot. It was almost like seeing a completely different movie.I know MANY movies vary widely from the books. But I also thought Redford's character was a bit of a wimp. This ISN'T Redford's fault(He's a great actor and could have played ruthless well) but without those qualities he becomes just another dazzled man in love hence the story becomes just another cliché love story involving 1 woman and 2 men. That wasn't really the point of the book.This could have been a lot better. Even if I hadn't read the book version I wouldn't have liked this all that much, but changing so much around definitely takes it, for me, a few points down. "},{"Title":"Great Premise But...","Date":"16 December 2005","Score":"34 out of 58 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" INDECENT PROPOSAL is a great example of a great premise for a movie - Would you allow your wife to sleep with a complete stranger for one million dollars ? and it's not too difficult to understand why this movie was so talked about on its initial release . Well would you ? The one problem that the movie suffers from is that Robert Redford was cast as John Gage , the middle aged billionaire who desires the company of Demi Moore's character Diane Murphy . Robert Redford who aged in his mid fifties looks about ten years younger and who still female fans to this day . One can't help thinking that Adrian Lyne would have been far better off exploiting the premise further by casting a much more physically repulsive actor as Gage . Some defenders may claim that Redford equals good box office and certainly this movie did superbly as far as world wide receipt's go , but it's a movie whose main selling point must be the simple central idea and would have perhaps ended up a much better film . It's interesting to note that when women in their late 30s to early 50s answer the question  Would you ?  they usually end up replying  Robert Redford ! I'd go to bed with him for free  . INDECENT PROPOSAL isn't a great movie despite the great premise and I found Lyne's directing style a bit too 1980s with a couple of scenes that are a bit too pop video for my liking but despite not being the greatest actors in the history of cinema both Moore and Woody Harrelson do enough to make the audience feel for their characters who find themselves in a dilemma . Yeah maybe it's Hollywood trash but it's engaging Hollywood trash "},{"Title":"People In Love Remember The Things They Do To Each Other....","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  For me, one of the most memorable and poignant lines from a movie, is when David brings the divorce papers to Dede at the auction and just before he signs them he says to her, I know now that people in love remember the things they do to each other.  If they stay together, it's not because they forget, but because they forgive.  This movie explores what can happen to even the most rock-solid couples when they allow money to make them do things they would never dream of doing otherwise.  Somehow, when you're dealing with a monetary figure the size of $1,000,000 it's easy to forget that what you're actually doing to get that money is absolutely no different than what the girls on Sunset Boulevard are doing.  For a much lower price yes, but it's still the exact same thing.  In the movie, their love in the end was strong enough to overcome the damage they'd caused each other by doing this heinous thing, but I don't know that your average couple in real life could overcome it.  What they'd done would always be between them.  Powerful performances by Moore and Redford, but the best and most surprising performance comes from Woody Harrelson.  I didn't know he had it in him to show such a broad range of emotion.  Quite a departure from his bartender role at Cheers!  I absolutely love the movie's very appropriate theme song, No Ordinary Love by Sade.  Great movie for everyone, but is an especially important message to be obtained for those in love.    "},{"Title":"Money can't buy love.  Or a decent script apparently.","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"26 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Mind-numbingly boring, utterly predictable and in the end simply laughable. That pretty much sums up the disaster that is Indecent Proposal. Starting with a decent premise the whole thing just unravels and becomes a complete mess. Basically the story boils down to the question, would you let your wife sleep with another man for one million dollars? Here of course the answer is yes because otherwise we wouldn't have a movie. Quite frankly, we'd have been better off if we didn't have a movie.Our married (and financially troubled) couple are played by Woody Harrelson and Demi Moore. They go to Vegas to get rich. Yeah, that'll work. Anyhow, a billionaire, played by Robert Redford, takes a liking to the wife and makes the million dollar offer. For one night with the wife he will give them financial security. The aftermath of that one night is what the movie is really all about. Unfortunately nothing in that aftermath is the least bit entertaining. The script is so predictable you can say the characters' lines before they do. The performances leave much to be desired. Harrelson would be better off sticking to comedies as this attempt at serious acting completely misses the mark. Anguish is not something he seems capable of portraying. And it is quite safe to say that Demi Moore will never have to clear space in her home for any Academy Awards. Why is she a movie star again? In a part that should be full of emotion she conveys none. Only Redford escapes mostly unscathed. He's appropriately slimy yet suave and clearly the best actor of the bunch. But he can't save this film. Awful script, lousy acting, plodding pace, zero entertainment...Indecent Proposal is downright awful. "},{"Title":"Formula Film Making At Its Most Uninspired","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"27 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Demi and Woody are married, but they're poor. They meet Robert Redford, and he's REALLY rich. He takes a fancy to Demi, and since he's a gambling man he makes the couple an indecent proposal one million dollars for a night with the little woman.At this point you need watch no more of the film because you can put the details together in your sleep. Of course Demi is going to accept the offer. If she doesn't there's no first half of the movie. Of course it will affect Demi and Woody's marriage. If it doesn't there's no second half of the movie. And of course everything will turn out okay by the time the credits roll. If it doesn't, there's no happy ending for the sake of box office.The absolute best thing you can say about INDECENT PROPOSAL is that Demi Moore looks good in a black dress. As for the rest... The script is incompetent, the direction amateurish, the performances negligible. I suspect Redford, Moore, and Harrelson blush and change the subject every time the film is mentioned. Do them--and more importantly yourself--a favor. Unless some one offers you a million... Miss It!Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "}{"Title":"Explores what love really means","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Warning, may be some spoilersIndecent Proposal is a film that knows exactly how someone feels when it comes to jealousy.  There is a great line in the film after Demi Moore comes back from her encounter with gazillionaire Robert Redford.  Her husband, played perfectly by Woody Harlesson, is asking her questions that don't need to be answered.  Because if they are, it will put a damper in their marriage.  But he persists and finally Demi shouts out to him,  If I tell you he wasn't any good then I'm a liar.  If I tell you that he was then I'm a whore.   What a brilliantly written line and it is one that lends a perfect ear to what the film is about in most senses.  Jealousy is a powerful emotion but being broke and in love is just as powerful on the other end of the scale.  What is so great about this film is that is makes us all question what we would do in that exact same situation.  Would you let your wife sleep with a man for one million dollars?  Could you look at it and say that it was only one night and you can deal with it?  Would you say that your marriage is strong enough to overcome something so meaningless?  And that is the key issue right there.  Is it really that meaningless?  If you are married and in love ( if you are together in a monogamous relationship), is there ever a time when sex is meaningless enough to overlook, even if all of your financial problems are solved in the aftermath?Indecent Proposal is a great film in almost every sense.  The actors are great, especially Oliver Platt who has a cameo as their lawyer and he gets all the laughs.  The direction is great as it never gets anywhere close to pornographic, and it lets the audience decide for themselves what happened on that fateful night.  When you look at the whole concept of the film, you know it could get cheesy if handled poorly and irresponcibly.  But it never does.  It stays on course and delivers the goods.  I highly recommend this film and I think it is good to watch it with someone that you love.  It will invoke some very interesting conversations after words.  But don't watch it with them if you are afraid of the answers that you might get.  That, to me is good film making.  Something that leaves you discussing it long after it is over.  Indecent Proposal does that. "},{"Title":"Not so good as I imagined","Date":"1 October 2005","Score":"9 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I heard so much about Indecent Proposal, and after watching it, I can say that it is not everything that I expected to be. First,I thought it would have much more passion,drama and even mystery.Second I hated the end it is totally unlikely. So Hollywood's style.The character John Gage has too many contradictory actions He bought Diana's and David's house,persues Diana in her work, and even goes after her in her citizenship's class,showing how obsessed with her, he is. Then,in the end, just because David was sad with his divorce with Diana,John decides to break with her,touched with David's action.I mean, John already have destroyed Diana's and David's wedding,showing that he never cared about the fact that they were a couple, in love with each other. So, he breaking with Diana because he was sad with the situation, didn't matched at all. "},{"Title":"horrible","Date":"11 July 2008","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was one of the biggest pieces of crap I have ever had to watch. I mean, seriously. How would anybody else feel if they were in Woody Harrelson's shoes and your wife was even CONSIDERING it would be a good idea to sleep with the other guy even for a million bucks. After all, she was the one talking about it in bed and saying how it would be good for them since he can build his house or whatever with that money. Woody never fully agreed to it until she talked him into it. How CAN you trust her? Who the hell would actually even consider that if they were married? I don't care how desperate they were. That's the most ridiculous thing I have ever heard in my life. Then, he flips out on her. Apparently, he had no right to mistrust her, other than the fact that his wife just slept with another dude who is extremely rich and handsome. Oh and wait, then he's supposed to apologize to HER after she files for the divorce so she can be with the guy she slept with. Of course Woody has no right to say anything to her or mistrust her especially after she still has Roy Hobb's card in her wallet. Then, at the end of the movie, she's apparently so in love with Woody still and misses him so much, that she was not going to leave Hobbs until he made some ridiculously stupid story up to try to hint to her to leave, and she bleeping thanks Hobbs???? Are you bleeping kidding me? Was she under contract as his sex slave or something?? I mean what the bleep?? Oh and wait it gets better. She bleeping kisses him passionately before she gets out of the car. Yea, she's not a whore. Oh, thank you for letting me go, let me go make out with you one last time for good ole' sake. Smooch smooch, smooch even though I'm still married to a guy I left for a rich guy. I have never seen such a piece of crap in my life. How the hell are we supposed to feel good after that horrible ending? What was this movie supposed to represent? NOTHING CAME OUT OF THIS! This was the most pointless movie I have ever seen in my life. Two pathetic desperate people. If I were Woody, I would tell her to go drown herself in that body of water they were near. Apparently, he had no self respect. What the hell was Roy Hobbs thinking by taking this horrible role. I feel like puking after watching this. This movie was so bad, it was seriously laughable. I want those two hours of my life back that I wasted watching this piece of ****. "},{"Title":"Pure subversive brilliance ...","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" What would you do if a billionaire were consenting to pay you one million dollars (or more) for one night with your wife? This is the titular Indecent Proposal, from which millions of viewers, men and women, have been debated for years, placing themselves in the same tricky situation than David (Woody Harrelson) and Diana (Demi Moore), the ill-fated couple who met the devilishly sexy John Gage (Robert Redford) in Las Vegas. I remember when I was younger; there was a guy in my neighborhood who told me that in every woman, there was a potential prostitute. To confront him to his own contradictions, I carefully asked him whether that statement also applied to his family. The cynical macho nodded but felt the need to reformulate his thought, he meant that there was no woman in the world who wouldn't sleep with a man if she needed something, that's potential prostitution, and I must confess I was almost convinced. And Indecent Proposal is all the more interesting because it confronts this option not with a woman, but a couple. The husband is part of the game, and that's the strike of genius some distracted critics failed to grasp. Think about it did Jack Engelheard, the author of the original novel of the same name, take for granted that a single woman wouldn't have thought twice before accepting the deal? I bet he did and I happen to think the same. Refusing wouldn't be honorable but stupid, and I'm sure many women would agree with me. We're speaking of one million dollars for a sumptuous night, and not with the most ugly man of the world. I bet when today's women visualize the myth of the Charming Prince, they think more of Robert Redford (or Brad Pitt) as a billionaire than the nameless Princes of Disney classics. We'd all need money to achieve our dreams and selling one's soul for one night with one handsome rich guy and one million dollars isn't too high a price.But the film is cleverly provocative because it already admits the venal nature of women, which provoked the anger of feminists. But I'd love to see them in Diana's heels. The question isn't whether they would have accepted the night for one million, but how about two or ten, how high could John Gage raise the stakes before they'd say yes? That was the point and we got it, money can buy a body, but how about love? It all comes to David. And that's the subtlety the angry mob of feminists missed just like the intellectual critics the film also highlights the very hypocrisy of men who brand any woman who sleeps with other men as 'broad' or 'whore', by confronting them to the same situation. And I would have loved to ask the question to my macho friend, what if he was in David's place? Wouldn't there be, after all, in every man, a potential pimp?To answer that, watching the film isn't even necessary, it's all part of cinematic pop-culture, and we all have an opinion on the subject. In fact, if Adrian Lyne's film had one merit, it was to feature one of the most memorable premises of Cinema's history, and handle it with a believable mix of realism and romanticism. It is crucial within the context of the film, because the theme is so sordid it had to be washed up by a poignant love story. And on that level, the chemistry between Harrelson and Moore works, and built our empathy toward this couple of sweethearts, watching the ashes of their fantasy dreams gone with the wind of the 90's crisis. In many other films, the fact that the husband is an architect and the wife a real estate agent would only be details, but they're significant in Indecent Proposal.Indeed, after the bursting of the US housing bubble, there was no offer for Diana and no demand for David. Inevitably, their descent into poverty guide their hopes toward Las Vegas, an interesting setting where two worlds coexist people who need money and can't afford losing, and those who've got enough to lose one million a night without even caring. The film even succeeds to make a brilliant social commentary, behind the appearance of a cheap soft-porn flick; it subtly denounces the pervert aspects of liberalism, where free trade is synonym of salvation at the expenses of principles, totally worthless when money is at stakes. And the world sunk into liberal lows so eagerly it ended up giving a price to anything, and people have been so effectively brainwashed by greed and lust they would look now, at the half-full glass. Isn't there one word to say 'crisis' and 'opportunity' in Chinese? I live in a country where many beautiful girls, students or salaried, go out with mature men, because they can buy them things they couldn't afford. Basically, they use their charm as an asset to overcome material problems. It's certainly what lured my macho friend into his certitude. But when you take the plot to larger scope, you realize it's less the selling-your- body dilemma than the eternal selling-the-soul-to-the-devil story, doing something morally wrong for a pay-off. Movies are made to provide some interesting 'what if' situations? What if we lived the same day again and again? What if we hadn't existed? Indecent Proposal is the ultimate 'what if' asker because this time, we can respond to the plot and relate to the protagonists, even more because we live in a similar economic context, and the world is crazy enough to feature such characters as John Gage. And Redford finds the perfect tone for his character subtly obnoxious but always charming, one hell of a tempter!And I guess part of the fascination doesn't come from our relief not to be in David and Diana's shoes but from our regret. And that's pure subversive brilliance! "},{"Title":"It wasn't a great movie, but it entertained.","Date":"31 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Only saw this movie late last night. I remember the hype of it's release and to be honest had I viewed it back then I maybe wouldn't have been so generous. I hate hype, it can ruin a movie. I think the movie glossed over the characters and put too much emphasis on Woody. He was good too - although kept wondering if he was stoned the whole time. It never went too deep. Redford was dark but not too dark and his character let me down in the end. To me he should have been more confrontational with Demi - throwing her out perhaps or telling her that she was paid for. After all he would have investigated them before he made the proposal - that's not shown in the movie, but no one in his perceived position would have made an offer to just anyone. He was cruel to the point of breaking them up and the last straw was the house and yet Demi fell for him? The passages giving an insight to Demi and Woody's relationship were the best part of the movie. There was a keen deepness that outshone the shallowness of John Gages character. He really could have been a lot stronger and as other people have alluded I think the movies draw-card was Redford and they didn't want tarnish his image. I say what the hell Robert was old in this movie! Woody and Demi's characters were naive in a sense, but I think that was very intentional to draw you to their plight and champion their decision. But the reality is, they were losing their dream home and where did they go? Las Vegas? to gamble what little they had left and then accept a proposal from an insanely rich billionaire. I found their naivety when Redford was seducing them a little too unrealistic. The movie could have been so much more and other actors would have made a difference, but having said that on late night TV - it was enjoyable and I if you don't think too much - also palatable "},{"Title":"Good premise, poor execution.","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film has a premise that is good enough to get anyone talking, and a sure-fire conversation starter. 'Would you sleep with someone you dislike or don't know for one million dollars?' While the film had lots of potential, poor execution turns it into a b-grade soap-opera. The film has a great lead up, and after the proposal is made, we are really into the film, but then it falls dramatically. The last 3 quarters of the film is spent by characters whinging, complaining and regretting what they have done! The ending was so cliched it had me in tears! This has a very similar premise to 'honeymoon in vegas' which is far better. See that instead. "},{"Title":"Don't Sell this one short until you Understand the reasoning.....","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Keeping personal views out of comments are what objectively reviewing a film is all about. I have to say this film is one that can pull at heart strings if you can immerse yourself in the emotion of what is actually happening. The film's premise is Love versus Money. The plot of the film is set to slowly pull you into the characters' who are presented with the temptation of the choice. Woody Harrelson really pulls off a serious character in this one. Having taken the deal from John Gage (Robert Redford) to give away his wife for one night in return for a Million dollars, Harrelson realizes too late that the choice he has made would damage the relationship beyond repair. Let me say this, watching Harrelson run to the closed door once he realizes what he has done is a powerful scene if you can put yourself in the situation. As the movie progresses it does a wonderful job of making the viewer have a hard time hating Redford's character. At times the viewer is convinced that Moore's character belongs with Redford. The movie then switches to Harrelson's character that is devastated and living on his own coping with the loss. As Moore's Character is seduced by Redford, Harrelson slips slowly into depression. Once again, the movie gives the viewer a chance to experience many different emotions. John Barry's Concerto playing throughout this movie really adds to the somber mood. A wonderful placement of this music as the characters slowly move towards the movie's end. Some good acting by all here is evident. Do not sell this movie short because on the outside it seems to be choppy. It was meant to put the viewer in all situations the characters are in. I recommend this one to anyone who is a hopeless romantic.Best Scene There are many&#133;One that comes to mind is Harrelson's character reflecting on the relationship with Moore as he sits alone in his empty apartment with his dog by his side. "},{"Title":"you think you are an invincible lovers ?! well ...you aren't .","Date":"8 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" it seems to me after watching this movie , if you really want to test your bond with your lover ....well you should study hard to pass the test !...you can't only rely on your mutual memories & legacy ...but also you should try hard to re-earn what you you already earned ...this really good movie is so touchy in a lot of its scenes ....opportunities we missed because we were shy or poor ....opportunities we should use right now because if it goes it will never comes back again ...... opportunities we should leave to write a happier ends for every body's fate ....what a complicated touchy collection of emotions & experiences in such a case scenario ......nice but not super performance from Robert Redford (he was supposed to be the evil side in such a romantic story but i really couldn't hate him ...may be i was on his side allover this film ) also woody harlleson did a good job ....but the master's performance of all was the great Demi Moore ... i really got impressed by her performance & i hope i see more & more pieces of her admirable work soon . "},{"Title":"Beautiful realistic love story","Date":"24 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" How can people give a low rating to this movie!! It's engaging, it's interesting and it's moving!If you like romantic movies, you will love this one!I give it 9 stars as its one of those movies that I won't forget. It's not a silly romantic movie, on the contrary. It's about love, marriage, jealousy and fidelity. Definitely a favorite for the romantic souls. Demi more gave a beautiful performance. Well done!It's starts with humor and lightness and then the plot starts with an interesting twist. "},{"Title":"Money Isn't Everything","Date":"13 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The plot of this movie is fairly simple. Would you let your wife/husband spend the night with a stranger for a million dollars? I am surprised that the rating for this movie is so low. I thought the acting was good, I really got a sense that David Murphy (Woody Harrelson) and Diana Murphy (Demi Moore) were actually in love. I thought that the chemistry between Woody and Demi was extraordinary. The one complaint that I have for this movie was the way that John Gage (Robert Redford) would try and make it a point that money is everything. Robert did however, do a great job at portraying a millionaire. I do wish that would have went into more detail about the night that David and Diana earned their big paycheck. Was the night just strictly physical or did they both share something meaningful. Overall, I thought that the movie was excellent and well written. "}{"Title":"A pretty engaging story with a moral message attached to it.","Date":"4 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Demi Moore and Woody Harrelson star as couple David and Diana Murphy, who are financially in trouble and in danger of losing their dream home. While on a trip to Las Vegas, they meet billionaire John Gage (Robert Redford), who offers them 1 million dollars in exchange for a one-night stand with Diana.This film was actually pretty good I thought - it kept me engaged and kept me wondering how the unpredictable plot would unfold at the end. The plot offers a moral message of the limits money can buy, and the old cliché that money really couldn't buy love. The acting also wasn't bad. Harrelson gave a thoughtful performance of a husband in financial and relationship troubles who strives to overcome his woes and pick up the pieces to move forward; Redford gave an eloquent portrayal of the invincible, but heartfelt billionaire; and Moore exhibited complexity and vulnerability in her character as she faces the choices she has to make between the two men.I have to admit the movie is mind-boggling at certain points, I mean, the thought of seeing a marriage torn apart of an out-of-this-world proposal, and the implications that resulted from it. And, there are some failed attempts at humor, at the expense of Oliver Platt's character. But overall, the movie has something we can all learn from and is, again, a pretty engaging story.Grade B "},{"Title":"Have I ever told you I love you?","Date":"27 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" After falling in love with the soundtrack before watching the film, I was already anticipating a good sob-fest!John Barry captures the delicate emotions with his score in a simple melody that will play in my head for days to come. Demi Moore's performance is just brilliant! The way she and Woody bounce off each other truly makes you believe their relationship is solid. A different approach to any other love story I've seen, exploring issues of trust, power and money in new ways that make you look at things with a new perspective.Overall, a very lovely film with a perfect ending, turning an old movie into a new favourite!How do you think you'd react to this situation?This film is definitely worth a watch... Grab a bucket of ice-cream and a glass of wine and don't expect a blockbuster... this story is a gentle ride for those can that find romance in the most unlikely places - like a pair of pants burning on a stove! "},{"Title":"An erotic thriller and morality tale","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" (SPOILER IN THE SEVENTH PARAGRAPH- THAT'S THE SECOND TO LAST PARAGRAPH. THE REST DOES NOT CONTAIN SPOILERS SO PLEASE READ!) The film has one of the best premises of any film would you sleep with a stranger for a million dollars? We've all jokily posited the dilemma, with some people answering 'yes' with more than a hint of bravado and most people emphatically taking the moral high ground by answering 'no'. But what if you were broke and the stranger was Robert Redford?The film starts off brilliantly, with the suspense of an erotic thriller turned up to the maximum as we anticipate the moment where Redford will make the offer and everyone's lives will be changed. Underneath all that glossy porn, director Adrian Lyne also makes some social commentary, believe it or not. Money and wealth is given an erotic charge as Demi Moore's character Diana lusts after a gorgeous black dress. It's way out of her price range and symbolises the wealthy lifestyle that she secretly desires. Most viewers at one time or another will have yearned after an object with a price tag they can never afford, not so much because of the object itself but of what it symbolises. You imagine that this object- a symbol of wealth- will make you more attractive, more confident, more authoritative. This is a universal truth that every advertiser plays on and indeed Hollywood plays on.The climax of this exploration of money as sex is when Diana and John (Woody Harrelson) have just won £10,000 at a casino. They throw the notes onto the bed and then themselves. Each glossily voyeuristic shot of the couple unites their sex with the money, as the notes press against backs, thighs, etc. But this is of course small change compared to what Robert Redford's character, handsome billionaire John Gage, is offering.Reviewers who argue that the film would be more credible if the filmmakers had picked someone more unattractive are completely missing the point. Gage is the embodiment of the erotic lure of wealth. If he was hideous, the million dollars would look much less alluring and it would simply become a question of how far someone would go to pay the bills. An unattractive billionaire would also be much less of a threat; Diana would simply do the deed, get out of there and live a life of wealth with John. If she did choose to stay with the ugly billionaire, the film would just become a tale about an unpleasant person who betrays her loving husband for money.The extra tension is that David feels sexually threatened by Gage. As he walks past a television shop, he imagines that the screens are showing his wife at it with Gage. So as well as the theme of the sexualisation of money, you also have questions of masculinity. What makes a man a man? (no giggling at the back please) Inevitably the film slows a little in the second half once the decision is made. It shifts gears so the question changes from Would you sleep with a stranger for a million dollars? to In a loving marriage, would you be able to/should you forgive a betrayal?. This too is an interesting question, though less entertaining.Lyne makes the ending very moral and conventional, upholding the sacred vows of marriage by Diana repenting and John forgiving. However there is a degree of ambiguity as what wins Diana over is a romantic gesture enabled by wealth. Some might see it as signifying that personal history will triumph over money, but without the money required to make the gesture, would Diana have gone back to John? I would normally rate it 6 or 7 as I feel that the initial theme of the sexual power of money could have been explored more deeply, and that the ending is a bit weak. However the IMDb score is too low for what is a piece of glossy entertainment that touches on provocative issues. Maybe the film raises an uncomfortable question that we'd rather repress is there a price at which we can all be bought? More specifically, what price can you be bought at? "},{"Title":"Money Cant Buy You Love","Date":"1 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Indecent proposal is the type of film that makes you look within when it comes to your current or past relationship. I think this film is one of the best for roles I have seen both Demi Moore and Woody Harrelson featured in. There is nothing like a good romantic film that makes you think long after the movie is finished. The plot of this film is one that we all can relate to. Two high school sweethearts who face struggles go to Vegas to bet in all in hopes of financial freedom. Although they lost it all they are approached by a billionaire who offers one night with David's (Woody) wife (Demi) in exchange for one million dollars. This film uses many themes throughout such as human relationships. Any person willing to offer money for sex with another mans wife clearly is suffering from human relationship problems. Morals are also put to the test not only for David and Diana relationship. But also for John (Robert Redford) who plays the role of the billionaire. All three major actors and actress are placed in hard decision, which test their morals. While lying in the bed David and Diana discuss rather or not take up John on his offer. At that point you notice how the lighting changes dim and dark. As if this begins the start of darkness for the high school sweethearts. In 2009 there was film released by the name of The Box this two film are filmier because of the choices that have to be made based off of love and the finically status of a relationship. If you have seen Indecent Proposal then you will absolutely love The Box. I would like to end by saying although Diana and David marriage was put to the test one theme that tells the truth about this couple is coming of age. No matter what good or bad times two people who truly love each other can overcome all things. And always remember money cannot buy you or anyone love. "},{"Title":"Romantic film for the girls","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this film recently having heard people talk about it for years. I warmed to both Woody Harrelson and Demi Moore's characters immediately and thought there love for each other came across as beautiful on screen.I think the casting for Robert Redford's character was perfect, unlike many other people. If the John Gage character was played by a unattractive, mean guy then David Murphy (woody) would have no need to feel jealous about the night his wife spent with the billionaire. The reason David felt jealous as he explains at the end is because he can see how successful, good looking and charming John Gage is and he was worried his wife would fall in love with him. He was also riddled with his own insecurities and failings and believed his wife deserved a man like Gage.Although he came across as a bit of a sleaze ball in the beginning, watching Diana Murphy (demi) across the casino gambling with her husband in the end it showed he was a lonely man looking for companionship. He lives in a world where everything can be bought and he was proved right when Diana and David agreed to his proposal.However when David visited Diana at the end to sign the divorce papers, although John Gage did not feel sorry for David he simply knew Diana would never love him the way she loved David and so knew he could not buy her love.Overall a very romantic film about a young couple, so deeply in love that they believe they can cope with the 1million proposal when in reality jealousy is a strong emotion which in the end tears them apart. However in true Hollywood fashion, love conquers all and the couple reunite at the end.A lesson learned also that money does not buy happiness and although the couple were in serious debt, they had each other and not the complications of a third man.Loved the film and shed a tear at the end on the pier ) "},{"Title":"Impossibly romantic and sentimental ending","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this, taped off TV, because I found the basic idea interesting. It was acted out well, though I agree with the reviewer who said that Redford just didn't have enough of the devil about him. I thought it was particularly clever not to show John Gage (Redford) making love with Diana (Moore), though there had been plenty of scenes with her and David (Harrelson). To judge from another comment, the book would have been far more interesting, as a picture of John Gage and the repercussions of what was done. In fact, there are deep contradictions in how John Gage is portrayed. He is at first amoral enough to be ready to threaten the marriage of a young couple just to get a night with Diana. Then he becomes obsessed with her, behaving as if he's fallen truly in love, and for a while, after David walks out (apparently; it is not altogether clear), Diana seems to respond to this and be in love with him (but this too is not made clear. She could have decided to be his mistress, with no depth of emotion at all, for all we are told). Then, on seeing the interaction between David and Diana, when the former comes to sign the divorce papers, he makes a quixotic gesture and deliberately cheapens himself in Diana's eyes, by making clear how often he has played the million dollars ploy, so that she will go back to David, which she duly does, and they re-connect. It is hard to believe that one man could go through so many changes of heart, or even that Diana, if she has come to love him, could so easily go back to David, who hurt her badly enough with his mistrust that she was ready to contemplate getting involved with Gage, whom she had fended off before. There are minor glitches that irritate, such as how the couple pay off their debts etc. if the million dollars remains intact, and how Diana gets a bus at the end without apparently having a cent on her (she is not carrying a purse), but the contradictions in Gage's character seem to me to be the central flaw, and I don't believe the couple could resolve their differences and come back together as easily as all that. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite movies ever!","Date":"1 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I loved this movie! I've watched it over ten times and I never get bored to hearing to the Have I ever told you I love you dialog.True love can win. True love is forever. That's what this movie is about. A must see for everybody.From the first minute of the movie, until the very end you struggle along with the couple. Demi Moore and Woody Harrelson are excellent. Not to mention Robert Redford. This role of the billionaire really suits him! To sum up, I think everybody should watch this movie, at least once!-Have I ever told you I love you? -No. -I love you. -Still? -Always... "},{"Title":"It is painful to see it under-rated!","Date":"2 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I easily forget movie names, but not this movie ever, as it might go to my instinct. Whenever I want to remember romantic movies, this movie comes to my mind after 'Casablanca'.Anybody searching romantic and emotional movies should never miss 'Indecent Proposal'. The dialogues are written very beautifully, as this story is from a novel. The most positive side of this movie is that it creates romantic emotions to viewer's minds. The world is going towards artificial things and we are forgetting true love. This movie beautifully shows that true love is not purchasable and it should not be sacrificed for anything else.Personally, I do not watch twice a movie because it seems to me that second time watching of a movie might lessen my first feeling of watching. But, it seems to me that I cannot help watching this movie twice! "},{"Title":"Miscast Redford","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This story had the potential of a good film. The difficult choice of love versus money and the angst and regret of making the wrong one. However the movie was ruined by the horrible miscasting of Robert Redford as the villain who offers $1,000,000 to sleep with Demi Moore. Like Redford has to pay for it. Redford's boyish good looks and All American charm just don't cut it as an unlikeable, threatening, boor. Redford's acting skillls are insufficient to make his character menacing. I can see it now, $1,000,000 to sleep with Robert Redford. OK says the lady but you will have to give me some time to raise the money. Jack Nicholson would have been perfect as the sleazeball. "},{"Title":"The Best Romantic Movie","Date":"18 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" **SPOILER WARNING, ABOUT THE FIRST 30 HOUR OF THE MOVIE.**Its the first movie that I've cried in... this movie is so awesome!!! if you haven't saw it you must see the movie!I've never thought about something like giving my girlfriend for one night to some million dollars... and if I had some option like that I think me and my girlfriend had took it. But after this movie, ill never do it. in the movie there are couple of friends, that love very much each other, and then some rich man offering them 1 million dollar for one night with the woman. and than the movie starts, amazing heart breaking and more, you got to see the movie. amazing movie, sad & funny, and its gave me a feeling of Love to the movie.you must see it. I gave it 10 RATE "}{"Title":"Fatal Attraction for the Juvie Set","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A good example of the differences between American and foreign cinema can be seen in a film I recently watched on television Indecent Proposal.Indecent Proposal's two protagonists, David and Diane Murphy are played Woody Harrelson and Demi Moore. I'm not sure if it was their total lack of chemistry or that they were not acting well, but why we should care so much whether these two stay together was beyond me. Love, affection, playfulness, attraction &#150; none of these materialized on screen in their interactions together.Since I knew that eventually Robert Redford would show up, it was clear from the beginning that the good part, the meat of the movie, would be the scenes between him and Demi Moore. Poor Woody Harrelson just could not muster any emotion at all for the film. He seemed to be holding back, preoccupied with his receding hairline.OK, so fast forward. What idiots these two (Diane and David) are for thinking they can win back the $50,000 they owe by gambling. No acting faux pas there, just hideously bad, lazy, unforgivable writing. Of course they lose all their money. Surprised? I know I wasn't. Enter Robert Redford (John Gage in the film) &#150; a romantic, perhaps emotionally frigid man, an updated Gatsby. A very good role and though not a great, great actor, next to those two, Redford looks like Olivier. He immediately falls in love and lust with Diane and we the viewers for once FEEL it. This is how to love a woman! Not David's way, trading gum mouth to mouth with Diane on a slimy pier. (Did I see that right?) As Gage, Redford wears a suit and tie in every scene. Yes it's meant to instruct the seemingly brain dead audience that here is a Rich Man, but he also looks damn good and by this point the brain dead audience appreciates it! Other wardrobe symbolism includes David's now-ironed shirts at the end of the film, signifying resolve, getting it together after a long interlude of forlorn wrinkled shirt wearing.And what is it with California garden parties as depicted in Hollywood movies? Suddenly everyone appears British, complete with lacy dresses, three piece suits for the men, hats (HATS!) and of course the parasol. Yes Diane, her transformation to Rich Man's fiancée now complete, is there at the auction daintily twirling a parasol. Though she insisted that she couldn't be bought, she succumbed at last to the sexual tension. Here is where the film branches off into pure Americana. I mean, of course David and Diane will end up together, my question is WHY? Diane was bored with David, why not let her ride the Robert Redford wave? And I mean for a good long while? How can she pull herself out of the sexual-romantic thrall of this sexy older man so easily just because Woody Harrelson brings his receding hairline to the garden party, sits himself down and looks Demi Moore in the eyes. That's just not how it goes. He was so WEAK.But we must have our happy ending. We have to swallow the Moral Lesson. We're not sophisticated enough yet to have it otherwise. Director Lyn tried to make a Fatal Attraction for the juvie set, the young'uns.In addition to garden parties in which there's nary an SUV, tee shirt, or baseball cap in sight, such films also feature a reliable public transportation system that connects far-flung California cities and municipalities. How else to symbolize the return to middle class or working class life? "},{"Title":"An example of how some cliches still have life","Date":"15 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before I viewed this film, I have always considered Adrian Lyne to be a sleazeball. He always has to make these, as he calls them, ''relationship dramas'' I've always just thought he made porn. I howled through '9 1/2 Weeks' , especially in the ''slide-show scene'', I think 'Fatal Attraction' has a ''kick-in-the-teeth'' ending and 'Flashdance' was pure crap. His 'Jacobs Ladder' had promise but also didn't have a satisfactory ending. I didn't think I'd ever see a good film of his till I watched 'Indecent Proposal'.My God is the film a cliche!!! But what an effective one. The film is about a destitute coupleDemi Moore and Woody Harrelson who accept a wager from a zillionairePlayed by Robert Redford  that Moore will spend one night with Redford for one million dollars. 'Another sleazeball plot from Lyne' I thought but decided to watch it for laughs. But I was surprised.I was touched by this film. I know its just a cliche from beginning to end but it has life in it. Redford was the perfect pick for the millionaireI've always considered him to be a bit shifty and Moore and Harrelson give the best performances possible given the material. The plot is fairly 'daytime soap' stuff and it follows that kind of formula. But Lyne somehow infuses it with life and makes us care. I have to say I was touched by the ending and liked the way it was donePOSSIBLE SPOILER...Moore walking through the fog on a pier, reminding me vividly of 'Requiem for a Dream'. Even their stupid whining and moaning is compelling, in a bizarre way. I did have problems with Moore's relationship with Redford thoughdoes she love him too? but I didn't seem to care about it sins against logic. At the end, all I could think was ''I actually like an Adrian Lyne film !'. Give its cliches a chance and you may like it too............3 out of 4   "},{"Title":"surprised by the low rating","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched the movie for the first time, on TV. It's not a great film, but it certainly didn't deserve the 5.3 low rating. Something's going on here, and I think it's because most reviewers here are male, and we are threatened by the prospect of losing our wives to a Robert Reford look like billionaire, because we know for a fact we wouldn't stand a chance, even without the million bucks.With divorce rate at 50% as it now, i am not even married but I suspect when a billionaire ( with a heart nonetheless ) came calling, my wife would leave me in a heartbeat.sorry but everything does come with a price tag, even your marriage. "},{"Title":"Very Romantic.....Very Touching","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Indecent proposal, is not an ordinary story about two lovers who face some problems in their life, but it reflects how deep love can make the young couple (Demi Moore & Woody Harrelson) overcome any obstacle in their life.And we are not just talking about any ordinary obstacle here, we are talking about a millionaire (Robert Redford) that takes advantage of the couple's money problem and offers Woody Harrelson a million dollars if he lets him spend one night with his wife.What will happen next....................!!!!! This movie is one you should never miss, go ahead and rent it now.I like this movie very very much, and I just couldn't stop my tears from running down at the final scene of the movie. "},{"Title":"Shameful waste of talent","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Obviously, a number of agents didn't see beyond dollar signs when they signed up their clients for this 117-minute *omage* to the courtesan complex.Sure, the film could have been alright, had the $1 million been left out of it.   Seriously.  The amount of the check doesn't matter,prostitution is still prostitution and no amount of love conquers all can change the fact that no marriage vows ever meant to imply for richer for poorer, for pimping as in fidelity.  Picture the story otherwise, though  2 kids, flat broke, borderline desperate and completely stupid.  They collide with wealthy business man.  Kids' marriage is strained by imperfect times and the fact that the husband is something of a loser.  Enter Mr. Tuxedo, oozing charm and stability -- a virtual magnet for the ticking biological clock -- and with him the wife's temptation, tensions, suspense.  Whom will she choose? Maybe, under those conditions, I could actually care.  As-is, frankly, Redford's selfish and manipulative playboy winds up the sympathetic character. A woman who will sell herself is just about what a guy deserves who will pimp out his wife.  The indecent proposition makes the husband a TOTAL loser, deficient in every positive male characteristic, and makes the wife a cheap strumpet seduced by money rather than confused by another potential love, a woman devoid of moral center and self-respect.All the impressive talent (acting, directing, cinematography) wasted on this film -- and it was an impressive amount -- couldn't save it from its splashy-but-too-trashy $1 million pitch line.   If I see this turkey at one more bridal shower, I'm going to roast it!  (Or maybe cross it with Titanic and pitch the tape in the ocean!) "},{"Title":"Interesting moral dilemma, and that's it","Date":"13 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A happily-married, but down on luck and money, couple, David and Diana Murphy (Woody Harrelson and Demi Moore), go to Las Vegas. There they hope their luck will change and their financial problems will be over. They meet a powerful billionaire, John Gage (Robert Redford), who makes them an offer - one million dollars for one night with Diana...An interesting moral dilemma, and that's it. The theme was intriguing - will they?, won't they?, what would you do? Unfortunately that's all it remains - a moral dilemma, and one that is not explored very thoroughly or very well.The remainder of the movie just feels like filler. There is a brief moment, in the aftermath of their decision, where the movie looks like it might go somewhere substantial, but this is just a false start. Ultimately, the movie has nothing to say. No substance, and what style there is is just pure schmaltz at its most trite. "},{"Title":"You might enjoy it","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A struggling married couple (Demi Moore and Woody Harrelson) lose all their money in Las Vegas. Whilst there, they meet a charismatic billionaire (Robert Redford) who offers them one million dollars for one night with the wife.Demi Moore has never looked better than she did in 'Indecent Proposal' so it's easy to see why Redford would be willing to pay $1,000,000 to spend one night with her, and Redford is very charming here, despite what is a very sleazy offer. But it's Harrelson who is the stand out performer for me, I'd only seen him in the TV show 'Cheers' and the comedy 'White Men Can't Jump' the previous year and was very surprised and impressed with his performance here as the tortured husband. Seymour Cassel and Oliver Platt are good supporting players worthy of mention, and I must also mention the score by John Barry is hauntingly beautiful. "},{"Title":"Very high priced cheese","Date":"13 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Diana (Demi Moore) and David Murphy (Woody Harrelson) are high school sweethearts and married couples. He's an architect and she's a real estate agent. When a recession hit, the bank calls in their loan and they are set lose their home. They go to Vegas to win the needed cash. Diana catches the eye of billionaire John Gage (Robert Redford). At first they win, but eventually they lose it all. Gage starts to worm his way into their relationship ending up with the indecent proposal.The premise is all titillation and no drama. Moore and Harrelson play up the romance as best they could, but there is a lot of cheese in the style. I didn't care for the voice over narrations. Most of it was unnecessary. Director Adrian Lyne seems to do a lot of these sexually provocative movies. He does so sincerely that he's always in danger of a high cheese factor. Another major problem is that the movie's obvious premise forces the audience to wait for Redford's big question. It's very tiresome waiting for it, and it's tiresome to listen to discussions about it. Then there is the ick factor in the story. I'm not a prude but it's just annoying having Oliver Platt yammer on and on. Then Woody Harrelson turn on the jealous acting to full. The emotions from the couple rings all wrong. It's very melodramatic. The best thing here is the suave Robert Redford. He manages to do this character without blinking. That's real commitment to acting. "},{"Title":"Price and value","Date":"31 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The most notable thing about Indecent Proposal is the appearance of Robert Redford in a kind of villainous role. He's the man who makes the Indecent Proposal to Demi Moore to spend a night of nights. She and husband Woody Harrelson will get a really large sum of money, more than enough to take them out of financial quagmire they're in as a result of the boom of the Eighties souring off during the presidency of Bush 41.Back during the reign of Charles II and other monarchs in other countries were guilty of the same thing, Charles as we know had a voracious sexual appetite. Husbands regularly pushed their wives on to the King's attention in hopes of advancement. And Charles himself married off many a discarded mistress. The fabulously wealthy Redford no doubt sees himself with that same kind of power.But an example closer to Hollywood would involve the triangle of David O. Selznick, Jennifer Jones, and her first husband Robert Walker. When Selznick was smitten with Jones he never let the fact that she was already married deter him a bit. He courted her in a similar manner that Redford courts Moore. Who could resist and her this millionaire has the looks and charm of Robert Redford. What's someone like Harrelson to do?I'm sure the fact that he was not playing a good guy is what perked Redford's interest in this part. He does it well, but his public sure never wanted him in these kinds of roles.The three stars all do well in this film. Indecent Proposal asks some very disturbing questions about the price and value of human beings. "},{"Title":"Indecent Thoughts","Date":"14 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Since the beginning of civilizations or even before, people were putting monetary value on everything they could. After a while, people began to realize a concept that everything was for sale for a certain amount depending on the individual. In a nut shell, what is your price for something you cherish deeply? In the early nineties, the blockbuster film Indecent Proposal challenged the aged-old question. David (Woody Harrelson) and Diana Murphy (Demi Moore) was a happy and regular middle class couple. The only problem they had was a relatively big one. The recession had left them both financially strapped. They were facing foreclosure on their current home and the home of their dreams they were building (Lansing & Lyne, 1993). In an effort to pay off their debts, they decide to go to Las Vegas to get quick money (Lansing & Lyne, 1993). In the casino, they meet John Gage (Robert Redford) a billionaire, playboy. After a short game of pool, he makes an offer of 1 million dollars to spend a night with Diana (Lansing & Lyne, 1993). The money was more than enough to pay off their debts and live well, but they would have to sell a piece of their soul for it. Thus a deal with the devil. In the film, there are various themes throughout. For one, the love and happiness of David & Diana Murphy is universal, and it can be understood by pretty much everyone (Boggs & Petrie, 2008). In addition, the heartbreak of the Murphy couple is universal as well. Likewise, the theme of human dignity is a major element in this film, because the characters are challenged figuratively to stand erect and morally, too (Boggs & Petrie, 2008). As the characters Diana, David and John try to move forward after the one-night deal, it is clear that conflict between two forces are going be an obstacle, and only one of the guys is going to walk away as the winner. Eventually the situation comes to a confrontation at a charity event (Lansing & Lyne, 1993). Desperate to win back Diana, David out bids John Gage's 50 thousand dollar offer on a Rhino by bidding a cool 1 million (Lansing & Lyne, 1993). In this scene, the character David Murphy was challenged to stand up and be a man, and he definitely did. In front of Diana and John, David gives the money back from the one-night deal to charity in an effort to win back her heart, because the money never meant anything like she did to him (Lansing & Lyne, 1993). The cinematographer captured David looking proud and bold by shooting an upward looking angle at him. The result was David finally looked like he stood up to his fierce competitor John Gage. Throughout the film, the dilemma of money and love was a repeating pattern, and it was really a motif to the film (Boggs & Petrie, 2008). Likewise, the movie Money Can't Buy Me Love and Indecent Proposal have really similar themes. In both, the characters are blinded by money, and at the same time, they are in search of love. Ironically, the love is in front of their faces the whole time. After viewing the film, it is still clear that everything has a price, but that price is more than a monetary number. For instance, the character David Murphy realized that having 1 million dollars without Diana was not worth it. Thus, he was happier before the decision. However, one would never know for sure. In all, love and money are universal concepts that people have been try to balance. Likewise, if you do not have love in your life, money is worth nearly as much. "}{"Title":"Indecent Proposal a great film to watch","Date":"31 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Indecent Proposal was released in 1993, It was about two young married couples David and Diana Murphy, they thought they invisible based on the loved they have shared over the years, David almost lost his wife (Diana) to a billionaire in the quest of having his dream house. There was recession in the country at that time and they were about losing their properties, they decided to go gamble so maybe they will make some to carry on with life but unfortunately they lost all their money. Diana ran into a multi billionaire John Gage whom at the spot was attracted to her which made him offer David one million dollars to spend a night with his wife (Diana). David and Diana thought about the offer and made a mutual decision to give it a shot. After the night, David started feeling insecure based on Diana's relationship with Gage which resulted to a separation between them. Feelings started developing between Diana and Gage after separation with David after a slight resistance from her towards Gage. David became down and out and he decided to sign the standing order documents sent to him by Diana and as well gave out the one million dollars just to let Diana and Gage realize he does care about the money. Gage decided to let go of Diana so that she could make amends with her husband (David), Gage gave her his lucky coin. Diana went to pier at paradise cove where David proposed to her, she met David there and they started all over again. Indecent Proposal revealed struggle of love, fidelity, and morality between David and Diana when money is offered, I realized in the film that worse decisions are made when people are in problems and at the end of the day, they regret ever taking the drastic decisions. The convincing emotional crisis the movie showed at the end of the film will make couples out there know that true love wins The lighting in the movie was not too soft which I think is perfect for the story line; overall, it made the film colorful. The camera in the film was close to the objects, and the camera angle suits the film as well. "},{"Title":"Indecent Proposal","Date":"29 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" No I did not read the book. I note here that all the reviews I ticked made valid points good, bad and indifferent. It was predictable and annoying in its attempt to keep the plot going. As an audience we did not need to stay alert as the thing dragged some and did not hold sufficient true interest in Redford and his unfortunate casting, which as others have said was not the man for the job. Quite annoying that he was benign and predictable. As was the rather facile direction. I am trying my best to avoid spoilers. In short, the previous reviews to mine, in my opinion are accurate. In future I think I will avoid sitting through an entire Mr Lyne movie. I have learned enough about his style to be more discerning in future. Demi Moore and Woody Harrelson are truly excellent with what may have been a tough contractual movie to star in. They both come across very well and in no way need to feel anything but proud of their performances.Well done and good luck to them both. I think Redford is an amazing actor, in this he is woefully mis-cast and weakly directed. "},{"Title":"Money Can Buy Me Love","Date":"15 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A man goes into a bar and gets into a conversation with a woman. The topic turns to sex and he asks her Do you think that you would sleep with a man if he offered you a million pounds? After some consideration she replies Yes, I think I would. So would you sleep with me for a fiver?Certainly not. What sort of girl do you think I am?We've already established that. All we're doing now is haggling over the price. Indecent Proposal is a film loosely based upon that old joke. David and Diana Murphy are a married couple, the sort of people who at the time would have been described as yuppies. He is an architect, she a real estate broker, and both are living the Californian yuppie dream until the early nineties recession hits them hard. Hoping to recoup their finances they travel to Las Vegas, only to lose all of their savings. And here comes that joke. They meet a billionaire named John Gage who is attracted to the lovely Diana (hardly surprising, given that she is played by Demi Moore) and offers David one million dollars to spend a night with her. After much consideration, and after hiring their lawyer to draw up a contract, David and Diana decide to accept the offer, and Gage flies Diana to a private yacht where the dirty deed is consummated. Gage is as good as his word, and the money is duly paid into David's bank account, but the couple gradually realise that the arrangement has placed an intolerable strain on their relationship. This was one of a number of erotic dramas which came out in the late eighties and early nineties. (Fatal Attraction, also directed by Adrian Lyne, and Basic Instinct are others of the same kind). I call them erotic not in the sense that they are pornographic- Indecent Proposal only contains one, not very explicit, love scene- but in the sense that they deal frankly with sexual topics. In some respects the film can also be seen as a variation on the standard romantic comedy theme. Most romantic comedies tell the story of how a couple fall in love and of they overcome any obstacles to that love. Indecent Proposal tells the story of a couple who start off in love, of how they fall out of love, and of how their love is rekindled. The film was a box office success, but received mostly negative reviews from critics, and even won the Worst Picture Razzie award for 1993. This surprised me Indecent Proposal is far from being a great film, but I cannot for the life of me see how it could be regarded as worse than Madonna's execrable semi-pornographic vanity project Body of Evidence. (Indeed, it is difficult to imagine how any film not directed by Ed Wood could have been worse than Body of Evidence). Of the film's three main stars, Moore is probably the best; although she is not as good as she had been in some of her other films from the early nineties such as Ghost and A Few Good Men she still succeeds in making Diana an attractive heroine. (There is also an amusing cameo from Oliver Platt as the Murphy's grasping lawyer). Woody Harrelson, however, is too stiff and awkward as David, not giving much expression to the emotional turmoil which a character in his position would have faced. My only objection to Harrelson's Worst Supporting Actor Razzie was that, as the film's principal male character, his was a leading role and he should have been nominated for Worst Actor instead. if Harrelson had been nominated for Worst Actor, he would have had to compete for this dubious honour with his co-star Robert Redford. (In the event, Redford lost out to Burt Reynolds). Still displaying, in a slightly ravaged form, the good looks which had made him a matinée idol in the earlier part of his career, Redford's casting in the role of Gage drew numerous comments from women of a certain age along the lines of I would sleep with him for free, never mind a million dollars. Unfortunately, this is one of his films in which Redford seems content to coast along on looks and smooth charm alone without putting much effort into his role. We never really find out what motivates Gage- love for Diana, lust for her or simply the desire to test, as an intellectual proposition, his theory that, the Beatles and popular opinion notwithstanding, money can indeed buy me love- although this may be as much the fault of the scriptwriter as of Redford. Although Indecent Proposal was intended as a serious treatment of its theme rather than a humorous one, the plot bears a certain resemblance to that of a comedy from the previous year, Honeymoon in Vegas in which an unsuccessful Las Vegas gambler loses his girl to a wealthy high roller and then has to win her back. This is, in fact, the sort of story which would have worked better as a comedy, its central idea being too improbable to be credible in the context of a serious drama. In real life billionaires, however eccentric, do not generally offer happily married women, however attractive, a million dollars for sex. It is not, in my view, an outstandingly bad film; Lyne is a reasonably competent director and tells his story efficiently enough. It is just not a very good one. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Interesting Premise That Turns Into Disaster","Date":"13 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Indecent Proposal is a film, based on the novel of the same name by Jack Engelhard about a handsome billionaire who offers a young couple $1 million to spend one night with his wife.It stars Robert Redford, Demi Moore, and Woody Harrelson.Adrian Lyne,the directs the film.In the storyline,Diana and David Murphy, high-school sweethearts who recently got married.They are doing very well -- Diana is a successful real-estate agent, and David is an idealistic architect who has built a dream house by the ocean -- until the recession hits. Suddenly, David loses his job, and they can't make the mortgage payments. Dead broke, they borrow $5000 from David's father and head to Las Vegas to try to win money to pay the mortgage on their house. At first, they get $25,000 ahead -- but inevitably the house always wins, and they end up losing it all. While Diana is in the fancy casino boutique trying to lift some candy, she is spotted by billionaire John Gage, who is immediately attracted to her. John invites Diana and David to an opulent party, and it is there that John offers David $1 million for a night with his wife. David is wrecked by this moral dilemma, but Diana finally makes the decision on her own, with ensuing consequences for their ideal marriage and their bank account.The film has an interesting premise.Unfortunately,it turns into a disaster especially after in the events after Diana agrees to sleep with billionaire,John Gage.Lyne's direction becomes formulaic and contrived.The romances between the young couple loses focus and the billionaire suddenly gives up in her interest to the attractive wife to give the story a happy ending.Too bad that the only positive note in the ludicrous but commercially successful movie is the solid performances from Redford,Moore and Harrelson. "},{"Title":"Movie Review 'The Indecent Proposal'","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I know its very very late. But after reading the garbage review done by this senseless, ignorant, self styled movie guru, I have to counter the view.Ladies and Gentlemen this movie, in a very simple way scratch your conscience and ask you the same question. Will you swap your love for money. To make the subject more viable and presentable the director and story writer has taken their artistic liberty and hit our lowest animal instinct. The privilege of sex with our wife. Will you trade it for money? Countless women and men had this nightmare after watching the movie and this is the success of the director. He has succeeded in shaking us, opening our eyes to the materialistic world we are living in and shown us that how people can stoop so low to gain money. Now let us talk about the characterization. Mr Redford is a wealthy lonely man with supposedly golden heart. But like all wealthy man (read filthy rich) he likes to wield the power of money. He has already seen Ms Moor stealing candies, so being a very intelligent man (you don't imaging he achieved all that wealth without the power of judgement) he rightly judge that Ms Moor is more susceptible to money. And yet he is subtle. He plays his card perfectly. He shows his disregard to losing that large sum of money. Then borrow Ms Moor as the lucky mascot and allows her to play with one million dollar worth of markers. A little luck and he wins or rather she wins one million for him. Now next step is to seduce her with money. So he present them one night in that luxurious hotel room. Off course she want more of this life. Thats the whole purpose of putting them in that luxury room. So when he offers one million dollar for one night stand, it is she who is dumbstruck, not the husband. It is she who prepare her husband to accept the offer. Remember what she said 'I don't want to do it. But I will do it for You.' Thats a women at her best. She wants to do it, but let us husband thinks that its a sacrifice she is willing to make so they can realize their dream.No sir, she is the one who wants to do it. And Redford clearly sees that. He exploits this weak link and get what he wants. He shows her that he knows who made the decision and why. But again he is subtle. He covers the bitter pill with sugar. Any women will fall for such man who knows her but covers her faults. So she falls and falls deeply. It was not sex with a whore. She was the willing partner. You can see her approaching for Redford's lips. She wants it, because now she knows the luxury and wants to be a part of it.(remember he has flown her to his yatch, and not the hotel bed).In the end the director mercifully reunites the husband and wife because thats the moral a good story must have. Marriage is the fiber of society which binds us together. The director didn't show the 99.9% reality and taken the moral stand, and I thank him for this.And don't forget to look in the eyes of Redford. He says so much with his eyes. He is not a bad man. He just shows a greedy outspoken women who pretends and declare that she cant be bought where she is dying to be bought. "},{"Title":"Watchable, despite the fact that it runs out of steam","Date":"2 September 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" David and Diana Murphy are about to loose their home. In an attempt to get some money, they go to Vegas where they meet billionaire John Gage. He offers them a million dollars for one night with the missus. Unwillingly they agree, but when Diana returns David suspects she is hiding something.What I have just described is the first hour of Indecent Proposal.It's a pretty good start, but the remaining hour, regardless of whether it is loyal or disloyal to the novel is a solid example of not -so-solid storytelling. It becomes rather pointless and dull.Indecent Proposal is driven not so much by its story but by the interactions between the three leads. Though the performance quality is nothing special, Woody Harrelson, Robert Redford, and Demi Moore all have a good screen presence. There is also a charming little appearance by Billy Conoly as himself near the end. I always get a kick out of him. In the end, Indecent Proposal stands as watchable but very lame. It is a steamer that runs out of steam and sort of leaves the viewer adrift on the river not really going anywhere fast. It is not an easy recommendation, unless you have a thing for erotic B-movies. "},{"Title":"Interesting film","Date":"31 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Indecent proposal is an interesting film maybe no the best but still a very good film. First of all, unlike mentioned in some reviews I don't think Robert Redford was miscast because according to some reviewers that he was too handsome for the role so any woman would sleep with him anyway even for free. The interesting thing for me  Yes Robert Redford is devastatingly handsome even aged in his fifties in this film but Diana and David are very much in love but totally broke and they need the money desperately.Why it is interesting ? because I think that Robert Redford as John Gage should be able to have all the women he wants without paying anything - The main point is that John GAGE wants Diana and no one else  something clicked inside him when he first saw her in the shop.It was not only a sexual attraction but also a strong feeling for her. The fact that he is handsome is interesting because you feel at the beginning of the film that David could be jealous of John Gage not only because of his money but also because of Gage's looks and great presence. David is aware of that and I believe is worried that Diana could be attracted to him as well from a romantic point of view. And he's right because Diana is attracted to John GAGE maybe not consciously at the beginning but she is later in the film when she realizes that he is a real gentle man looking for love. Actually she would like to hate him but she can't. That's why it is hard for Diana to talk about her fateful night with . John Gage when David asked her. If John Gage was portrayed as a bad-looking,rough guy, it might have been much easier for Diana to do it for money no risk then to feel attracted to the guy or to fall in love with him because it would be just sex and - that's all -no feelings involved. No risks at all so no interests, no suspense in the film.The film wouldn't be as interesting as it is. As for John GAGE,we know that he wanted to prove to David and Diana that everything could be bought, even people but he also realizes that feelings cannot be bought as he wanted Diana to love him like she loves David. It's an interesting film from different point of views. "},{"Title":"Uneven but makes good points about jealousy and trust","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The film is at it's best in the scenes where Woody Harrelson is feeling jealous about Demi Moore's lovemaking with Robert Redford. When he's struggling with his obsessions about it, there is a certain validity that rings true, and he has a great scene near the end where he tells Moore that he was insecure about himself, but isn't anymore. The romance between Harrelson and Moore has a genuine quality that is sweet and sincere.There are problems, however, with Redford's character and Redford himself. Moore is so obviously not attracted to Redford that their romantic scenes together look uncomfortable. Her character is supposed to be attracted to him, but it isn't convincing. You can tell she's turned off by him, and when she kisses him, she looks like she's kissing her dad. Redford plays the role with his usual mellow likability and smoothness, but it doesn't match the character he's playing. It doesn't seem believable that he'd offer money to sleep with someone's wife. He seems too easy-going and amiable to make such an offer. It seems like Redford is having fun playing the role, and being a good sport about it, but not really connecting with the darker side of the character. Overall, an interesting film with some valid comments about overcoming jealousy and having trust in the love you share with your partner, but it falls short of being truly successful. "},{"Title":"Really good movie","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Have I watched a different movie? I am really shocked to see such a good movie get only 5.3 stars. Plot? Good Acting? Good Direction? GoodThe conflict in the minds of both the D's is shown very well.The night they cant sleep, they talk about it, they try to justify it because they know that it will take all their troubles away. It was very important that their financial crises was shown properly otherwise neither would have considered the deal. And it was. Maybe the lines Did I ever tell you I love you...... are a little cheesy, but every couple has some...and they had theirs. The criticism I have read is rather empty. You can't rate a movie bad just because it's depressing. Did The Godfather get you all pumped up to join the mafia or what? Some people are cursing the billionaire. It couldn't be clearer that he DID care for her. He cared for her enough to barge into her class, to get her to show him some properties,cared for her enough to let her go (maybe the reason was also partially selfish, still) all he wanted was a chance. Being a billionaire and someone who is used to getting what he wants, he made the Indecent Proposal and pursued her till she gave into him. People are saying that there's no message in the movie. The simplest message was that when you marry someone, you promise to take care of them. D failed to do that and left a big scar on his marriage. But because their love was true, she came back to him.If you let go off of something and it never comes back to you, then it was never truly yours to begin with ...(or something like that)... "},{"Title":"A lost opportunity","Date":"29 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always had problems with the title. The word indecent means immodest, obscene; unfit for society. When used these days, the word is almost invariably followed by exposure. Audacious Proposal would have made more sense.The premise is well-known by now, and presents opportunities to muse about the relevance of marital fidelity, personal scruples, and the seductive and emotional power of money, but it sidesteps, muddies or ignores every one of them. It could have addressed any or all of them and still be entertaining and a conversation starter.Billionaire John Gage (Robert Redford) offers one million dollars to a struggling couple, Diana and David Murphy (Demi Moore and Woody Harrelson), if he can sleep with her for one night. The proposal is intrepid, adventurous and bold, but it is not indecent. Diana accepts the offer and follows through with the assignation, all the while reminding David that she is doing it for him, to further his career as an architect. I suppose her oft-repeated declaration is meant to show us that yes Diana does too have scruples. See? she can call upon them whenever she wants to.Diana's tight-lipped and blithe insouciance once the tryst is history and the money is in the bank drives David out of his mind. Director Adrian Lyne wisely keeps Diana's and Gage's night on the yacht out of camera range. (Seeing the hideous gray dress he asks her to wear is enough.) It's too bad he didn't do the same with David's petulance, self-pity and masochism, which overshadows everything else in the second act. David is supposed to be a bright and promising architect whose marriage to Diana is solid as a rock. Of course, the only way we know this is through a lightning fast exposition of their courtship and marriage, told mostly through photos shot with a lens metaphorically coated in Vaseline. In Love Story, Jenny reminded Oliver many times that love means never having to say you're sorry. These two like to ask each other the equally inane, have I ever told you that I love you? When Demi Moore gives the best performance in a movie, that's saying something. Although Diana is an underwritten role, the character isn't maddeningly one-note like those of David and Gage. She is two-dimensional, which is as fleshed out as any Lyne character ever gets. Lyne is no more secure in his leading lady's acting abilities than most other directors, so he gives her the expected opportunities to show some skin. Sketchy roles never seem to allow Moore any freedom; she tends to hem herself in. But someone has to restrain themselves in the aftermath of Diana's night on the yacht. As noted, David has gone to pieces with rage and jealousy. Diana cannot deal with his meltdown; his suspicions, leading questions and accusations drive her away. Meanwhile, John Gage is waiting for Diana around every corner. He is essentially stalking her, but his behavior is supposed to come off as charming. When she, on the other hand -- with good reason -- crashes one of Gage's business luncheons, it's cause for alarm; Diana's behavior is inappropriate and unacceptable. This is a double standard Hollywood reinforces over and over again. But soon Diana puts up only token resistance to Gage's pursuit. She didn't when he offered her and David that lifetime of financial security with but one little catch.Diana eventually caves in, and she and Gage get busy making the social rounds. What they find to talk about is anyone's guess, but Moore and Redford do make for an attractive couple. The passage of time is indicated by David and Diana's both getting teaching jobs. He teaches architecture and suggests bricks are blessed with self-determination. I told you he went nuts after Diana slept with Gage. For her part, Diana teaches U.S. citizenship. Her pupils, all well into adulthood, giggle like 8-year-olds when Gage crashes the class to declare he's crazy about Diana. Even though she has divorced David, her days with Gage as an item at gala openings and silly charity functions are numbered. The time comes for Diana to go back to David, having learned what, exactly? Have I ever told you I loved you? Would we have been able to handle the million bucks any better if we'd earned it? The credits roll before they begin to figure this out.I want scriptwriters to STOP recycling Mr. Bernstein's anecdote about the girl on the Jersey ferry from Citizen Kane. Gage gets to give that little speech here, adapted for modern times. The problem is, the conclusion he wants Diana to draw from it is exactly the opposite of what he says.Indecent describes the amount of money the picture took in at the box office -- about $199,000.000 more worldwide than Gage offers the Murphys. If this is Lyne's idea of a message picture, as they used to call them, he should have used FedEx.It's much more fun to write about a middling movie than a great one or even a very bad one. "}{"Title":"No Great Surprises","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Adrian Lyne, who so successfully chilled us with Fatal Attraction, has this time come to challenge us with Indecent Proposal.Robert Redford is John Gage, the multi-millionaire who offers David Murphy (Woody Harrelson) one million dollars for one night with the latter's wife (Demi Moore). The question is, what will they do? Suffice to say the young couple show little morality (and even less sense) as they allow money to spoil their wonderful relationship. Although I was disappointed with the character's respective actions and reactions, the film does teach an all too obvious lesson on the perils of mixing love and money.No great surprises, and cynics won't appreciate the ending, but the cast are competent in a fairly good movie.Friday, May 14, 1993 - Knox District Centre "},{"Title":"Money vs love","Date":"11 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Even though the main story is about something that is not very likely to happen, this film has a strange way to approach real life and bring it so realistic to the screen. What we see in the film is the everyday life of a couple that has to work in order to live. And they do, and they are happy, until the day they experience an 'earthquake' in their relationship. The earthquake is Robert Redford's indecent proposal.Apart from bringing in an incredibly realistic way the dilemma they have in front of them, the film also shows many ways in which a person can express love to another person; it can be done by fighting, by talking, by understanding, by appreciating, by thinking. But, what about money; and, especially when we are talking about people who live without lots of it.When you see this film and the story ends, you will find yourself thinking. I cannot predict what you'll be thinking, but I am sure that after you see the end of the film, you'll think about it for some time. "},{"Title":"Don't sleep with anyone for money.","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie sends us a strong message. It tells us not to sleep with anyone for money. Don't ever value money over love. And don't think you can just have sex without feeling something. Sex is about feeling love. No wonder it is called making love. Love feeds passion and passion feeds love.  There is a truth in that, and if you don't feel it, you may be missing something. If your relationship is strong enough it will overcome problems like almost losing your house. It will also overcome a mistake like this. But never think you can ignore what has happened and just not talk about it. People have memories and things like that will stick.Excellent acting, good story.  "},{"Title":"stirs thought","Date":"18 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  WARNING knowing me, this comment will probably contain some spoilers!!I first viewed this film when I was about 12 and I remember thinking that this was the first movie that I had viewed which made me think, long and hard. Of course about whether or not I would've sold my body had I been in the same circumstances, but it made me think more of the 'love' thing between the married couple and the ending. Needless to say, I was very surprised at the ending because I was young and naieve and didn't read between the lines.I saw this film again recently. This time, I thought the ending was more inevitable. I really like this film because it stirs thought and conversation. I think many people dislike this film not because of the acting or an actual fault in the movie itself, but more of the actions that Demi Moore take in sleeping with Robert Redford. I think people view this film ethically and dislike it because of their ethical stance and not because the film itself was made poorly.Even now, after 4 years since first seeing this film, I still wouldn't have an answer to Robert Redford's million dollar question. Not a truthful one anyway. I would like to think that I had the self-dignity and self-respect to not let anyone 'purchase' me like that but in all honesty, I really don't know. It's one of those questions where there are no correct answers and there won't be any winners. By sleeping with the man, you lose your self-worth and your dignity (especially in a marriage). By not sleeping with him, you would most probably resent it later on and may have thought that you should have.This really isn't much of a review, but I think this is a film that everyone should see. The question is not whether you like it or not, it's whether you would or not. "},{"Title":"A Lot to Say About Love... Love lost and true love","Date":"24 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Interesting movie (adapted from the book by Jack Engelhard) with a lot to say about love... Love lost and true love.Did this movie go over the heads of those who gave it a poor rating?Indecent Proposal is not about sleeping with someone for money as other reviewers have stated. It is about a man who missed the opportunity to be with his first love, and a happily married couple who lose sight of their values and vows.When John Gage (Redford) first sets eyes on Diana (Moore) at a Casino pocketing chocolates, he's smitten. We assume he's eyeing her because he's a dirty, middle-aged rich man. It isn't until later in the movie - during one of the many touching scenes - that we learn Gage isn't going after Diana because he can. He actually is experiencing love at first sight. Unfortunately, cupid has sent him a happily married woman.Despite that Diana's married, Gage makes his proposal One million dollars to spend the night with him. Gage's proposal is an interesting one because it tells a lot about David (Harrelson) and Diana. And it is their decision to accept Gage's proposal that causes their marriage to slowly sour and eventually implode while Gage sits back and patiently waits for Diana.There are a number of touching moments in Indecent Proposal. One is when Gage tells Diana about the girl he fell in love with during a fleeting moment on a train. Toward the end of the movie Gage and Diana are in his car. Gage goes into this discourse about other women. It is the most touching scene in the movie because it reveals the kind of person Gage is - someone who realizes what true love is.Redford plays Gage brilliantly. He was made for the part. Gage is patient and expressive without saying a word. Just a smile or a playful look and you know what he is thinking and feeling. Harrelson plays the loving, then anguished husband well enough. Moore is miscast against both Redford and Harrelson. Despite this flaw, Indecent Proposal is worth watching because we step into the world of a happily married couple who assured themselves they would survive an unorthodox way to solve their problems. We also step into the world of a man looking for true love.One last thought Adaptations are usually a bitch for most writers. I did not read Engelhard's novel. So, I do not know what was added or subtracted to the screenplay. Either way, I found the story nicely paced, well-told, and with no loose ends. Bravo Amy Holden Jones! "},{"Title":"An edgy, high-end mess","Date":"2 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" INDECENT PROPOSAL is one of those movies that pretty much spells itself out. You know what kind of provocative early '90s movie you're getting yourself into, and it doesn't take long to put the pieces together as to how things will turn out. Young couple needs money for their dream house, meets really rich guy who wants one night with the pretty wife. Five minutes' worth of deliberation ensues before they accept the offer and then it's the bad news of distrust, infighting and marital implosion from there. What makes this movie tough to swallow is . . . well, it's mostly the script. These aren't very sympathetic characters (c'mon, Harrelson, you have a wife that looks like that and you think you'll be okay after turning her out for a million bucks? Don't be an idiot!), and it makes their choices in the film's 1st act hard to stomach. Really think you're gonna net all the money you need in Vegas? Seriously! But the other reason is Robert Redford. He's all wrong for the part of absurdly rich and sociopathic John Gage, who buys other guys' wives like he does cigars and speedboats. The actions of this guy and the dialogue that comes out of his mouth are deplorable; but that doesn't suit Redford, whose boyish charm and likability runs completely counter to the character we're supposed to despise. Aside from Woody Harrelson's terrifically tortured performance in this movie, INDECENT PROPOSAL doesn't have much (if anything) to offer beyond the water-cooler appeal of its taboo hook Would you let your wife spend a night with another man so you can pay your bills? It makes for a good five-minute discussion about morals (maybe), but it doesn't support a two-hour movie. It's hard to be mad at this movie when the cards are seemingly all on the table from the get-go, but it's still an aggravating two hours. Not a fan of any of these characters, even though I'm supposed to root for Harrelson and Moore (who looks stunning in this movie), and it just feels so trashy watching this thing. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Love sex and lies- a one time watch movie","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Indecent Proposal is a 1993 drama film based on the novel of the same name by Jack Engelhard. It was directed by Adrian Lyne and stars Robert Redford, Demi Moore, and Woody Harrelson. Plot- They are high-school sweethearts who marry and who are doing very well -- Diana is a successful real-estate agent, and David is an idealistic architect who has built a dream house by the ocean -- until the recession hits. Suddenly, David loses his job, and they can't make the mortgage payments. Dead broke, they borrow $5000 from David's father and head to Las Vegas to try to win money to pay the mortgage on their house. At first, they get $25,000 ahead -- but inevitably the house always wins, and they end up losing it all. While Diana is in the fancy casino boutique trying to lift some candy, she is spotted by billionaire John Gage (Robert Redford), who is immediately attracted to her. John invites Diana and David to an opulent party, and it is there that John offers David $1 million for a night with his wife. David is wracked by this moral dilemma, but Diana finally makes the decision on her own, with ensuing consequences for their ideal marriage and their bank account.And the what happen next ?????? "},{"Title":"One of the most entertaining morality plays","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" INDECENT PROPOSAL, along with THE DEVIL'S ADVOCATE (Al Pacino and Keanu Reeves) are two of the most entertaining morality plays out there. The moral to the story, without needing to go into Christian theology or anything else is really simple there's no such thing as a free lunch. I remember when the movie was out in the theatres and the many sound bite talk show people would ask guests and people on the street if they would do what the couple Demi Moore and Woody Harrelson did in the film; so many fools said yes, in a heartbeat and I wondered about the education system of our country! The line of the stylish Robert Redford when Demi Moore accused him (while slowly being seduced by him) of being a man who likes to own things summed up the whole movie You think I need to BUY women? Redford, a man in this movie who as a billionaire has seen and caused the birth and death of multi-national corporations the size of ancient civilizations, knew EXACTLY what would happen to their marriage, and to their mind- and to her heart, if they knowingly accepted this proposal most indecent. He depended on THEIR arrogance and scoffing at the fragile nature of human relationships and the invisible architecture of the human soul; knowing, like every man (and woman) with a secret plan for another human being, that that would bring about the predictable but unexpected chain of outer events. The movie's most poignant turn, however, is when he reveals the road not taken in HIS life, with all his billions, and how that has generated much of his actions. Only then do we really discover under no uncertain terms what he wants, and what he is willing to do to get it. That really begins the falling domino of epiphanies that leads to the revealing of the gentle, fragile and beautiful hearts of all three of the characters, and the transcendent power of love, commitment and surrender. It's a good guy/girl movie as well, because Woody Harrelson is so much the All-American man, full of rambunctious flaws and money problems (can't relate), where Robert Redford is, well, Robert Redford; he is the next best thing to Sean Connery's James Bond in this movie when it comes to the debonair, power- broker man the women couldn't resist if he had a 30k a year job, let alone making 30k every couple of hours. The testosterone is there. Combine that with the transformation of both of their characters because of the love of Demi Moore, who can play the dichotomous strong/weak women better than most of the Hollywood actresses out there still (if she would just take better scripts- aren't the bills paid sweetie?), and you've got more intelligent INNER action, romance and sympathy than you can shake a stick at. Worth owning. Ignore some of it's flaws (too miniscule to mention really; if you want CASABLANCA than buy that for Gawd sakes) and you'll have a great time with it- perhaps even learn something about yourself that you didn't know you knew. "},{"Title":"Interesting but seriously flawed","Date":"27 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" INDECENT PROPOSAL is one of those formularized, supposedly heartfelt movies told in one mess of a tale. It starts off with a couple (Demi Moore and Woody Harrelson) struggling to make ends meet and just as they are about to drown in debt, they hit the jackpot in Vegas and then lose all their winnings again. As they are about to hit rock bottom, Robert Redford, a multi-billionaire, comes into their lives to give them a chance to get one million dollars. The catch Redford borrow Woody's wife for one night. They agree, but this of course changes the course of their relationship forever. Woody Harrelson is truly miscast in a role too serious for him, making some scenes unintentionally funny. Yet the other two leads help keep this vechicle interesting. Despite the limited success of the script, it remains as a flawed but ambitious work. "},{"Title":"Spoiler s wanted","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" okay so i am watching this movie on TV and its a good movie and then i get to the end(i think) when woody is getting in Robert's face in the rain storm and then the TV just cuts off and i cant getting it to work so could someone please let me know if woody and Moore get back together or does the Jerk Robert get Moore let me know that would be greatso i really liked this movie even for being a girl movie and i normally don't watch romance movies i really don't feel like this movie is very realistic. i do not feel like married people would ever ever do this kind of thing unless they are swingers and thats a very very mutual thing were both of the people in the realationship are present "}{"Title":"The Salacious Sundance Kid Wants A Piece Of It","Date":"15 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" At once admirable and a gorgeous piece of trash is Adrian Lyne's Indecent Proposal (1993). Can I get an amen for affirming that Mr. Lyne is one of the best purveyors of cinematic relationship-angst? Indeed, his Fatal Attraction (1987) is one of the most horrifying and entertaining movies I've ever seen.David and Diana Murphy (Woody Harrelson and Demi Moore respectively&#133;obviously) are relatively new to matrimony but are deliriously happy and have big plans for their future. David is an adept architect looking to complete his and his wife's dream house in Santa Monica. Diana is a realtor who pays the bills until the dream is fulfilled. Everything is going great the blueprints and models have been constructed, the land bought and, of course, the California sun is perpetually shining through the smoggy haze. And then, fate deals them a moral and ethical blow. What leads up to this is an economic recession in which Diana cannot sell a single piece of property and their current assets are in danger of being liquidated. In a spontaneous, desperate measure they both go to Sin City and attempt to raise enough money in order to keep their property and dream alive. They do good for the first night they brought their original $5000 to $25,000 and celebrate the way all gambling couples do by converting that $25,000 into hard currency, throwing it on a Hilton bed and moistly copulating on and around it. It was quite poetically philosophical in evoking the notion that money has become the apotheosis of sexual lubricant.John Gage (Robert Redford) is a filthy rich womanizer who gets off playing high-stakes blackjack and buying the unbuyable. He encounters the babealicious Diana and immediately realizes that he has something new to distract himself with. Through a complicated series of events he makes the titular offer by exchanging one night with Diana for one million dollars. Quite instinctively, the couple are horrified and indignant. However, later that evening, Diana says that it would only be her body and not her mind or spirit that Gage will have. After debating they agree to the proposal and so forth the conspicuous and financed affair goes.Afterward (did they&#133;you know, do it?) Diana comes back and they both think that this is something that can be put behind them as long as they never talk about it. Well, David just can't live with that as a little time goes by (could you?) and absolutely insists on finding out what happened that fateful evening. Diana eventually caves and says that there was sex and that it was fantastic. This doesn't mean that she doesn't love David anymore but David takes this a sign that she doesn't love him anymore anyway (men are from Mars, after all). There's a fallout, divorce papers and a bona-fide relationship that begins to develop between Diana and John (he pursues, she relents, the cheetah gets the zebra). Yet after all this we get the super-duper mega happy ending.The ending aside we get some interesting subtleties throughout the film. John Gage is urbane to the Wayne Newton degree and the couple couldn't be less disingenuous and self-righteous than the Republican Party. There is a great deal of flirtation and insinuation that is truly riveting and, at times, quite plausible. However, if this were real life, there's NO WAY the two would be as ultimately conciliatory as they come to be by the end of the film. Call me provincial but, in my eyes, the marriage covenant is inviolable and incapable of repair after such a devastating blow. "},{"Title":"Can I say overrated?","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The main characters are really not believable.Robert Redford plays the cliche calm and suave tycoon who gets what he wants including women.  The only difference here is that somehow his character has genuine feelings about love.  Whatever!!!Woody Harrelson's portrayal of a loving husband who is willing to give his wife to some rich jackass (Robert Redford) for one night only to moments later utterly regret that decision is a joke.SPOILER   I can say Demi Moore's character is the worst.  How the hell does she manage to fall for the guy (Redford) who turned her into a prostitute? Is this where the male director and male writer play out their fantasy?  "},{"Title":"interesting concept; casting disaster","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Possible spoilers . . . proceed with cautionIt's a provocative question that leads to more questions  Would a happily married but financially desperate couple agree to let the wife have sex for one night with another man for a million dollars?  If they did, and the money turned out to be the solution to their financial problems, could their marriage survive that solution? It's a good premise.Not even a great premise, however, could survive what surely ranks as the stupidest casting in the history of motion pictures.Demi Moore as our heroine?  OK, let's go with that.  But now make her choose She can stay with her immature, irresponsible, unstable, impoverished, selfish failure of a husband played by the at-best-average-looking wacko Woody Harrelson. Or she can sail off into the sunset with the unimaginably wealthy, charming, sophisticated, sensitive, generous and drop-dead-gorgeous-at-this-and-probably-every-age Robert Redford.The choice is so obvious it makes the decision, and therefore the whole movie, ridiculous.  Cast a young leading man like a Brad Pitt as the husband and an older character actor like Gene Hackman as the suitor and the premise makes sense.  Stack the deck entirely on the side of the suitor by casting Redford, and there's not a woman alive on the planet today who would think twice.  Bye-bye husband, bye-bye movie.How dumb.  What a waste.  "},{"Title":"OK but unrealistic","Date":"10 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm only writing a review to share the humorist Erma Bombeck's observation.In one of her last columns before her passing, she mentioned that she and her husband had gone to see this movie.As they were driving home, her husband asked Well? Would you? Would I what? she asked.Would you sleep with Robert Redford for a million dollars? It depends, she said.Her husband was shocked. DEPENDS? he choked. Depends on WHAT? Depends on whether he'd let me make monthly payments... she replied.I passed root beer through my nose when I read that - had to share. "},{"Title":"Mixed reviews because it is very political","Date":"26 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Remember what Oscar Wilde said about the disagreement of critics Diversity of opinion about a work of art shows that the work is new, complex, and vital. There have been only a few films in the last decade which divided audiences more, but since INDECENT PROPOSAL has never really been considered the serious drama that it is, the arguments are not very heated. The politics in the film offend some, enthrall others.The film is about the conflict of love vs. money, monogamy vs. promiscuity, romance vs. cynicism. These are all subjects many people have very personal opinions about. What is love? What is important for a relationship to be a success? Can you love more than one person? Can love be bought? These questions were meant to stir the pot, and they certainly helped INDECENT PROPOSAL succeed at the box office.The film, instead of leaving those timeless questions open, as many contemporary films do, instead comes to a conclusion. The conclusion is a very romantic one, and it will not be popular among hardened cynics. The movie tells us love prevails, and although love may not always prevail in real life, it is important to note that it sometimes does. In INDECENT PROPOSAL, love and trust and monogamy win out over the decadence of the millionaire and his offer. It is an optimistic conclusion, and an extremely satisfying and joyful conclusion for the romantics of the world.The film is not only a romantic experience, but an example of great film-making. The photography, lighting, scenery, costumes, colors, performances, and especially John Barry's magical score, all add up to make an extremely high quality film. You may criticize the film based on your own political opinions, but do not criticize the music or photography! It is rare to see a film with such gorgeous style. "},{"Title":"Too ridiculous -- MANY SPOILERS IN HERE","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was so ridiculous it isn't even offensive. How was it ridiculous? Let me count the waysS P O I L E R SA P P R O A C H I N G1. the idea that a happy married couple would agree to loaning out the wife, for any sum of money, is silly. The idea that Robert Redford would ever have to pay for sex is just laughable (most women I know would happily volunteer). Only slightly less of a joke is the idea that the wife who had agreed to this would then (1)leave Mr. Redford at all, to (2) return to Woody Harrelson. And, although I do realize that no woman ever entirely understands what draws a man to a woman, I can't see Robert Redford or anyone else paying $1 million for Demi Moore. Put Halle Berry or Sophie Marceau in that role, and I might be able to buy it, but I can't see Ms. Moore as million-dollar material.If you bother with this at all, close your ears and just look at Redford. "},{"Title":"Copout","Date":"10 April 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" For the most part, this is a good movie. It has some very splendid bits of cinematography -- the bit where Harrelson's character is standing amidst a backdrop of TV screens, which suddenly in his mind's eye displays his wife, is very evocative. The characterizations are sound, for the most part, and the film avoids some obvious clichés ... take, for instance, Harrelson's drunken punch at Redford, which *doesn't* connect. The titillation you would have expected from the horrified rantings (adultery! prostitution! sin!) at the time of the film's release didn't actually appear -- Moore's and Redford's characters scarcely embrace, let alone are seen in bed.The worst cliché that comes about is the last ten minutes of the movie, though, which inexplicably ditches two hours of characterization for the copout happy-ending-after-all that the Moral Majority and Lifetime crowds would appreciate. The film would have rung a truer tone if it had stayed its course, and demonstrated that actions have consequences you just can't slough off with a familiar catchphrase. It produced a sour note in what was otherwise an interesting exploration of human relationships.5/10. "},{"Title":"Is Redford copying his part as Gatsby?","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This Hollywood-love story seemed to me as a somewhat tasteless copy of Gatsby set in our days.Did someone notice the striking similarity between John Gage,the sinfully seductive billionaire from this film,and Redford's earlier character Gatsby? Up to the encounter with this character the film seemed fairly well-done,yet uninteresting.It is how about a woman(Demi Moore) met the man of her life(Woody Harrelson)and how they plan to live together in an idyllic marriage,have kids and you can guess the rest. But as such respectable outcome would have made this film utterly event less,disaster strikes shortly after they exchanged wows,being hard up for money they head to Vegas in order to save the family's budget and,as expected,end up broke. This is the moment when destiny is giving them a chance in a strange way-they meet mysterious John Gage,billionaire and single,who just witnessed how they lost their last money. And as money can buy everything,he is about to strike a deal with them-would the husband lend his wife to him for night only in exchange of one million crisp,freshly printed,authentic,hard-earned bucks? Well..the proposal sounds a bit too over the top even for a cynical environment like Vegas or the U.S.,where people in need for money do much more humiliating things for much less(it's capitalism,baby!) on one hand her virtue as good wife will be compromised for good and she'll have to live with her guilt,on the other hand she will become in an instance one million richer for a job most women would do for free anyway-for the sheer pleasure of the act especially with someone like Redford,notice that the chemistry between them is mutual,Moore's character not even concealing it,in spite of her much loved husband.For Gage she is nothing but another pastime which comes quite affordable to him as he won and lost three,not one,millions while gambling,untroubled as if it was just spare change. What she doesn't know is that the business will have unwanted consequences for all the three of them,as it will soon turn out to be more than an issue of money. I think that John Gage resembles Gatsby-his elegant garments,his house seems just taken out of the 1974 version of Gatsby,his car,in spite of being a more contemporary model,is also yellow and a Rolls-Royce,just like Gatsby's,even his initials match J.G. being possible to stand for both John Gage and Jay Gatsby.He is even having an affair with a married woman,though Moore's character is not the spoiled Daisy,so doesn't actually have to impress her with luxury(even if he does it,being a true gentleman).Yet another,even more important similarity with Gatsbyhe is extremely vulnerable,very lonely under his good-looking,elegant exterior,craving for affection and probably closeting a haunting mystery from his past,trying to make up both for his past and his solitude. Redford is credible in this part,even more credible than as Gatsby-he's either the cocky lover boy(but with moderation,not vulgar,just for en extra touch of thrills),either smart-ass and patronizing like the CEO of some multinational enterprise,handsome and sexy in a very narrow,conventional,American sense of the word,extremely good-looking and athletic yet lacking depth,inner beauty,charisma.Nevertheless I think that back in 1993,in spite of his age,most American women would have accepted Redford's proposal,not the character's if not acted by someone at least as good-looking as him,for free. However as the story twists and he discover that,besides physical attraction she is about to fall in love with him(and he also knows that their love is uncertain and would probably just make her suffer)he finds a very gentleman-like way to separate without hurting her,stating that she did't mean anything to him,that she's just one of the many women which he seduced using the same method,although this is untrue and he really loved her,not only desired her.By letting her go and try to rebuild her life with her less privileged husband,Gage,like Gatsby turns out right in the end.Unlike Gatsby,he doesn't pay with his life for believing in his ideal so much that he overlooks the real face of the loved woman,however he also has to face another sort of death-the death of his dream about the ideal,always longed for,seldomly accessible(yes,in spite of intercourse and humble background she is still inaccessible to him).Due to this romantic,even if somewhat corny outcome,and the sometimes more than conventional character Gage this film might be more than a typical,forgettable Tinseltown blockbuster. "},{"Title":"Way over the top...","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Come on! This movie is just hilarious.As Jim Carrey would say.....was that Over the Top?....I can never tell.What really got to me, was the scene were Woody goes into the betting hall, and he sees a thousand visions of Demi Moore, getting ridden by Robert Redford.....TOO MUCH.I also LOVED the scene, when the dirty deed had been done, and she meets Woody back in the hotel suite, and he seemingly tries to wipe off Robert Redford from her lips.....TRULY HILARIOUS.  "},{"Title":"That proposal as a concept is more interesting than the movie","Date":"26 May 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Lend your wife for one night and take a million in return? Does it sound fair? I'm sure people will talk more about the proposal itself than the feature film, and that does not really make a favor to the film. This only leads to a conclusion that the film should have been better, and it should perhaps have taught us something more. The couple in the film do consider the proposal, for approving this deal would remove their acute need of money, but neither of the couple doesn't really look too smart to make the best decision.It looks interesting in the beginning but then it does, really nothing. Demi Moore looks gorgeous at least but the point also is lost too quickly, perhaps it is because Robert Redford looks better than the husband who's only angry all the time and doesn't even dress well. There will not happen any great twists in the story, it only gets lame and then dies off before we see the sudden and a bit unexpected mellow ending. "}{"Title":"Appalling, exploitative trash","Date":"6 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  All those who believe Edward Wood to be the worst film director of all time really ought to consider the career of Adrian Lyne after seeing this.  As a psychological drama, it is dreadfully limp - I felt I knew nothing about the characters after seeing it.  The high concept is all - it could have been an interesting idea, but in Lyne's hands, any moral issues are ultimately brushed aside in a brutally unconvincing attempt at a weepie.  Visually, it's all television commercial stuff - empty gloss signifying nothing.  At the end, I felt cheated, manipulated and dirty for sitting through this cheap and nasty rubbish.  "},{"Title":"The worst movie i've ever watched!!","Date":"20 January 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Its is a time-wasting movie with no value ... Millionaires are assholes and this movie pictures the millionaire as a man with a heart .. Millionaires are animals .. they do not have hearts . they think they can buy everything with their money, even happiness and love and this is exactly where this movie tries in a disgusting way to prove them right .. Even her return to her man at the end comes after the millionaire's blessing -) .. i mean nth in the entire movie happened against the millionaire's wish .. he got what he wanted whenever he wanted and even left away whenever he chooses, even love and happiness .. which is untrue and doesn't reflect any reality .. I BET U CAN FIND A HAPPY MILLIONAIRE .. SUCH A MAN DOESN'T EXIST .. THESE PEOPLE ARE MISERABLE BECAUSE THEY CAN'T EXPERIENCE LOVE OR HAPPINESS .. "},{"Title":"General Hospital is better than this","Date":"29 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Demi Moore proves once again that she cannot act her way out of a pretty paper bag. It was painful to watch her try to be serious in this movie. Woody Harrelson does a bit more credible job of delivering sappy, unintentionally funny lines with a straight face, but there's not much he could have done with lines that seemed like rejects from a daytime soap opera.The saddest thing about this movie, however, is that the once true film star in the group, Robert Redford, was reduced to accepting such a ridiculous role. It must have been strictly a money thing for him because, if he actually saw any artistic merit in playing this role, then he has truly been out in the sun way too long.The most satisfying aspect of watching this movie was the fact that I didn't waste a dime to see it - just a little time. "},{"Title":"Film that had couples asking the ? would you?","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Demi and Woody play a struggling married couple who go to Las Vegas on a gambling run and meet up with rich guy Redford who is so smitten with Demi(??) that he offers her $1 million for a night with her. Of course, the couple fights about it and the decision made doesn't help either.A good movie, but nothing special. 6 of 10 "},{"Title":"Don't watch this for a million dollars...","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Notoriously provocative film made at the apex of the Greed is Good culture of the late 80's / early 90's and without doubt the worst film I've ever had the misfortune to watch.No doubt the director thought he was positing a high moral dilemma for adults but like today's version of the question which I've read more than once in celebrity interviews, which goes along the lines of For you to collect £50 million, one unknown person in China has to die, the answer's a no-brainer and in any event totally inadequate to carry a movie. In any case, the point has been well-made before that to really hammer home the moral dilemma aspect, the Redford character should be a sleazy overweight balding slob and not a handsome, elegant Alpha male.Add to this! direction with all the high-gloss, no-depth style of an MTV rock video, the corniest dialogue this side of Pearl Harbour and plain bad acting and honestly if I could have marked a 0 I would. What possessed Robert Redford to take part I'll never know, although I'm likewise unsurprised by the appearance of the over-ubiquitous Woody Harrellson and sensation-fodder Demi Moore. And just what my fellow- Scot ex-pats Billy Connolly and Sheena Easton are doing in the background is anyone's guess!Redford sleepwalks his part like a latter-day re-run of Jay Gatsby, only without Fitzgerald's wonderful prose, Harrellson shows us the whole range of emotions from A to A (with thanks to Dorothy Parker) and Demi Moore gives another trademark drama-queen performance. I could add that I don't even get just what Redford sees in her mannish looks but to do that would suggest that the movie engaged me in some way.Well, it didn't, it couldn't and never would. This is a movie supposedly about the abuse of power and the desperate steps to which need can drive ordinary people with a tacked on love conquers all ending, but in the end it's just a cheap and nasty dissertation on the subjugation of women and another excuse for Demi Moore to get her kit off.Trust me, avoid this one at all costs. "},{"Title":"The single worst movie I have ever seen","Date":"4 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  There is a group of five movies, all within one or two degrees of separation from one another, that I consider the five worst movies ever made.  They are Fatal Attraction, Disclosure, Showgirls, Basic Instinct, and the single greatest cinematic atrocity of all time, Indecent Proposal.  Redford and Woody should be ashamed of themselves for appearing in this vapid, misogynist piece of excrement.  On the other hand, Demi Moore, probably my least favorite actress of all time, is appropriately cast as the female lead.  I don't think even the most gifted living writer would be capable of putting into words just how passionately I hate this movie.  Long, boring, idiotic, and based on a non-issue (should a woman take a million dollars to sleep with Robert Redford?), Indecent Proposal represents everything I hate about Hollywood.  And to top it off, all of the five movies listed above use racy content and an R rating to lure unsuspecting viewers into watching films that take an essentially puritan, prudish attitude towards sex and sexuality.  Watch at your own risk.  God, I hate this movie! "},{"Title":"The Performances are Good, but the Story is Weak,","Date":"9 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Indecent Proposal is a mediocre movie with a poorly written storyline, but a terrific cast that manage to make it a little more bearable. The film boasts very impressive performances from Demi Moore, Robert Redford and Woody Harrelson, who made the best out of this mediocre script, I think the scenes between Moore and Harrelson are the best, they are very intense and it is very believable that they are husband and wife. The films story is very far fetched and the writers did a poor job of making it feel more realistic, it all felt like Diana was having a bad dream, it seemed very uninspired and was simply made because the book was obviously popular at the time. The character of John Gage is the weakest aspect of the movie, despite some stellar acting from Robert Redford, he is creepy and for the majority of the film we are suppose to look at it him as the villain, but later on they try and make us sympathise with his character, which I found had to do as he was impossible to relate to. It has it moments and it's not awful, but I still feel Indecent Proposal has too many flaws to recommend. A millionaire's financial offer makes a couple question their relationship strengths. Best Performance Woody Harrelson Worst Performance Billy Connolly "},{"Title":"A film suitable - only - for those capable of true love","Date":"16 March 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" You don't have to be in a relationship to watch this film, you don't even have to have been in love to watch it! This is a film about what love is capable of doing to you.But to truly watch and enjoy this film, you must be a believer of 'True Love', the fairy tale kinda love. If however, your of the 'love em and leave em' kind, or if your a 'I've had many relationships that last months/years, and when it ends, it doesn't really bother me' kinda person, then you might wanna watch something else.The film isn't really about the money either, which could be a million or a billion, or maybe only a few hundred. How desperate you are is relative. What matters is your reason for accepting/refusing. How much do you love yourself, would you 'allow' them and still want to be with them? How much do you love your partner & could you forgive them? If you agree, can things ever return to the 'fairy tale' you had before? If you want/allow them to accept, can you risk losing them to the person paying money? After all, if you believe in fairy tale love, a night with a handsome stranger should be enough to ignite the flame of both passion and love in both parties, whilst your on the side-lines?This film isn't about a one night stand! Its about your emotional attachment to your partner, and your future wants and desires, and what life might bring in the future for you both.This film is a true 1990's masterpiece. The music of Sade sets the tone perfectly! It will take you on a roller-coaster of emotions, and leave you asking yourself, and your partner; would I, would you, would we? I don't understand the score this film has (5, really!) but I suspect its too many people focusing on the money, not being able to fully comprehend the feelings/love, but I give it a 9! It would have been a 10, but I just can't believe in the ending, but you might! "},{"Title":"Soul-less","Date":"22 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" (This is an extension of an earlier review that has been resubmitted)This film takes important questions such as What constitutes love for your partner? and How important is sex in a relationship?, and treats them as glibly as if they were teledrama fodder. We never get the sense that director Lyne has pondered the issues inherent in his material; he has just gathered some nice shots and spliced them together in the hope that they will create an absorbing movie. It's not without entertainment on a superficial level, but this is generated more by how appallingly cliché the characters are than by any serious thematic exploration.The loving couple played by Harrelson and Moore never convince. Of the 3 principles, only Redford escapes from this with any credit; but even his performance lapses into something vaguely reminiscent of Swiss Tony from The Fast Show (Gambling is like making love to a beautiful woman for a price of 1 million dollars...)I wanted so much to like the movie, since I'm very interested in the sexual conventions of society, and how we each trade off with one another in order to find and cultivate a respectful and invigourating relationship... However, I don't think the movie explores any of that properly, despite providing an ideal launching pad for doing so.This is a gimmick movie that wants to ask its audience whether or not they would cheat on their partner with Robert Redford for a cool million bucks? (or Sharon Stone perhaps, to use an equivalent mid 90's sex symbol that would flip the issue... ) When you cast such sexual icons though, it immediately weakens the dilemma that's in play... It's relatively easy to assent to a Robert Redford or a Sharon Stone, because they represent a fantasy - and the film refuses to relinquish the notion of that fantasy for the duration of its entire running time. This has the effect of making it hard to play make-believe, when it comes to embracing the idea that serious ethical considerations are underfoot... Like the lucky coin in the movie, it's indicative of an already-done deal.I feel that, in terms of the story, as much moral importance should have been placed upon the DECISION itself, besides the rendering of its consequences being employed for sentimental manipulation.The route that the makers elected to take means that the project ends up playing out like a glossy, cheesy movie of the week, populated with several big names who were somehow unwittingly roped in... That's what some people like, I suppose, but in my opinion it seriously defaults on the complications that the initial premise should throw up... As I said, not completely without entertainment value, but only if you treat it as exploitative trash. "},{"Title":"To be realistic...","Date":"2 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie would be realistic only if the wealthy person offering the indecent proposal was Ernest Borgnine rather than Robert Redford.The setup where the couple get into 'hopeless' debt shows the short sightedness and want it now of American society. The get-rich-quick approach is also endemic of modern Americans. That part of the script was believable. However, to be realistic - when they went to LV to win money (yup, everybody wins a ton of money in Vegas) - they should have lost it all and wound up prostituting themselves for food money. Having Robert Redford offering a million dollars - OY! - I laughed out loud when that hit the screen. "}{"Title":"Uninspirationally melodramatic","Date":"15 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" During a bust economy a loving married couple Diana (Demi Moore) and David Murphy (Woody Harrelson) risk foreclosure on their house after troubles with their well-paid jobs respectively as a realtor and an architect. In a leap of faith they decide to attempt recapturing their fortune in Vegas. After a successful night they find themselves up $25,000, half-way there, but then recklessly lose all their hard gambled money. On the floor wealthy billionaire John Gage (Robert Redford) becomes enticed with the stunningly beautiful Diana, soon asking her to act as his good luck charm. After a successful gamble Diana decides to pay for a suite at the hotel and invite the pair to a posh party. Over a lazily uninhibiting game of pool Diana haplessly states that people can't be bought. Gage decides to put the theory to test by proposing 1 million dollars for a night with her...An interesting premise for a lively dinner conversation due to formulaic plotting and a unbearably soapish love angle, turns into a cumbersomely dragging romantic snoozer with a mild level of tension build midway thanks more to the premise itself, then a sudden jump in quality. Not quite Golden Raspberry worthy An Indecent Proposal signifies a massive drop-off from Adrian Lyne after a surrealistically unnerving Jacob's Ladder. Gimmicky to the extreme, with little fault especially to Robert Redford in his charmingly ruthless persona, the pretentionality hits hard especially during contrived banal voice-over narrations by Moore and Harrelson. Unable to cope with the rife possibilities of the story, instead we venture into melodramatic twists, which lack conviction and can be deemed even remotely intriguing, plodding out a deeply unsatisfactory finale well in tune with the lowered bar set out prior. Instead of a corruptively divisive thriller we somehow end up with a cheesily uplifting morality tale about all-conquering love. Truly an indecent proposal to any self-respecting movie fan... "},{"Title":"Glossy But Empty","Date":"10 October 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A glossy soap opera, complete with an unconvincing storyline, slick direction and actors who -- with one exception -- are obviously mimicking whatever incompetent instructions the director is throwing at them. By far the worst is Woody Harrelson. Admittedly, what his character is forced to do and say is stupid, illogical and downright ridiculous. But a really good actor, finding himself cast in this unbelievable shell of a role, would do something. Barrymore, for example, would really send it up; Mason would play it really tongue-in-cheek; Cooper would act against the role and deliver his lines frozen-faced. But Harrrelson does zilch. He acts it out as if the author was William Shakespeare, totally ignoring the fact that his character is always inconsistent, often motiveless, and sometimes absolutely ridiculous. Demi Moore does a little bit better, particularly when she gets away from the incompetent Harrelson, and is partnered by a real actor in Robert Redford. In fact, Redford is the only reason anyone would bother to see this movie. He brightens every scene in which he appears. And when he's forced to say something stupid, he smacks it across with a twinkle in his eye. That's what acting is all about -- not emoting like mad and running off at the mouth! "},{"Title":"Certainly Flawed but the Cast is Perfect","Date":"28 September 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Indecent Proposal (1993) *** (out of 4) A married couple (Woody Harrelson, Demi Moore) hit a string of bad luck and are about to lose their home so they decide to go to Vegas and win some money. They end up losing everything they own when a billionaire playboy (Robert Redford) offers them a million dollars for a night with the wife. When this film was first released I was rather hit and miss on it but I think time has been extremely kind to it and looking back on it you can't help but say the actually concept was one of the best of its time and there's no question we have three terrific performances. The concept of selling yourself for a million dollars is perfectly executed and I thought the filmmakers did a terrific job at nailing all the important parts of this. The first hour of the movie is extremely good because you get to feel for these two characters and their journey and decision is something rather exciting to watch unfold. The problem is the second portion or the final act if you will. I'm not going to spoil anything but it really did seem like the writers got this great idea but didn't know where it should go or finish. The film turns extremely predictable in the second half and it really turns into your typical Hollywood film, which is a shame because it could have been so much more. It certainly doesn't help that the Harrelson character basically sits around, alone in the house and doing nothing for the entire second portion. With that said, there's no doubt that the fire hour is so great that it's easy to recommend the film. Another great thing are the three lead performances. Redford clearly steals the show as the playboy and he plays it in such a calm, cool fashion that you can't help but like the guy even if you might not agree with what he's doing. Moore is also extremely good here and especially during the sequences where everything starts to fall apart. The desperation she brings the character was delivered very well by the actress. Harrelson is also good in the role of the husband but one wishes they had given him more to do in the second half of the picture. Director Adrian Lyne does a very good job with the personal drama and emotions in the story and certainly helps keep it moving even during the predictable moments. While the film is far from perfect, the performances and general story are good enough to make it worth viewing. "},{"Title":"Very controversial and probably not commonly understood by viewers!","Date":"15 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" First, I like the movie just to debate it with friends but definitely not a movie to watch twice. It's a decent movie though indecent proposal but the message is quite there in the ending and there are no other depths that call you watch it more than once.Second, the movie appealed to me being a Middle Eastern and girls in my environment shouldn't even think of sexual relationships out of wedlock so let alone selling your body for money! Therefore, the whole story revolved around the weak character that Demi Moore played. Her character was so weak rather than in love. She couldn't say no to selling her body not to mention that the movie even went beyond the money appeal to reach the fact that women, even when they are in love, and unlike what men think of them, they can still be attracted to other guys just like them. One cannot deny that Robert Reford charmed her and the overall sexual experience with him wasn't that repulsive to her. She kind of fell in love with him but in a different way than that with Woody Harleson. The guy not only represented money to her but also changed her character from weak and unconfident girl who was indebted to her lover out of lack of selfconfidence to the strong confident lady who chose to go back to her lover at the end but after teaching him a lesson.I don't respect her character in any possible way in the movie and I think of her as a quitter and so flimsy but she represents a rich character of emotions and a good substance to study and analyse psychologically. The movie all in all as I find appeal more to ladies than to men because there was nothing manly about the movie but the gambling part and that doesn't even count. However, men should watch this movie and think about many of its aspects as in would they reach a limit to sell their women partners for money and what do they think in general of a character such as the one played by Demi in this movie. "},{"Title":"Can love be bought? Perhaps if you're a billionaire looking like Redford","Date":"14 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I've read a comment about how this movie is so unrealistic and everything, but I think the situation is entirely probable. Perhaps not in the exact events, but the idea of someone richer offering something a current partner cannot offer; when love is tested by the lure of greater comfort in luxury.What I love about this movie, is that it explores the naiveness of the love between Diane and David, but also the strength of true love. On top of that, the moral relationship between love and money, and how the doubts and demons we have inside, can push a perfectly established relationship away.Yes Diane may have ended up with Mr Billionaire for a while, looking quite happy, but the happiness that Diane and David and shared, which can be seen in the movie, it cannot be recreated with someone else, though who is to say that you cannot be happy with someone else, given life's comforts and a relatively good looking man to boot. (John was also suavely persistent.) John commented at the near end of the movie, she never would have looked at me the way she looked at him.. This shows that you can buy happiness but not love.Though through it all, Diane returns to David, with nothing, no more millions but their love is so much more enriched. This is the general idea of how marriage/relationships in real life is like, that is not all smooth and a bed of roses. There are always thorns and to get past them, is summarized in what David said to Diane before signing their divorce papers, when people stay together, it's not that they forget, is that they forgive. If you're lovers, this movie definitely shows you that as much as you love one another, you must never jeopardize the longevity of your relationship, thinking your love is invincible.If you're working your way to be like John, the billionaire, you better snag a single woman fast before you end up lonely and single end of the day. "},{"Title":"a great idea for a film, but...","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Woody Harrelson (White men can't jump) stars as David. He and his wife Diana travel to Las Vegas to win some money to cover their debts. Billionaire John Gage offers the couple one million dollars if he can spend the night with Diana.Based on Jack Engelhard's novel, Indecent Proposal covers the wants and needs of relationships and what couples need to do to survive.This idea of buying people, although quite crude, is well established and portrayed in this romantic drama by director Adrian Lyne.Though Robert Redford's (The Sting) character and acting isn't brilliant he does what he needs to do to dive right into the couple and exploit their problems. Harrelson and Moore (Disclosure) are both brilliant in their roles as the confused but loved up couple.The whole idea of buying people for sex is horrible in my opinion but the film specifically portrays the crisis that the couple are in and the viewers will comprehend the decision which is eventually made.Its quite a hard going film considering the financial obligations and the emotions involved. There are a few clichéd love ideologies thrown in to portray the closeness of the couple.David's whole idea on archaeology was very intriguing and was a cool little sub story to look upon.Its tense and dramatic at various points though fairly predictable and corny at others. Harrelson and Moore succeed along with the whole idea of the film. Redford's character is annoying for the whole film.It's a pretty normal romantic film, with acceptable acting and a good enough plot to keep you entertained till the end. "},{"Title":"Polo  Marco","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" YOur sacred earth Movie Redford rock of lighthearted dumb is quite a movie in which someone is suppose to totally care about earth and give there life for it. YOu made the movie so you should give your life for the planet. Any of those movies that show someone giving there life for the sacredness of earth are the ones needed to give there lives for earth. Not the Grimm Reeper ever. Your education is messing with your brain cells... Feel a plot thicken better than most people can shake a stick at. Not to many people can hold on when they see the Grimm reaper roaming the streets someone will try to take action as they have already done. Grow more trees to help keep those just as sacred as earth since they do belong on earth flourishing daily. Repeating a sentence again online. Look to those others who willing put themselves in those roles. Not someone who has not. The lurking light behind me means that is the end and the sacredness of the sun Dominates the universe. Check your local listings for helpful sacred earth saving concepts i've displayed them back to you all as you have displayed them to me and the rest of the population...-) "},{"Title":"Revolting concept, more revolting reactions","Date":"23 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" It wasn't that this was a poorly made movie, or that the acting was bad. It could have certainly made a good point but all it seems to have done is stir the entire film-watching community into an unfathomable dilemma. To wonder whether you would do such a thing in such circumstances and not be sure you would not is appalling.The idea of the husband agreeing to it is sickening and hard to grasp, but his later inability to cope with the thought of it brings it back down to earth. If a man managed to persuade himself of the insignificance of his wife's having sex just once with another man, he's a fool and either doesn't care or must realize later he was wrong. This guy felt it come home to him as he surely must.And she was made to appear a sweet little self-sacrificing angel, which brings mixed feelings. He agreed to it initially and in theory had no business treating her like a criminal. And yet, she went and carried it out, with no apparent suffering. Anyone with any real integrity, honesty, and well... morals, would surely have some trouble with this, unless they indeed found it alluring enough to overcome their scruples.That rich dude was also well-acted, but how creepy! Sexy he wasn't. He was a stalker, creeping around her everywhere she went and smugly buying her life piece by piece as if it were all part of buying her. I agree with those who said that the idea of his giving her up in the end was a crock. That kind of narcissist doesn't let go once he has what he wants. But I also think he did need to be attractive (on the surface anyhow) because that was pivotal to the jealously of the idiot husband and the uncertainty of the tart wife.This is on my list of movies that never should have been made. It was one long eew moment for me and never once raised the question of whether I would. Believe it or not, there are some folks in the world who can see that it could never be worth it. Money can't buy back a filthy act. It's sad to see the morals of so many degraded to the point that they could even consider it.The rating of 5 stars is for the acting and the film quality. "},{"Title":"re  Indecent Proposal","Date":"31 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie years a g o and thought the acting was great.... as far as the moral side it was despicable. MONEY, is MONEY... LOVE is LOVE... no amount of money could ever replace or come close to the meaning of love whether the person is divorced, separated, married, annulled, atheist, lunatic. The movie brought out the question, would you? I always replied, no (without hesitation) I would go on welfare first. Money is not evil (it can be if you let it.) Robert Redford was great! but no thanks! my heart belongs to someone else. sylvia THEY TELL ME I HAVE TO WRITE AT LEAST 10 LINES... IF YOU LOVE SOMEONE TELL THEM NOT THRU OTHER PEOPLE "},{"Title":"Don't Know Much About Chemistry.","Date":"7 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  A married yuppie couple (Woody Harrelson and Demi Moore) gets hit hard by recession. So now what? Las Vegas anyone? Naturally that idea is not the best in the world, but things look up (kind of) when rich businessman Robert Redford wants to borrow Moore for a weekend (and pay $1,000,000). We all know that Redford has not made this proposition to just sit and talk with Moore though. And of course therein lies Indecent Proposal. Director Adrian Lyne (who hit gold with Fatal Attraction in 1987) tries to create another adult pot-boiler, but really this film is a major bore. It is way too talkative, too long and too silly to engross. The three leads just do not play well together (no pun intended) and the chemistry lab never does open. 2 stars out of 5.  "}{"Title":"Yea, ok","Date":"25 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  The odds of this happening? Eh, how about 1 in a million? Since that's the favorite number in this movie. It did make you question your significant other though. If you're smart, you'll say heck no honey, not me, lol. I could seriously say no cuz a million bucks ain't a lot of money to day. And Redford's just old. It was suspenseful that they wouldn't go into the details of that night. Guess the director wanted to leave it to our little imaginations, but I'd rather just know what's going on. I hate having to make it up myself. The downward spiral of the relationship was inevitable and it was played well by Woody. The plot got a little stale as she went on to be with Redford. It just was a little contrived and not at all natural anything between them. You sensed there should be, but there wasn't any. Was that the point? To say she had better chemistry with her husband? That if it ain't broke, don't fix it? Well, it could be analyzed a 1000 ways. I liked how Redford's character pretended to have done this before to let her go back to her husband. It connects to other parts of society really when you think about it. Poor women are forced or compelled to do similar things just to have some money and be independent or out of debt. Here, a married couple trying to get money for a house have decided that the wife can sleep with a millionaire to buy their dream home? Talk about a new way to achieve the American Dream, lol. As ridiculous as it seems, the movie still makes you think. If I had no money and was desperate, what would I do? The cinematography was very beautiful. Even the carwash looked nice. It just came together visually throughout the entire movie. Demi looked flawless and elegant. She wasn't overdone which fit her character well. I liked that they had regular jobs that some other people would, but owning a home ain't easy in this country. Trying to live a simple dream isn't easy in this country. The film touches on many issues. Get a good watch.  "},{"Title":"INDECENT PROPOSAL 5DIDIER BECU)","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the latest movies from director Adrian Lyne who was one of the pioneers of the erotic thrillers (9 1/2 Weeks and of course Fatal Attraction). For this movie he chooses for the weakness of our hearts... The story is so well known.... David (Woody Harrelson) and Diana (Demi Moore) are the perfect couple who promise each other eternal love till the day comes that they're bankrupt. David decides to go to Las Vegas hoping for getting the needed money but all ends in a financial fiasco till multimillionaire John Cage (Robert Redford) proposes the couple to give them one million dollar if he might spend one night with his wife... I am sure that every couple will ask this dilemma (Would you do it or not?) the moment they saw the film and you can bet your ass that Robert Redford is the focal discussion...for women a dream for men he's just too pretty. If this film is realistic or not is an unnecessary thing, it's just that during the whole movie you feel so bad for Woody Harrelson that you are hoping to punch your fist in Robert Redford's face... The characters aren't bad and Demi Moore plays her role more than well (she's at her beautiest here!) but just the end is a bit too Hollywoodesque... Nice movie that won't annoy anyone, perhaps that it is quite sexist as Robert's words are clear You can buy everything...the big problem of course is that he might be right "},{"Title":"Unconvincing","Date":"16 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Nice premise but the execution was all wrong.  Redford was neither likeable, charming, nor goodlooking enough to sweep Demi's character off her feet. All he had was money.  Demi Moore, despite having a nice bod, was neither stunning nor intriguing enough for Redford to be so fixated on.  And Harrelson was not insecure enough to be threatened by the Redford character. He goes into a jealous rage in the middle of the movie but there was not even the smallest signs of this jealousy earlier on.  Give me a break. The only thing that saved this movie was the chemistry between Moore and Harrelson.  You could tell that the characters loved each other, which made it even harder to believe that Moore could fall for the dull rich guy.  If they actually showed the lovemaking scene or provided more scenes where the two were building a strong rapport, then maybe the audience could see the sparks.  But there was none.  Oliver Platt provides some good laughs but they seemed out of place for a movie that was supposed to be taken seriously.  Billy Bob's cameo was enough comic relief. 4/10. "},{"Title":"A pleasent film and funny","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First time I saw this film I was somehow a bit suspicious since the plot seemed to be somewhat stupid. However, when I then watched it I changed my mind very fast.With three great people playing the mainroles it is a great film and although it's, what I call a sunday-cosy film it does indeed also contain some depth. Furthermore I personally feel that the three mainroles are played in a most great way; they're convincing in their roles and - Demi Moore is of course always a pleasure to watch as is also Robert Redford. All in all I like the plot, the acting and it is, I feel, a film one can watch more than one time so rent it and you'll hopefully not be dissapointed. "},{"Title":"You'll hate yourself in the morning","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the kind of film that you can watch once and forget about it.  It tells the  shallow, emotionless story of a financially trouble couple who go to Vegas, only to  have a cocky millionaire(Redford, in a very irritating performance) offer the  husband $1 million for a night with his wife, the silly story just gets sillier and even  more unbelieveable from this point on.  You can watch it, but after a while you   relize how silly, and shallow it it.  4 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Robert Redford saves this movie!","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Summary John Gage falls in love instantly when he sees the young real estate salesperson Diana smile at him as she is caught by him pinching candy from a store at a casino in Las Vegas. He admires her from a distance, as she plays craps with her architect husband David, who are trying to get some hard cash in order to pay off the rest of the money they owe on the land David has bought in order to build their dream house. When their luck runs out John asks David if he can borrow his wife, who suddenly turns John's luck and wins him a million. As their friendship starts John quickly finds a way to make an offer to David, one John knows David can't deny. A million dollars is offered for one night with Diana. David and Diana consider it putting their love on the test....The story had a good plot i will admit that, but the cast was terrible. Robert Redford was the only one decent enough to watch in the movie, I was even able to find some goofs and the only few laughable moments are again with Robert Redford, who is this perfect, handsome billionaire John Gage, any woman who has two eyes and a functioning brain would stick with him instead of a loser like David played by Woody Harrelson. I still can't understand why John would find Diana attractive, Demi Moore plays  her role well yet it could have been done better. I gave this movie a 6 due mainly to the charm of Redford. He is meant to be the bad guy, but you can't help falling for him!! "},{"Title":"not so bad, could have been so much better","Date":"10 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Indecent Proposal had so much to offer, Demi Moore in her younger days, back then when she was still fresh. She is in some great scenes, she accept to have sex with a guy for one million, good choice. She is really hot, with those breast who cannot be hot? Here is the story thanks to Ed Sutton.A young couple very much in love are married and have started their respective careers, she as a real estate broker, he as an architect. She finds the perfect spot to build his dream house, and they get loans to finance it. When the recession hits, they stand to lose everything they own, so they go to Vegas to have one shot at winning the money they need. After losing at the tables, they are approached by a millionaire who offers them a million dollars for a night with the wife. Though the couple agrees that this is a way out of their financial dilemma, it threatens to destroy their relationship. Just for showing us Demi Moore breast, at least a little bit, this film don't fall into mediocrity. "},{"Title":"It's a thin story...","Date":"7 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...there is something about the acting between Woody and Demi that makes you forget the whole silly plot. In my opinion the movie is not about if people can be bought, it is about returning to your true self and making mistakes on the way. "},{"Title":"surprisingly enjoyable","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't think I'd like this movie at first, but it was surprisingly enjoyable. It takes you through a wide range of emotions -- it uplifts you, tears you down, resurrects you, rips you heart out again and slashes it . .. and then somehow renews your faith in love, even after the fragility of such has been exposed. I left my TV feeling strangely spiritual after watching it. I makes you want to hug the hell out of your significant other and never let him or her out of your sight again.This movie isn't to be confused with Gone With the Wind or anything like that, but I wasn't embarrassed in the least to have watched it. I enjoyed it thoroughly. But for the record, I wouldn't give Demi Moore up for $1 million. But $2 million . . . hmmm . . . maybe the lawyer was right. I wonder how Bruce Willis made out? "},{"Title":"Excellent - thought provoking","Date":"24 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Surprised to see so many adverse comments.The film is well filmed, lots of clever, beautiful shots, captures the excitement and depression of gambling and poses serious moral questions. Such as, Can anything be bought?, What is the impact of adultery on a relationship and forgetting versus forgiving. I found the film entirely believable, and people's reactions very true to life. Demi More's acting as D was outstanding, and Woody as David good (especially lecturing on architecture)! Robert as John Gage was rather intermittent. The labrador (dog) was good! Lawyer too!If you are interested in relationships, and thinking about serious questions, as well as good filming you should enjoy this.POSSIBLE SPOILER HERE Downsides? Yes, what the others say about some of the inconsistencies and whether John Gage's sudden turnaround is credible are true - but I only found this a small detraction from an excellent and thought provoking film, which pictured the emptiness of living for money, and the strength of love.  "}{"Title":"Indecent movie","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ever watch a couple you know will never last.  Well that is how I felt about the couple in this movie.  Redford, was not likeable, and maybe none of the people where.  Movie makes you feel dirty watching it, just like the people should.  Chemisrty problem or just the idea is what I find wrong with this film.  Just another movie, with no feeling.  Like the one night stand in this film.  This movie's cold like 1 day cold KFC, but doesn't tast as good when you get that KFC out of the fridge for breakfast.  4 or 5 out of 10.  Hey, order the chiken, but skip the movie.  My wife, hates the KFC, but I love it, Maybe get Kramer form that TV show to play Redford next time. "},{"Title":"loose ends","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Just saw the movie again and I was surprised to see so many loose ends.Here are just a fewWhy is Robert Redford's character gambling so high? It can only be occasionally - which would make the encounter between him and the bankrupt loving couple a coincidence. If he does it on a regular basis 1)even as a billionaire he will be poor in no time, 2) he is a compulsive gambler - why? Lost love maybe?Why did Redford pick Demi? Late into the movie he tells a story of a lost love. 1) does he - as a billionaire - have more right to find the right woman for his life) 2) How does he think Demi Moore will feel? As a replacement for what he remembers every single day? People who saw the movie will know what I mean.And last but not least if you love someone that much, you will never sell her (or him) out - ever. period.The only thing making this movie worthwhile are the actors. Strong performances from everyone - it just doesn't make the slightest sense since almost every single action contradicts itself seconds after.One last comment the soundtrack (sorry, didn't bother to look up who composed it) was really bad. Listen and you will agree. "},{"Title":"Well, here we have a soap opera turned into an overlong film.","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is notable for some above average acting and snobby environment. It tried hard to be an emotional experience, but failed in that department. It attempted to make people believe that if a woman loves a man that she will not sleep with another man no matter what's at stake. I don't think this conclusion is perfect, however. First of all, one million bucks for one night is a whole lot of money, and for this cheque I would sleep with a dead cat... If she really loves him, Robert Redford cannot win her heart no matter what he does. The fact that the marriage was so shaken up after the incident only showed flaws in their relationship. "},{"Title":"Doutbful premise but very good film","Date":"28 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In the case of this film, I make the difference between my own views on the moral issues involved and the quality of the film itself. Morally of course, it is all very reprehensible, you cannot sell your wife for a quick lay, even if there is a lot of money involved. I am sure this idea will have shocked 80 percent of the world, even though in the USA, and even worse in Europe, being unfaithful in a marriage is no longer considered a sin. Also, money is shown as opening the doors to everything, which is also morally wrong. Money is a tool which is supposed to enable people to live their daily lives but in excess it is obviously bad - just look at the whims of millionnaires ! The same may be applied to excesses of eating, drinking and smoking. Abuse all these and you will suffer! That apart, the film was actually very entertaining to watch. Notably, photography, lighting and music score were excellent. I am no particular fan either of Redford or of Demi Moore but both gave excellent performances. I was amazed by one or two plot inconsistencies ... we don't know whether Demi Moore left Redford because of the story he made up in the car or whether really she had second thoughts about her divorce proceedings. It is not clear. When she goes and sits on that misty jetty at the end, I found it an incredible coincidence that her husband just happened to be sitting there in the other seat on the same day at the same time. It just doesn't seem plausible and I supposed it was just put in to make the ending happy. That said, I like films with happy endings ... I don't like the cynics who want films to have sad endings under the pretext of it being more realistic. Its just a ploy to be different from other people which doesn't have any grounds. So I was most pleased by the ending, even if the artifice used to lead us to it seems a bit far-fetched. I am absolutely amazed to read in the comments here that  most women would sleep with Robert Redford for free, let alone a million dollars . Who are these women ? The local gang of prostitutes ? Don't they have any self-respect, or is it just readers trying to be provocative ? I am shocked to hear this sort of thing, as if it was something banal, inevitable and to be expected. Robert REdford is just a man like anyone else. Why are people turning him into some kind of God ???? I have plenty of favorite and attractive actrices in the films I watch but I hadn't envisaged for one minute going to bed with them, either for a million dollars or for a bag of crisps! "},{"Title":"Would love to see it again and again","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie on TV (was it on Star Movies or HBO?) In fact the title did not appeal to me.I really could not make out the meaning of the title. I must have missed watching the movie for at least five times when one day I decided I must watch the movie. And I did watch and really enjoyed it - title notwithstanding. The story of the movie was indeed mind boggling, more so myself being from India. For a number of days, I kept wondering whether such a thing was possible. Believe me, I never saw the three main characters before or may be I did not remember any one of them. To me, the personality of Robert Redford was quite appealing. In future, if I know of some movie that has Redford in it, it will undoubtedly become a must-see movie for me. I must have talked about the movie with a number of chat friends in USA and found a majority of them had not seen the movie. But the ones who had seen, had words of praise for it. I will look forward to watching the movie again since now I know the story and also know the main actors by their real and reel names. A wonderful movie by any standards. "},{"Title":"Is this worth one million dollars?","Date":"1 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When this film first came out it was marketed as a steamy drama and, sad as it may be, Demi Moore's body played a major part in the studio's marketing plan.Now i've got nothing against that but the really worrying thing is that this film seems a little bit tame by current standards. The steam appears to have well and truly dissipated into very thin air. That's not to say this film isn't watchable, because it is. The tearing apart of the happy couple in Las vagas and the hollywood ending makes for a pretty entertaining night's viewing.My Rating 6/10 "},{"Title":"Very Moving","Date":"17 December 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't believe the comments that IMDb has featured. The user seems like a high school drop-out with no sense for a good movie. The whole movie was moving with Woody Harrelson over-shadowing everyone else. Demi Moore was alright and Redford steals the lime-light when he recalls the train incident from 30 years ago. I think the main scoring point of the movie was when Woody comes to meet Demi and Redford at the end of the movie. Those 10 minutes of the movie were the best and make their make their mark undoubtedly. The song by Roy Orbison at the end was powerful to the movie. Soundtrack was superb!! I highly recommend this movie!!!! "},{"Title":"Too gentlemanly to be indecent, too sentimental to be much fun","Date":"29 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Cotton candy involving a loving couple (bordering on good buddies) who lose their shirts in Las Vegas but get a chance to recoup when a world-famous billionaire makes a play for the wife--with booty attached! Great set-up for a story that takes a slow spiral downward once the couple returns home (to a rather lovely cottage in Southern California). Some sparks from principals Robert Redford and Demi Moore, but Woody Harrelson is out of his league and Adrian Lyne's direction is all visual and nothing much upstairs (and I could've done without the horse-racing video suddenly morphing into a shot of Demi in the act). The film is shamefully enjoyable, and capped with teen-romance fever, but aren't these characters a little old for moony-eyed puppy love? ** from **** "},{"Title":"This is not the kind of movie that you are looking for if you are a pervert.","Date":"18 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This is not the kind of movie that you are looking for if you are a pervert. According to the plot, might look like a cheap movie about a scandal and it is absolutely not. Indecent Proposal - Amazingly portrait. Fabulous acting. Extremely clever dialogue delivery. Superb music. Acceptable ending. Acting of Robert Redford is nothing shorter than excellence!If i do elaborate it would be full of spoilers, which will be useless and spoiling. Watch it with no expectations according to the title(you'll be betrayed)for the purpose of calibrating.. Grave for the fireflies -10 V for Vendetta -10 Forrest Gump -09 Big Fish-09 Green Mile-08 21grams-08 Accepted-07 Descendants-07 'INDECENT PROPOSAL -08' "},{"Title":"It's a tough sell.","Date":"12 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" An exceedingly rich business man offers a financially challenged couple the chance to solve their money worries, and in the process setting themselves up for life. His proposal?, one million dollars to sleep with the wife!.Is Indecent Proposal actually indecent itself?, coming from the director of Fatal Attraction (1987), Nine 1/2 Weeks (1986) and Unfaithful (2002), sexual tensions are again the order of the day. Tho derided by critics as a glossy moral poser, Indecent Proposal actually holds up well as an indictment of power, perfectly essayed by Robert Redford's billionaire play boy, John Gage. Gage makes his proposal and knows full well that he's putting strain on that relationship purely for his own gain, it's scheming of the highest order, with Redford superb in the role. Our tortured couple are played by Demi Moore and a surprisingly effective Woody Harrelson. The acting does at times struggle to cope with the quick shift to the twee triteness that is Indecent Proposal's biggest failing. It's not that we are asked to believe in an alternate universe where, Robert Redford has to pay for sex, and a goofy Woody Harrelson marries a sultry Demi Moore. It's that we are fed sweeteners after being served a decent appetiser about the complexities of love and all its devilish emotions. A bit more bravery in the script and Indecent Proposal could have been a very fine picture, sadly it remains a wasted opportunity. 6/10 "}{"Title":"Disappointing steamy romance","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite a relatively intriguing premise, and a good first half; this steamy nineties romance-come-thriller falls flat on it's face in the second half, turning what could have been a great expose of love and money into a turgid sentiment packed drama, with little care for keeping it's plot or characters consistent. Throughout, the film impresses with mostly logical character actions; and this is what makes the film intriguing, but as soon as it loses that it ceases to be a film worth watching. The appearance of Billy Connolly in what can only be considered a bizarre cameo symbolises the fact that everything has gone wrong. The plot is so good because it directly pitches love and money against each other. The two have been joined lots of times, from The Beatles classic Can't Buy Me Love to the old saying money can't buy happiness - and this film works from the same means. We follow a young couple; who are happy, but have money troubles. After trying to gain some cash through gambling, a billionaire takes a liking to the female of the pair; and after finding out that she can't be bought, he offers her $1 million...for one night with her.Woody Harrelson and Demi Moore take the leads roles. The male side of the spectrum is a rather bland role, and although Harrelson makes the best of it; there isn't a great deal of meat available. Demi Moore was hot stuff back in the nineties, and does her best at looking sexy in a subtle sort of way. To be honest, I don't find her all that attractive...but I'm probably in the minority with that. Robert Redford, who accurately portrays the snobbish millionaire with the indecent proposal, tops off the cast. Redford is despicable, yet also suave at the same time; thus carrying off both sides of his role to perfection. The fact that this film depicts a marriage break-up by a third party is always going to ensure a certain amount of sleaze. However, the film just doesn't get under the skin of this idea enough, and once the actual proposal itself has been made, a thick layer of sickly sentiment overtakes any sleaze that the movie may have; taking the intriguing plot with it. It's a shame that the film couldn't have made better of its ideas, but that's just the way it goes. Oh well. "},{"Title":"Sappy and predictable","Date":"28 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Indecent Proposal is all premise and no execution. The film exists only to give people something hypothetical to talk about over dinner or drinks once it is over. There is nothing redeeming either in the acting or technical departments to raise the material above the level of soap opera. The plot, as most people know, centers around a wealthy business tycoon (Redford) offering a young couple (Moore and Harrelson) $1,000,000 if she agrees to sleep with him one night. Obviously, they agree to the offer or this film would have never been made.The main problem stems from the fact that there isn't enough story here for an entire movie. Once the bet is agreed to and worked out, where do we go with it? The writers turn the film into a ridiculously sappy flood of emotions and over-acting that can only end in the most predictable way. It doesn't take a genius to see where the script is going to end up.The acting is part of the problem, as well. Redford probably thinks his performance is suave and charming, but a better word would be just smug. There is nothing about his character that is likable or even interesting. I doubt his character was supposed to be likable, but I'm sure he wasn't supposed to come off as wooden as he does. Demi Moore is fine as the young woman. And physically she's as adorable as ever. What a babe! Harrelson, however, is so unbelievably awful that I feel truly embarrassed for him whenever this film comes on. He's a whining; jealous jerk who should have stopped the whole thing from happening if his wife meant that much to him. His performance is nothing short of grating.The film made a ton of $$$$, so who am I to criticize it? Just some sap who was duped into taking his girlfriend to it way back in 1993. At least I scored when we got home. So I guess there was one redeeming quality about this sap fest.The Hound will give it 4 of 10 stars. That's more than generous. "},{"Title":"I liked this film","Date":"5 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  i thought this film was great. i think it is one of the greatest love stories evermade. woody harrelson does very good but still he won the the worst supporting actor at the razzies. but i thought woody harrelson saved this film. i cant help it but i like love stories and this is one of the best very romantic and a great movie to watch with your woman. A- "},{"Title":"Indecent Proposal","Date":"1 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Entertaining, but fantastical film about a mystery man who offers a couple one million dollars for a night. Redford looks ready for a GQ spread, while Moore and Harrelson ignite the screen in passionate love scenes.  "},{"Title":"fantastic","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Indecent Proposal i think is a fantastic movie to watch. This movie was made in 1993 starring Robert Redford and Demi Moore. This movie i give a fantastic score 10 out of 10. It is such a good movie to watch. Thank you Robert for the memories. "},{"Title":"Indecent Proposal","Date":"3 September 2008","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Would you let your wife sleep with someone for one night for $1,000,000?, that is the premise for this pretty immoral and thought provoking film, but that is what makes it good, from director Adrian Lyne (9½ Weeks, Fatal Attraction). Basically Diana (Demi Moore) - a real estate broker, and David Murphy (Woody Harrelson) - an architect, met and fell in love when they were teens, and against their parents wishes, they married. Now older they are finding it really hard to keep up with many debts, including the costs of building a dream house, and a night in Las Vegas costs them the chance to save themselves. Then along comes millionaire John Gage (Robert Redford) who seems nice giving them a good suite in the hotel, and buying a black dress for Diana. But then he makes them a proposition to not only help them out, but pretty much test their love, he offers them $1,000,000 for one night with Diana! Though they do agree to do it, agreed by the way with help of their lawyer Jeremy (Eraser's Oliver Platt), David does try to stop Diana from going, but she goes through with it (although you never see it). Afterwards Diana and David are slowly breaking apart with John somehow coming back into conversation, and unfortunately for Diana, John won't stop pestering her to help him with certain things, e.g. finding a new house. It is a bit of a weird ending, when you find out John has done the same thing to many other women, and thankfully, Diana and David do get back together, because they know they can't be without each other. Also starring Seymour Cassel as Mr. Shackleford, Billy Bob Thornton as Day Tripper, Rip Taylor as Mr. Langford, comedian Billy Connolly as Auction M.C. (i.e. himself and Sheena Easton. I think the only reason to say this film is really wrong is because Moore initially hates Redford, and then slowly they are like friends, at least Harrelson is more realistic, it may have won and been nominated some Razzies, but it is certainly a worth while film, if you can forget the immorality and concentrate on the three good leading actors. Very good! "}]