[{"Title":"Surprisingly Entertaining Thriller!","Date":"5 May 2001","Score":"33 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was on late one night and I watched it due to the fact that Cuba Gooding Jr., Emilio Esteves and Stephen Dorf was in it. What emerged was a surprisingly good thriller great acting And the plot was quite good. Also Dennis Leary was a standout as the ruthless gangster.All in all ****1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"One of the best thriller of 1993. ***1/2 (out of four)","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"23 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  JUDGMENT NIGHT / (1993) ***1/2 (out of four)By Blake FrenchAlthough many critics mauled Judgment Night, I rank the film as one of the year's best thrillers. It proves when filmmaker's examine feasible situations of horror, the product grabs us by the throat and pulls us in. Breakdown, the high-octane suspense masterpiece of 1997, worked remarkably well because its concept and characters felt authentic and real. Judgment Night finds terror in another circumstance that feels real-we empathize with the characters and believe the environment because what happens to them could actually happen to such people in real life.The main character is Frank (Emilio Estevez), a family man who's ready for a night out presumably after months of caring for his pregnant wife. He is going to a boxing match with his two good buddies, Mike (Cuba Gooding Jr.), and Ray (Jeremy Piven), and his little brother, John (Stephen Dorff). They're traveling in style; Ray, an excellent negotiator, sweet talked his way into borrowing a luxurious motor home for the evening.As the four big kids travel to their destination through Chicago, a big traffic jam halts their progress. Ray decides to take a shortcut through the city's gang territory. They accidentally hit a man crossing the road, check to see if he is badly injured, and things go down hill from there.Initially, Ray doesn't call the police because he's had a lot to drink and doesn't want to spend time in jail for involuntary manslaughter. The person he hit turns out to be a young gangster running from his boss, with a coat full of cash he's stolen. The boss (Denis Leary) eventually catches up and punishes the kid by shooting him in the head. Ray, John, Mike, and Frank witness the murder, and the boss does not want any witnesses.The rest of the movie places the four characters in one terrifying situation after another. They find cover in a freight train full of greedy homeless people, an apartment where nobody will lend a helping hand, the rooftop of a high building, the sewers, the streets of the windy city, as well as other buildings and a shopping center. The villains always find the foursome, no matter where they hide. When you are in the gritty parts of Chicago, life is cheap. Many people reveal their cover for just a few dollars.The screenplay flows unusually smooth. The film does not involve any unneeded subplots or distractions-every character and event plays an important part in moving the story forward. Judgment Night is very focused, lean, and suspenseful. So many thrillers these days forget that action and violence provides relief from tension; fist fights and shoot-outs alone do not captivate viewers. Judgment Nights really knows how to build tension and then relieve it with some startling violent sequences.Many reviews have mentioned the film's obvious areas of stupidity. I agree that the villains might have not revealed their identities to so many side characters. Otherwise, all of these characters are very believable. Frank, Mike, John, and Ray are real people who are in real danger. The villains kill one of the four early, and for once he's not the black guy. This establishes the merciless threat of these bad guys and that any of the characters is equally vulnerable to death. I was on the edge of my seat throughout most of the movie.Stephen Hopkins directs Judgment Night. This is his best work yet. He never puts the movie on auto pilot like many thrillers do. This plot is character driven all the way through. Yes, it's just another cat-and-mouse chase film-it does not offer any deep satisfaction, nor does it examine deep, thought-provoking issues-but this genre is seldom as effective. After watching Judgment Night you will think twice before taking a shortcut. "},{"Title":"Diss may stop!","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"32 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've heard this film dissed by so many, and I cannot for the love of god understand why. It has excitement, terrific actors and a totally awesome soundtrack.Sorry, but to me a film with Emilio Estevez, Denis Leary, Cuba Gooding and Stephen Dorff cannot fail, nomadder HOW lame it is. It just so happens that this film is NOT lame in anyway. You're in suspence from the start to the end.OK, so there ARE a couple of cliches under the way - this I cannot deny, but honestly, name me ONE film that totally avoids cliches in any way, share or form and I'll glady admit to have been wrong.This movie rocks, although it is about ten years old now. But I first saw it back when it came out, and to this day I still get carried away in it! "},{"Title":"Great suspense, awesome set-pieces","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Since seeing this film I've never been comfortable with Denis Leary as a comedian because he's so damn convincing as the cold-hearted bad guy in this. I think he's a great actor but this is the movie to see him in as it's A. His best performance and B. One of the best villains ever in movies.Leary plays Fallon, a dangerous criminal from Chicago's bad side. And when four middle class pals from the quiet suburbs cross him and witness a murder a chase across derelict landscapes follows. The spoon-fed quartet are way out of their comfort zone and have no idea how to navigate the ghetto or deal with its dwellers. Peter Greene, an actor always like to see, plays Sykes, one of Fallon's cohorts as well as Everlast from the rap group House of Pain as Rhodes. They sure do make a threatening impression.Judgment Night kind of comes across as a modern, urban Deliverance. There are many similarities between them but Judgment Night clearly has more excitement. Estevez (who was cast very late after Tom Cruise and Christian Slater turned down the lead role), Gooding Jnr, Piven and Dorff play well off each other and Piven especially seems to really get into the whiny runt of his character. Though the editors really should have cut down the in-fighting and petty bickering between the quartet as it often slows the film down to a complete stop.Director Stephen Hopkins (who also did Predator 2 and Blown Away) uses creeping camera movements and neo-noir lighting to provoke multiple eerie moments as well as a great deal of tension. Slow-mo and warped sound effects are also used to great effect in the finale. Alan Silvestri's score is also one of his best, alternating between several different moods. His first score (electronic based) was rejected by Hopkins but that difficult decision proved be a good judgment (ha!) as the end result is one of the film's best features.Judgment Night is certainly an overlooked tour-de-force and is a brilliant action film with fine performances all round, but Leary completely and utterly steals the show. "},{"Title":"I was franks baby in this movie","Date":"30 August 2013","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" My name is Carlie Dougher. I was in this movie. The little baby on the porch, frank's daughter in the movie. I was wondering if I made a comment if maybe I would be put in the cast. I mean the kid on swing was. Haha ) Since I must write a minimum of 10 lines I mine as well give a review. I was 14 when I was finally able to watch this movie due to the violence and it being rated R.My parents finally allowed me to watch the full film not just the beginning where I'm in it for a good 3 minutes or so lol. Iv watched it so many times and show all my friends it's such a cool movie and it never gets old not to mention is funny as hell and it's definitely a nail biter. It's a good movie on a rainy days. It's one of those movies you wont want to end. "},{"Title":"Predictable, Yet One Of The Greatest!","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"21 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Judgment Night was on TV last night, i began watching it and it had to be one of the most gripping movies ive ever seen. The movie starts off with 4 friends in their 20's taking a luxury van out to watch a boxing match, them being stuck in traffic decide to take a turn into a bad,bad neighbourhood.After this, the movie is in non stop suspence for one whole hour,with terrific acting and a very good script, Judgment night had to me one of my all time favourite action movies of all time. Although predictable at times, that didnt leave this film from being a top notch action/thriller. Although some of the scenes simply arent believable you just cant help notice how great the whole casts acting is,especially a top performance by Emilio Esetevez and Cuba Gooding, Jr. A Glitch with this movie is it starts to get downhill pretty much from an hour into the movie, the plot gets less believable and it just turns into too much.The ending was pretty simple. Cinematography was awesome in this flick, great camera angles and dark scenes. I simply ask for you to watch this, many says it copies many other films, i couldnt care less, Judgment night had to be one of the greatest action sequences ive ever seen, i definantley reccomend you watch it despite its predictibility,unbelievable scenes and stretched out plot. Here are my ratings for JUDGMENT NIGHTout of 5 stars (*)= half a star.Acting - ****(*)Actors - ****Cinema - ****(*)Suspence-****(*)Script-  ****Sound-   **** (*)Overall- ****(*) (4 and a half out of 5 stars) "},{"Title":"Derivative, but still enjoyable action yarn","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This film is awesome, and Emilio Estevez and Dennis Leary excel as the two lead roles in the film, but one can not help but notice how many times this movie has been done before. However, this is a much better entry in the running and hiding to save your life subgenre of thrillers.  Basically, if you liked Run, The Warriors, or The Running Man you'll probably enjoy this one too. "},{"Title":"Good flick","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very interesting and compelling premise (four friends lost amidst a dangerous Chicago suburb who are being stalked after witnessing a murder). The pace of the film never slows a bit. Great performances by all actors, specially Leary. Highly recommended "},{"Title":"four good buddies head out a for a night on the town and,","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" take a wrong turn.just one wrong turn.and end up on the bad side of some not so savory characters.from there we get chase after chase as theses guys try to stay ahead of the bad guys and stay alive.this is a really exciting action packed movie.it had me on the edge of my seat a few times.and the acting,the acting was top notch.Jeremy Piven,Cuba Gooding Jr.Stephen Dorrf,Erik Schrody,Michael Wiseman are all really good.incidentally,Schrody is/was a member of once popular rap group House of Pain.he later released a solo album under the name Everlast,called Whitey Ford Sings the blues.anyway...everyone one i just mentioned did excellent work in this film.but for me,Emile Estevez and Peter Greene(Under Siege 2,The Usual Suspects,Permanent Midnight)were standouts.the movie itself is high octane excitement that doesn't let up until the end.it's a movie better watched late at night,with the lights off.for me,the verdict on Judgment Night is a 9/10 "},{"Title":"Pretty good, actually. A good start for Denis Leary and Stephen Dorff","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is actually pretty decent. I liked all the characters, even Jeremy Piven, who was kind of a dick in this. The story focuses on these four friends who get lost on a way to a game in a bad neighborhood. They happen upon a gang of drug-dealers (led by Denis Leary), and witness something horrible so Leary decides he can't let them escape. From their the movie is pure suspense, with the guys trying to escape the gangsters. Some very good scenes, one which involves them hiding in a train, having to bribe the hobos to keep quiet. A lot of action, some good acting, and constantly keeps moving. I give this movie a solid 6/10, because there were a few things that bothered me, but I won't go into this for the sake of not ruining the film. "}{"Title":"There's a reason many 15 year old films are hard to find - they ain't that good.","Date":"27 October 2010","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" How cutting edge is this!?! I am reviewing a 16 year old film that sold approximately zero tickets starring a bunch of guys that would probably be happier if this wasn't on their resume.The plot itself is quite a basic formula, a bunch of old friends plan a dude's night out to a boxing match, but as they are running late they take a shortcut through what the media would call an urban area and things don't go according to plan from there.What I enjoyed about the set up is where the party bus gets stuck in the mother of all traffic jams, eight lanes in both directions completely at a standstill, and the characters have enough time get into a road rage incident and then have a leisurely chat afterwards before getting back on the bus and cruising onwards.The four characters Frank &#x96; Former hellraiser turned family man. (Emilio Estevez in between Mighty Ducks movies.) John - Frank's younger brother. Impetuous and quick tempered. (Stephen Dorff trying to look menacing and edgy, while remaining pretty.) Mike &#x96; Cool guy, bit of a ladies' man. (Cuba Gooding Jr pre Oscar and his subsequent career tailspin. I though an Oscar improved your career?) Ray &#x96; The quick talking dodgy mate. Unreliable and more bluster and bravado than bravery. (Jeremy Piven with wayyyy more hair than he has now.) Everyone has a Ray mate, the guy that talks a great game and has the most amazing adventures when no-one he knows is around. They're amusing enough to have around as long as you understand that you can never truly rely on them and that they will sell you out in a heartbeat if it benefits them even a little. The key to co-existing with a Ray is knowing in advance that from time to time you will feel the urge to mutilate them with something, but being smart enough to ignore their repeated and expected transgressions. Or cut them off and move on with new friends. It's your call but make it early to avoid going insane.Probably related to the above paragraph. I hate Jeremy Piven. I just find him annoying and terribly overrated. In my opinion he is just another actor who struck lucky with one role (Entourage) and rode the wave long enough that people just accepted him.Half an hour in, enter Denis Leary as Fallon, but I'll call him Denis because that's who he is no matter what role he plays, and because he is a bit of an Asshole (his song, not mine) he is better suited to the role of the bad guy or anti hero. This is why he is great in this (and especially The Ref). It's a double standard, but you whinge when an actor plays the same role over and over and never tests them self by branching out, others like Denis should stick to what they know.Anyway Denis's first act is to kill someone in the middle of the road, under a streetlight, after a discussion, knowing full well that he is being watched. Sounds a bit dumb doesn't it? but as the plot doesn't advance sometimes without dumb stuff happening let's move on. Want more dumb? How about the fact that Denis and gang go door to door trying to find the guys, without masks and toting guns? The last hour has a lot of running and chasing, which Denis the famed smoker must have enjoyed. The guys hide, then run, then hide, then run, with Denis walking around talking loudly and demanding they hand themselves over. One dialogue scene between the gang plays exactly like a music video and stands out primarily for how different it is to the rest of the film.It's a pretty run of the mill action pic, and would be OK only as a late night brain-turned-off flick. Would have benefited from being say 10 or 15 minutes shorter as run/hide/run/hide gets old quick and when none of the characters are especially likable it doesn't matter which order they die in. There isn't much of anything that stands out aside from Denis as Fallon, the violence is paint by numbers, the laughs rare and the death scenes boringly predictable and not that inventive.If this doesn't sound much like a recommendation it is because it really isn't.The soundtrack on the other hand is 50% great, 50% filler. I have owned it since this movie was released and drag it out every now and then, as long as you fast forward judiciously there are three absolute classic tracks to be found in collaborations between House of Pain/Helmet, Faith No More/Boo-Ya Tribe and De La Soul/Teenage Fanclub.Final Rating &#x96; 6.5 /10. Not particularly bad, but there is a reason that a lot of 15 year old films are hard to find on DVD, they just aren't particularly good.If you liked this (or even if you didn't) try oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"Unbelievable Plot-- depends on characters being serially dumb","Date":"14 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie plot depends primarily on supposedly smart characters being dumb over and over. So it lacks credibility.E.g., presumably for plot advancement, Piven inexplicably hides his pistol until equally inexplicably pulling it out. The heroes are as heavily armed as the bad guys. After a shot or two or one of their members taking a bullet, do you really the bad guys are going to chase anybody armed down a dark alley. Or if they do, the chased party is not going to take advantage of it by shooting them?. Gimmee a break.Then toward the end, the Cuba Gooding character finally does shoot one of the bad guys-- why didn't they do this before? Still, judicious use of a firearm would have meant the movie would have ended in the first 20 minutes.Still, this is Chicago, where the only the bad guys have guns. This plot would not have worked in Texas. "},{"Title":"Overall, pretty good suspense film","Date":"5 November 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Not bad, not good...been there done that perfectly describes Judgment Night.And, in this case, that's perfectly fine. This is a pretty good time waster that contains several scenes of mild to moderate suspense. It involves four friends going down the wrong alley in order to take a short cut to a boxing match only to witness a murder, and run from the thugs responsible. The film's main protagonists each have their own unique qualities, but unfortunately, none of them are fleshed out enough for us to really care about them. Emilio plays the guy beginning to mature with married life, Stephen Dorff plays his younger, hot headed brother who talks more trash than he delivers, Cuba Gooding plays Emilio's best friend who apparently has insecurity issues when it comes to people messing with him and people not covering his back (this poor characterization is culminized as you watch Cuba's horrible overacting) and of course, the great, loquacious and always facetious Jeremy Piven plays the role of the sleazeball con-man perfect to a 'T'. Unfortunately, of these characters, you really feel for none of them as they are not fleshed out beyond their stereotypes.The real standout, of course, is Denis Leary...he is truly one convincing bad guy in this film...a force of pure determined hatred, that will stop at nothing to kill the guys. Of everyone, Leary is the only one who does not overact, he is completely natural in this role, and though he is given little to do with the script but spout out cheesy, yet oddly effective taunts at the four, he is a menacing presence nonetheless.The echoes this film has with Deliverance are amazing...but to list them would be to list key spoilers, and I don't want to do that. Overall, this movie is nothing new, but it plays old and clichéd material very well. (VERY MINOR SPOILER)I will say that the biggest complaint of all that I had was with Emilio's change of character right after his role morphed into heart of darkness mode, and Leary's character is in peril (involving him asking for help)...that one scene was so unbelievably cliché and out of place it wasn't even funny. (END OF VERY MINOR SPOILER)However, Judgment Night is pretty good entertainment that is carried by a solid, and believable villain, only to be brought down by subpar performances from actors that usually deliver better. Therefore, I have to give it a 7 out of 10 stars which isn't bad; a film I consider almost above average...Leary alone carried this film, and with better acting of the main leads, this would have scored much much higher. At any rate, this is the perfect film to catch on a Sunday afternoon on cable with nothing else to do. That is my story, and I am sticking to it. "},{"Title":"Great movie!","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great movie!The cast is great and they act great!It is an action packed thriller and you never know what is going to happen next! Great music by Alan Silvestri and great direction by Stephen Hopkins!I love this film! "},{"Title":"A Husband and Father Is Punished for His Night Out with the Boys","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Frank is a married man with a recently born baby. That means it is time for him to settle down and forget about going out with the guys to have a good time. After all, his wife is stuck home with the baby, so why shouldn't he be forced to stay home too? Instead of doing the right thing, however, he goes out with his three bachelor friends to see a boxing match, and for this sin he must pay. But if Frank must be punished for leaving the little lady at home with the baby, we know that his friend Ray is going to get the cinematic death penalty, because he has a pistol stashed in his RV.They get stuck in traffic and take a shortcut through the Chicago slums, see a man murdered, and must flee from the killers who don't want any witnesses. Since the police seem to have abandoned this part of town, we find it hard to understand what the killers are worried about. Fortunately, they are worried, because that means the rest of the movie consists of the four friends being chased through the slums or trying to take a stand and fight back.With few exceptions, if a civilian in a movie has a gun that he bought himself, he must die, and that is what happens to Ray. However, civilians are allowed to use a gun effectively if they did not buy it themselves, but either someone else buys it for them or they opportunistically pick up the gun of the person who owned it, and that is what happens here. Ray's friends pick up his gun and use it to fight the killers.Frank manages to survive the evening, but he has learned his lesson, vowing to stay home with the wife and baby from now on. "},{"Title":"Ripe for a remake","Date":"14 November 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Firstly, no, Im not usually keen to see movies remade, and hate that there is a constant flow of classics being rehashed for no reason. This film is an exception, because, lets face it, you can hardly call it a classic. I always get really surprised when someone else I speak to has actually seen it, or can remember it. Personally, I blooming love it. Not sure why to be honest, the dialogue is pretty clichéd, and the 'good guy' group of mates aren't given any real back story to make you care much about them. All the characters are all paper thin, and let's be honest, I can not for one second buy Emilio Estevez as a tough guy. Crazy ol Billy the kid yeah, but a bad @ss? Not quite. Im not saying that I don't like his performance, because I do. I think that 'because' of it's flaws, this film has stayed with me, and is one of those guilty pleasure movies I always find myself revisiting. However, I think this movie has the real potential to be looked at again. The cat and mouse story is nothing new, but, I really liked the idea of setting the story in a city, where we should feel safe, as opposed to the wilderness, or some abandoned old farm. I like it's tight timeframe, setting the story over one night. I love Denis Leary's 'Fallon' a legitimately chilling bad guy. I would love to see a director with a real visual identity re boot this movie and make use of todays financial melt down in the UK. Set the film in one of London's grimy council estates. I think it would be awesome, if not at all original. "},{"Title":"Look out! Denis Leary's got a gun!","Date":"22 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Alan Silvestri's score. There's the high point of this movie.Judgment Night is a rather poorly made action thriller set on the mean streets of urban Chicago. Four guys from the suburbs climb aboard a fully loaded RV and head to the big boxing match. But a wrong turn (tip don't let Jeremy Piven drive) takes them from the clogged artery of the expressway onto the seedy streets where even the police won't visit. You know the landscape trash can fires, newspapers and old coffee cups blowing in the wind, and boarded up tenements as far as the eye can see. Our hapless heroes bear witness to a grisly murder at the hands of Fallon (Denis Leary), a ruthless bad guy who ... well we don't know what his line of work is, but he likes to shoot people. And Fallon doesn't like witnesses, either. You can see where it goes from here.This is a movie with no socially redeeming value. It might make for a suspenseful thrill-ride at the movies if it weren't for the clunky pacing and action that unfurls in fits and starts. The acting also leaves a lot to be desired, but then there's not a whole lot of depth to these characters. What begins as a good-natured evening among immature adults turns into a series of dumb decisions, infighting and the lots of yelling. Things continue to go from bad to worse, and there's no good reason to want these characters to get away. Halfway through the film, it just seems like one group is destined to run, and the other is destined to stalk. No point really emerges to these characters' actions.But Silvestri (in the interest of bringing this writeup full-circle) really ratchets the tension with a superb score. Unfortunately, it's everyone else keeping this thing from taking off.4.5/10 "},{"Title":"Solid entertaining thriller","Date":"14 August 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A bunch of buddies--Frank (Emilio Estevez), his brother John (Stephen Dorff), Mike (Cuba Gooding Jr.) and Ray (Jeremy Piven)--are going to a boxing match in Chicago. Ray decides to take a short cut and they got lost in a really bad section. They accidentally hit a man who has been shot--and the killers led by Fallon (Denis Leary) go after them.The plot has been done MANY times before and has some serious lapses in plot (Frank and John are brothers with issues between them--but we never find out WHAT those issues are!) but this is very well-done. It's well-directed with plenty of action and some really beautiful atmospheric settings. Also the film isn't too bloody like most thrillers are. Most of the acting is good (especially by Dorff and Leary) but Gooding Jr. overacts (no surprise there). The story starts off really well but, by the end, it turns into a generic thriller with a thoroughly predictable climax. Still the direction, action, acting and settings keep you entertained. A strong good thriller well worth checking out. It's also fun to see Estevez, Gooding Jr. and especially Dorff looking so young. I leave out Piven cause he's always looked old. I give it an 8. "},{"Title":"'contains spoiler' Good movie but......","Date":"3 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Keeping in mind that a movie is only for entertainment and doesn't have to be perfect be worth watchingThis is one of the best movies that I have ever seen as far as keeping my interest, but after just watching 3 times in a row I have picked up on many things that I found to be rediculous. I have read the other comments posted about this movie so I will try to be original.First of all, I have been to Chicago and there are freeways everywhere! Even after they got off of the freeway they could have found one of many to get out of the bad side of town. A possible goof, when they leave Franks house it is broad daylight then in the next shot with them driving on the highway it is dark. One may think that they had a bit of a drive to get to downtown Chicago, but later Frank says that they are only 10 minutes from home. The fight scene on the highway It's that both, the man and the woman in the truck are saying fu*k you to Ray, but when they began to get out and fight the woman just sat in the truck and simply said leave him alone. She barely even looked back. As they are driving through town (before hitting the kid) they pass several well lit streets, they continue down the dark road. After hitting the guy with the RV (even though Ray is a dipstick) they should have listened to him and got the hell out of there, especially when the gang jerks the kids out and starts arguing with him. Instead they keep looking out the back window to see what is going to happen to him. Duhh!! Fast forwarding to the end of the movie (since I don't have time to decipher the entire thing) it was odd when Frank was going into the office of the supermarket (after killing Fallon) and the police officer barges in with gun drawn and tells him to freeze. Frank tells him that his friend and brother are upstairs bleeding to death, and the cop stands his ground. All of the sudden another officer who wasn't even in the room and couldn't have possibly heard Frank, comes in and says it's alright, he's telling the truth! Then all of the sudden the first officer lowers his gun and they go running out of the office. Come on, I am a Cincinnati Police Officer and there would be more to it than that!! Remember, don't break any of Fallon's stupid Rules!Anyways, aside from the oddities mentioned, I loved the movie and found it to be very entertaining. I thought that Cuba Gooding's acting was by far the best of the cast and his facial expressions (even on background shots) were very convincing. Thats my ten cents. (Possible spoiler on movie titles Tresspass) If you like Judgement Night, check out Tresspass with Ice T. Another movie that has innocent everyday guys caught in the bad part of town by thugs. "},{"Title":"Men, NEVER ask for directions!","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Or you may end up in a bad action movie like Judgment Night.Four middle class would be bad boys take a wrong exit on the freeway and end up in the Super Bad part of town. Their luxury recreational vehicle can provide them no protection from the wisecracks of lead bad guy Denis Leary, who must pursue them to the ends of the Earth (or the end of this movie, whichever comes first) in order to cover up his heinous crimes and his uninspired bon mots. Believe me, you'll be rooting for him to rub out these suburban nimrods. "}{"Title":"basic B-movie plot","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Frank Wyatt (Emilio Estevez) and Mike Peterson (Cuba Gooding, Jr.) are going out to a boxing match with Ray Cochran (Jeremy Piven) testing out his new RV. Frank's brother John (Stephen Dorff) is a last-minute addition. The foursome from the suburbs get stuck in traffic. They get off the highway and get lost in the bad side of town. They stop after thinking they ran over somebody. They bring Teddy into the RV and discover that he's been shot. A gang led by Fallon (Denis Leary) catches up to the disabled RV. After shooting Teddy, Fallon goes after the four wanting to leave no witnesses.This is a basic B-movie plot. The main difference interestingly is that Leary leads an all white gang. It could have been much better if Fallon and his men are corrupt cops. It would raise the tension and Fallon can throw his weight around the locals. There is some overacting. It's a fine action B-movie. It isn't quite the same after going down into the sewers. The fake sewer location doesn't have the same intensity. The ladder across the buildings is probably the best section. "},{"Title":"A Nice Wee Gem From The Early 90s","Date":"20 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" It's amazing how some of the lesser known movies upon release, or films who don't get a lot of attention, can end up being a part of the more enjoyable features to watch. Well Judgment Night is one such movie because from what I remember, I don't think it had any sort of real attention from any areas of the cinematic world press. It was a film that appeared from under the radar, so to say, and that may have been an advantage because how many times have we seen films get all sorts of attention and beefed up to Hell for it to only be a complete failure.Judgment Night is an enjoyable Action Thriller with a very decent cast of Emilio Estevez, Cuba Gooding Jr., and Denis Leary (who actually does a very good job playing a character you do not want to cross). The story for the film is a simple one which is no bad thing because sometimes it's the simple story's that can end up being the better ones. There's no confusing alternate reality time travel; there's no hidden meanings; there's no complicated story cross-overs. It's straightforward that has a few good tense moments scattered throughout.I think one of it's few downfalls - maybe it's main one, actually - is that it did get a wee bit repetitive. Cat 'n' mouse chase films are always good, but there comes a point where there's always a chance it can go from pretty thrilling and exciting to dull and dismal. Thankfully, Judgment night doesn't get to those latter points, but it does get close at times.The main cast as I mentioned earlier, does a pretty good job, and it may be hard imagining a comedian like Denis Leary in the role of a criminal boss, but he does do a good job of combining dry wit with deadly seriousness. I've never been a huge fan of Jeremy Piven, however, so it was very apt that he played the most annoying character, and surely I am not the only one who would have been routing for something to happen to him.Anyway, Judgment Night is a good wee gem of a film that is definitely worth a watch. "},{"Title":"An Interesting Ensemble Cast","Date":"11 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Four friends on their way to a boxing match get caught in heavy traffic, so they take a shortcut in order to get there faster, unfortunately it leads to them witnessing a murder which leaves them running for their lives.Perhaps not the greatest thriller, this was a prime example of what an ensemble cast could be in the early 1990s. Stephen Dorff, Cuba Gooding, Jeremy Piven... we have Emilio Estevez at a time when he was probably on his way out, and Denis Leary at the peak of his career (with all due respect to his later TV work).If this is on TV when you are flipping through channels, check it out. Surely not worth owning, but definitely worth a view or two. "},{"Title":"Pulpy, classic mid 90's action fun","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Judgment Night is pure 90's action escapism, from a time when the genre had a slick, nihilistic atmosphere. It's one of those 'night from hell' chase films that takes a group of naive, childish suburban dudes and throws the, into the heart of an urban hellhole, pursued by a rabid pack of howling hyena like scumbag criminals through a chaotic nightscape filled with an army of babbling homeless loons, endless labyrinthine project buildings, and seemingly no way out. Emilio Estevez plays a family man who decides to take his hapless brother (Stephen Dorff), his buddy Cuba Gooding Jr., and their letcherous lawyer friend (Jeremy Piven), for a night out in the big city to, see the basketball game, in his giant obnoxious Winnebago. As soon as they enter the old smoke, trouble begins to brew. They witness a terrified fleeing bum get murdered by vicious street thug Fallon (Denis Leary), and his dangerous, leering crew. They themselves become witnesses and are forced to run through a hostile, unfamiliar environment for there lives, pursued by these determined, nefarious psychos. It's a simple enough premise elevated by excellent choice of locations and a well done aura of urban decay and inner city disorder, presided over by goons and gargoyles. Leary is a razor tongued prick, relishing every moment of whiplash violence and aggression. Peter Greene is solid as his second in command. The film has a rowdy, animalistic energy to it and is a good watch for the AM hours when you're a little wired and looking for something to light a fire under your ass. "},{"Title":"An Excellent,Suspenseful And Underrated Action-Thriller.","Date":"4 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Judgment Night is an excellent,suspenseful and underrated Action-Thriller that combines terrific direction,a great cast,intense Action and a fantastic score and soundtrack. All of those elements make Judgment Night an entertaining film and one of the better Action-Thrillers of the 1990s.Set in Chicago,Illinois,Judgment Night tells the story of Frank Wyatt(Emilio Estevez)who along with his best friends Mike(Cuba Gooding Jr.),Ray(Jeremy Piven)and little brother John(Stephen Dorff)are on their way to a Boxing match. Late and stuck in traffic,Frank and the guys take a detour to a dangerous part of Chicago and witness a drug related murder done by crime figure Fallon(Denis Leary)who wants no witnesses. With Frank and his friends now being hunted and chased by Fallon and his crew Frank and his buddies have to escape and stay alive.Released in 1993,Judgment Night is a terrific and memorable Action-Thriller that unfortunately was overlooked by audiences and was very much a critical and Box Office failure at the time. But thanks to Home Video,DVD and Television showings Judgment Night seems to have found an audience and second life which is well deserved because it's one of the better Action-Thrillers of the 1990s. Judgment Night is a great movie that is a thrill ride from start to finish a film that is done with white hot nail biting suspense and intensity as well as gripping and just grabs viewers by the throat and never letting go and is a movie that is amazing from start to finish. Judgment Night is also a great movie that came out during the time when Action-Thrillers and Urban movies were successful and with Judgment Night there is a wonderful balance with the two genres that just works. It's also one of those movies that is perfect for late night TV viewing because when it's on the movie just glues you to the screen and you just want to turn it off. While the storyline isn't very groundbreaking and there are some predictable moments Judgment Night just has something that makes it re-watchable and entertaining. Judgment Night is a film that is just like classics such as John Carpenter's Escape From New York(1981),Walter Hill's The Warriors(1979)and Southern Comfort,John Boorman's Deliverance and the intense,overlooked Walter Hill movie Trespass(1992,another great,underrated Action-Thriller that would make a fun double bill with this movie)whether it's movies that are set in big cities or in the woods where main characters are being hunted by dark forces and are trying to escape and where it's not just about good or bad but about survival and staying alive at all costs and where you can either live or die. I love Action movies about survival as well as cat and mouse chase films and Judgment Night is in the same vain because when the chase starts it just never stops. This movie is like going through a living nightmare with fear and terror on full display with tons of dark paranoia and claustrophobia where no place is safe. The dark atmosphere gives the movie a dark Film Noir vibe where the characters are surrounded by dark shadows and harsh lighting making the gritty streets of Chicago in the movie much more rougher than it already is. When you watch Judgment Night you will put your selves in Frank and his friends positions and relate to them when things start to fall apart and when they are being chased by Fallon and his crew and ask yourself if you were in the same position what would you do? The Action in Judgment Night is simple but effective with with gunfights,fistfights and an explosion to keep viewers thrilled and excited. The ending(or final 15-20 minutes)of Judgment Night is a terrific and tension filled cap off to the film and will have viewers cheering. A fantastic conclusion.The cast is great. Emilio Estevez is excellent as Frank Wyatt,with Estevez being intense and believable. Cuba Gooding Jr. is terrific and fiery as Mike,one of Frank's friends. Comedian Denis Leary is brilliant and steals the movie as the film's villain Fallon,with Leary being vicious,menacing and funny at the same time. Stephen Dorff is terrific as John Wyatt,Frank's young brother. Jeremy Piven is great as Ray,Frank's other friend. Peter Greene is fantastic as Sykes,Fallon's right hand man. Erik Schrody(Rhodes),Michael Wiseman(Travis),Michael DeLorenzo(Kid,Teddy),Will Zahrn(Charlie),Eugene Williams(Buck),Christine Harnos(Linda Wyatt),Gaylin Gorg(Clarissa),Angela Alverado(Rita)and Relioues Webb(Dre)give good performances as well.The direction by Stephen Hopkins is wonderful and stylish,with Hopkins always moving the camera and giving the movie a solid atmosphere. Great direction,Hopkins.The score by Alan Silvestri is terrific,intense and matches the movie. Fine score,Silvestri. There is also an amazing and classic Hard Rock/Hip-Hop soundtrack that features songs by Slayer and Ice-T(Disorder),Biohazard and Onyx(Judgment Night)Living Colour and Run-Dmc(Me,Myself And My Microphone),Helmet And House Of Pain(Just Another Victim),Sonic Youth and Cypress Hill(I Love You Mary Jane),Faith No More and Boo-Yaa T.R.I.B.E(Another Body Murdered),Mudhoney and Sir Mix-A-Lot(Freak Momma),Teenage Fan Club and De La Soul(Fallin),Therapy? and Fatal(Come and Die)and more.In final word,if you love Action-Thrillers,I highly suggest you see Judgment Night,an excellent,underrated Action-Thriller that you will watch again and again. Highly Recommended. 10/10. "},{"Title":"Entertaining suspenseful thriller","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Sure even back in 1993 the whole lost in the bad side of town was nothing we hadn't seen done to death in movies,yet Judgement night does it quite well. A quick outline of the plot Four buddies Frank (Emilio Estevez) Mike (Cuba Gooding Jr) John (Stephen Dorff) and Ray (Jermey Piven) are on their way to a boxing match and after getting stuck in traffic decide to get off the freeway and find a quicker route. Sounds simple enough right? Well long story short they end up lost in the ghetto of Chicago late at night. After they crash their rented RV they witness some gang members (led brilliantly by comedian Denis Leary)kill a traitor.Leary plays Fallon and he is intent on silencing the four out of towers for good,chasing them through an abandoned train yard,housing projects and even the sewers. Judgement night does not have any Oscar winning performances although Leary is great as the evil and morbidly funny Fallon. Seriously some of his lines are hysterical but not in a corny way. He is quite menacing here.This is a great movie to just sit back with and have some popcorn. The main characters are mostly pretty like able despite making some stupid decisions,you still end up caring for them. It's worth watching for Learys performance alone. If you enjoy these type of stories and have not seen Judgement night, give it a shot. Even if you don't like it you won't find yourself bored as there is never a dull moment.Its not perfect but it's fun. It also has an amazing soundtrack! "},{"Title":"That money got blood on it, man!","Date":"28 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" 1993 film where four old buddies in Chicago rent a lavish motor home for a night of partying and watching boxing. After they witness a murder by Fallon, a sinister drug lord very well-played by Denis Leary, a long, tense, violent urban odyssey follows.Though somewhat dated by its 20 years, JUDGMENT NIGHT is everything a thriller-seeker desires. The simple but focused plot follows the old formula, and it's fairly easy to predict the basics of how it will turn out, but it has plenty of small surprises along the way, and there's nothing too unbelievable. The four friends--one who turns out to be the big hero, one who keeps mucking everything up for everybody else, and two who are kind of in the middle--are a rather cookie-cutter set, but good acting and even better filming keep this film alive.Interesting to see the young Stephen Dorff in an atypical role as the younger brother of the hero played by Emilio Estevez. "},{"Title":"Better Than Expected","Date":"22 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Judgment Night is one of those movies that we watched assuming it would just be a cheap action-by-the-numbers movie but we were really pleasantly surprised by how good and interesting the movie turned out to be. First off this movie has some really good actors in it. Denis Leary is amazing in this as the cold blooded murderer hunting down a group of four friends with his gang, trying to kill them before they get to the police because they witnessed him murder someone else. This is probably the role that helped him break out as an actor. Emilio Estevez, Stephen Dorff and Cuba Gooding Jr are also good, and Jeremy Piven is great as always as the fourth friend. Highly recommended by me. "},{"Title":"Don't take a short cut, ever!","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Judgement Night is directed by Stephen Hopkins and adapted to screenplay by Lewis Colick from a story he co-wrote with Jere Cunningham. It stars Emilio Estevez, Cuba Gooding Jr., Stephen Dorff, Jeremy Piven and Denis Leary. Music is scored by Alan Silvestri and cinematography by Peter Levy.Two brothers and two pals set out for a blokey night out at a boxing match but take an ill fated short cut and end up on the run from a vicious gang.93 was a very good year for the action movie fan, with double Stallone, Van Damme teaming up with Woo, an Arnie picture, a Bruce Lee homage, a fugitive Ford, dinosaur frenzy and some minor pulse raisers that garnered a small but loyal following. Judgement Night falls into the last category, it's pretty light on plotting and sensible scripting, but none the less contains a ream of action set-pieces that whilst not exactly brilliantly constructed, they still have impact and entertain the action faithful.Suffice to say, it's not hard to see why it was frowned upon by the critics, it is basically an excuse to string a bunch of drama sequences around a thin narrative that sees the protagonists do the all too usual dumb action movie staples. That's disappointing given that writer Colick was behind the hugely enjoyable Unlawful Entry. The acting is decent enough from the four on the run actors, though Piven and Gooding are mightily guilty of gurning for the camera, but everybody falls into Leary's shadow. Leary is having a great time playing the main villain, ice cold stare and caustic delivery in place, he nails it as a bad ass and becomes the main reason to seek the film out for a viewing.Elsewhere, Hopkins's (Predator 2) direction is formulaic, but he does have a good eye for scene staging, with two sequences set at a rail line and a derelict building proving to be visual niceties. Levy's photography is interesting as regards the colour lenses, looks like he used gel saturation to get a high yellow and brown return, which is an odd choice for the urban night terror story. Surely steely cold compositions would have been better? Silvestri's score is basically his one composed for Predator, literally it is the same only with some extensions tacked on. It's a brilliant score, but you just can't help thinking about Arnie and the Dreadlocked Alien and that is something that doesn't help Judgement Night at all.A decent time waster for the action fan, especially if you dig Leary, but outside of those boxes it's pretty standard stuff. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Gritty, urban thriller reminiscent of classic Walter Hill movies","Date":"11 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The plot A group of yuppies get stuck in the bad part of town, become witnesses to a murder, and are relentlessly hunted down by a gangster who doesn't want any witnesses.Judgment Night is the sort of stereotypical, clichéd 1990s thriller that was quite popular gritty, urban, dark, and starring a young, recognizable cast that seemed well on their way to the A-list. Ironically, few of them managed to retain their popularity for much longer. At the time, I remember being a big fan of pretty much everyone in this movie, though.I've always thought this movie was somewhat underrated, but I can understand why some people dislike it. It's not an incredibly original story, the protagonists are sometimes stupid (and usually annoying), and it apparently takes some liberties with the setting. Not being a Chicago native, I can't really comment on that, but it seems to be a sore point for some.Much like After Hours and Very Bad Things, this is a movie that relishes the opportunity to continually push its protagonists into increasingly nasty situations. However, unlike those movies, it's pretty much a straight-up thriller, without the black humor. I'd recommend this movie to fans of gritty, urban thrillers. It's nothing they haven't seen before, but it's an enjoyable rehash, nonetheless. "}{"Title":"Excellent thriller","Date":"22 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Four snobby guys from a nice, wholesome neighbourhood taking a wrong turn and being chased by a gang of psychopathic street punks led by (of all people) Denis Leary, how I miss the times when movies were this simple. Anyone can come up with a simple plot, but to have an effective simple plot is much harder to achieve. The casting of the characters is pretty perfect as well, Jeremy Piven's character is so totally over the top that there's almost a sick joy is hoping for his death, and the villains look about as vile as human beings can look. Director Stephen Hopkins appears to be re-using the highly atmospheric urban settings he already put in Predator 2, they actually seem to work even better here. I mean, this is a really ugly-looking movie, kudos on that. Apart maybe from the ending, which is rather generic, this is a very creative and riveting B-movie. "},{"Title":"Great movie, very underrated!","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Emilio Estevez, Cuba Gooding Jr, Dennis Leary, Stephen Dorff, Jeremy Piven and Michael DeLorenzo all turn in fantastic roles in a very underrated film. Coming from the suburbs of Chicago the group of friends get off a freeway to try to bypass traffic so they could get to a boxing match in time. Little do they know that by doing so their lives would forever change. This is one of those movies where you ask yourself why wasn't this a huge hit? Looking at the other films out at the time I can't say there was a blockbuster that really got in the way unless if you count Demolition Man as a blockbuster.I remember seeing a behind-the-scenes look (on Entertainment Tonight) at a rooftop stunt that amazed me. Even though the Entertainment Tonight clip didn't show great angles the stunt was impressive and looked much better in the film itself.Outside of the Young Gun movies, Men At Work and Stakeout this is one of my all-time favorite Emilio Estevez films. Despite the other stars this is truly his film and he gives a great performance. Cuba Gooding helps add to the heart and soul of the film. Both Gooding and Estevez pull out all the stops and giving their roles much more depth than they could possibly have had in the script. Dennis Leary plays a great villain that is believable given some of the outrageous circumstances.The film has it all for action-thriller-adventure fans. I highly recommend it. All I can say is the film probably lacked in the promotional department because I can't see why anyone would not like it! "},{"Title":"The correct judgment would be seeing this underrated action flick","Date":"15 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Judgment Night makes me feel more open about choosing action films. I've neglected some action films, but seeing the great cast this one had I couldn't resist. Emilio Estevez has been on my list of favorite actors since I saw him in The Mighty Ducks at age nine at YMCA camp. This film makes him even more honorable. I don't believe I've seen a bad film with any of these actors in it. All gave 100% in this film.The film is about Frank, Ray, Mike, and John (Estevez, Piven, Gooding, and Dorff) who are traveling to a boxing match in Chicago. This is their first big get together since their one friend Frank got married. To avoid traffic, the boys take a back route and end up in a bad part of Chicago. They find a guy fatally injured on the road and take him into their RV. A gang leader named Fallon (Leary) smashed a window in their car, takes the man, and kills him.The rest of the film is a deadly cat and mouse game that gets severely intense and rarely lets up. The film has exhilarating sound, a fabulous cast, and an intense soundtrack. Dennis Leary is great as a cut-throat gang leader as he almost comes off as a Joe Pesci kind of guy. Emilio Estevez is great to see again, and Jeremy Piven and Cuba Gooding Jr. do not disappoint as well.Judgment Night is a lot like Joy Ride. It's a movie that can only be truly appreciated once. The first time I saw Joy Ride, I can't lie, I was legitimately scared. I jumped at a few scenes, and really was scared to find out what happens next.Same goes with Judgment Night, both do their job to scare the audience or make them jump. They both fulfill their duty as thrillers. The downside to this is because their films with big surprise scenes, as well as chase scenes, their true scare level comes with the first viewing. With repeated viewings I can believe this film goes down in quality much like Joy Ride did. Both are still well made thrillers, as a matter of fact Joy Ride is in my favorite film list, but even that loses it's scare after a while.Many movies will make you jump after viewing them. The original Friday the 13th, Halloween, and A Nightmare on Elm Street still make me jump in quite a few parts. But Judgment Night and Joy Ride have surprises that are only effective once. Still, Judgment Night passes in every category it was neglected in back when it released in 1993. It still serves today as an underrated action piece.Starring Emilio Estevez, Cuba Gooding Jr, Jeremy Piven, Stephen Dorff, and Denis Leary. Directed by Stephen Hopkins. "},{"Title":"An exciting, often tense, suspense-thriller.","Date":"6 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Frank (Emilio Estevez), his two best friendsMike (Oscar-WinnerCuba Gooding Jr.) & Ray (Jemery Piven) and his brother John (Stephen Dorff) are leaving the suburbans of Chicago to go see an boxing match. When Ray thinks, it is an good idea to take an short cut to not miss their boxing match, they were dead wrong... Once they witness an murder, committed by an dangerous and violent drug lord named Fallon (Denis Leary). Frank, Mike, Ray and John finds themselves on the run in a urban landscape. When Fallon and his three men (Peter Greene, Erik Schrody & Michael Wiseman) are searching for them and kill them, if they are found.Directed by Stephen Hopkins (A Nightmare on Elm Street 5The Dream Child, Blown Away, The Ghost & The Darkness) made an genuinely well made, suspense-thriller with an sense of humour. Leary is certainly the stand-out in this movie. While Estevez, Gooding Jr., Dorff and Piven do good jobs in their roles. It was an box office disappointment, when it was released in the fall of 1993. But Judgment Night did went on to have an small cult following.The Universal DVD is an major improvement over the old Goodtimes DVD. Which the Goodtimes DVD didn't have the original Widescreen aspect ratio. The new DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.351) transfer and an strong DTS 5.1 Surround Sound (Also in Dolby Digital 5.1). DVD's only feature is the original theatrical trailer. This is one of Hopkins' best work as a filmmaker along with The Life and Death of Peter Sellers and Predator 2. If you haven't seen this, don't miss this one. Screenplay by Lewis Colick (Domestic Disturbance, October Sky, Unlawful Entry). From a story by Colick and Jere Cunningham. Super 35. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Decent Movie","Date":"22 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Keeping in mind that a movie is only for entertainment and doesn't have to be perfect be worth watching This is one of the best movies that I have ever seen as far as keeping my interest, but after just watching 3 times in a row I have picked up on many things that I found to be ridiculous. First of all, I have been to Chicago and there are freeways everywhere! Even after they got off of the freeway they could have found one of many to get out of the bad side of town.A possible goof, when they leave Franks house it is broad daylight then in the next shot with them driving on the highway it is dark. One may think that they had a bit of a drive to get to downtown Chicago, but later Frank says that they are only 10 minutes from home. The fight scene on the highway It's that both, the man and the woman in the truck are saying fu*k you to Ray, but when they began to get out and fight the woman just sat in the truck and simply said leave him alone. Why does she suddenly have a lack of interest in fighting? She barely even looked back. As they are driving through town (before hitting the kid) they pass several well lit streets, they continue down the dark road. After hitting the guy with the RV (even though Ray is a dipstick) they should have listened to him and got the hell out of there, especially when the gang jerks the kids out and starts arguing with him. Instead they keep looking out the back window to see what is going to happen to him. Duhh!! Fast forwarding to the end of the movie (since I don't have time to decipher the entire thing) it was odd when Frank was going into the office of the supermarket (after killing Fallon) and the police officer barges in with gun drawn and tells him to freeze. Frank tells him that his friend and brother are upstairs bleeding to death, and the cop stands his ground. All of the sudden another officer who wasn't even in the room and couldn't have possibly heard Frank, comes in and says it's alright, he's telling the truth! Then all of the sudden the first officer lowers his gun and they go running out of the office. Come on, I am a Cincinnati Police Officer and there would be more to it than that!! Remember, don't break any of Fallon's stupid Rules! Anyways, aside from the oddities mentioned, I loved the movie and found it to be very entertaining. "},{"Title":"I have already seen that before.","Date":"22 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, I saw this movie 14 years ago. On VHS rental. It has never been released in France, in theatres. Not a bad picture. A sort of mix up of two Walter Hill's films WARRIORS (78) and TRESPASS (92). Two films which told the odyssey of three or four guys, lost in an urban jungle. A sort of metaphor of the modern civilization in total deliquescence. But that's my own interpretation. Nothing more.Unfortunately, except for the very good bad guys acting, especially the one who looks like William Dafoe - the leader - the screenplay is rather foreseeable. No real surprise. But a good actionner. Let's be fair. Good acting and good shooting too.And I'll finish in pointing out that Stepehn Hopkins - the director - has already used the supermarket, the department store, setting in one of his previous films A Dangerous Game ( 1987). Another urban survival, sort of mix up of Die Hard and Deliverance. In a less larger scale, of course. "},{"Title":"don't scream ... don't move... don't whisper... don't even breath","Date":"1 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" a very good on screen adaptation of suspense and adrenalin. frank Wyatt , his younger brother john, his friends mike and ray decided to watch a boxing championship match in an arena. They are forced to take short cut by getting of the main road towards small deserted streets at night because of stranded vehicles at the road. Then things went out of their hands as they hit a drifter kind of person on the road. more over they are shocked to see the man they have hit is already been shot by someone in the chest and he is hiding some amount of cash.Ray is persisting now that they should throw off that man coz he is some thief but frank and mike disagree. Then their vehicle is hit by a car.the guys from the car forcefully by their weapons snatch the boy form all 4 and then comes fallen , their gang head. The man had stolen from fallen , so the results are obvious , capital punishment of fallen ' s own. When fallen shots the man to death , the 4 buddies are now prime witnesses of the crime. Fallen makes his subordinates , Sykes, Rhodes and Travis rule no 2 ',, no witnesses,,'.Now they head towards the mini wagon to eliminate them all .they set their vehicle on fire smashed the front screen and made their escape in the narrow street taking their stranded vehicle as cover. Its now a cat and mouse game.This becomes situation critical for Emilio estevez , Cuba gooding Jr, Stephen dorff, and Jeremy piven , they are running for their lives, they ve become like wounded stags and the ruthless murderers are chasing them like wild dogs. their only hope and way to survive this nightmarish ordeal is to trust each other, maximum co-ordination and device a full proof plan so may they be able to see the sunrise and escape from this hell' s jungle. At this point of time their nerves are also tested, in which ray is failed coz he is terrified even from the moment they hit the man at the road.Ray ends killed at the hands of fallen as he decided not escape from the roof despite calls from frank , mike and john, he wanted to negotiate with them all , and suddenly this cost him too much. Like black hawk down , it s another kind of movie in which i felt myself a part of it. Every time i wondered what s gonna happen next, how they are gonna live another day to tell the truth about a crime scene. This is movie which totally never meant to be senseless. i believe that every one of every age can see the film and enjoy it. The plot is very much gripping and entertaining. I liked the scene in which john is going to have a brawl with a motorist, before they went off the road , frank reasons with him , advises him that there is lot craziness going on in the city , everyone can takeout a weapon and use it, as his younger brother is not paying attention, frank is furious , by grabbing his arm ,, says ' are u listening to me' then john replies ,' what r u going to do , stop me,,, U R NOT MY FATHER'. Mike appreciated john for his courage , which again annoyed frank , he said to him emphatically , do not encourage him. john apologized but said that john is right about one thing , you are really not his father. But after in their quest for survival they killed one of the pursuers , mike insisted that they all should stay there finished the remaining but john left with his brother. Mike is annoyed and confronts john then frank takes side with his bro for properly understanding the gravity of the situation.And in the end when fallen and frank head on one to one with each other as final judgement of the night. I wrap up it by saying it as heart pounding superb adventure of one night "},{"Title":"A Fun Night Out","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you're looking for a little bit of action fun for your movie night, Judgment Night will not disappoint.Judgment Night is essentially a film about a boys' night gone wrong. When four friends are trying to get to a boxing match, they end up in the wrong part of town facing off against a gang of hoodlums.Emilio Estevez and Cuba Gooding Junior are entirely believable as friends, and Gooding's character Mike is delightfully three-dimensional for an action film. Dennis Leary, as always, is more fun than fright, but is still convincing as the film's hoodlum antagonist.Judgment Night is, in its essence, a classic action movie and can therefore border on predictable. Clear roles of good guys and bad guys, few plot twists or surprises, more than a little of the old deus ex machina, little thinking required on the part of the viewer. But most viewers are watching an action film to escape from reality for a while and have some fun, and this film accomplishes that feat admirably.A thoroughly enjoyable film! "},{"Title":"Judgement Night keeps you in suspense","Date":"27 October 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I first saw this movie in 2003, ten years later and regret not seeing it earlier, a movie that will keep you in suspense the whole way through wondering how it will end.There are two reasons as too why this movie was a fun roller coaster ride, the landscape being a dark and terrifying ghetto and superb acting. The two strong actors in this movie were Denis Leary the cold hearted gang leader and Jeremy Piven the wealthy businessman who thought he could talk his way out of anything. Piven's performance in this movie was similar to his role in Very Bad Thing's....you want a movie where things go wrong - Piven is your actor.The movie did keep going probably 10 minutes too long as by the time they were in the warehouse you felt like saying - is it over!!! But still a great ending to what was an enjoyable movie.What they thought was a night at the boxing, turned into a horrible game of cat and mouse where their lives were on the line. "},{"Title":"Good entertainment value","Date":"29 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" For me, this movie brings back some nostalgia as I remember seeing it as a 9 or 10 year old on TV and I always seem to remember it enough to want to see it again every 5 years or so.Inevitably, every time I do see it, I'm slightly disappointed because the movie as a whole fails to live up to the hype I create in my head for it. I remember individual scenes involving the guys in their RV and it's really appealing.This is a movie that seems to get worse and worse as it goes on. I love the start of the movie (how the characters are connected and presented on screen) and everything leading up to when they begin their struggle to survive.If anything else, this movie is entertaining. It's got that dark street tone to it, so it's not a good one to watch over and over again...but every once and again, you will be reminded of this movie and have an urge to see it again. "}{"Title":"Not bad at all","Date":"20 May 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The film starts off in the suburbs where the neighbourhood is clean, safe, family orientated which lulls you into a false sense of security about how the film will carry on.Four friends Frank Wyatt (Emilio Estevez), John Wyatt (Stephen Dorff), Mike Peterson (Cuba Gooding Jr), Ray Cochran (Jeremy Piven) head off to the city to watch a boxing match but on the way they take a wrong turning and end up in a completely different environment to the one they are used to where there are homeless people, the area is rundown and messed up and gangs rule the streets. They are pursued by a crazy drug lord Fallon (Denis Leary) and his crew after witnessing them kill one of their disloyal henchmen.The film keeps pulling you in when you think it is safe and then when you are comfortable, takes the seat right from under you. It never lets up for a minute. One scene that is shocking is when the gang push Ray off the roof because you weren't expecting it and you wonder if the rest of the guys will be killed. Ray is shown as being different to the others; he pulls a gun on his friends, he puts children and womens lives in danger because he doesn't want to leave the safety of their flat and he won't help an injured man and comes across as a very unlikeable guy who deserves what happens to him.Emilio's character is the only one that has settled down, he is married and has a daughter. He has outgrown his wild years and is more cautious and tries to keep the peace. His past is only hinted at, the film doesn't go into any specifics. Eventually he has to go to the level of the gang because he can't reason with them and you wonder how far he and the rest of the guys will go as killing is foreign to them so it tests their survival instincts and at times their friendship.There is a surprising angle to Fallon's character. Throrghout the film we have seen him as a bad guy but he shows a small soft side to his character when he finds his dead friend's body.The best scene is the fight between Frank and Fallon. It starts of building the tension up, with the camera flicking between the two of them and suddenly Frank pounces on Fallon and it is a battle to the death and gets very physical. We see a difference in Frank's character from the start and now because Fallon knows where he lives and has threatened his family and he can never escape from him unless he kills him. "},{"Title":"A 1993 Hit Movie","Date":"21 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The movie is a Good action flick which brings the good in all action movies. For starters Emilo And Cuba Gooding Jr gave out great performances in their roles, And Denis Leary as the bad guy. The Movie is a short cut to a dead end, with a little twist at the end. It's basically about four guys taking a shortcut, and then coming across a murder, leading to Denis Leary and his goons wanting them out of the picture. It would be a good Friday night popcorn movie to sit back and relax. If you haven't seen it, I would recommend go see it, overall you will surely have a entertaining time. From the Start of the movie it starts with a plot leading to danger, but like all action movies, this one was pretty entertaining. I Rate it 7/10. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie","Date":"13 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is an excellent movie which i have assigned a 10, in the IMDb rating system. The viewer is bombarded by non-stop action and suspense which keeps them on the edge of their seat for the majority of the movie. 'Stunning', 'fast-paced', and 'thrilling' are all words i would use to describe this movie. Just when you think resolve has almost been reached, a new problem arises to block-off their escape. Danger proves to be around every corner, in every alley, and on every roof top. It's not any safer inside than it is outside. Judgment Night effectively captures the harsh reality of the world in which we live, and gives us some insight into territoriality . Judgment Night is a fast-paced thriller with a twist. 'A constant chase from start to finish with a highly convincing cast.' "},{"Title":"Good Suspense, Killer Soundtrack - Fine Combination","Date":"10 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Growing up in the 90's wild side (even in a far country such as Israel) makes me quite passionate about this movie that had mixed alternative grunge with new hip hop not only in the soundtrack. But, I have to admit, the first credit do go to the soundtrack  The opening piano score of Faith no More and Boo Ya Tribe's Another Body Murdered is breath taking. And the movie... back than, it rocked. High Tension, Dennis Leary's first major entry and that scary thought of what would I do ?. Today, I might seen better but still, judgement Night can teach a lot of very recent movies a thing or ten about how to create unpredictable suspension through most of the movie.Two middle fingers up (in the name of the lost rebellious teen-hood). ex-rocker "},{"Title":"Great Street Action Flick!","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When this came out back in 1994, it was a very dark street movie that didn't get the credit it deserved via Box Office, but did well in rentals and by word of mouth. You'll find a lot of good comments about this flick, most of the negative ones are from people who aren't really into these types of flicks. Its really gritty and violent, and also has a great storyline for a movie thats basically about a bunch of guys in the ghetto trying to run away from gangsters. Its really very exciting and thrilling watching these guys going from place to place finding a way to get the police to come and help them. Works out very well and you'll enjoy.VinnieB "},{"Title":"The fighter within us all///may be spoilers","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Judgment Night perfectly conveys the message that no matter how deep within us, every one would kill to stay alive.Three best friends(Estevez, Gooding and Piven) have planned a trip to watch a boxing match, and with an extra ticket, Estevez invites his immature brother(Dorff) along. What was suppose to be a fun boy's night out, turns into a fight for life.After witnessing a gang murder, the four men flee on foot from the criminals. Every place they try to hide, Fallon(Denis Leary), the gang leader, sniffs them out, and forces them to run again. They decide to fight when one of them is murdered, I won't tell you who, and realize that they are rather capable fighters.The violence isn't very graphic, but don't allow the kids to watch it, because there may be more curse words used here than in South Park.One of Emilio's finest performances. "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"15 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw parts of this film years ago one late night and it stuck  in my head. Years later I found a copy on VHS and managed to see it from start to finish. I have always been a fan of the Deliverance and Southern Comfort, Hunter / Hunted style of film and thought that the reworking to an urban setting, creating a sort of concrete wilderness, worked brilliantly. The mood of the setting is as dismal and foreboding as any deep south river. However this film would not be half as good as it is without its great cast. All four of the main characters fit their parts well, and Leary was perfect as Fallon, striking that Smart ass / Psychopath balance right on the head. This was a great film, hope it comes out on DVD one day.  "},{"Title":"We NEED a re-issue....","Date":"24 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I, like many other reviewers here, loved this great little flick. I only hope that somebody will eventually re-release this movie on DVD in all it's original widescreen glory, along with extras. I'm sorry, but a 1.781(??) aspect ratio is hardly what I would call widescreen, and doesn't even come close to the original 2.351. The current DVD edition, by Goodtimes, is a disgrace and an injustice to, not only this movie, but to it's fans as well. "},{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had first read about this film in an action movie guide book I bought a few years ago. I'd have to say that this picture is more of a thriller than an action movie, but I still enjoyed it when I finally saw it.Emilio Estevez leads a group of four suburban guys who stray into the wrong neighbourhood and witness a murder.  They spend the rest of the night running for their lives from psycho mobster Denis Leary.  Leary is truly menacing in this role.  He is ruthless and vindictive, stopping at nothing in his quest to kill the witnesses.POSSIBLE SPOILER AHEAD!Estevez, Dorff and a young Cuba Gooding, Jr. are all great in their roles.  Jeremy Piven's characrer Ray is a sleazeball, though, and I was actually glad when he died.  The world of the 'bad' neighbourhood is displayed in menacing detail. It's a world where very few people are willing to lend a hand.I give this film a thuimbs-up. It may not be a classic, but it's a gem! "},{"Title":"Fast paced not stop thrill!","Date":"2 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a cracking film. I found myself gripped to my seat. Perhaps i can relate to the film having being in many scary nights out with my buddies. the only fault i could give this film is Cuba Gooding. I found him a little annoying. Great performance by Dorff (an under rated actor) and Dennis Leary.Watch it.  "}{"Title":"one of the best movies in 1993","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I don't care what people say about this movie.this is the best movie in 1993 and i watch this movie when i came from school.my dad took me to see this movie and it blew my mind.I'll give this movie 9.1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"surprisingly good","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  *spoilers* Emilio estevez is very good in the role of frank. it is his best performance i have seen. the same goes for Denis leary who makes a very good villian . this movie is well-paced and intense because the characters cannot escape from denis leary.  it is somewhat unrealistic in that frank is able to kill denis leary. he is just someone from the suburbs and denis leary is fallon, a professional killer but this movie isn't about realism its about enjoyment and suspense both of which it creates well. 3 out of 5 "},{"Title":"OK movie and a fantastic sound-track","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think the movie is good. I've seen it more then once. The tension is well build up. I like the part of Denis Leary. He is the a**hole in the movie. And he does a terrific job.... I have to mention the sound-track, it's one of my  favorite cd's. Hiphop crossed with metal/rock. Like ice-T with Slayer, and other amazing combinations.  A classic to be.... Go listen... "},{"Title":"Was supposed to see Demolition Man","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was 17 at the time this movie came out, but the trailer (which I can't find anywhere now--does anybody know? email me please!) blew me away! So a couple of friends and I sneaked in (we bought tickets for Demolition Man). From the first few minutes I knew the movie was going to be something special--and it was!! It gripped me from beginning to end! The tense parts made seconds seem like minutes and the acting was great! "},{"Title":"Guy's Night out Goes Gonzo Bananas!","Date":"25 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie starts off strong with an interesting premise and great actors. Four buddies from the suburbs hop into an RV on their way to a boxing match in the big city. The problem is, they decide to take a short cut and end up in the wrong side of town.Overall it was a decently entertaining movie and I really liked Jeremy Pivens character because he was so entertaining. Kind of a sleazeball type of guy.The things I didn't like were the ending being anticlimactic and predictable and I never really liked Emilio Estevez' character. He was supposed to be a reformed tough guy, but the guy is like 5'3. It seemed like he was just phoning in his performance. Not very believable. "},{"Title":"OK, but predictable","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Four buddies on their way to a boxing match get lost in downtown Chicago and witness a murder.  There's little room for character development as the boys are chased by the killers through apartment buildings, sewers and department stores.  Director Stephen Hopkins' (Nightmare on Elm Street 5, Predator 2, and many more hidden gems) direction is solid.  He keeps the film at a quick pace with enough suspense to make such such ludicrous scenarios watchable. Denis Leary plays an intense bad guy who yells and rants constantly just because Hopkins didn't want to waste Leary's sole talent.  This makes for some interesting plot holes, like why would you make noise when you are trying to sneak up on someone?  There are some attempts at character development, but they barely help and just slow a movie like this down. However, there are many worse ways to spend two hours.2 stars out of 4 "},{"Title":"Strangely Familiar","Date":"22 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I think I saw this movie before I saw it. The first time around it was a tv movie called Survive The Night.  Both movies came out the same year, but clearly one writer cribbed from another to come up with a movie so similar. The only major differences in the two movies is that in one the cast is primarily male, the other female, and that there are different reasons for the gangs to seek the people out. Frankly, I liked the tv movie better, the women in the cast were more likeable, and one was more worried for their safety than in this movie.  "},{"Title":"don't ever leave your house","Date":"29 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The final moral of Judgment Night seems to be never leave your home.  This dull and not-even-mediocre movie pushes its message throughout the streets (ie. downtown) are no place for middle-class suburbanites; don't try to go downtown because it's rife with gang members and homeless people who will take you for everything you have (including your life). Unfortunately, movies like Judgment Night only seem to perpetuate the myth that life is safe only in white-suburban neighbourhoods. "},{"Title":"so-so","Date":"19 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The entry credits scene seemed to take on forever, and the first ten minutes or so created the image of a rather dull supposed action movie. After that, the movie had various incredibly tense moments, mostly carried by Leary, and several boring scenes. The thing that distracted me from the movie was that I really couldn't believe the former-wild-kids images of Estevez and his clique of friends throughout the whole film.I would consider Judgement Night a mediocre, if not better than average movie, but if you want to pull an all-nighter, don't watch it - as you might find yourself snoring away during the dull moments. "},{"Title":"Workable setup, poor execution","Date":"4 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" JUDGMENT NIGHT is a movie featuring an ensemble cast who find themselves enduring a night from hell when they're pursued by a vengeful street gang with murder in mind. As it's directed by Stephen Hopkins, who made PREDATOR 2 and THE GHOST AND THE DARKNESS, it has potential to be good, but sadly it comes a cropper before long and never lives up to that early promise.The problem with the film is the story, or lack of it. Okay, so the setup is halfway decent, but at around the halfway mark things really start to fall apart and it becomes just a straightforward chase flick with an us-vs-them mentality. Sadly, the lethargic and badly-handled action sequences, involving shoot-outs and fist-fights, are nowhere near good enough to make up for the lack of a decent narrative, making this an entirely forgettable movie when it comes down to it.One of the most interesting things about the production is the cast, half of whom would go on to greater glory. Stephen Dorff and Cuba Gooding Jr. are two of the youthful stars; the former is effectively edgy but the latter's acting is so cheesy that you wonder how he found later fame and fortune. Jeremy Piven is better, but the presence of Emilio Estevez reminds you of why he never made it big; he has zero screen presence.The bad guys are more interesting, although the characterisation is slimmer. Denis Leary is the charismatic chief villain, but I found his endless threats became pretty routine before long and I was dying to see someone off him. Much better is the entirely underrated Peter Greene (PULP FICTION), who SHOULD have been the main bad guy because he's excellently slimy, as ever, and indeed the best thing in the whole movie. "}{"Title":"Not quite there","Date":"10 August 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What an amazing cast with all the potential to make this a memorable flick. Peter Green in particular is fabulously sinister, but was sadly under-exploited by a country mile - what a pity. Denis Leary as usual delivered perfection and what a complete disaster this movie would have been without him. It started kinda OK and then slowly slid downhill all the way. The overall plot had potential, but it failed to hit the mark far, far too many unlikely scenarios and too many loose ends. By the time we reached the ending it was obvious the screenwriter/director had run out of ideas. What a shame. I like my movies to be believable, I don't like shouting at the characters to do what they should/would be doing if this wasn't the movies. Too often, the chance to build tension and suspense was lost with the urge to inject quirky humor. Perhaps it's worth the watch in the hope that it might not be as poor as I claim, but you can forget any ideas of a second glance. "},{"Title":"Gripping action film, sadly underrated.","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The first time i saw this film a friend of mine had taped it not really knowing what it was, so we put it on, not really expecting much. When we had finished watching it the first thing that struck me was that i could not believe i had never heard of it in the two years since it had been released(undeservedly straight to video!). It was just a great action film that gripped me from beginning to end in the same sort of way that films like Die Hard had. I have heard it said that the plot is simple and predictable, but if we are completely honest with ourselves Die Hard isn't exactly brain surgery. But action films don't have to be. However they do have to be done well as this is and as Die hard is the master of. The cast are all on top form, with special mention for Dennis Leary in a fantastically deranged performance. The film is shot with a touch of class and really conveys a sense of detachment from the safety of normal society. And all this is underpinned by another brilliant score from Alan Silvestri. If you haven't seen this film then you must. And if you have seen it then why not watch it again! Special mention for Stephen Hopkins, to have crafted a film of this calibre and received no credit or even a theatrical release for his troubles seems unfair, especially considering the sparkly garbage that seems to make it to the big screen all too much these days. Top film! "},{"Title":"Bumps in the night.","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Although by no means a dull work,Judgment night does not really delivers the goodthe very title promised great things.And what we finally have is one of these endless chases where the good guys are up to scratch when it comes to fight against the tough ones.There's no real surprise after the meeting between Estevez and his pals and Leary and his gang of baddies.What follows is predictable and the script writers have not the talent,the originality ,not to mention the sense of humor we find in Scorcese's minor but entertaining after hours .On the plus side ,the director takes advantage of the scenery and takes us to various places,which somewhat sustains the interest  a sinister block of flats ,sewers,the roofs,a bridge ,..Best scene takes place on the roof when one of the youngsters tries to deal with Leary and his packthis is the one moment where things seem to reach another level;but they soon peter out afterwards.Good for one watch,but nothing more. "},{"Title":"Energy and style.","Date":"28 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Judgement Night has energy and a good amount of style. The director, Stephen Hopkins, is very sure of the way he handles this story. Denis Leary is great as Fallon. The movie is casted well and has very nice cinematography. Good movie. "},{"Title":"As dark as it is gritty...","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this when I was like 12 years old and am watching it as I type.  Judgment Night is like a flip of a coin - one minute we're in the suburbs where it's peaceful where everyone's business is their own without a worry, then you go to the inner city where there's a slim chance if you intervene in someone else's you might be liable to be shot for it.  Judgment Night gets its fuel from its cast with most the cast which were given likeable characters and a very plausible villain in Denis Leary, his goons do good for the little screen time they get.  Of course Stephen Dorff, Sheen's brother and Cuba all did a good job.  The script might be basic but there were interesting twists and plenty of memorable lines from Denis Leary especially his one about whiners.  The photography was really good in the transition.  Don't you see how ill it can get when you're out w/ your crew and you just so cross paths with the wrong person???9/10 "},{"Title":"Good for a laugh","Date":"7 August 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I enjoyed Judgment Night, mostly because of Leary, who smirks and hams his way through this movie.  Estevez, Cuba and friends drive to the wrong side of town, where Leary is ruling the streets.  Just sit back and enjoy, it's a generic plot, but good fun.  Leary referring to a gang leader as Webster is just one of his many good lines, delivered with his edgy style.  Estevez and Gooding are fine, and once the movie starts rolling it's basically a chase through the dark streets.  Nothing special, 6 out of 10 for me. "},{"Title":"Awesome for many reasons","Date":"4 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" First off the soundtrack. This is one of the best hip hop soundtracks ever made. I bought the tape at a Sam Goody's in Brooklyn during my first trip to NYC, age 14. Needless to say, it warped my brain. Beyond the soundtrack, the movie is awesome! Pre-annoying Cuba Gooding Jr., perennial jerk Stephen Dorff, the legendary Emilio Estevez and pre-cool Jeremy Piven as the good guys and none other than Mr. Hockey Fireman Dennis Leary as the head bad guy!!! Awesome cast. Piven is the highlight as he acts like he is on a bad coke binge the entire time (he probably was). The action is fierce and fast and overall the feeling of urban decay is well, overdone. The neighborhoods they're in look more like Iraq than Chicago. Anyway, a great movie. Maximum Piven, great suspense, killer soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Fairy tale for adults","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A movie like many others that nevertheless manages to maintain its pace right up to the end.Call it a fairy tale for adults or a modern version of classic drama, as all the basic elements are there the dark prince of evil (outstanding performance by Leary)who relentlessly pursues virtue,descent (literally) into the sewers of existence and the resurrection of the hero who confronts the adversary with god-like courage.Well .. that's basically it.The kids( Estevez & co.)seemed to enjoy making this roller-coaster ride and act as if their lives were really at stake. Not a great movie but worth watching when looking for an energy boost. "},{"Title":"Very suspenseful......will keep you holding your breath.","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie was great. The actors gave wonderful performances. The plot is about Frank(Emilio Esteves) his brother John(Stephen Dorff) and a couple of his pals, Mike and Ray(Cuba Gooding Jr. and Jeremy Piven) going on a trip to a boxing match when they get caught in traffic and running late. Ray pulls off the main road for a shortcut. They end up witnessing a murder. The killers are leaded by Fallon. Fallon has a rule, no witnesses. For the rest of the night Frank, John, Mike, and Ray are on the run from the killers.  "},{"Title":"Great thrill ride.","Date":"21 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I loved this movie.  It was over a little too soon for me.  I saw somewhere that a critic had challenged the believability of a gang leader in Southside Chicago being white, but if they had cast a black actor(Samuel L. Jackson would have been good), someone would have screamed stereotype!!! Besides, Leary is perfect for the role.  His character knows that the protagonists are running scared in his element, and his taunting them adds to the intimidation and fear factor.  Leary steals this one.  All in all, a great movie! "}{"Title":"The greatest chase movie... Ever","Date":"26 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am a great fan of Cuba Gooding Jr. and chase movies so I was delighted one fateful and rather fortunate night when unable to sleep I turned my TV onto this gem. The film is about a group of mates who when taking an ill fated shortcut witness a gangland murder and are subsequently chased by the gangsters through the darkened streets of a hostile and poverty struck city. The storyline is gripping and kept at a good pace throughout. Moments devoid of action are filled with excellent periods of tension and suspence. the way in which the characters and there history are developed is marvellous and the phsycological tension is matched only by Stanley Kubricks the Shining. Denis Leary is an insperational casting and upholds his duty perfectly. Estevez has been better whilst Gooding jr and Dorf were excellent building the tension with each other as well as Estevez and Leary. This is a must see for all advocates of the art of chase. "},{"Title":"Killer film","Date":"2 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I first saw Judgement Night after listening to the soundtrack for about 2 years.  The soundtrack is unbeliveable.  I thought after this amount of time it was due for me to finally watch the film.  As I loved the soundtrack so much I couldnt help but love the film.  Suspence, action, and a cool bad guy in Dennis Leary.  One problem I have with the film is that it has heaps of holes.  Eg.  How the bad guys get off the roof of the apartment block. And how they continue to find the others.  Bit unrealistic in those aspects.But I love the film, mainly cause of the soundtrack which you should seek out and buy.  It is the best Rap/Rock complilation every created, bit like the spawn soundtrack but way better.My rating is 9/10  "},{"Title":"A really good action flick...","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The action general has become so generic that many movies leave me apathetic. But Judgment Night was a change from the norm. It was your basic action concept, but was one *constant* chase, where any character could be mowed down (sans Estevez, since he was the main character) at any time. The plot wasn't exactly Blade Runner, but was sufficient to compliment a heart-racing action flick. Definitely worth a look. "},{"Title":"not bad","Date":"25 March 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Good action movie where Emilio Estevez and company take a wrong turn on the way to a boxing match. They wind up witnessing Denis Leary commit a gang murder. They spend the rest of the movie running for their  lives. It was ok at best, with good chase scenes and suspense.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Very entertaining, with a superb soundtrack.","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dennis Leary is brilliant in this film, as the rest of the cast perform well as the white guys lost in the middle of the meanest part of town. Panic and fear come through well as the whole evening falls apart around them, and when it comes time for the tough ones to prove themselves, things just don't seem to go to plan.Definitely worth watching, the sets are dark and desolate, and you really get the feeling that these guys are scared and way out of their depth. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated Action-movies ever!","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can´t believe, this film doesn´t get the credits it deserves. In my opinion, the plot is rather original and has NOT been used a hundred times before Take the wrong exit and you land in the Ghetto. Hasn´t everyone considered this as a personal nightmare once a while?The directing is pretty good, the movie sometimes fast paced, sometimes extremely thrilling. But the best thing is the cast. Emilio Estevez (always worth a look) as the new family father who has to realize, that his wild times are over. The yet unknown Stephen Dorff as his younger hot-shot brother. Award winning Cuba Gooding Jr. (good as always) and Jeremy Piven as the greasy, selfish, money-driven scumbag who gets what he deserves.But even more interesting is the cast of the bad guys (I wonder why no one has noticed that before). Eric Shrody as Rhodes (better known as one of the few respected white Rap-Stars Everlast) proves, that he can act, too and gives a beautiful Irish-styled Gangster. The infamous Peter Greene as Sykes plays once again a psychotic, blonde bad-ass. You wonder, were you have seen this guy before? Well, do you remember Redfoot in The usual Suspects? Or maybe Zed from Pulp Fiction?? (Zed´s dead, Baby. Zed´s dead.) Now I see eyes open wide.But last and definitely NOT least is Denis Leary as the super-villain Fallon. Being one of the greatest stand-up comedians EVER (Check out his program No Cure for Cancer!), he is also one hell of an actor (Check out the hilarious comedy The Ref!!). Having a rather f***ed up sense of humor he has visibly fun playing the gang-leader and gives a few of the best one-liners in movie-history (after Esteves blows up the van, he says cool Shit, that was like the Hindenburg, man!).And let´s not forget the blast-away soundtrack that combines Rap- and Metal-Superstars (e.g. ICE T & Slayer)! Unfortunately it is rather in the background of the movie, which I think is becoming a bad habit in movie-making (doing a super-hip soundtrack with songs, that doesn´t even appear in the movie at all!). In Germany, the soundtrack was in the TOP 40s for weeks, although the movie didn´t even make it to the cinemas here and went straight to video! Check it out or don´t, but if you don´t, don´t blame me!  "},{"Title":"It's one of those films...","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  where I just don't know, did I see a good film or did I see a bad one. Well actually it's neither. If I am to say what I thought of this, it is this It's a regular chase film, with an OK story, good acting and a lot of suspense, but at the end the suspense wears of and the end itself is not good. It's just not inventive, it is a thing I dread it is average. Plus the film is sometimes predictable.But hey the film keeps you on the edge of your seat for a pretty long time. If a 5 means nothing special, 6 means special (as in inventive approach but old story) and 7 means pretty good, this one will have to get a 6,5 from me. I know I'm bein' ridiculous here, but I honestly don't know what to make of this movie. Go and see for yourself!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!The verdict is 7 out of 10 (rounded up) "},{"Title":"No Cure For Cancer","Date":"21 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Judgement Night is a Deliverence style movie about four friends surviving in the wrong territory. Judgement Night replaces the deep south with the inner city. Performances are good on all sides from Emilio Estevez, Stephen Dorff, weasely Jeremy Piven, and pre Show Me The Money Cuba Goodin Jr. But the real scene stealer is self described Asshole Denis Leary. Denis is as good an actor as he is a stand up comedian. And he's a great stand up comedian. Great scenes of action dot the movie through out, with only a few scenes dragging out. Denis Leary's thugs also do good acting jobs with their minimal screen time. All in all a good movie. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable But Nothing exceptional","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This whole movie while enjoyable is nothing exceptional. It starts off with a group of twenty somethings going to a boxing match. Of course we know something will go wrong. They get stuck in a traffic jam and decide to get off the highway and cut through a run down neighborhood. Bad mistake. They get in a wreck and witness a gang leader murder one of his lieutenants. The gang leader sees them and orders that they be eliminated. They try to escape. For a good part of the movie you get the feeling that this is a version of Deliverance set in the big city as the young men try to dodge the thugs through abandoned railroad cars, a run down housing project and the city sewer system. Then the young men decide to fight back and the movie turns into a version of Die Hard with one third the firepower as the thugs and the young men face off.   "},{"Title":"The cinematic equivalent of an ill-timed double play","Date":"16 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I remember being so hyped up to see this because at the time I was on a big Denis Leary kick. Judging from the trailer, it had everything that I wanted in a movie, violence, sarcasm and a great soundtrack. Needless to say, I was really disappointed. It's not even that it's a bad movie, it was just oversold. Leary's performance comes off as bland and there's some serious overacting going on here, especially from Cuba Gooding Jr. and Stephen Dorff. It plays like the Warriors but not as entertaining. Stephen Hopkins went on to do some decent stuff after this, including Kiefer Sutherland's 24 event series so I'll forgive him. But I was disappointed to say the least with this one. Rating *1/2 out of *****. "}{"Title":"denis leary, emilio estevez and cuba gooding jr. u can't lose!!","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  judgment night explodes onto the screen and makes an immediate impression. great opening credits, magic music and great performances, judgment night is one the best action movies ever made.  estevez shines as ray and leary sizzles as fallon the baddest bad guy ever put on screen, easily the best thing anyone on this project has done.rent it watch it steal itget your hands on this bad boy's only movie IT ROCKS!!!!! "},{"Title":"Rather unrealistic and quite annoying","Date":"17 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The main reason, and if I'm honest probably also the only one, why I watched this movie was because Emilio Estevez and Cuba Gooding Jr. were in it. I didn't exactly expect the best movie I had seen in years, but with these two actors, I at least expected to see a decent movie. But I'm afraid I'll have to change my mind on that one. This was a very disappointing movie.The story seems to be OK, at least in the beginning when you see four guys going to a boxing match. They don't go with a normal car like other people would do, they take a huge camper. But OK, no problem with that. As long as it serves the movie, I can live with it... and it does, because when they get completely stuck in a traffic jam and don't seem to find a way to pass some cars quickly, they decide to leave the highway and try an alternative route trough a neighborhood that doesn't look all too inviting. The four friends start thinking of going back to the highway when all a sudden they hit something or someone. When they stop they see a man lying on the ground and their first reaction is to call 911. But the driver starts to freak out (he has been drinking, he doesn't know if he's well insured...) and they decide to take him with them in the camper and to bring him to a hospital. And then all the misery starts. Not only has the man been shot, the ones who did it are now chasing the four friends...At first I still could live with the idea that they had left the highway, got into trouble... but as the movie kept going on, it annoyed me enormously. The bad guys always seemed to know where the four friends were going and never gave up the chase, the good guys always made the most stupid decisions possible,... And of course the good ones have to act like heroes and yes people get killed on both sides, but in the end the good will always prevail, right? If there is one positive thing that I can say about this movie, than it must be something about the acting. I'm not saying it was the best of the best, but it was decent and quite believable. Nevertheless, it doesn't save this movie and that's why I can only give it a 5/10. "},{"Title":"The dumbest movie in American history, maybe the world's","Date":"24 December 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  OK, first off there may be a SPOILER here since i don't know what constitutes giving out too much information. My subject line says it all but surely people will want to know WHY it's so stupid.First off, this film follows a bunch of Yuppies as they go to a sports game in Chicago but wind up taking the wrong exit and winding up in the ghetto. Scary, huh? Well, first of all, Emilio is driving everyone in the world's most overblown RV/Winnebago, tricked out with satellite dishes and crap like that on it. So these guys are GOING to a sports game (i forget which, though likely the Bulls or the White Sox since they're near the oh-so-scary ghetto), yet they can't even make it down the freeway without having an onboard viewing command center that would put ESPN to shame. Yet they're smart enough to earn livings that would pay for the stuff, but are such sports fans that they don't even know which exit to get off at on their way to the game they so love.I gave up on the movie within a half hour after that, but the reasons were plentiful. They wind up IN THE GHETTO, yet their main danger to their existence is DENIS LEARY. A WHITE GUY. I'm no racist, but COME ON. In anything RESEMBLING reality - and this film WAS trying to be an urban nightmare - Denis Leary would not be trying to kill Emilio Estevez, he'd be hitching a ride to get the f*** out of Dodge himself!!!This is easily one of the dumbest movies ever created, although I'm not familiar with much of the rest of the world's cinema. If MST3K were still on, they surely would have devoted an episode to this one.  "},{"Title":"The Greatest Movie I Have Ever Seen!!!!!!","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  DANIEL MANIAThis was beyond a shadow of a doubt the best film I have ever seen!!! I think it should have swept the Oscars and is one of the most UNDERLY-RATED film ever made.  This was Leary's best movie in my opinion and you can't be an action movie fan and never have seen this masterpiece of a thriller!!!!!!! There isn't that many excuses for not having seen this movie and if you haven't I strongly suggest you do as soon as possible!!!! The symbolism and ideology of this film are the makings of a genius and the acting is that of greatness. All in All I could go on for hours upon hours talking about this film but I make this brief. This was a true 5 star film with a 10/10 and a 20/20. So please do yourself a favor and make a mends to see this movie!!!-Be sure to look for the next DANIEL MANIA comment!! "}]