[{"Title":"Brilliant coming of age tale","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"49 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I didn't know anything about this movie before I have watched it because it was never released in my own country, as well as book was never published. I am not a big fan of Mel Gibson, I thought that he is just average but too overrated actor. So you can understand why I didn't expect too much from this movie. But now, I want to apologize to Mr. Gibson. In this overlooked masterpiece he proves himself incredibly good both as an actor also as a director. The story was absolutely great, realistic and touching. Relations between two main characters &#150; former teacher and young student boy (perfectly played by Mel Gibson and Nick Stahl) were shown as great as it possible. It was for sure best Mel Gibson performance ever. Young Nick Stahl acting also looked incredibly good as Chuck Norstadt. All supporting casts also did a very good job in their roles Director and whole cast team brought to us incredibly powerful atmosphere of total misunderstanding in Chuck family and in the whole town. People can't understand and worst of all they don't want to understand other people, who are not like all ordinary people in their small town. If you're not like all &#150; you're odd and nothing more. This movie teach us never judge people only by appearance and groundless suspicions, teach us always look inside the people. It was very strong, powerful and important messages. All dialogs were very well written and very memorable. In addition to this cinematography and soundtrack were very good.So, I consider The Man Without a Face as a stunning excellent film, best Mel Gibson film, one the best of the year and one of the best movies I've ever seen. If you're a Mel Gibson fan or simply love films with excellent story and perfect acting I highly recommend this film. Thanks a lot Mel and all people involved in this masterpiece.My grade 10 out of 10 or A+++Thanks for reading and sorry for my bad English. Feel free for mailing me about any of my posts and comments here. "},{"Title":"For those with an open mind...","Date":"27 September 2003","Score":"40 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A disfigured face as a result of a tragic accident, and unresolved suspicions, result in a life of hermitage for Justin McLeod.  His past life as a teacher becomes reawakened by 13 year old Charles, who is on a mission to become educated well enough to pass a military school's entrance exam, and he pleads with McLeod to become his tutor.McLeod's dark past and Charles' unrelenting motivation become unlikely allies as the two of them begin a relationship born of the common thread that each are misunderstood by others.This is an outstanding movie, which is much misunderstood by many viewers and reviewers alike.  It's a simple case of an adult taking an interest in and making a difference in a young man's life.  The movie is even more poignant because McLeod loses the safety of the anonymity he had worked so hard for, when he opens his mind and heart to young Charles.I have read all of the reviews on this site for this movie and object to those who attempt to review both the movie and the book at the same time. The movie should be reviewed here, and the book at a site for reviewing books.  To do both at one time is akin to going to Burger King and ordering a Big Mac.You don't need to be a Mel Gibson fan to love this movie, but you do need to have an open mind and an unfettered agenda.  This is a powerful performance by actors Mel Gibson and Nick Stahl, one that will leave your heart happy and your mind engaged.Both thumbs up from me for this movie. "},{"Title":"heartwarming and awe-inspiring","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"29 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mel is back and better than ever in The Man Without A Face. This is Mel's finest film to date as an actor and director. Not only is it touching and heartwarming but it showcases one of the best actor turned directors in Mel Gibson. The Man Without A Face would be my choice for one of the most touching films I've ever seen. Gibson certainly knew what he was doing as performed along side a newcomer named Nick Stahl. I can't tell people enough positive things about this newcomer who possesses rare natural talent. Gibson played his character Justin McCleod the way actors should portray the characters.......with heart. I can't think of a film that showed the world the reality behind people in Justin's situation. Gibson crafted the story very carefully and it shows. Mel Gibson is an actor with heart and has brought it to big screen as McCleod. I would venture to guess that this role is not that far off than his real-life role as husband and father.When I saw this film, I didn't have to do much but sit back, eat popcorn and drink my soft drink. I knew it was going to be a moving, touching and heartfelt film. However, it turned out to be much more. I was pleasantly surprised how Gibson crafted this film into a work of art by using his knowledge of working in front of the camera.I knew by the end of this film everyone involved with this awesome film from the talented director/actor to the up and coming star along with the viewing audience had fun making and watching The Man Without A Face.I recommend this film to anyone and everyone young and old who loves movies. "},{"Title":"Great film about true friendship","Date":"30 April 2002","Score":"23 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie is in my eyes an outstanding example of what films should be like. Nick Stahl and Mel Gibson show their immense ability to act in such a convincing way that this movie can be quoted as the movie with the most impressive story of true, honest and deep friendship. Nowadays, films are often judged concerning the special effects and the action, and classic movies slowly diminish. This film is unique because of the simple fact that the number of movies dealing with a topic like that, a topic that requires the knowledge of classic acting, unfortunately goes down.Nick Stahl, whom I haven't known before, and who is allegedly in the cast of Terminator 3, acts impressive and convincing. It doesn't happen often, but I was moved to tears, for the true friendship between Norstadt and his teacher gives the audience the message that real friendship, the belief in the future and your own self-confidence can help you to solve every problem.Congratulations to Mel Gibson and Nick Stahl, movies like this one, carrying such a pure message of life, preserve the issue of classic films Move the audience, give them something to think about..... and let them feel the magic of films like this one.  Watch this movie, and you'll know how to define friendship. Greetings from Austria to all imdb.com users!!  "},{"Title":"The Man Without a Face","Date":"30 June 2002","Score":"19 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A beautiful, touching, heartwarming story about a boy living in a dysfunctional family with his mother and two sisters, all of whom posess above average intelligence, and consider him to be the retard of the family. His only dream is to join the military academy, mostly to get away from his family. He meets a disfigured man (Mel Gibson), the local freak of the town. After learning that the man used to be a teacher, he asks for tutoring. In time, not only does the man become the boy's tutor, he becomes his best friend.10/10 "},{"Title":"Facing Life's Problems.","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" A badly disfigured former teacher (Mel Gibson) instructs a youngster (Nick Stahl) who is trying to make the grades to get into boarding school. Gibson's past is mysterious though and Stahl's family history is far from sweet and rosy as well. Difficult drama that has been misunderstood and under-rated ever since its premiere in 1993. Gibson's first directing venture does admittedly have more heart than brains, but he works wonders with what could have been a manipulative and predictable story. Of course this work behind the camera would lead to recent classics Braveheart and The Passion of the Christ. Heartwrenching and emotionally-charged winner that will pull at you and never completely let go. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"The Man Without a Face","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Gibson makes a spectacular directorial debut in this story of a relationship between a teacher, a man disfigured from a car accident and a fire and his young and troubled pupil. Both characters learn from each other the values of freedom and true friendship. Impressive performance from Gibson, as the teacher.   "},{"Title":"Justin McLeod wants to slip the surly bonds of earth and young Chuck wants to get into Military School but he'll need Justin's help","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"9 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Young Chuck wants more than anything to get into Military School but he will need tutoring to make the grade.  His only hope is reclusive Justin McLeod, a former teacher.  Justin is a reclusive figure of ridicule in this small town because of his disfigured face and other hushed implications. This mark on his face was from an automobile accident ten years before in which a boy was incinerated and for which he was convicted of involuntary manslaughter. When Chuck looks for Justin's help and they become friends, the town's people become suspicious and hostile.  I found it to be a good coming-of-age story; however I have to admit I did not get to read the novel - something I prefer to do.  So I can not speak to the success of keeping the film in line with the original story.  I found it to stand on its own.   "},{"Title":"Great movie for kids to learn from, or great movie for adults to appreciate.","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" With he demands of family and work, I usually don't have time to watch movies. With an 8 and 4 year old, and another on the way, we usually end up watching children's movies, light comedies, or Sci-fi, but I accidentally picked this movie, and I wish my boys were old enough to watch this.Inspirational! Reflects on To Kill a Mockingbird &#150; a movie I didn't fully understand until I was much older. This Gibson movie tactfully demonstrates the struggles boys must face and grow through in a complicated real world, without reducing to typical stereotypes, particularly feminist stereotypes of boys who promote the myth that boys are born privileged and lead privileged lives.The story line may be a little too sophisticated, but showing them that it's normal for boys to have questions, frustrations, etc&#133; is good for them to see because the movie goes on to show that this energy can be productively directed, that boys must take responsibility for the things that they want and the things that they do, but most of all, that they have to learn to think for themselves and come to their own conclusions, and not rely on what other people say or tell them to think. Great movies for entertainment are easy to find, but trying to find movies with Hyman&#133;&#150; morals - learning lessons &#150; is hard to find. Great movie for kids to learn from, or great movie for adults to appreciate. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This movie was perfect in my eyes. All the actors did a great and perfect job in this movie and i hope whoever else has seen it thinks so too bacause this movie really was great, it had one of those feel good plots so if you haven't seen it and are feeling a little down, then go rent this one because i guarantee it will make you feel good and happy about life. "}{"Title":"Fine Coming Of Age Debut From Gibson","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mel Gibson's directorial debut is a fine coming of age film, but it's also much more than that. Nick Stahl, in his debut film, plays a boy named Chuck in a family that is somewhat dysfunctional. Chuck wants to leave to go to military boarding school and follow in his father's footsteps. The problem is he failed in his first attempt to get in, and now he resorts to being tutored by Gibson's disfigured character, who has a questionable past. Along the way, he learns lessons about friendship, knowledge, life, and truth. Newcomer Stahl is fine as the young man, who learns to question the majority and find out things for himself. Gibson is terrifically understated as the renaissance man forced to live in isolation after tragic circumstances. Their scarred backgrounds are what draws them together. The film takes a while to get going, but once it does, we are drawn into a special relationship between Stahl and Gibson. Gibson is a little obvious at times with the Shakespeare references from The Merchant Of Venice, but they do not prevent the film from being ingratiating. Stahl's mother (Margaret Whitton) and sisters (Fay Masterson and Gaby Hoffman), who are all good, have little to do in the film, and the townsfolk are a bit one dimensional. The film is also somewhat predictable as it progresses. Despite these criticisms, the film's message is not lost on us, and it remains a very entertaining coming of age film. This is a very good debut film from Mel Gibson as director. *** of 4 stars. "},{"Title":"Well-told human drama","Date":"6 November 2008","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I should perhaps point out that my comments below are based solely upon the film. Unlike a lot of reviewers, I have not read the original novel by Isabelle Holland- indeed, I had never previously heard of either the book or its author.Mel Gibson's first film as director is set during one summer in the late sixties. Charles Norstadt, a twelve-year-old boy, is on holiday with his mother and two half-sisters on an island off the coast of Maine. He has ambitions to attend the same military academy as his late father, who he believes was a war hero, but receives no encouragement from his mother, Catherine, who regards military schools as fascist and is firmly convinced that her son is too stupid to pass the entrance examination.Charles makes the acquaintance of Justin McLeod, a painter living in a large house on the island. Because of his reclusive nature, and because his face has been horribly disfigured in an accident, McLeod is treated with a mixture of fear and mockery by his neighbours, particularly the local children. Charles, however, discovers that McLeod was at one time a teacher, and asks him to tutor him for the entrance exam. The gruff, taciturn McLeod is at first reluctant, but he gradually warms to the boy, and a close friendship grows up between them. Charles comes to see him as a father-figure, especially after he makes the unwelcome discovery that his own father was not a war hero but an alcoholic who abandoned his family and later committed suicide.Gibson initially wanted to cast another actor as McLeod, but was eventually persuaded to play the role himself. I think that that was the right decision; I have not seen all his films as an actor, but of the ones I have seen I think that he gave his best performances in this one and in Zeffirelli's Hamlet. McLeod is a complex character who is more than an innocent victim. He is also haunted by feelings of guilt arising out of the car accident in which he was injured and his passenger, one of his pupils, was killed. It is these guilt feelings which have led to his becoming a recluse and to his refusing to have plastic surgery to correct his disfigurement. His mentoring of Charles can be seen as an attempt to make amends for his past. The young Nick Stahl is also very good as Charles.Gibson has the reputation of being one of Hollywood's more conservative figures, and there are conservative aspects to The Man without a Face. Although the film is set during the Vietnam War, a time when all things military were regarded with deep suspicion by a large section of American public opinion, Charles' ambition to attend a military academy is presented as a laudable one. The politically liberal Catherine is too wrapped up in her own emotional needs to consider those of her children. She has been married several times (her three children all have different fathers) and many of Charles' emotional problems stem from his unstable family background and the lack of a father-figure in his life. The title The Man without a Face can refer to the disfigured McLeod, but it can also refer to Charles' father who is without a face in the sense that his son has no mental image of him.In another respect, however, the film can be seen as having a liberal theme, although not in the narrowly political meaning of that word. The local people's distrust of McLeod does not derive solely from his disfigured appearance. He is also rumoured to be a paedophile, and his friendship with Charles is therefore seen by many, including the local police chief, as deeply suspicious. I note that one reviewer actually concludes that McLeod is a paedophile and that another thinks that the film would be more interesting if he were to be portrayed as one. I think both these viewpoints are wrong. It seems quite clear from the film that the relationship between McLeod and Charles is platonic and non-sexual. If it were otherwise McLeod would be a detestable character rather than a pitiable one, and the film's key theme- that of not judging people, particularly those who are in some way different, on the basis of suspicion, rumour and unfounded accusations- would be fatally undermined.Of Gibson's four films as a director I think that The Man without a Face is, together with the very different The Passion of the Christ, the best. It is a well-told human drama, a sensitive exploration of the teacher-pupil relationship and of the corrosive effects of suspicion and prejudice. It is certainly better than the overblown and overrated Braveheart for which he won an Oscar. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Turns the theme of 'the beauty within' on it's head. (spoilers for the book and movie)","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  'The Man Without a Face' is a story about a boy, Chuck Norstadt (played perfectly by a young Nick Stahl), who seems to be the odd man out in his family. He is consistently at odds with his mother (Margaret Whitton), sadistic older sister, Gloria (Fay Masterson), his mother's numerous dull stepfathers ('The Hairball' is played by Richard Mauser), and sometimes, his youngest sister, Megan (Gabby Hoffman). You get a perfect sense of these inhibited relationships with his family during the opening sequence with Chuck describing his dream. He seems to be misunderstood, especially when he is constantly reminded that he is the family dummy. He just wants out. And boarding school is his opportunity.Chuck desperately needs to figure out a way to bone up on his academics and pass an entrance exam, which he knows he can't do on his own. That's when he meets Mr. McCleod, the town recluse. Badly burned from a car accident and carrying a dark secret, he has become the topic of much gossip. He is essentially, the Quasimodo of their sparsley populated summer village, and the people like to cruely entertain themselves with suspicions of Hamburger Head McCleod. Lucky for Chuck, McCleod was a former teacher who reluctantly agrees to tutor Chuck, and the boy has to stick with it as much as he fears McCleod and hates his teaching methods--McCleod is pretty authoritarian at first. But, over time, McCleod becomes Chuck's closest, if not only friend (the other kids on the cove don't really seem to be friends in that sense). He becomes a great tutor for Chuck, as well as a surrogate paternal figure, and a source of much needed emotional guidance for Chuck. He comes to look past the disfiguring scars of Justin McCleod and see him for the person he really is. McCleod, too, learns from Chuck. In the book, author Holland, defines this as his 'golden cocoon,' the unfettered place where Chuck and McCleod share a bond and it seems like nothing can go wrong.But something does go wrong. In the movie, the towns suspicions tear apart the friendship, as McCleod's secret is revealed and it seems like Chuck can't convince anyone how foolish and impulsive they're being, which is likewise destructive to someone as fragile as Chuck. It seems to him like whenever he has something good, someone always wants to take it away from him. It is a remarkably good movie about trying to get past the ignorance that prevents people from really getting to know one another, and such ignorance is usually dangerously destructive. And in this movie, we get one of the worst case scenarios.'The Man Without a Face' is both a wonderful novel and movie, although the movie turns the theme on it's head when they (screenwriter Malcom MacRury and director Mel Gibson) choose to rewrite the misunderstood McCleod as a heterosexual, and make several reiterations of his sexuality, while the text version of Justin McCleod was that he was a homosexual man, and even the student came to learn and accept his own sexual orientation towards the end. The entire theme of the movie was about disregarding the town gossip and really getting to know someone for who they are. So why change that trait about the character? It seems so damn contradictory.The movie does more to illustrate a story about how willfull ignorance guides people's perceptions. The book is much more about Chuck's need for familial affection and guidance for confronting those things in life which he is most afraid of--something that is prevalent in the movie as well, but not as much as the former. I can only guess that it was essential to write McCleod as a person who was mistakenly gay and suspected of molesting a student, in order to create a conclusion to a story that would reemphasize how people believe what they want to when they hate something (or someone) they don't know about.I don't see why author Isabelle Holland, who narrates the tale of Chuck Norstadt, would get flack for her story as it is not one about pedophilia. A young boy is struggling to stop repressing things about himself that he finds difficult to deal with. One of those is sexual orientation, which he finally realizes in the end and can honestly say that, McCleod's teachings must have been effective, since he was no longer ashamed of himself. But so what if the person who taught him to no longer be ashamed of himself was gay? Chuck didn't learn to accept himself because his teacher was gay, but rather because of the advice of his teacher not to run away from his problems. The accusation that the story is pure pedophilia is ridiculous.With the exception of the central characters and the general story, the movie and book are quite different from one another because it was necessary to expressing themes which are slightly different from one another. The novel is more about one person coming to terms with himself. The movie was more a statement about people in general. But both are very good, engaging stories, nonetheless. Mel Gibson and Nick Stahl both give great performances in this coming of age tale. The movie has often been overlooked, especially when reviewing Mel Gibson's career. I'd consider it one of his best.  "},{"Title":"excellent film","Date":"24 February 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Loved this movie. One of the few that exalts the finer and nobler human emotions. Gibson outdid himself and proved yet again his versatility and range in acting. I must say, I am puzzled, however. How can any of the posters to the boards for this film have any doubt about whether McLeod molested Charles or not? That was the whole point! When Charles runs to see McLeod for the last time and McLeod forces him to answer the question concerning McLeod's previous possible molestation of another boy, the dialog answers the question for us unequivocally. If you don't get it then you are not paying attention. Open your eyes and your heart and your mind and let this film touch you. "},{"Title":"Mel's Finest Performance, EVER!","Date":"6 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  To say that Mel Gibson is a fine actor is to state the obvious.  His body of work simply speaks for itself!In Man... he gives a stunning performance, one that demands us to look at the man, past his surface and into his heart that will reveal your character.The movie is one that should be added to your collection. "},{"Title":"Highly underrated masterpiece.","Date":"5 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I agree with those who say that this is one of the very few instances where a movie is actually much better than the book. Some would say that it is 'cowardly' to make the main character more sympathetic. I, however, call the screenwriter bold for having taken such a strong direction away from the author's apparent original intention, and furthermore to pull it off so well.Not only is the script exceptional, not only is the directing exceptional, but the casting is perfect and the acting is right on the mark in every scene and every respect. This is well-balanced and appealing entertainment. A poignant and moving film which will make any open-minded person examine their own looks-based prejudices. I think the film does Isabelle Holland's story more justice than did the work of her own hands. I also find the character of Justin more fleshed out in the movie, with the performance of Mel Gibson, whose face is only half-seen throughout. He does a better job with half his face than your average actor today could do with a hundred faces.  "},{"Title":"The Man Without A Face But Not Without A Heart","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This is one of my favourite films, Mel Gibson being my favourite actor has proved yet again what he can do with a role. Nick Stahl also does a brilliant job at playing Chuck Norstadt. Mel Gibson also made his Directing debut with this film and made it something special. A beautiful story about Chuck Norstadt (Stahl) who has an urge to get away from his family consisting of his mother (and her many husbands), his younger half sister & his older half sister who he has a bitter feud with. He is seen as a hard learner, this is where Justin McLeod (Gibson) comes in. Chuck in order to get away from his family must pass an exam to get into a Military Academy his father attended. Justin having been disfigured in a car accident is considered a 'Freak' by many including Chuck until they encounter each other. Chuck discovered Justin was a teacher and takes this opportunity to get him to tutor Chuck for the exam. Justin having lived alone for seven years is not interested in the idea until Chuck returns. Justin lives by the philosophy 'Learn or Leave' towards Chuck, until their friendship grows. Brilliant performances making a brilliant story that will tug at your emotions each time you watch this film makes it truly something special. This film is beauty in every sense of the word and brings new light to friendship & judging people under assumptions. "},{"Title":"«Aut disce aut discede»","Date":"25 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I chose this day date to write my review about this movie because it's its 14th anniversary it came out on 25th August 1993. I decided to open an exception this time and write a review about a movie on its anniversary. I selected The Man Without a Face.Well, let me just start by saying that this is a pretty good and interesting film. The best thing Mel Gibson has ever done, that's for sure. Not only he is part of the cast, he also directed it. The story takes place in the Summer of 1968 and is rather simple, but at the same time solid. It's a simple but great movie. Definitely approved. Although this movie is quite comical in many moments, it also is a serious work that deals with very serious and dramatic subjects (such as sadism, family's problems, misunderstood people, a hostile society, various types of tragedy, anger, depression, etc...).Chuck Nordstadt is one of cinema's funniest kids ever. He says some bombastic lines, he has a wicked sense of humor and a sarcastic personality, just as much he is a troubled kid at the same time. He is a «high class cheat» (like Mr. McLeod says) and openly a fan of John Wayne and he is the only one who loves his cat Mac. He also makes some of the most ridiculous and goofy facial expressions of all time, something which always cracks me up. Nick Stahl is terrific in this role which is his best and most memorable one. Chuck, despite being a teen, has a baby-like face. He's a cute kid. We mustn't also forget how ironic and funny it is a dog with the name Mickey and the fact of Gloria's boyfriend being nicknamed Flintstone by Chuck. It's impossible not to laugh with Chuck's morbid humor. Mel Gibson is awesome as the ex-teacher Justin McLeod and his burns look so real that they're almost chilling. He says some interesting Latin lines such as «Aut disce aut discede», «Secare deo», «Stultus puer» and «Et tu, Chuckus?», as well as a funny line about women «The problem is one of water».Beautiful landscapes also make this great underrated movie forests, green places, beaches, mountains, stunning views of the sea and so on... Chuck's mother has a nice and beautiful car a Citroen DS. That is such a great car! By the way, Meg (Chuck's youngest and clever half-sister) has good taste for music the song they play in the car's radio at the beginning (Sandy Posey's Born a woman) is a very nice song!This should definitely be on Top 250. "},{"Title":"Opinion","Date":"25 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I watched the film as a child; however,watching it now brought on a complete transition of opinion. During my life I have struggled to overcome a part of my past. One of which, that was abusive and difficult to overcome. When I was in High school I found the comfort of someone who loved me as I was never loved before.This person was my educator. She brought me closer to God, the love of a true friendship, and the strength to bring meaning to my life. While watching your film, I thought of her and all she means to me. We have been friends for a long time, I had the pleasure of spending Christmas with her this year. I consider her and her family to be my true family. Not to say I do not love my parents, but that is just how things are. Your character in the film was so powerful and dramatic in presentation. To think of such a person who could take all the meaning of love and friendship and express it in a film is very difficult. I am truly amazed at the meaning grasped within the film. I appreciate such a film to the highest extent. I was left in complete ahh and tears. I am amazed on how many people actually do not think so deeply as I and feel deeper than with their eyes. I believe that your film allows those who cannot feel with their heart to do so, even if it is only until the film ends. That kind of love and feeling is precious in every way. I feel there is no love stronger then that which exists in a true friendship. Thank you for bringing that feeling to life.Sincere regards, Appreciative viewer "},{"Title":"This is Mel Gibson's best film both as an actor and as a director","Date":"20 October 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is Mel Gibson's best film both as an actor and as a director. The story is wonderfully told by an outstanding cast working with a tight script. This movie may be a disappoint for those who read the book and were expecting a different storyline but, judged as a work in its own rite, it is an excellent movie. "}{"Title":"Beautiful and moving","Date":"23 May 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I only watched this film the first time because I'm a Mel Gibson fan, but I soon realised I enjoyed it for many other reasons than that alone. Gibson does not put himself centre screen instead focusing on Nick Stahl, who is beautifully cast as Chuck. The two interact well and make the film. The scenery is beautiful and none of the supporting actors disappoint. It may be a film touched with sadness that can have you shouting against the injustice of it all, but somehow, when you get to the end you feel good. Definitely not a waste of an hour or two. "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"13 October 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is one of the most under-rated movies of the past decade. Some reviewers have called it cowardly and lacking in moral qualities! I think these people are criticizing the movie for failing to agree with their own beliefs. Cowardly to avoid the path of political correctness and go where no movie has ever gone before? Cowardly to state truths that no one else dares to mention? I have had personal experience of the power of bureaucracies to break up pure and beautiful relationships, causing untold suffering, very much in the way depicted here. This is a story which needed to be told.Lacking in moral qualities? The whole movie is a moral statement about so many things. About the way in which people are misunderstood, about the need for stable family relationships, about the need for and the possibility of genuine friendship, but primarily about the degeneration of a society to the extent that it can no longer even understand how a man and a boy can share a strong and wholly innocent friendship.  This is not to say that the movie is preachy; it is in fact one of the most powerful, sensitive, best acted and thoroughly credible depictions I have ever seen of a slowly maturing relationship and the development of a selfish character into something much greater.I have not read the book, but from what I have read about it, I think the movie must be much greater. I have seen it several times but have still not exhausted its richness. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest films from 1993","Date":"25 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film is underrated, but being underrated can be a good thing because it might mean that behind the low rating hides a movie that isn't given the deserved credit. Here's a prime example of that.'The Man Without a Face' is a funny, human, sensitive, touching and harsh movie. It is a lesson of life and it deals a lot with life's problems and serious stuff. Besides, there is also a lot of comedy, which is a surprise for such a serious film. But the combination of these different elements is effective.Mel Gibson is someone I tend to find overrated, as an actor and as a director. But with 'The Man Without a Face' he made a great movie and proved that after all he is worth something as a director and as an actor, thanks to his great acting as Justin McLeod.Nick Stahl is brilliant as Chuck Norstadt. I love his acting, he really convinces in whatever he does in this movie, he's truly that expressive. Chuck is so funny his hilarious lines, his strong personality, his devilish sense of humor and the extremely goofy facial expressions he does when he is completely in the moon. He is also very inquisitive, determined and stubborn, It's also funny that, although he is 14 years old, his face is very childish, making him look much younger than he is. However, Chuck is also a troubled and enraged boy. I can't blame him with a father like he had, a mother like that and an older half-sister like that, no wonder he is a little crazy. Only his younger half-sister is decent.The film can also count with the help of a nice soundtrack (with soft instrumental music and a great oldie song - Born a Woman by Sandy Posey), as well as the simple fact that it takes place in Maine - which means it has beautiful vistas, all natural. It is also worth for the old cars and those acquaintanceships in family and with neighbors and friends. Like I said before, this movie is a lesson of life. You can actually learn a lot from it. It's interesting what is possible to learn from it.Title in Portugal 'Um Homem Sem Rosto'. "},{"Title":"One of the Best Movies Ever Made","Date":"1 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was truly a heart-warming story; it was a mix of emotions -- sad, cheerful, humorous, and never boring. I can watch this movie a hundred times! Nick Stahl, even at a very young age, was an excellent actor. Every move, every expression added great humor and passion to each scene. At the beginning of the movie, it's fast-paced and energetic, but at the end it's really sad, so you'll need a box of tissue~ I was kind of disappointed at the end because Mel Gibson actually ends up being restrained from seeing Nick Stahl. Very sad. It wasn't lacking any quality at the end, so you cannot stay mad. But overall, you HAVE to watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Heart-feeling , Heartbreaking, An Artistic Masterpiece of Feeling!","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Man Without a Face is a very special film about the emotional bonds of friendships, the pains of prejudice, discrimination, and the beauty of discovering your inner self. It's about learning who you are, what you could become, and that a person's wrong perceptions about someone can shatter their dreams. But I think the moral of this landmark movie is how even though your dreams can be shattered, you learn and work as hard as you can to to archive your goals.Mel Gibson is brilliant as the teacher who instills confidence in a young teen from a broken home. Nick Stahl gives an awe-inspiring performance in looking for a father figure and friend that he never had. His overworked mother and uncaring sisters have no support for him, so Chuck must set out to not only receive help in passing a state military entrance exam, but also to bond with a very special caring person in his life, his tutor and best friend.The chemistry between the two actors is amazing! Nick Stahl, probably about 12 in this movie has the wit and compassion of 20 year old. Mel Gibson has a wonderful quality for starting out as a recluse to Nick and the community. He has a badly scarred face and body from an automobile accident in which a boy died. The authorities believe that his character, Justin Mcleod, molested the boy in the car and the jury convicted him. Now, after his release from prison, Mcleod is back in the neighborhood, choosing to live in seclusion but devoted to writing, poetry, creating impressionistic art statues, and paintings. The community gets word that Chuck is being tutored and now assumes the worst, that Mcleod is abusing the boy. We also learn that Chuck's own father spent time drinking and was abusive to his own family, dying in a mental institution. The movie draws you in and you will have to decide who to believe and why? Can a man overcome his shattered past to build a positive relationship with his passion for teaching art, math, writing, and Shakespeare? How will the boy's family and small town react to this? How much does Justin's physical deformity factor into his acceptance by the community?The movie doesn't provide any easy answers to these questions. In fact, many of these questions are open to interpretation. But the heartfelt intensity, and special bond of friendship, between the actors in this movie will make you feel many emotions. It's a wonderful film! "},{"Title":"A very sensitive, touching film....","Date":"16 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" To have a true grasp on the theme of this film, it would help to have experienced life in that era, firsthand. Times and attitudes were indeed different back in the 50's, 60's and into the 70's. Life appeared much simpler back in those days, at least on the surface. Things were either black or white and apparently, in many respects, much simpler minds also prevailed regarding society's social morays and the consequences thereof.This film is a brilliant depiction of the life, times and attitudes back in the 60's. Mel Gibson does an excellent job of bringing his characters to life. Although the main storyline concerns a fatherless boy's trials and tribulations at the prospect of trying to add semblance to his life and toward growing up, it is an accurate depiction of relationships and a tender coming-of-age story. Though his mentor, a brilliant well-educated former master of a prestigious boarding school, possesses the experience necessary to help his student along his journey, he no longer possesses the credentials to do so.Does society possess the wisdom and compassion to allow this to happen?Any tragedy found in this movie, and many others like it, is the tragedy borne by society in all its 'wisdom' and the petty prejudices that abound. Even though this discrimination isn't based on race, religion or ethnicity, it is based on an even more insidious concept, hearsay and innuendo. How does one defend them self against a preconceived notion and general consensus, when all one has in their defense is merely their own word? Can logic and intellect overcome fear and prejudice, or is justice truly blind? Mel Gibson turns in a stellar performance, as does the entire supporting cast. I regard this film as one of my favorites. It is worthy of a ten out of ten rating. Watch it, but don't even attempt to rationalize, it is after all just another lesson about the absence of compassion when prejudice and discrimination prevails, and who knows, maybe it just does have a happy ending... "},{"Title":"Justin McLeod, the invisible man","Date":"30 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Being reclusive is a way form the world you used to live in. In The Man Without a Face, Mel Gibson plays Justin McLeod, a former teacher who was horrible deformed from a car accident that claimed a young man. Living away from society in New England, he is seen by a fatherless kid named Charles Norstadt(Nick Stahl), who on the other hand can't stand living with three sisters. His older half-sister Gloria(Fay Masterson), is the one he fights the most with. He's also at odds with his mother who wouldn't dream of him having to go to a military school. Onthe the other side of town, he meets Mr. McLeod, and he teaches him the different subjects. Poetry, my favorite, and also Shakespeare. There will be some tasking in order to get help, but it seems to pay off. After knowing the truth about his father, the closeness between McLeod and Chuck bonds even more. Chuck had the heart, to understand Justin's visage, even though he had a past, McLeod gave him hope to do better in life. So the meeting between the two was worth the while. Mel Gisbon put a lot of effort in this movie, and I thought it was great. A fine masterpiece this movie is, and a major keeper as well. 5 stars! "},{"Title":"a wonderful tale of friendship inside a small town","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" this was a wonderful underrated tale of friendship, teacher student bond and of a fatherly figure in a fatherless boy's life. this is what school should be like. learning should be enjoyable with people who you can enjoy being with. not sitting in boring classes while teachers drone on without passion. this tale is also deep in its morals, about who we can trust and why we are always quick to point fingers and prejudice against people and why true love and friend are dying out in this world. love is not the sexual thing that we all are quick to jump to but instead it is a desire to help others at no cost of your own to help them through their struggles because you care about their future who they are as a person. this film was about that, while this is not a major picture it is an important film for people to see to remember its the heart of the person not the labels or what they look like that is important. "},{"Title":"one of Gibson's best","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mel Gibson gives one of his best performances as the disfigured ex-teacher who takes a troubled young boy (Nick Stahl) under his wing as tutor, mentor, and friend. while the idea of two outcasts, one an adult teacher and the other a young teen boy, forming a bond is not new, the story is still compelling. the suspicions surrounding Mcleod (gibson) and his past lead to new allegations. the allegations are answered when Mcleod asks Charles what he thinks about McLeod's past based on their relationship. McLeod forces Charles to think and judge based on his knowledge not on suspicion or hearsay. the final scene speaks volumes about what their relationship was and what it meant to each of them. this film ranks up there with a separate peace and dead poet's society as a teen awakening film. "},{"Title":"Very Powerful","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I saw this film yesterday and I can't stress how great this film is. At times your really wishing the best to happen and you cringe when a character says something offencive to someone your sympathising with, its really powerful stuff. Even if this isn't your type of film, you can greatly appreciate the directing skills from Mel Gibson (who apparently had read a how to direct book), who was new to directing at the time. I think this film is very clever in some parts too, the end linking with the beginning and others which i wont say, see it for yourself and see what you think )! "}{"Title":"wut a movie!","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  this is one of the best movies i've ever seen!very good story and acting!i love it...i'm from china one,one night they put it in TV and i soon fell in love with it,and when it was shown again at 600am the next morning i recorded it with the video player...it's a pretty old way i aint got a vcd or dvd recorder! ah....i just love this movie and the only thing i can say is that What a great movie!!! "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This film deserves far better than the mediocre user ratings it has received.  It is truly one of the most beautiful  films I have ever seen in its portrayal of the friendship of two outliers on society's mainstream. Beautifully written, with tremendous performances by Gibson and the boy. Overall, it is very powerful and very touching.  I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"An excellent movie that will make you stop and think....","Date":"2 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The Man Without a Face (1993), I thought was an excellent movie with some of the best acting ever seen, especially Nick Stahl who played Chuck Norstadt. This movie will make you stop and think about why people alienate others who look different or are not social with people. This movie should be shown to young kids to hopefully make them realize why they shouldn't make fun of people who look different than they do. The movie will show how a boy, like his friends and the rest of the town, make fun of this man. Then, when the boy goes to the man's house, he talks to him and understands that he is a very normal person with a disturbing past. People start to think the boy is being molested by the man and they decide to have An informal meeting and decide to export the man out of the city, even though he had never committed any crime. People just won't listen to him because he is different and they don't know what to expect from him.... "},{"Title":"A TRULY TOUCHING FILM!","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Although I thoroughly enjoyed the book, I personally received more satisfaction from watching the film. The movie seemed to isolate and heighten the intensity of the emotions, whereas in the book the narrator digresses from a topic and therefore deprives the scene of its importance. It is definitely a poignant film and a MUST SEE!  "},{"Title":"A sensitive story of facing up to the traumatic moments in our lives.","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  After a string of action adventures Mel Gibson made an unusual choice in his first film to direct. Not a big budget action film but a sensitive story of a boy coming to grips with what happened to his father (Stahl) and a disfigured former teacher(Gibson) making peace with his past. The boy seeks out the reclusive teacher in search of a tutor. He finds a no nonsense one whose harsh methods brings forth results while erecting a barrier to keep an inquisitive outside world out. A deep and moving friendship eventually develops while misunderstanding and small town rumor mongering work to bring that friendship to a tragic end. Gibson and Stahl are really quite good as is Gibson's direction. The rest of the cast is made up mostly of actors from local Maine theatre companies (where the film was shot)and they are quite fine. Author Isabelle Holland who wrote the original book opened the story up. She had originally wanted the story to deal with the consequences of someone falsely accused of child molestation but her publisher some 20 years ago was wary of bringing that up in a story originally intended for young readers. In the end this is a story of facing up traumatic pasts and the consequences they create. It is very well told with sensitive and sympathetic acting and some very deft and subtle direction.  "},{"Title":"A True Braveheart Brought Us This Movie","Date":"27 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Tender and sensitive, daring and bold - gorgeous actor defaces self to portray unlovely character, big name star gives children front and center spot-light, a passion for the telling of a story so great the only one he can convince to portray the character he longs to direct is himself - this is a multi-level movie that one can enjoy time after time after time and still find fresh moments to savour. As he did with his Hamlet, Mr. Gibson leaves some of the movie in the 'unspoken'.  He invites us to become directly involved - rather than spoon-feeding his opinions into our collective brains he gallantly leaves some questions unanswered.  Perhaps this is the problem some have with this movie - one is invited to 'think' and to participate - not always an easy thing to do when the matter at hand is a 'touchy' one.  Yet he does no posturing of his own - leaving the camera and other actors to tell the story as his own character disappears from our own view.  We are left to see Mel's character through the eyes of the only person who really *knows* him - awesome, simply awesome IMHO.  The world we see through the eyes of Director Gibson is a a tender, and sweet, and intelligent, and daring and uniquely poignant one. Bravo to Mel Gibson not only for the excellent job of casting, directing and acting - but the courage to tell the story *his* way - to have a vision and carry that vision to film for all of us to see. Especially grand in a world whose vision normally is no further than the rump of the person one step ahead. "},{"Title":"The Man Without a Face (1993)","Date":"20 March 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The coming-of-age genre has been one of the most fascinating storytelling devices throughout the years there's just something about the mystery of childhood and the people that have a permanent impact on your life that has made this type of narrative endlessly captivating. When applied in a film, sometimes it works (see Sling Blade and To Kill a Mockingbird) and sometimes it doesn't (Hearts in Atlantis). In Mel Gibson's directorial debut, The Man Without a Face, it happens to work quite marvelously. Chuck Norstadt (In the Bedroom's Nick Stahl in his first performance) is a young boy who has sudden bursts of violence and lives with his sister, half-sister, and single mother (Margaret Whitton). Justin McLeod (played by Gibson himself) is the Boo Radley of their town -- a reclusive man with a disfigured face and a dubious past. Chuck has been seeking a way out of his current life, and finds hope in the possibility of going to a military boarding school, but he must first pass an entrance exam over one summer, he is tutored by McLeod -- a former teacher. It has become a cliche in movies that the fatherless child is obsessed with his father's past, and seeks a replacement for that figure in his life. Gibson uses this cliche in his film, but he uses it with honesty and discernment, and it works. Now, I'm not the biggest Mel Gibson fan -- which is putting it mildly (as a friend of mine so aptly phrased it, Mel Gibson is a blockhead); I loathed Braveheart and found The Patriot positively rancid (if there had been one more slow-motion shot of him running with the American flag with blood on his face, I would have vomited). However, I was stunned by The Man Without a Face -- which is a flawed but outstanding drama. His direction is simple and modest, breaking the story down to basic elements and doing away with the characteristic pretenses he never pretends that his movie is anything more than it actually is, and that is a trait to be admired. What Malcolm MacRury's script (adapted from a novel by Isabelle Holland) lacks in originality, it makes up for in character development; the secret of McLeod's past isn't difficult to decipher (in fact, it's quite apparent), but MacRury doesn't attempt to transform it into some sort of plot twist. When Chuck asks McLeod what happened to his face, McLeod answers directly and without hesitation, rather than saving his response for some emotionally climactic scene later on. If I have one complaint with the way MacRury handled the story, it's that he sugarcoated some of its issues, but I understand that he did this for the sole purpose of making it more accessible to a mainstream audience (see Michael Cuesta's L.I.E. for a more frank and upfront approach). The performances in The Man Without a Face are intimate and sincere Stahl was only twelve when he made this, and even though his depiction may not be perfect, it is genuine. When he swears, he swears as a child would -- accentuating each curse word to emphasize its implication of maturity --, and it's not difficult to see that he's hardly acting. But that's a good thing while forced at times, his performance is earnest and devoted. Gibson does hardly any acting himself, seeming fairly natural in his portrayal of the monster-with-a-heart-of-gold -- which is also a good thing. The more I think about it, the better this movie seems it is one of the most memorable and noteworthy features of the 90's. It's a shame that most people only know Gibson for trash like The Patriot and Braveheart, because this is definitely his best work.Grade A- "},{"Title":"surprisingly good","Date":"29 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Being the shallow cow I am I bought this film because I wanted to see Nick Stahl. I'm not a fan of Mel Gibson but his performance was amazing. I loved watching 'Man Without A Face' from beginning to end. Its a bit of a tearjerker though so be warned! I cried like a baby at the end and I usually try to be rock hard during films. Great film. Watch it! "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The man without a face is a great drama. First I didn't think it was a drama movie because of the title which is a little weird but the movie is great. Mel Gibson plays Justin McLeod who is asked by Norstad I think the kid's name was to be his tutor and I am not going to tell you anything else because it would just ruin the movie. A must-see. "},{"Title":"A lovely, intelligent movie","Date":"24 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Amazing what comments this movie has stirred up amongst lovers and haters of the original book!  It's an excellent movie that should be judged on its own merits.  I think it's got Gibson's best performance, pretty impressive since he was busy directing at the same time.  The most moving film presentation of a mentor/teacher-student relationship I know of.  Only the ending feels incongruous to me.  I have nothing against subject matter that concerns sexual abuse. It's just that after what has come before, it feels like an unnecessarily sensationalistic resolution to the plot, not in keeping with the first 3/4ths of the film.  And that doesn't mean there should have been a happy ending.  I love some movies that change in tone (Jonathan Demme's Something Wild for example) but it doesn't feel successful here.As a non-conservative, I think people who find a conservative agenda in this movie are reading too much into it.  I see too much interest in the characters' own personal problems to have any real political bias one way or the other.  As it should be for this story.And I really like the Isabelle Holland novel - which, by the way, deserves to be defended here from those who've accused it of a pedophiliac message. Read more carefully, folks!  It bravely, though briefly, looks at the sexual questioning a troubled, deprived kid can go through, with the Justin McLeod character understanding it, not encouraging it.  It is the adult who refuses the confused sexual advance of the teen.  It's horrific that in this world there are real pedophiles who would abuse kids instead.  Anyway this is obviously a part of the character psychology that Gibson and the screenwriter were not interested in exploring for whatever reason.  Fine. They've already retooled much of the main plot and thrust of the novel to avoid it anyway.  But they should not have felt they had to turn the plot ending into some reflection about abuse, because as I said, it doesn't seem unified with the rest of the retooled movie.But I still recommend it, the virtues far outweigh any flaws. Wonderful. "}{"Title":"One of Gibson's best....","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This being one of my all time favorite movies, I was supprised at how negative alot of reviewers have been. Apparently it was not strictly adapted from the novel, and some people don't like what was changed. Frankly, I couldn't care less. It was a very well done film, acting as well as directing, and has to be Mel Gibson's single best performance yet. He makes you feel very much for Mccloud, and wonder at how people can be so narrow-minded and cruel sometimes. Whatever the original story, this movie is definitly worth seeing, and deserves much more recognition than it's gotten.      9/10   "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Seems like loyalists of the book can't get over the fact that the movie's adaptation doesn't mirror its source. Regardless, this is a beautiful film, set in the summer of 1968 on the coastal shores of Maine. The script is manipulative, but the story is poignant and well acted. Nick Stahl, all of 14 years old, carries the movie with an earnest and convincing performance. I actually got a little choked up at the ending. I saw it in the theater, but since the film doesn't rely on special effects, I imagine it holds up on the small screen. Definitely worthwhile. "},{"Title":"Very Touching.","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This film was very enjoyable to watch and very touching. Also Mel Gibson needs to be congratulated for directing the film he did a great job. There wasn't much wrong with this film accept the ending. But other than that the acting was brilliant and the storyline was great. The movie also showed that Nick Stahl could act in one of his first major roles and now he has producers and all these important people ringing up his agent so that he can be in all these good films with good storylines. So in conclusion to this review I give this film a 7 out of 10 because it was a joy to watch and because it deserves that rating. But only people 15 years and over should watch it because of the Adult Themes.     "},{"Title":"A different, touching memorable film","Date":"10 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  There's something really different about this film, or so I found. I Really liked it for a number of reasons.. I watch it not only for the entertainment aspect of the movie, not only for its story, but because it can actually stir up a reaction within you and an opinion for its turn-of-events.. where as with some movies you're caught up with the excitement and adventure..but after you watch it you can't even remember the overall plot or character names, or even worse, if the characters all seem like paper-cut outs and you can't remember the difference between the characters. With this movie, you can remember their names. you can also remember their characteristics and personalities, and from what you have seen, can even decide what kind of person their backround. Its really quiet interesting. I think the title is interesting.. The Man without a Face not only refers to Mcleod's disfigurement, but also to him as a human being as well. Because of his reclusion and privateness, he has become to the town a perfect little hermit and good gossip fodder. Their stories and gossip disfigures his name. To the town they don't know the real him, the real face, so they gave him one. I think the reason they did not tell us whether the other boy was molested or not was intentional. When Chuck, in anger and fear, confronted Mcleod with this, he replied, No sir, I didn't teach you all summer so you could cheat on this question! I believe that applies to the audience as well. We weren't meant to sit there and watch it, having the whole thing spoonfed to us, having them tell us the real truth. Out of our own opinions and from what we've seen do we make our assumptions, unlike the town, who makes their judgments from the stories passed around. Even though the injustice of it all seems sad, in a way the whole thing was a victory, for both Chuck and Mcleod. They both gain so much from each other and it shows the audience so much. With its powerful acting and musical score, you gain something new from it each time you watch. "},{"Title":"One of the BEST","Date":"10 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I had never heard of this movie or the book it was taken from...but I watched it because of Mel Gibson, even though I am not a big fan of his, his movies are usually at least worth a look/see.I was pleasantly surprised at how well done this movie was and the lasting impression it has had on me. Many movies are so forgettable that after watching them they are soon forgotten.I marveled at how well the entire movie was directed and the sets, acting, screenplay were magnificent.The movie is about a young boy who feels different than others in his family and circle of friends. He meets and a strong friendship between the boy and Mel Gibsons character are forged.The movie is about being different and still normal, still with feelings, still with intelligence, still with passion.The only thing in the movie I might change would be the title, it just is not what I would consider a good name....A better choice might be A Man and a Boy... or something similar. "},{"Title":"excellent film with heart","Date":"11 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mel is back and better than ever in The Man Without A Face. This is one of Mel's finest films as an actor and director. Not only is it touching and heartwarming but it showcases one of the best actor turned directors in Mel Gibson. The Man Without A Face would be my choice for one of the most touching films I've ever seen.Gibson certainly knew what he was doing as performed along side a newcomer named Nick Stahl. Stahl was an outstanding choice to play opposite Gibson because he brought natural talent to his role.Gibson's portrayal of Justin McCleod should be a guideline of how other actors should portray their characters.......with heart. I can't think of a film that portrayed a character that showed the reality that face those in Justin McCleod's situation. Gibson crafted the story very carefully and with great sensitivity. Gibson.Mel Gibson is an actor with heart and has brought it to big screen as McCleod. I would venture to guess that this role is not that far off than his real-life role as husband and father.When I saw this film, I didn't have to do much but sit back, eat popcorn and drink my soft drink. I knew it was going to be a moving, touching and heartfelt film.However, it turned out to be much more. I was pleasantly surprised how Gibson crafted this film into a work of art by using his knowledge of working in front of the camera.I knew by the end of this film everyone involved with this awesome film from the talented director/actor to the up and coming star along with the viewing audience had fun making and watching The Man Without A Face. I recommend The Man Without A Face to anyone and everyone young and old who loves to watch movies. "},{"Title":"An good, interesting look at the teacher-student/father-son relationship","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a beautiful film. It starts out strong, sensible, and reminds me of To Kill A Mockingbird in the way the community treats and regards the reclusive McLeod (Gibson).Gibson in strong here. So is the young Nick Stahl. They really seem to make a connection on screen. The two actors pull off the teacher-student relationship wonderfully while their characters convincingly fall into a friendship that becomes reminiscent of a father-son relationship.The Man Without A Face, however, is not without its flaws. I just was never truly convinced that McLeod would not consider having his face repaired because he thought it didn't seem right, as is the only explanation given in the movie as to why McLeod has dodged plastic surgery. Further more, sometimes I feel they are hitting the idea of McLeod is scarred and ugly looking too hard on the head. They make it seem too much of the reason why McLeod is socially hindered. If anything, it should be his suspected history of child molestation and withdrawn and bitter nature that causes more awkward moments than his scarring.The story of Chuck, the young boy in the film, is more solid and believable. He lives with his mother and two half-sisters. All three kids come from different marriages and the mother is on her next husband. The sardonic and emotionality withdrawn Chuck refers to his new step-father as The Hairball. Chuck is distant, emotionally neglected and verbally abused by his mother and sisters who have little empathy for other people. It is only when McLeod and Chuck begin to really form a friendship that both of them become better people.I personally found this film well done, heart warming while tragic, and flawed but a good watch. If you're interested in human relation movies and the whole social dynamics in families and communities bit, see it. "},{"Title":"heartwarming and very touching","Date":"6 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mel is back and better than ever in The Man Without A Face. This is Mel's finest film to date as an actor and director. Not only is it touching and heartwarming but it showcases one of the best actor turned directors in Mel Gibson. The Man Without A Face would be my choice for one of the most touching films I've ever seen. Gibson certainly knew what he was doing as performed along side a newcomer named Nick Stahl. I can't tell people enough positive things about this newcomer who possesses rare natural talent. Gibson played his character Justin McCleod the way actors should portray the characters.......with heart. I can't think of a film that showed the world the reality behind people in Justin's situation. Gibson crafted the story very carefully and it shows. Mel Gibson is an actor with heart and has brought it to big screen as McCleod. I would venture to guess that this role is not that far off than his real-life role as husband and father.When I saw this film, I didn't have to do much but sit back, eat popcorn and drink my soft drink. I knew it was going to be a moving, touching and heartfelt film. However, it turned out to be much more. I was pleasantly surprised how Gibson crafted this film into a work of art by using his knowledge of working in front of the camera.I knew by the end of this film everyone involved with this awesome film from the talented director/actor to the up and coming star along with the viewing audience had fun making and watching The Man Without A Face.I recommend this film to anyone and everyone young and old who loves movies.  "},{"Title":"A look in the mirror...","Date":"10 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I first saw this film on television.  It was late and I had already missed the first half but it did not matter.  I was soon finding myslelf engrossed in a story that all  of us know too well growing up.  As with many coming of age movies, our hero is placed in situations which requires him to develop maturity right before our eyes.  This film epitomizes that excellence.  Mel Gibson does a marvelous job in his directorial debut and James Horner astounds with music that conveys the melody we are all thinking but are unable to express.  Mel Gibson also does a great job as The Man Without a Face, and Nick Stahl is superb in his debut.  A wonderful film commonly overlooked...don't miss it.   "},{"Title":"A stunning achievement, Gibson's best film","Date":"26 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  	Mel Gibson's first foray into directing, though not a commercial success, is a superb film, one of my favorites of all time.	The musical score by Titanic composer James Horner is subtle and unforgettably haunting, fitting in the scenes so well that it is often not noticeable until at least a second or third viewing. Horner is always great at making the music to one of his movies sound completely unique and different from another, and it shows here.	Gibson's pacing rarely falters, especially during an astounding twelve minute sequence towards the end that ranks at the top of any scene I've ever watched. The film almost never looked like it was in the hands of a first-timer, but keep in mind that Gibson won an Academy Award for directing in only his second swing at it (Braveheart, 1995)	No matter how good the other aspects of the film are, absolutely nothing can compare to the acting, which is so good that the word to describe it has yet to be invented. As Meg, Gaby Hoffmann (Volcano, Sleepless in Seattle) steals most of the scenes she's in. Gibson delivers his best dramatic performance ever as Justin McLeod, but he never even comes close to rivaling 13 year old Nick Stahl, who completely owns the film from the first second on.	It's strange that the lead role didn't go to a more established child actor (Macauley Culkin, Elijah Wood?), but if it had then the film would've been ruined, as he's on the screen at least 85% of the time. Stahl is absolutely mesmerizing, so much so that at times it's impossible to take your eyes off him, he delivers one of most emotionally rivitting performances by any child actor, by any actor ever.	He almost disappeared from the scene after this, until five years later when he got the lead in Disturbing Behavior and a small role in The Thin Red Line.	After watching it for the first time I bought it and saw it over a dozen times in the next two weeks. It was as if I was in a state of temporary depression because of it. I never thought a movie could be that good to do that, but it did. If you let this film pass you by in theaters like I did, don't make that mistake again.	Of course every film has it's flaws, and 'The Man Without a Face' is no exception. Forget the bad title. The first scene is pathetic and when I first caught it on late night TV, I almost stopped watching. The sound levels are constantly changing, and much of the dialogue is hard to catch, resulting in the missing of several important parts. Without giving anything away, I can say that the ending is soggy and very poorly done ala 'Three Wishes'.	The assets this film has completely overpower the flaws, making this easy to recommend, but don't stop watching at that awful first scene. If I had only one wish regarding movies, it would be to watch the film again for that all-important first time. "}{"Title":"A different view of a noble film","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Owning and loving both the book and the movie, I couldn't agree less with the previous reviewer as to the movie's failure or cowardice.  Mel has done a great service to the book if for no other reason than he saves Justin from dying at the end!  Because one can communicate more in a book than in a movie it is usually the case that a movie is inferior, but here this is most definitely *not* the case, despite how moving the book is until the final ten pages when it proceeds to destroy everything and everyone, including Justin and Charles' relationship. After all it is the great Mel Gibson we're dealing with so it should hardly be a surprise his skill in remolding things so skillfully.  Though certainly not wanting to forget the skill of the screenplay writer the director has more than a little influence in that direction!As to previous allegations of Mel being a coward in dealing with the book's subject, such nonsense becomes apparent for what it is if one looks at the hard hitting approach Mel has taken in other masterworks.  I'd like to see people insinuate such things to Mel's face and be set straight right away, if Mel even bothered with such drivel.  The current politically correct homophilia (and the book only hints at homosexuality rather than presenting anything specific) disgusts me as much as homophobia and Mel's too good a man to stoop to such matters, one reason being his devoted fathering of his dear kids Hannah, Edward, Christian, William, Louis, and Milo.  Regarding his hard hitting style, Conspiracy Theory has gripped me the most along such lines to date.  He's always been a powerhouse, even in his subtlety, such as Tim.I deeply appreciate Ms. Holland's heartfelt approach to the relationship between Justin & Charles in her book, and read it regularly (except for the last ten pages where all is lost!) but some seem to fail to understand the dynamic there received far greater presentation onscreen.  In this case the dynamic of the relationship gripped you from the screen in ways the book couldn't capture.  Which would you rather have  a video or a book about your loved ones. Case closed.Mel accurately adduced that the core of the story is about the trust established between Justin and Charles, and although the movie rather chose (to me unfortunately) to have accusations by the family, authorities, and town against the two, than to so fully deal with the intensity of the relationship between Justin and Charles as in the book, it was an intensity redirected, not lost because Mel's own gratifiying and typically precocious intensity came through.  Nick was no small contributor in that regard and I wish I could see them together in something else because they were on the same beautiful wavelength.The end of Malachi 4 of the Old Testament refers to God turning the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children's hearts to the fathers in the last times, and as He has used Mel as towering figures regularly in the past, yet also those vulnerable and gentle, such as Tim Melville and Jerry Fletcher, he & Nick are surely part of that prophetic fulfillment in our day.  The greatness of a true father's stature can never be conceived of in this world (pun intended), in our present cold and fatherless age, but Mel is a true father himself, not only to his own children, but to us, at least to me, to those of us who love him and it is this profound fatherhood which is and will be the divine source of his enduring legacy of greatness, not some ephemeral superficiality of sexuality or stardom. "},{"Title":"excellent acting shines through","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  At times, I did feel a little uneasy of this film, but then something happened, it grew on me.  It was probably the performances mainly.  Mel Gibson (in his first directorial effort, though I've heard of him co-directing Mad Max and find that Braveheart is better) very finely plays a guy who (like Kevin Spacey in pay It Forward) is emotionally and physically scarred.  Since his burns came, he lives in the woods very quietly, until a smart (though very troubled) teen, played well by Nick Stahl, comes to him in search of tutoring in order to get into a military school.  But the friendhsip is deep in this film, thanks to the supporting characters of the film who are primarily the boy's family.  Sometimes a little too much in one whole strip of celluloid, but most of the time it is worth the watch.  B+ "},{"Title":"useful  exercise","Date":"20 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" not good, great or memorable. only an useful film. for self define. because the themes are delicate. because the performances are at high level. because it is a film about a meeting, second chance, friendship and the public image as way to define the other. a teacher. and a boy. a story who becomes more and more complex, large and profound. because Nick Stahl does a splendid performance who surprise again and again. because Mel Gibson propose a character who seems be reflection for a lot of questions, because the gestures of community's members are the gestures, words and verdicts of the large part from public. because it is not exactly an artistic work but an useful exercise for discover the social connections in different light. an exercise of honesty. and, maybe, useful self definition. "},{"Title":"A denouncement of lowlife gossips/slanderers","Date":"11 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Man without a Face was Mel Gibson's 1993 debut as director. Gibson stars in the eponymous role as McLeod, a man whose face is heavily scarred. The story takes place on coastal Maine during the summer of 1968. Several years earlier McLeod moved to the area to live in seclusion and do his unconventional work with the requisite privacy. Unfortunately, but to be expected, rumors about the mysterious recluse circulate amongst the locals, who callously refer to him as hamburger head. A fatherless 12 year-old, Chuck (Nick Stahl), wants to go to a military school and therefore enlists the aid of the outcast and a good relationship develops. Margaret Whitton plays Chuck's oft-married mother while Fay Masterson and Gaby Hoffmann his half-sisters. Geoffrey Lewis is on hand as the town's police chief.I saw this movie years ago and, despite it being a decent drama, it left a sour taste. Why? Four reasons and they all have to do with the third act (1.) It introduces the rumor of a hideous crime where someone is falsely accused (LIKELY falsely accused) and plots like this infuriate me for obvious reasons. (2.) The crime in question is sexual molestation, which is always an uncomfortable and awkward topic, to say the least. (3.) There's a scene where a character is given the opportunity to affirm or deny the wicked allegations and he refuses; instead he answers by asking a rhetorical question. This is also frustrating. If someone didn't commit a crime then he (or she) should JUST SAY SO. (4.) Another scene struck me as stoo-pid simply because intelligent, discerning people are careful (and responsible) to make sure that what they do doesn't have the appearances of evil even though it's not evil, if you know what I mean. The character in question fails to do this and it was, again, infuriating.Watching the film a second time, I have much higher respect for it because I now see what it's really about. The plot reveals the surface meaning &#x96; a fatherless kid finds a much-needed father-figure and a lonely outcast is blessed with human acceptance and the opportunity to fulfill his calling (teaching) &#x96; but the movie goes much deeper than this, which explains the existence of the third act and why everything else leads up to it. The subtext is a condemnation of gossipy lowlifes found in every community who destroy lives with their wicked tongues; that is, IF they're not called to account. They're judge, jury & executioners of innocent people. Their prey-of-choice is unconventional types or those perceived as a threat due to their figurative strength. Such slanderers are arrogant fools who love tearing others down, particularly those outside of their group. They feed on creating strife through lies, half-truths, negative spinning, unjust criticism, name-calling and mocking. THEY are the true monsters, not people like McLeod.The more extreme the nature of the accusation the better, which is why these scum shoot for the most hideous of lies, such as sexual molestation. Such ignoble gossips are literally everywhere and their slander will spread and poison others' minds IF someone doesn't boldly put a stop to their lies. There's an effective scene at the end where the accused person approaches an elderly couple with whom he had a good relationship, but it's clear that the rumors had gotten to them and their minds are now poisoned because they refused to hear his defense before drawing a damning conclusion. There was nothing he could do and it's heartbreaking. Unfortunately, this kind of thing happens all the time.While the drama of the film is solid, not great, it's the movie's subtext that breaks the threshold of greatness. The awesome coastal locations are a plus, as is the peripheral cast. While the movie's laden by the sexual molestation subplot it's justified because it ties into the picture's potent theme.The film runs 115 minutes and was shot on coastal Maine and Nova Scotia.GRADE B+ ***SPOILER ALERT*** Don't read further unless you've seen the movie.I've heard some seriously erroneous claims about the movie, like McLeod really did have a sexual relationship with Chuck. Nonsense. These people didn't pay attention because the movie itself thoroughly disproves such claims First of all, there's no scene where sexual abuse is even hinted at. Secondly, when the mother asks Chuck if McLeod touched him he responds with a shrug, Yeah, why? In other words, he touched him only in appropriate ways, like a pat on the back and so forth. What's the big deal? is essentially his response. Furthermore, Chuck tries to find out the truth about McLeod upon hearing the gossip/rumors and then steals his mother's car and goes straight to McLeod's house in a frenzy to confront him. McLeod's not the type to TELL people what to believe so he asks Chuck (paraphrasing), Have I ever done anything remotely questionable or abusive when you were around me? It's a rhetorical question and the non-verbal response is Absolutely not. This explains why McLeod had no worries when the police officer came to his house earlier in the story looking for Chuck after he was missing for a night. He nonchalantly responds, Yes, he's here; he's sleeping upstairs. He had no worries BECAUSE nothing improper was going on. Be that as it may, their friendship ends for legal reasons and McLeod moves away, but he secretly attends Chuck's graduation 7 years later at the military school where they happily wave to each other from a distance, hardly the appropriate behavior if McLeod committed an atrocious sex crime against the youth years earlier. "},{"Title":"Ode to a Goldfish......","Date":"30 April 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Justin McLeod has been living the life of a recluse for seven years, ever since he was horribly disfigured in an unfortunate event. Known by the locals as Hamburger Head, he's the subject of many rumors and wild stories. Chuck is a young boy determined to get into the same military school as his father, despite his mother's protests and his half-sisters' mocking, even if it means studying all through the summer. Desperate for a tutor, Chuck encounters the reclusive McLeod, and together they begin to help each other deal with a world that has shunned them both.......Despite what you think about Gibson the man, you cannot deny the mans body of work as a director, and his debut, in my opinion is his greatest ever achievement. Here Gibson literally changes his while screen persona, and this is probably why it under performed at the box office, people were not ready for a serious Mel, let alone disfigured.But despite McLeod being the source of many a scary story, he is the most humanistic, the most holistic character in the whole movie, and although for most of the first act he is the boogeyman, thanks to camera angles and long shots, the second and third act portray him superbly.What scares the townsfolk the most about McLeod isn't the stories about him, it's the normality about him when he encounters folk, the lengths he goes to to stay away from folk, so I feel it comes as a pseudo relief to many when the Sheriff takes Chuck home from his house, their false fears have falsely been confirmed.The performances are tremendous, and the final scene is tear-jerking. It's a wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"The Man with out a Face","Date":"18 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The Man with out a Face is the story of an eccentric teacher with a unique gift of reaching emotionally distraught pupils and fuelling their ability to learn. Calamity strikes his life in the form of a car accident while transporting a particularly responsive pupil home from a competition, who unbeknownst to him had developed a fixation with him. Even though he is an exceptional teacher he is ill-equipped, at the young age of 26, to deal with the ensuing escalation. When he tries to set the boy straight he regretfully is too harsh in the effort and the boy panics causing the accident. It kills the boy and leaves the teacher permanently disfigured.The scaring is symbolic of the internal wound he carries inside from guilt, coupled with the reinforced rejection of society, first in response to the accident, by jailing him for involuntary manslaughter and then as it treats him as a monster due to, first and unchallenged impressions of the appearance of his scars.Years later another struggling young boy enters his life, who will not take no for an answer, and convinces the teacher to tutor him for an entrance exam to a military college he is desirous to attend. His unorthodox style brings perspective and enlightenment to more than just the subjects for the entrance exam but also to the boys life and his own. They find in each other both true friendship and the dignity and lightening effects of grace. Learning to trust in the face of all the apparently well meaning yet paranoid and unruly responses of those who assert themselves to be responsible and clear.This film brings a wonderful insight to the mistaken impressions that can happen in society when the right questions are never asked within the mind and heart of the individual or by officials. And once asked, whether they are clearly heard or not, without the bias of agenda. It also addresses the question of what people believe societal authorities should be acting upon and what they actually are constrained to. How the disconnect between the personal desire for truth to rule the day conflicts with the assumptions made by those in the legal system, which admittedly is driven not by interested in justice but rather the strict application of the code, the way it exists at the time of an offence.The film exposes the nature of the corruption of the individual through the weights of life and error and the rationalization of the fear of facing that nature, in order to see the truth ourselves. The clear truth, the honest truth, that we are all flawed, all monsters and all, contrastingly, capable of extending grace to lift that weight in the lives of others, if we are willing to dare, with a little empathy and simple understanding, enter a path that can result in a better kind of life.This battle, that continues to go on everywhere, between the desire for personal accountability to oneself and through this the collective governing of society by conscience and respect contrasting the desire to throw that responsibility on external representatives who society has dubbed authorities, and through that become victim to the fickle impressions of a few.The resultant situation exposes the the very real hypocritical nature that exists in the dichotomy in most cultures today. Leaving only the impression of dignity, the vainer of office and the shallowness and illusion of control when confronted by the true dignity of someone with moral substance. That which exists in the hearts of those who except the challenge of stepping into the work of needful change.A very good watch, if you will allow yourself the change.Volpe Verte. Aug. 2nd 2014. "},{"Title":"Inspiring, Motivating, Austere","Date":"2 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" There are such special people in our lives that we cherish regarding them as those who left an undeniable trace on our memory lane. These people left a bit of themselves in us not through words but deeds that awed us. Yes, example speaks far more powerfully than words. Such is the theme of this wonderful movie where you cannot see everything if you rely solely on the basic senses. Amidst a lot of reviews on the movie, Roger Ebert's observation occurred most convincing to me this movie's theme is trust while the most striking element is the intelligence of the language.Chuck Norstad is a simple youngster, there is nothing unusual about him. Yet, some delicacy of his character and inner conflicts resulting from his upbringing, the absence of a man in the family, some confusion stimulated by female dominance in his house do not allow him to listen to his own inner voice, his male voice. An ambiguous situation in his home truly considers a serious obstacle. His peers, therefore, ignore him and mock him. His destiny, however, grants him with a wondrous gift, a teacher like no one else, one Mr Justin McLeod, misunderstood terribly by the locals, a man seemingly living as a recluse within the walls of his own world, a tutor, a friend, a face that will always be with him from the moment they fist meet. Yet, far is the way from overcoming the fear of otherness of this man to friendship of uncommon and unpredictable price...The movie's major strength, apart from the two wonderful performances that I am going to discuss later, lies in the austere form it takes. That is clearly revealed in the language (somewhere, images speak more than script, elsewhere, the script is clever and very much corresponds to the feelings of particular scenes). It is no preaching, prescriptive picture of human relations, it is no wordy script delivered with considerable pomp, it is just a simple, natural and genuine depiction of growing friendship that does not take into account any borders, like age difference, some background rumors or any other prejudice. Consider, though, that this friendship, which is also tutorship, does not exclude any storms of diverse emotions, torments, confusion. It is no oasis of idyll in the boy's escape world. It is natural, growing under the custody of mutual loyalty and honesty. And performances?No wonder that all the supporting cast appear in the shadow of the two leading characters, Nick Stahl as Chuch and Mel Gibson as McLeod. What a wonderful duality the two deliver in their roles, what a splendid bunch of diverse human emotions!Nick Stahl gives a tremendous performers for his age delivering all that is necessary for is role and supplying us with additional assumptions about the boy of his age. The difficult age of puberty is handled in a respectively subtle manner. In one scene, we see him looking at the Playboy magazine and there is a slight indication of the strong connection between the visual and mental stimuli. What this boy sees is deeply carved in his psyche, what he experiences is deeply influenced by his ever-going unpredictability. However, he is most interesting in the relation with Justin McLeod the growing trust, the growing desire for loyalty, mutual understanding and, foremost, ability to think on his own. He is a good student who has a good teacher, the one who helps him, inspires him to discover the complexities of the world around, including hard, witty, challenging, rewarding moments. Mel Gibson is impressively captivating as a disfigured character, a man of great inner conflicts and intense abandonment, yet, a man who can beautifully capture the very essence of good vs evil. One of the most memorable moments is when he recites Shakespeare's MERCHANT OF VENICE to little Chuck and focuses on the aspect that, seemingly, refers to his personal situation. Inspiring and touching. His early meetings with Chuck are most interesting, though. The growing confidence endangered from time to time by some vague, even bizarre reactions memorably build up emotional resonance of the relation that is crucial for the story to be rightly interpreted. We do not find out much about his past, that does not matter. We are to conclude as the boy is to conclude who the man is once you get to know him in reality and put aside all you have merely heard of him.An educational film highly worth seeing! A movie that captures the gist of those few human relations that deserve to be called 'friendships.' Yes, a human being can be far more to another human being than just a sheer stranger, someone who meet and pass by, whose face you easily forget. He can be a unique 'face,' somewhere out beyond the edge of the crowd, which, for some short period perhaps, gives freely and generously moments of grace. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and pure story","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This movie is brilliant - the most in how it tests people and in how it gets you thinking about people in general. I've read some of the comments in the message boards and got sad realizing in what a world we live in these days. In the movie (I am not considering the book), there is a pure and heart-warming story about the true relationship between a teacher and a student. A bond that should exist and that is mostly lost in modern times - the mutual passion for knowledge, but also trust and friendship - as McLeod said, you cannot teach without giving your trust.But the movie also brings the aspect of human nature and prejudice. And while it doesn't really leave things open to interpretation by itself, it was surprising to see how people reacted to and treated McLeod in the movie, and then see the same thing in the comments - where people are wondering if he really molested the first student. The connection is really eye- opening.It is sad to live in a time when, not only that the true and enriching relationship between a teacher and a student does not exist any more, but anything resembling it brings doubt of molesting and being a sexual predator...And that people are not able to think by themselves and reach their own conclusion based on basic decency, but require a clear cut to be delivered to them.One one side, it is sad to see that people were not able to enjoy the underlining message about teaching and also prejudice, but on the other side, it gets you thinking even more about what how people are in real life. "},{"Title":"Has A Heart.","Date":"30 September 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Mel Gibson both directs and stars in this moving film as Justin McLeod, a reclusive former teacher who was partially disfigured in a car accident ten years previous, and where a student was incinerated. Ever since, he has lived on the edge of town, an object of fear and ridicule, until one young man named Charles 'Chuck' Norstadt(Nick Stahl) befriends him with the aim of being tutored by him, since his grades need improvement, and Chuck is not afraid. However, his family is still suspicious, and Chuck will uncover the truth about McLeod that will change their lives forever.Mel Gibson does a fine job directing and acting, building a believable portrait of this scarred man who needs a second chance from a society that has wrongly judged him, and a young boy who will have his life turned around, leading to a most fitting finale. "},{"Title":"Mel's Opus Magnum","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I've not seen more than a handful of Mel's movies. Certainly all the violent money makers, but last night, I watched TMWaF. I am not a movie critic and don't know how to critique movies, but this movie, I loved from beginning to end. Every actor played their role (large or small) so well it was like I lived in the town and was watching everyday life. I won't go on and on. I recommend the movie to all, even those hooked on the latest zombie movies or those youngsters who crave violent action flicks. Take some time out, watch this one and prepare to see a movie that will keep you thinking. A movie that shows what MOVIES can be. BTW I was left with a question did all the town shun and despise Justin McLeod? I would have thought at least some of the women would have felt sorry for him seeing the undamaged half of his face and seeing how he would have been the handsomest man any of them could have known and just wondering ah, what could have been. "}{"Title":"Uplifting story about a troubled youth and a competent educator","Date":"16 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" The movie I reviewed was The Man without a Face starring Mel Gibson as Justin McLeod and newcomer Nick Stahl as Chuck Norstad. The movie was set in scenic upper class neighborhood in Cranesport Maine. The movie focuses on a twelve year old boy, Chuck, who has experienced a difficult childhood, never knowing what really happened to his dad, and a mother that was more interested in finding a new husband than raising her son. Chuck's dream was to get into military school but unfortunately he was unable to pass the entrance exam. Through circumstances, he ran into Justin McLeod a passed educator that was disfigured in a car accident that killed one of his students. Because of his close relationship with his past student, it was implied that his relationship may have been improper so he gave up teaching and lived in isolation. The theme of this movie was based on the relationship between Chuck, a struggling youth without a father figure and a teacher who truly cared about educating his students. As their relationship builds to a true friendship through relentless hours of studying and practice test, Chuck prepares for the entrance exam. Eventually rumors in the small community began to swirl, and once again the relationship he has with his student is again in question. While there is no merit to these accusations, it is deemed by the authorities that they should no longer have contact with one another. Chuck goes on to be successful and graduate military school while Justin McLeod stands in the background demonstrating his undying support for his friend. To develop the theme, there are several scenes that demonstrate Chuck's troubled upbringing, through fights with his sister and a lack of assistance from his mother. While other scenes show the town talking about Mr. McLeod and the circumstances that disfigured his face. All of these scenes helped to isolate each of these individuals leading them only to lean on each other. A movie with a similar theme was Gran Torino. While the movie was not based necessarily on a relationship, it focused on an individual and a group of people that their nationality that did not fit in to current society. The two relied on each other and carried each other through the difficult time. The director chose various techniques to demonstrate the relationship between the two friends. First, the camera angles were direct close-ups that helped the audience understand what they were feeling. There expressions on their face made you love them, understand their pain and hoping the relationship would last forever. The setting also helped you to understand their isolation. Often their talks were in beautiful settings, alone with nobody around. The theme of this movie identified the need we all have to be understood and have people that truly care about our success. The relationship they built was based on a true friendship that could not be altered by influence from the outside. I can only imagine how good the world could be if we all could find the person who brought out the best in us. "},{"Title":"Impression of this movie","Date":"22 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have been watching alot of your movies, and really understood the depth of this movie.  It made me wonder how people can be so mean and not see past all the scars, to the true person inside.  I feel this movie shows a lot about the heart of a person. The inside of a human being and what they have to offer. Teaches us not to look for skin deep beauty.  Although, outer beauty is wonderful to have, I believe it is more important to have inner beauty.  This is only one of many movies I have seen. I thought all the Lethal Weapon movies were great. I like that you really make a movie come alive.  I bet you have a lot of fun making some of your movie.  I think it's awesome that you are directing now. My family and I are planning to go see The Passion of Christ.  I know it will be good, because I have really enjoyed all your movies. "},{"Title":"f*ck this whole damn world!","Date":"29 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  why the hell are people like this?!Justin is a great guy!!!  the film is good it shows us how stupid people can be! I really cried a lot in this film, I hated to see the end! I mean, Chuck was old enough to say what he wanted! Justin came to him when he graduated and you saw that he was happy to see him but why the hell didn't he go to the police to say it was all a big lie?! why didn't he go to the police and say that he wanted them to undone the restriction order against Justin?!Justin is great and I hope there will be a second part where you see the charges been dropped against him!c ya all later! Cinderella  "},{"Title":"A great movie to watch","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Well I haven't read the book but I really liked the movie. It was touching, gripping and very well acted.  One of Mel Gibson's most stunning roles and thumbs-up to his directing.  It will make you tear up at times and laugh at times- in short, it's a feel-good movie..Make sure not to miss it.  "},{"Title":"pretty well-done movie!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have to admit it The first time i had read the short summary on the video-backside i swore to myself NEVER!! But a couple of years later my friends told me that is a very good movie and I thought What the hell, try it! I just knew Mel Gibson as an action-movie-star until then and gave him no really chance to make it in this movie really good, but ...what can I say?! This movie IS a very very well-done and I was really impressed of it! Now, what I had read about the novel it´s probably better for me (and for any other fans of this film!) NOT to read it, because it would be probably a very great disappointment to me i guess. "},{"Title":"A film that touchs the heart about friendship.","Date":"20 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  A film about a man with no friends and no face. A film about a man in hiding,trying to hide himself from the world.Thats a story that sounds like me and thats one reason I like this film and not only that it has a great cast too.Like Mel Gibson and his face and Mel really knows how to act in this film and due to this it shows another side to us about him.The film is also directed by Mel Gibson and its his first time too,and the cinematopography in the film is great.Due to this it shows Mel has a directing side to him that we had never seen before.The film also has a great musical score to it and a touching story.I give this film a eight out of ten score.    "},{"Title":"heartwarming","Date":"15 October 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This was a very touching film; it kept my interest throughout. I thought it depicted a realistic version of a disfunctional family, but it was nice seeing how they improved in the end. The relationship between Chuck and Mr. McCleod was heartwarming, although I do wish there had been more of an attempt to prove his innocence. What happened to the kid who played Chuck? He's a great example of a REALLY good child actor. There aren't too many of them around. I mean, most are decent but only a few are exceptional. Why do those kids always disappear from Hollywood and the bad or okay ones get lots of work? Anyway, this was a great quality film. "},{"Title":"the movie is okay, but the characters are great!","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":" I first watched this film as a child. My imagination was immediately engrossed, and it hasn't since recovered. McLeod was a commanding figure to me. I related to Chuck on almost every level. I think McLeod's character was very well done. I think the story was standard, but that it was the atmosphere and the characters which carried the movie.What I loved most was McLeod's home and yard. The house is filled with nautical themes, books, and various antique collector items. There is an art studio, since he paints for Time Magazine. You hear the constant noise of falling waves and sea-gulls overhead. There is a blue lake in his back yard about an acre from the house, which itself is hugged by green trees in the front and the sides.But he is lonely. His only company is a German Shepherd named Mickey. He's alone because of his painful past. The reason he is 'without a face' is because he has burns over half his body from a car crash in which a boy was killed. The event was surrounded by controversy. People thought McLeod and the boy were having a sexual relationship of sorts, but the charges were dropped. McLeod was deeply hurt by the incident; not only because a boy died who he cared deeply about, but because of everyone's misperceptions and judgmentalism. So, he chooses to live alone in a big house and stay to himself. He preoccupies himself with building a boat, training his dog, reading books, creating models of ships, painting, playing chess, taking care of his horse, and making his usual trip to the grocery store.There is a very touching scene in which McLeod is brooding over his condition. He feels exiled from humanity. He is on a journey, but doesn't know where to go. Dramatic opera plays in the background. He reads the beginning lines of Virgil's Aenied. After reading, he holds a mirror up to his face, placing the edge on his nose, so that only the unscarred part of his face reflects. For a moment, he looks normal; but as he moves the mirror more and more to the left, more and more of the scars are laid bare, and he is disgusted. I think that is such a symbol of the human condition! Chuck is a dreamer, full of hope. His father killed himself in a mental institution; his mother is manipulative; his older half-sister is malicious; his younger half-sister is kind-hearted, but still only a child. He dreams of going to military school! The only problem is that you have to pass the entrance exams. You need to know Latin and some high-level mathematics. He is in need of a teacher.I won't get into all the details. The movie is great because of the growing relationship of McLeod and Chuck. The movie's scenes of their intimacy are truly delicious. For example, McLeod teaches Chuck how to read poetry and perform Shakespeare plays. McLeod takes home the poem 'High Flight' and reads it in his bathroom in a very sublime scene.All in all, a very good movie! "},{"Title":"Nice movie","Date":"22 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I don't really have much to say about the movie.I've read the book a couple of months ago.Later I saw the movie just for fun.And there was a lot of differences between the movie and the book.So what?The movie was still great.Why does a movie based on a book have to be identic with the book?Can't you use the book just as inspiration?Why do people hate the movie just because it wasn't identic with the book? I know that you still think it's a great movie.In 1980,a movieThe Shining made succes although it was completely different from Stephen Kings book.People loved it anyway. So think about it.Some differences doesn't have to make it a bad movie.My rating of the movie 10  "},{"Title":"just a great movie","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I voted for this movie I was surprised by the ratings because I really liked this movie. Okay, so it's not  as huge as Braveheart (which Mel Gibson also directed), but it's a beautiful story with some funny moments in it too. I'm beginning to like Mel Gibson's directing more and more.The movie reminded me of the sort of training in a lot of martial arts movies.(hard work and discipline, but from a nice guy who becomes the pupils best friend)My rate8 "}{"Title":"Very Good Movie","Date":"3 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I found this movie to have substance.  If the book had a different message, who cares.  Probably both are good.  The character of the kid kind of connected with me.  I don't have a lot of respect of authority with how my life has gone.  One of my English teacher's (not that anyone of you would know from Will. C Wood High School) Mr. Gary Kimsey, got me to open up and didn't judge me on the way that I thought.  He judged me on the content of my character.  We had great discussions, and I was a good student.  I am a troubled child even though I am now 18 and have graduated from Will. C. Wood High School. This teacher helped me understand what I was feeling.  I will remember him for the rest of my life.  I am sure the character Nick Stahl portrayed if he really existed would remember that teacher for the rest of his life.  The movie was done so well.  My situation was no where near as tragic as in the movie.  The only tragic part is that he is not my teacher anymore.  This movie really hit home for me.  But, unlike Chuck Norstadt, I want to become an actor and it doesn't seem as if anybody really believes I can pull off becoming a movie actor.  But he did.  Maybe I want to become an actor so I can be whoever I want to be, and not who someone wants me to be.  But, that's the major reason.  Not the money.  Another reason is I want to be the next Val Kilmer, or Al Pacino.  This movie deserves a 9 or 10. For me, maybe because it hits home.  I don't know if my teacher realizes how much of an impact he had on me.  But, I'll let him know next year when I visit him, and jam it into his head.  Don't let anybody tell you, you are not a good teacher.  You're different, and that is what makes you so special to everyone. "},{"Title":"This has got to be one of my favorite films","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I have just finished watching this film, and I must say that I have never witnessed any other performance that moved me as this one has. It was not only well written, but the characters were amazingly displayed. I must applaud Mel Gibson, for I feel that this is one of his best. "},{"Title":"Excellent adaptation.","Date":"6 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Like The Last Unicorn, The Man Without a Face is an example of that rare beast, the movie that is better than the book. As with The Last Unicorn, much of this is due to the need to pare the material down to bare essentials.Gibson's best move -- and for this I will draw fire -- was to maintain a mentor/student relationship between Chuck and McLeod, rather than to wander into the Nabokov-joins-NAMBLA turf the book broods upon. McLeod is a much more sympathetic character when there is no spectre of him taking sexual advantage of his protege. "},{"Title":"The beginning","Date":"13 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I remember tuning into this movie on TV not too long ago, I watched it for a little while, then changed the channel. Yet the other night I find myself watching it again from about 2 AM to whenever it ended, I couldn't sleep that night, and boy was I glad I didn't. I thoroughly enjoyed this movie, to the extent where I cried at certain parts, and let me tell you, I am not a crying person. Not only do I enjoy Mel Gibsons work as an actor and director, I also enjoyed the youthfulness of Nick Stahl, who has gone forward in his acting career since the movie. I feel that this movie correctly portrays how the times were, and how people as Mels character were, treated.There are few movies which I can claim as among my favorites, and this ranks right up there. Nick Stahl has always been easy on the eyes to me, and Mels acting just ups the ante. Not only that, but because of the message which it delivers of trust and responsibility, on the whole this movie is DEF. worth seeing.  "},{"Title":"Mel Makes Mucho Mondo Movieola!","Date":"15 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  This is well made flick set in the late 1960's with a gorgeous Maine setting.  I loved the story of teacher Justin McLeod and his pupil Chuck Norstadt.  I also loved the look of the film and even the look of Justin McLeod's beach front house.People who accuse this film of having a political agenda are utterly full of it.  The only people upset at the movie altering the book it was based on are of the chicken hawk set.  It's a sensitive, funny, poignant, well acted, well written, well directed film.  The film's beautiful ending with McLeod's wave goodbye to Norstadt I found particularly moving.  This is a mainstream adaptation of a less than mainstream book.  Sometimes when books made into movies are altered it's a travesty, this is one of those rare cases where it's a triumph.Mel Gibson is a great actor and a great director.  Any intelligent filmgoer should only be interested in a filmmaker's art not his supposed politics. Too true, baby blue. "},{"Title":"A statement of values!","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  What a wonderful movie!  It is a social statement and an individual inspiration.It comments on the consequences of the degraded family structure and, at the same time, the over meddlesome community standards.  It examines the importance of individual integrity, industry, self-examination and, at the same time, the consequences of human failing and self-indulgence.  It decries judging people and circumstances based on their surface appearances.If you are looking for a film which exalts the individual and the powerful effect we can have on others, this is a must see movie. "},{"Title":"Well done Mel","Date":"1 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  Mel is back and better than ever in The Man Without A Face. This is Mel's finest film to date. Not only was it touching and heartwarming but it showcased one of the best actor turned directors in Mel Gibson.If I had to choose the most touching film I've seen this would be in my top five; however, it is my choice for the number 1 film of 1993.Gibson certainly knew what he was doing as performed along side a newcomer named Nick Stahl. I can't tell people enough positive things about this newcomer who possesses rare natural talent. Gibson played his character Justin McCleod the way actors should portray the characters.......with heart. I can't think of a film that showed the world the reality behind people in Justin's situation. Gibson crafted the story very carefully and it shows. Mel Gibson is an actor with heart and has brought it to big screen as McCleod. I would venture to guess that this role is not that far off than his real-life role as husband and father.When I saw this film, I didn't have to do much but sit back, eat popcorn and drink my soft drink. I knew it was going to be a moving, touching and heartfelt film. However, it turned out to be much more. I was pleasantly surprised how Gibson crafted this film into a work of art by using his knowledge of working in front of the camera.I knew by the end of this film everyone involved with this awesome film from the talented director/actor to the up and coming star along with the viewing audience had fun making and watching The Man Without A Face.I recommend this film to anyone and everyone young and old who loves movies.  "},{"Title":"A movie that showed the two sides of every face.......","Date":"25 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  The man without a face was yet another one of Mel Gibsons best movies. At first Mel Gibson was a miserable cruel man until Chuck, a young boy that lived nearby befriended him. Chuck originally just wanted some help on a few Latin words, but in the end he got a whole lot more. Gibson yet again came out with another excellent movie. "},{"Title":"Thank God Mel Gibson directed it...","Date":"16 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  (SPOILERS!!!)  After seeing the movie and reading the book, I think Gibson's changes (he ordered all the changes from the novel) saved this story from the Lolita touch it was originally written with. Here in the film, McLoud is simply (SPOILER!!) a father figure and a dear friend to Chuck (cares and loves him as a true father), while in the novel he's also a pedophile who ends up abusing Chuck (regardless of how much he loves him). Now, some reviewers from the novel try to explain it away as a loving relationship between a man and a boy that us morons can't understand. One can tell these reviewers are seriously deluded, if not pedophiles themselves. Unfortunately, the novel is so ambiguous and sugar-coated that one can interpret it in many ways, but ALL those way involve a sexual contact between McLoud and Chuck. And that taints whatever love and affection McLoud had for Chuck. While in the film, McLoud is a truly a father figure and a loving person (not a pervert), so the sexual element is reduced to people's suspicions about him and Chuck, which are wrong, in no uncertain terms. Thank God Gibson took out the sexual element from the story, because if not, the tale would be and advocacy for pedophilia, like the book is, instead of a tale of true love and caring that Gibson gives us.  "},{"Title":"Good moments, but be prepared for the flaws","Date":"26 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  THE MAN WITHOUT A FACE, despite accusations of novel bastardization and a heavy ultra-conservative agenda, has some good moments. I'm not a particularly strong fan of Mel Gibson, and oft times, am quite dubious of his acting talent. However, for a directorial debut, he didn't do half bad.My problems with T.M.W.A.F. was along the lines of holes in the script. We never get to fully explore why Charles/Chuck goes into catatonic states, except for a few clues and at times, sibling rivalries. There's a scene where he lays all his problems on his mother, emotionally crushing the woman. She walks away. This situation never gets resolved or even addressed again. What happened here? The screenwriters got the viewer worked up, then walked away like mom.Another scene where one of the young lead hurls profanities at a couple of elder men in the woods, was hardly realistic from that period of time. Even by today's standards, in small town America, where everybody knows one another, a child throwing this language at elderly people wouldn't go unanswered. It could fulminate, at the very least, into a sound talking to (if not, corporal punishment), whence the child returned home.Also, the genuine feel of friendship between the protagonists never really materialized for me. It started stiff, as expected, yet never slowly blossomed into something believable.THE MAN WITHOUT A FACE is an okay way to pass the time, if you're willing to put your objectivity in neutral. It has some good scenes, yet doesn't explore the complexities of this unique friendship too deeply.  "}{"Title":"butchered, but brilliant","Date":"17 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Funny, he can ruffle the worlds feathers with The Passion, but back in '92 he cant play a homosexual. Oh that's right, he's a catholic. it has to be Hollywoodized like Philadelphia, which was clearly a joke.Too bad they butchered the book. Don't get me wrong, I loved the movie, but when you take the main focal point, the core, away from the story, well then it's really not that story any longer is it. It was just rewritten to develop into something completely different. Imagine the studios, anyone of them, save an Indy label maybe, having a film about a boy and a man having a sexual relationship with each other. Heads would roll. "},{"Title":"If you liked the movie, then read the book, you'll be pleasantly surprised!","Date":"11 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  When I first read The Man Without a face years ago upon finishing I imidiately dashed ouver to Blockbuster to see if the mopvie of my new favorite book measured up. WEll, I must say i was terribly disapointed. The felt like the movie dwelled on almost an invisible part of the book - Justin taking advantage of Charles. This tured the movie into one that disgusted me, and one I outwardly abhored. I didnt understand why the writers butchered the most marvelous parts of the book. I still don't. But having seen the movie years later on tv i realized (although I was still disapointed in the butchery of my favorite parts, but I saw what a tremendous job the actors did with their parts. Mel is my favorite, and although I wish he had a better script his acting alone is worth seeing the movie for. BUT if you see the movie and like PLEASE read the book, so you can realize how much more there is to those characters and this story. "},{"Title":"Good Acting, great scenery, but Face supporters still miss the point","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I practically grew up around the area where this movie was filmed . . . the scenery is indeed that beautiful and more.  The acting in this movie is top notch.  But still. . . as much as I WANT to like this movie, I can't.I'm the last person to say a movie is bad just because it changes from the book.  That's not the point with Face.  The point is, Mel Gibson DRASTICALLY changed the entire political and social meaning of the original text.  He substituted his own extremely conservative slant to the entire film.  I think most critics of Face concentrate on Gibson's homophobia.  That's just the start . . . not a single character in this movie who is against the Vietnam War is presented with any kind of dignity or intelligence.  As far as Gibson is concerned, they're all boobs.  Send your kid to a military academy in the heat of the Vietnam War! Who cares?  There are no moral issues at stake here.  All the critics of this kid's desires just don't understand, don't know what they're talking about. It's too bad . . . this is a good movie overall.  But I can do without Gibson's thick conservative interpretation.  I could accept a balanced presentation, one where all sides are seen as credible.  But that's just not Gibson's agenda.  It's like he's out to slam gays and peace activists in one fell swoop.  Yup, it's like he wanted to redefine patriotism and masculinity. Mel, you make me sick.  And I hope no one responds with, It's just a movie!  Art counts.  It's why Lincoln told Harriet Beecher Stowe that she was the cause of the Civil War.  Face is not comparable to Uncle Tom's Cabin, of course, but it's still hell bent on its political agenda. "},{"Title":"A movie about the ability of some to not accept others, however it has a fatal flaw.","Date":"4 March 2010","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" This was a well acted movie, nothing to grandeur to be sure but interesting enough. The film has a boy who actually wants to go to a boarding school which is kind of a nice change of pace, but he does not really have the grades to do so. Well lucky for him there is a recluse living nearby, and he just happens to be a teacher. Well he tries to get this guy's help, but the guy is rather hesitant to do so. He is disfigured thanks to an incident in the past and he is frowned upon by the community. He does take the boy in though as you knew he would have to do seeing as there would not be much of a movie if he did not and the two form a bit of a bond. Not really a big one where the guy makes up for the fact the boy is fatherless, but a student teacher one to be sure. Well something happens and the boy is caught at this mans house by some authorities and there is a big court scene and we learn why the man has lost half his face and why he is frowned upon by the community. Usually I would say this movie is trying to say people unjustly accuse people of things based on appearances and such, but it just does not work in this case as there was sufficient evidence and circumstances to believe the man could have done what he was accused of. Still, Mel Gibson turns in a good performance and it was somewhat entertaining to watch, just nothing that would top any favorite movie lists of mine. "},{"Title":"2nd time around","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Saw this Gibson epic about ten years ago. Caught it last night on HBO and maybe it is just time or the political environment - but - this is a subtle story of pedophilia grooming masquerading as some sort of summertime coming-of-age, angst and misfortune melodrama.If you are reading this little review of mine - I think you've probably read some of the others - so I will not bore you with the plot. However, young Nick Stahl, who gives a great performance, as does Mr. Gibson, meet under unusual circumstances and Nick picks Gibson to be his summertime tutor in order to pass a tough exam for military school.This first time I watched I would and did agree with most reviews that it was a heartwarming episode of two people coming together, learning more about themselves and in the end after great angst proceeding along life's highway with a better sense of self.However, it is a the clever slight of hand that I discovered watching it a second time.Gibson's character is a mess. Due to a very questionable relationship many years previous in which a young boy is burned to death - he serves time in jail - for exactly what is never exposed - unless I missed it. Remember this is 1960 and sexual abuse was buried way deep. When Nick's character is asked by his mother if he has been touched - Nick says yes. This motivates the mother to report Gibson to the local authorities. I now believe Nick was touched and welcomed the sexual attention. The audience is fooled into believing that Nick's character is misunderstood and being touched was only a minor handshake or pat on the back. Nick's character is much smarter than that. Even in 1960 - being touched meant fondling and other sexual activity.Gibson's character was slowly grooming Stahl's character into a homosexual relationship. Boylove it is called. It would have been more palatable and more realistic if the sexual nature was explored intelligently. Instead, it is covered up with digging holes and passive/aggressive behaviours. While I personally believe it is a very dangerous road (illegal in most cases) to travel for an adult to explore physical sex with an underage minor, especially one as vulnerable as Stahl's character - it is an unfortunate reality that transcends all demographics.I still would recommend this film - but watch with eyes wide open! "},{"Title":"The Man without a Face","Date":"10 March 2008","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":" Two years before his two Oscar wins (Best Direction and Best Picture) for Braveheart, Mel Gibson had this directorial debut, and not a bad first film. Basically Justin McLeod (Gibson) is the horribly scarred former teacher (from a fire), and he lives in recluse away from the gossip of everyone. One day though unhappy young boy Charles E. 'Chuck' Norstadt (introducing Terminator 3's Nick Stahl) is brave enough to go and see him, and he finds out he used to be a teacher. They eventually secure a trust, and McLeod becomes his secret tutor to help him study for his exams. Obviously they are eventually found out, and the authorities (police and parent) do not allow them to see each other any more, and this continues years later, and Chuck only sees recognises his face far away from the crowd. Also starring Margaret Whitton as Catherine Palin, Fay Masterson as Gloria Norstadt, Gaby Hoffmann as Megan Norstadt, Geoffrey Lewis as Chief Wayne Stark, Richard Masur as Prof. Carl Hartley, Michael DeLuise as Douglas Hall, Gloria's Boyfriend, Ethan Phillips as Todd Lansing and Jean De Baer as Mrs. Lansing. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"I was so excited when they adapted by favorite book into a movie.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  I was so excited when they adapted my favorite book into a movie.  I walked in excited and out of the theatre angry!  They took the beginning of his story and rearranged it into something completely different.  All the great parts of the book were gone.  It was so upsetting!  Yuck!  "},{"Title":"OK, Mel, we know you're not gay. OK?","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama","Review":"  SPOILER ALERT I would like this movie except for the fact that it contains Mel Gibson's blazing homophobia.The character Mel Gibson plays in the movie was a gay man, but Mel not only makes sure that the character is straight, but throws in a scene where he struggles to prove to the boy he is not gay.Now... let's look at the story (based on the movie) We have a boy who is ignored by his community. His mother has children from many different marriages (let's here it for the stability that only heterosexuals can bring!!) and she simply has written off her son as not being to bright. The family is unhelpful (mostly) and he is frustrated and angry a lot of the time and he can't deal with life (which is understandable)Now... this one guy... a teacher... he is willing to help this boy. He helps teach the boy the joys of education and expands the boy's horizons on what exists in the world... writing! art! poetry... the power of the mind to think of new things and look at things in different perspectives...BUT - The teacher was in a car accident... and in that accident, a boy died... and many believed that he was a homosexual who was molesting his pupils.Now... we saw the movie... Mel didn't want to teach the kid... the kid wanted Mel to teach him. Mel never touched the kid or oggled the kid... he simply wanted the kid to succeed... he wanted the kid to improve his awareness of the world.If it turned out that Mel's character WAS gay in this movie... should that matter? Wasn't it Mel's character who was the only one to help this boy when all the rest of the community turned their back on him?The premise SHOULD BE that it doesn't matter that Mel's character was gay or straight, because he was the one who helped the boy become a better person.However... what we end up seeing is that the argument is that if Mel was gay... then CLEARLY his reason for helping the boy was because he was hoping to have sex with him somewhere down the road... because apparently the community is RIGHT in thinking that all homosexuals are ALSO pediophyles!And Mel seems to want to tell us the same thing... that all the hard work of the teacher would have OBVIOUSLY had ulterior motives if the teacher was gay.What an insulting sentiment.Even though I'm straight, I just cringed when one of the more importnat and complicated messages of this story were chucked into the wastebasket.I simply cannot enjoy this movie when it has such a message in it... which is a shame, because the movie really does so much very well... and has good acting...but all of that is undermined as clearly as the book it was based on was undermined.  "}]