[{"Title":"A feast for the jaded filmgoer.","Date":"2 February 2001","Score":"48 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Orlando is a curiously ravishing series of essays built around an the title character's travel through four centuries and two genders. The film's critical acclaim and awards in contrast with the luke warm IMDB user rating is testimony to the esoterics and queer plot of the film. Orlando's artful and elegant presentation features a wonderful performance by Swinton, sumptuous costuming, lush locations, and a screenplay rich in comedic overtones and serious undercurrents. Not for everyone but a wonderful film for the jaded. "},{"Title":"All Excess in a Full Blown Virginia Woolf Satire","Date":"26 October 2007","Score":"39 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Arguably the greatest British novelist of the 20th century, Virginia Woolf, who invented stream of consciousness writing, composed the 1928 novel Orlando upon which director Sally Potter's exotic film is based. Woolf's novel was written for & about the famous cross-dressing British heiress, poet, gardener, feminist, wife & mother; yet bisexual lover to many--Vita Sackville-West--who was one of Woolf's closest friends & perhaps her lover. Sackville-West's son, Nigel Nicholson, calls Woolf's novel Orlando, the longest love letter in the world. From Virginia to Vita. I view it as Woolf's way of saying to Vita, 'I know you. You're more than this world could ever be ready for; but, I love you for being who you are'. Instead of Woolf composing a biography, per se, she wrote a fantastical fiction. But, to any scholar of Woolf's & Sackville-West's lives (& I am one), Orlando is one of the best biographies ever written. Director Sally Potter does a splendid job of putting a very difficult & complex novel on film.The narrator says of Orlando She's lived for 400 years & hardly aged a day; but, because this is England, everyone pretends not to notice. It's Woolf's biting satirical commentary on Victorian society, from a woman's perspective who, though owning her own publishing house & a truly great writer, was nevertheless oppressed by gender inequality. One of the giant points Woolf contends with is that Vita Sackville-West was an only child born into a 600 room castle; but, solely because she was a female, she could not inherit it. That's gender supremacism. These were two of the women historically spear-heading the way for women's equality through art & by living non-cooperatively with it.The time span of the life of Orlando (Tilda Swinton) is from the 16th to the 20th century. Orlando starts out as a man to whom Queen Elizabeth I (the ever so queenly, Quentin Crisp) promises her estate as long as 'he' (Orlando-Swinton) never ages. Waking up in a changed sex in the 18th century, 'she' (Orlando-Swinton) learns that women are underprivileged. Especially when Orlando looses her property, since women were not allowed to own any. Woolf's dialog on this biographical point was the most painful of Sackville-West's life; Woolf makes it the height of her scathing satireFirst Official speaking at Orlando the woman One, you are legally dead & therefore cannot hold any property whatsoever. Orlando Ah. Fine. stoically First Official Two, you are now a female. Second Official Which amounts to much the same thing. as being dead!Woolf & Sackville-West were of similar minds about gender inequality--outraged. Woolf rebels against it as Sackville-West did in real life by portraying Orlando as outraged, transgender & bisexual. Both feminist writers were profoundly critical of Victorian society's various forms of supremacism. So Woolf's characters bring that out; for example, through this single line uttered by the The Kahn (Lothaire Bluteau) It has been said to me that the English make a habit of collecting... countries. (Wham, a direct hit upon British imperialism, Woolf style--a razor sharp, compact, one-liner that is also tongue-in-cheek amusing. Woolf was the shrewdest of 20th century British writers who used satire to express truths that make people able to grin & bear it. Woolf didn't want to be viewed as a mere street protester, in-your-face obnoxious & annoying. She was very much like France's 18th century philosopher, Voltaire (read his Candid, to understand what I mean).This was a word-smith with one of the most amazingly refined gifts for language & self-expression. That Woolf could provide satirical critiques of her own culture was quite rare. That she published hundreds of them is nothing short of genius not just as a writer but also as a business woman.Back to the film a famous solo performer, Jimmy Somerville (who plays an angel singing in falsetto, sounding like a castri, in the 16th & 18th centuries) used to be a singer for Bronski Beat & the Communards in the 1980's. Sally Potter, aside from directing, also did the vocals for the musical score that she co-wrote. The music is fascinating, exotic & indescribable. What an original CD!Potter's movie grasps the key points of Woolf's novel by being filled with sexually dubious characters & relationships. For instance, Quentin Crisp plays a marvelous Queen; Charlotte Valandrey plays Princess Sasha, a young woman who dresses as a man; Lothaire Bluteau as The Khan has a friendship with Orlando that is highly suggestive of gay flirtations between 2 men. Jimmy Sommerville's voice is the epitome of queerness & dressed as an angel couldn't be more fey if he tried! Considering how Sackville-West played with sexuality & gender, plus, how Woolf was one of the few people who ever understood what she was doing, it is amazing that Potter was astute enough to not only comprehend both women, Potter also interpreted Sackville-West through Woolf onto the screen.Since I'd critiqued Woolf's Orlando text in college, when the movie came out in the summer of 1993, I found it so true to Woolf's quick witted tones of political satire that I couldn't stop myself from cracking up with laughter out loud in the theater. If a movie goer doesn't know the true story of both the biographer's & the subject's lives, they won't get the scathing political points Woolf's made. Genius as they are!Woolf & Shakespeare have great skills in common that come out through their vast libraries they left to us. That's another story. "},{"Title":"Unique,one of-a-kind fantasy,maybe a touch frustrating but fascinating nonetheless","Date":"15 March 2004","Score":"23 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Orlando is a true original,and for that reason alone it deserves praise. It is sometimes irritating,partly because it refuses to answer so many questions it poses- for instance does Orlando actually travel forward in time in some scenes,or is it just time passing? Why does one other character,the Archduke Harry,also seem to live for ages? Some of the film's touches,such as Orlando's addresses to camera,do come across as a little pretentious. Even considering the short running time,the pace is at times extremely slow,but that is not always a bad thing. Those in search of an original film experience which provides plenty to talk about after could do far worse,and the film actually becomes more rewarding the more one sees it,because you can put up with the flaws and concentrate on the many remarkable things about this film.The film is absolutely gorgeous to look at,so many shots look like they could be great paintings. The film has a unique atmosphere,as it passes through the centuries,it creates a highly stylized,almost fairytale-like view of the past-this is especially successful in the early Elizabethan scenes set around snow. Here there is a terrific sense of a world that may have existed only in Orlando's distant memory,although it must be said the low budget does often show. There is plenty of humor that becomes funnier with repeated viewings-how about the overwrought Victorian melodrama of the meeting between Orlando and Billy Zane's character? The film is also quite erotic in a subtle way that is hard to explain,but it's there.And of course there is the unique Tilda Swinton-she may have become a star recently with The Chronicles of Narnia,but this is her defining role. No other film has used best her striking appearance,and her casual reaction to the things that happen to her,such as going to sleep as a man and waking up as a woman,provides some of the film's best moments.Of the other performances,Quentin Crisp is unforgettable in the early scenes as a really decrepit Queen Elizabeth,although Billy Zane,as usual,is somewhat wooden.Virgnia Woolf's novel probably seems completely unfilmable to most people after they have read it,but this film does a great job of simplifying it and yet still retaining the essence. Whether you consider the film as the novel isa feminist tract,or just a very strange fantasy,it can be extremely rewarding if you have the patience for something that is at times as offbeat as they come. I should add here that this is now probably one of my favourite films,but I certainly didn't feel like that about it when I first saw it many years ago. "},{"Title":"Instinct says, Oh Yes!","Date":"27 May 2006","Score":"25 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I have been watching films for well over thirty years, but this one in particular has remained my favorite since its release for the simple reason that it consistently makes me weep with joy. Joy being so hard to come by, and a commodity rarely associated with any sort of entertainment medium, I don't need any other reason to love Orlando. It's clever, charming, thought-provoking, at times achingly ironic, and lavishly beautiful. I have to say also that I love seeing and hearing dear Jimmy Sommerville whom we miss so much. While I tend to be hyper-critical of all films, with Orlando I just listen to my gut and it says, this is perfection. "},{"Title":"A stunning commentary on life and the sexes","Date":"1 August 2004","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Simply put one of the best movies I have ever seen. The cast is amazing and deliver in their performances, the stunning visuals and beautiful music combine to create a dreamy atmosphere through which S. Potter uses Orlando as a medium to make subtle and elegant commentaries about life, the human condition and the struggle of the sexes to understand each other when they are basically two aspects of the same coin. As opposed to some of the other reviewers here I did not find the movie slow or boring at any time. Nor is it just about Orlando; there are multiple layers. It flows simply and quietly but with great intensity and an underlying irony at every moment. This film must be Potter's masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"Tilda Swinton's best performance","Date":"25 February 2008","Score":"22 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Swinton is certainly worth seeing in her Academy Award-winning performance in Michael Clayton (2007), but plenty of actresses could have pulled that one off. Too bad that's the film that will bring this excellent artist to a wide audience.If you want to enjoy Swinton in a role for which she truly deserved a golden statuette, see Orlando. The film showcases Swinton's versatility, and there's hardly another actress out there who could have done a better job. Obviously, if you're a Virginia Woolf fan, that's a bonus.This is one of 20 or so movies I've ever seen that gets better each time I watch it. Approach this movie with an open mind, and it's sure to become one of your favorites. "},{"Title":"Orlando","Date":"10 September 1999","Score":"22 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Stunning picture based on the Virginia Woolf novel about an immortal youth who sees the world from both sexes through the course of four centuries of change. Elegant in all areas especially in the costume design, which is handled by Academy Award winner Sandy Powell (Shakespeare in Love) and decadent design of the whole production. In the title role, Tilda Swinton is strikingly beautiful and brings energy and passion to the character in every scene. Although in a small role, this is Zane's best screen work as Sheimeidine, the pursuer of liberty. Other stand out performances include Valandrey as a luminous woman whom Orlando adores and Crisp, exceptional early on in the film as Queen Elizabeth I.  "},{"Title":"great sensitivity...","Date":"4 December 2008","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Absolutely superb movie...just saw it right before writing this...remember having seen the clip on YT,and it gave me the feeling I should enjoy it I definitively did ! As say others comments, mesmerizing, mysterious, delicate...and very profound even though quiet hidden at the beginning...It reveals this aspect, like all the movie, like a woman in love,slowly, enigmatically, words after words, with great sensitivity...And Tilda Swinton, wow ! what an actress !Plus she's beautiful ! I didn't see any movie with her before,but for sure gonna see some more...Not at all a usual Jimmy Somerville fan, I just love his part too ;and last song leaves you full of hope in our humanity.Music, cinematography, set design and costuming are absolutely exquisite and stunning.But unfortunately guess this exceptional movie is not for everyone's taste..In one sentence, Sally Potter made a movie that you won't forget !Her film eventually expresses what Orson Welles wrote with so much accuracy a film is never really good unless the camera is an eyes in the head of a poet "},{"Title":"Enchanting","Date":"16 April 1999","Score":"27 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of those rare films that really captures magic. After watching it, I feel as though a fairy has enchanted the air around me. Maybe it's Tilda Swanton's fathomless, eyes. She stares at us so enigmatically, as if she can see through the camera, into our souls.I could also go on about the sumptuous costumes and set design, but I'd say the subtle humor pervading the film was even more compelling and delightful. It assumes an intelligent audience, but does not come across as superior. The end of the film leaves me with a sense of hope for the future.  "},{"Title":"Orlando","Date":"12 October 2010","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Sally Potter's Orlando is a clever and ambitious dissection of love and gender that defies culturally sexed expectations in both content and form. The film owes much of its narrative experimentalism to Virginia Woolf, who first conceived the story of immortal, androgynous Orlando as an exploration of societal prejudice and conduct, satirizing naively patriarchal feelings of romantic ownership and the laughably self- important status of masculine art. Potter deserves credit, however, for translating the story into a Brechtian subversion of traditional viewership modes the film's drag casting, fourth wall disruption, titles and music all remind us to be conscious and critical of how we engage the film. Orlando is anchored by a charming performance from Tilda Swinton, and some stunning costume and set design. It is a smart film that challenges the sexed gaze, and it genuinely earns the sense of hope it ends on. -TK 10/12/10 "}{"Title":"Thoroughly Engaging, Fun, and Visually Compelling.","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Tilda Swinton was born for this role. She IS Orlando.  But that preoccupation aside, the first striking aspect of this film is the costumes! It opens on a scene with Orlando in Elizabethan finery, and moves through several historical periods, not least of them 18th Century literary England. That's something to see.  The film is, as you would expect, very literary. You don't need to have read the book, but a working knowledge of typical euro-centric history and literature is helpful, I guess. Quentin Crisp plays a perfect Queen Elizabeth, the grotesque Institution herself, opposite Swinton's birdish Orlando. The photography is clear and even luminous at times, and the story moves along quite well--I consistently wondered what would happen. The exploration of gender, while it was obviously the point, was not overdone, in the last analysis.  Our freakish Orlando turns out to be quite human, which is a relief.  The film is very well done; Swinton is a rare bird, never boring, and not to be missed.   "},{"Title":"Aesthetically pleasing, rich in post-modernism","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  To look to this film to be simply entertaining underestimates the director, the film, and the viewer. The post-modern thrust of the film strikes at the very heart of the academic discussion surrounding maleness and femaleness. Orlando resides at the center of transgendered theory and delightfully explores the transcendence of even biology by the social construction of gender. Indeed, transgender theorists, such as Vivianne K. Namaste, address many of the issues presented to the viewer Orlando's ambiguous sexuality (as observed by Archduke Harry), her erasure in class-conscious English society (being a woman is tantamount to being dead and without privilege), and the future that belongs to her as a consequence of being able to be free of the past. The film is rich in gender-bending imagery, not the least of which being the powerful, re-occurring presence of the voice of Jimmy Somerville. To group this production with most other films is to ignore the theoretical brilliance with which Sally Potter adapted Virginia Woolf's novel.  "},{"Title":"A Magical Film","Date":"9 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Orlando became my favorite film from the first time I saw it. It has a sense of mystery in it. The acting, the costumes,the music, and yes- the story are extremely captivating. It is also dear to me, because Orlando, in the stage of being a youth, travels to the far East (as the Ambassador, on the orders of his native Enland). He sees the magnificent cities of Samarkand, Bukhara and meets the brutal Timurland). I come from that part of the world and that is why I liked seeing present day Uzbekistan in this film.But aside from that, Orlando's going through the centuries and turning into a different sex is so abstract, yet powerful. HE/SHE gets to be an immortal contributor to, and the witness of the evolution of humanity. Tilda Swanton was perfect for this part.I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS MOVIE. I think anybody who considers oneself and intelligent movies admirer must not miss out on a chance to see this enchanting film. "},{"Title":"the film in light of the novel","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Being a huge fan of Virginia Woolf, I was apprehensive about the film adaptation of the novel, especially one which lends itself so easily to the printed word (it seems natural to accept Orlando's change in gender within the constructs of Woolf's pastiche of the historical novel, mostly due to her presentation of Orlando's personality as outside of social gender constructions).I was pleasantly surprised! The central performance from Tilda Swinton, seemed tinged with the awkwardness the male form of Orlando has, which, when Orlando becomes a woman, seem resolved. Structually the film is strong, making the transitions over the four hundred years more solid than the novel's more subtle approach. The film is also stunning visually. Despite a few moments which seem to ground the film very firmly within the early nineties (Jimmy Somerville as an angel...?!) overall the film is an interesting and fulfilling adaptation of an interesting novel.  "},{"Title":"Androgyny and immortality","Date":"12 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Movies about transgender people don't number that many (at least in mainstream cinema), and even less so the further back you go, so ORLANDO is somewhat unique by virtue of its very existence. Based on a Virginia Woolf novel (which I haven't yet read, but definitely want to), it tells the story of Orlando, an English nobleman blessed/cursed with immortality and who changes sex from male to female. Without going into spoiler territory (e.g., when and why Orlando changes), the film is largely concerned with social roles and expectations of men and women, unfairness in how women have been treated, etc. I thought it was rather interesting to for Orlando to be possessive of a woman he fancies early in the film, only to be on the receiving end of a similar proposal later on as a woman. And then there was my favorite scene where Orlando sits in on a discussion between several famous writers/poets (including Alexander Pope). All of the feminist discussion and thematic content alone makes this worth a watch, but there are a few minor quibbles to be had. The chief one is due to the main character's immortality. You get several sections in different time periods that show Orlando's progress, but it gives the film an episodic feel at times. I also wasn't terribly satisfied with the way it ended, although I'd be at a loss to posit an alternate ending without extending the running time further (and I thought it was a good length already). Suffice it to say, this is one of the best performances I've ever seen out of Tilda Swinton, although she was less convincing as a man than a woman (for obvious reasons). Still, her character isn't the only fun the film has with gender fluidity, as Queen Elizabeth is played by Quentin Crisp and there are a couple castrati who provide some diegetic music. Aside from the performances, the production design, sets, costumes, and score were all equally good. For more open-minded viewers, I can wholeheartedly recommend this. It will definitely affect the way you think about gender/gender roles. "},{"Title":"Stunning visuals,lacking plot","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Though the film has exquisitely stunning visuals and everything looks absolutely beautiful, it just doesn't seem to grasp certain (I thinkkey) aspects of the book. It might be that their is way too much book to put in one film, but it does make the story less good and certain things would just have been much better, were they done like in the book. Many things just don't get enough time, though other things are added, or changed without making it better. I'd think that when you haven't read the book, you'd enjoy the film more, as always, but that even then you could see that some things could better be done differently. I'd recommend it though, because of the absolutely beautiful way everything is made. The sets are really beautiful and I give my compliments for those. Though the plot and how it is done in general lacks, how stunning everything looks makes it more than worth watching. "},{"Title":"gender bending role","Date":"10 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Orlando (Tilda Swinton) is a feminine well-educated young man. It's 1600. The elderly Queen Elizabeth takes on Orlando as her mascot. She bestows on him land, money and a castle on one condition. Do not fade. Do not wither. Do not grow old. He falls for Moscovite Ambassador's daughter Sasha Menchikova leaving his engagement to Lady Euphrosyne. Sasha leaves him and breaks his heart. He pays poet Greene who then ridicules his poetry. It's 1700. He is sent to Constantinople as British ambassador. He is changed into a woman. It's 1750. Lady Orlando loses her property since a woman has no ownership rights to the land. She rejects a proposal from Archduke Harry. It's 1850. She falls for Shelmerdine. The lawsuits are settled and she can only keep the land if she has a male heir. It's the modern era. She has a daughter and has written a book.Tilda Swinton has a gender bending role and has the androgynous presence to do it. She does an amazing job taking on this role. The movie should probably be a lot more surreal. It's stuck somewhere in the middle. There is a perfunctory nature to this film. She wakes up one morning and finds that herself a woman. It could be read as she was always a woman pretending to be a man. Some sort of transformation needs to be seen or Orlando needs some more declarative speech. Also spanning so much time leaves very little space for each section. The movie feels shallow hinting at a much deeper source material. "},{"Title":"A Look At Androgyny","Date":"13 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Young nobleman Orlando (Tilda Swinton) is commanded by Queen Elizabeth I to stay forever young. Miraculously, he does just that. The film follows him as he moves through several centuries of British history, experiencing a variety of lives and relationships along the way, and even changing sex.We start out with some interesting ice skating, a hobby I was not aware had existed in the 1600s (though Wikipedia informs me it most certainly did). And from there we see Orlando go through life learning of poetry, politics and more.I found this film difficult because of the casting. Now, had I seen it in 1992, the transformation from male to female might have been more pronounced. But seeing it in 2014, Swinton is now a much bigger name, and it was obvious from the first frame that the actor was female. Was this intentional? Maybe, but I think not. "},{"Title":"Interesting movie!","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The 1992 independent movie Orlando is directed by Sally Potter. The main character, the omni-sexual hero-heroine of the story, Orlando, is played by Tilda Swinton. Orlando is based on Virginia Woolf's 1928 novel about an Elizabethan nobleman who remains youthful and changes sex as he lives through four centuries. The story begins in 1603 when Queen Elizabeth I tells Orlando to never grow old before awarding him with a grand estate. He starts his journey of love, poetry, finding his place in society, and searches for a meaning in life. The story follows Orlando's life experiences of love, life, and gender issues.In this film, there are some important aspects to reflect upon. Orlando includes the audience in the story as he/she speaks to us during a significant point or gives us a telling look. I thought that it was unnecessary to address the audience because when she slowly turns her head and gives us the deadpan expression, it seems strange and creepy. The film offers no explanation as to why Orlando suddenly changes from man to woman overnight. The intertitles over the course of the movie helped because it announces or labels the main focus and century during that time period that Orlando is living in. ***Spoiler*** The ending in the film leaves the audience questioning what would happen next as well as wondering why there were signing baby angels in the sky.The audience can identify the sexual roles during the different centuries. Orlando is a man in the beginning and exhibits feminine qualities and traits like poetry and love. It becomes a reversal as Orlando changes into a woman. She is independent, strong, and more masculine in some ways. We see that when Orlando was a man, he had the legal right to own property but when he returned as a woman from his ambassador trip in the Far East, she lost it all. This reinforced the belief that women are the second sex. In the late 20th century, we see that Orlando is driving a motorcycle and returning to the mansion that was once hers with her child in tow. Women and gender have changed throughout the centuries. It was also interesting to see Orlando as a man being disappointed in love and opening up to love again as a women.I really liked the settings in the movie. They really helped enhance the story. I was impressed by the historical detail and some of the notable moments, for example, Queen Elizabeth's entrance, the royal party on the lake, and the gardens. The background music and the costumes were a very important aspect during throughout the film. We can see that in the beginning of the movie, men's fashion and vanities exceeded the women during Queen Elizabeth's reign. The music helps create a dreamy atmosphere throughout the whole movie as Orlando drifts from century to century.I thought that this film was alright but very interesting at the same time and I would still be willing to watch it a second time because the story was confusing at first. I would like to read the novel by Virginia Woolf someday because I like to compare and contrast the movie and book. Overall, the movie is filled with beautiful scenes, great actors and actresses, and a good representation of how gender is viewed throughout the centuries. It is an interesting movie and If you like fantasy and gender-benders then I recommend it! "},{"Title":"Serious yet Very Light","Date":"21 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" One of the best films I have ever seen! I followed a rather obscure reference to an indie film I'd never heard of, and found this fantastic movie. It captures the spirit and the magical realism of Virginia Woolf's novel. Every scene brings up the same question is this ironic satire, or absurdist black comedy, or a tweaking of conventions, or just plain bizarre? And always the answer turns out to be the same _all_ of the above ...and all at the same time too.Describing briefly what it's about by saying it's about a person who lives 400 years, half as a man and half as a woman, mostly misses the mark. Saying it's about the history of England, from both the vantage point of an inside participant and the vantage point of an outside observer, gets a little closer. I didn't find any discernible narrative arc, but it doesn't feel like a collection of disconnected scenes either. It's one of the few more-or-less mainstream films where the label postmodernist seems accurate and even helpful.If you wait for the meaning scene (or even for a cogent explanation of much of anything) you'll just keep waiting. It's subtler than that. A constant subtext of ambiguous gender and sexuality runs through it, so much so that the role of the first Queen Elizabeth is acted by a famous drag queen, and the film is bracketed by the falsetto singing of a former member of the Bronski Beat, at the beginning as the queen's herald and at the end as a rather fake-looking angel.The photography, sets, music, and costumes are all out of this world. It's so detailed that Tilda Swinton wears a different color of contact lenses in each period. It would be an aesthetic experience even if you didn't understand a word of English. Nothing is exactly similar, but the first films that came to my mind are Barry Lyndon, Zelig, A Single Man, The Tree of Life, and the recent Much Ado About Nothing.A couple decades old and never widely released, it's been remastered and is easier to find than ever in 2013. "}{"Title":"My rating 7","Date":"19 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" It. The humanity. In the first case I did not like his outlook and in the second, I did not like her name. Otherwise brilliant play.Playful, interesting, my first of this kind and with very good sound-track. Very good historical retrospective told in its cultural context also. Kingdom with a queen, society of men, poetry, science, adventures, future, windy job, time for conscious choice.High level of abstractness that gets down to the contemporary viewer through different big talks. With the purpose to show him what he looked like, what he is now and to be asked what he wants to be for now on. Historical load showed to us as being left aside the road. Not forgotten. One of the possible ones but came real.More social concepts in the rubric it happened like this. Again, interesting, moving. Lovely surprise and amusement.http//vihrenmitevmovies.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Asexuality doesn't mean ambiguity","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Tilda Swinton as a man does require a certain denial. She is female lets not deny it. She is not the epitome of femininity but that is not a detraction from the person she portrays. She is plain but from start to finish she is not asexual far from it. She is rounded in her portrayal of Orlando except in the minor aspect of the deficiency in anger that is found in many men or to be more precise the denial of their expectations and acceptance of the reality with which they are met.However, his/her characters adaptability and acceptance of reality despite the negatives of choosing a such a crippled sex in that age is what defines her inherent female persona from start to finish.Quentin Crisp knowing his personal history is the epitome of queen and Billy Zanes acceptance of Orlando for the person that he/she is shows that his nature while that of a hero does not typify a gender pre-requisite stereotype.This is a beautifully rendered film with a delicate touch and attention to detail not just of England's mini ice age but of a richer tapestry that skates just above below the ice.When watching it you are scared to intrude as everything feels so fragile however the warmth, endurance and re-creation of Orlando as a life affirming force of nature is what makes this experience so robust. If anything it says that gender is not the issue but the the will of the individual to move forward in life despite the illusions and obstacles that society presents as the norm.If I have any negative comments on the movie is that it should have been longer and filled in the gaps that were obvious in the life of anyone who is over 400 years old as it fails to emphasize the tearing and pain that such inherent change entails. "},{"Title":"Swinton is mesmerizing","Date":"11 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Tilda Swinton, like always, is mesmerizing here, simply captivating. I did see the film just for her, and she doesn't disappoint (but really, when has she). The film itself also has a very moody tone, and it's pretty great in its first act. Although I don't think it's a drastic step down in the last two acts, it does finally settle on just being very good. But really, Swinton owns this. In fact, Swinton has the knack to be able to convey so much with her one still expression, one that can make us feel and understand what her characters are feeling. She's amazing here, and she's one of the best actresses alive. Let's just be grateful we have her. "},{"Title":"Truly a unique film","Date":"11 May 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I couldn't make heads or tails of it. Not having read the book it is based on, I couldn't understand things such as why the Orlando character kept changing from womens to mens clothes. Now I have seen it 4-5 times in total and I've got it on DVD. On repeated viewings I have managed to catch the story and I find it to have a profound depth.Orlando is at the same time the main character and not really a part of this world. He/she goes through the centuries trying to connect to people but at the same time being different and separated from them, as if caught in a glass bubble. Not until Orlando becomes a mother, he/she truly becomes a part of this world.It is not a movie for everyone. If you want a good film, i.e. something easily digestible, you might not like it or even hate it. If you are prepared to be open and let the movie sink into you, you might like it very much.I would give the movie itself an 8. The uniqueness of the movie and how it lingers in my mind after watching it, and how it improves on each viewing makes me give it a 10. "},{"Title":"Solid adaptation, impressive period artifice","Date":"9 August 2014","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" My third entry in Potter's oeuvre, following YES (2004, 7/10) and THE MAN WHO CRIED (2000, 6/10), ORLANDO is a 7-chapter sumptuous period prose lilting swiftly from death, love, poetry, politics, society, sex to birth, in about 400 years from Queen Elizabeth I (Crisp) to present day (as in 1992). Adapted from Virginia Woolf's namesake novel, Orlando (Swinton) is a young peer who stops growing old after waning Queen's Do not fade, do not wither, do not grow old benediction in the ceremonial DEATH chapter, sequentially, he has a taste of woman's treachery in LOVE from a Russian princess Sasha (Valandrey); in POETRY, his budding initiative is impudently disdained by a snobbish poet Nick Greene (Williams) who is seeking for a pension to get by and unscrupulously claims poetry is dead in England; he forays into POLITICS as an ambassador to Constantinople, forms a brotherly amicability with the Khan (Bluteau), after fighting in a fracas, one day he wakes up and inexplicably changes into a woman. Orlando goes back to SOCIETY, her new gender shoehorns her into a discriminatory reality reeks of scornful male chauvinism and she refuses the proposal from Archduke Harry (Wood). In SEX, at the dawn of industrial revolution, she meets the liberty-pursuing American Shelmerdine (Zane), they engage a spiritually sensual relationship against all odds. Finally in BIRTH, Orlando dashingly steers in a motorcycle with her young daughter in the sidecar in the modern day, rendering a sense of time-defying transcendence, both uncanny and enticing. Swinton is unambiguously captivating to play out her androgynous physique, extracts the otherworldliness out of the 400-year time-span, her attention-grabbing stare and utterance intentionally break the fourth wall and deliver the gist of each chapter, as if we were watching a seven-act play, only with more detailed and vivid tableaux. Potter knows perfectly about the gender-bending politics and Woolf's feminism stance, grants Crisp, the queer of queers, to play the Queen of Queens is a bold maneuver and potently satisfying. Among the rest supporting group, Heathcote Williams, who plays both a well-known bard and a modern-day publisher, brilliantly strikes as a theater dab-hand in his meager screen-time, and the second-billed Billy Zane is far less interesting and much duller by comparison. A flourishing and ethereal score from Potter and David Motion tellingly reflects Orlando's emotional trek, Jimmy Somerville's falsetto is beautifully presented both near the opening and in the angelic coda. Sandy Powell's trademark period costume and the entire art direction department also manage to satiate audience's eyes.Within a compact 90-minute, ORLANDO is running against its major default, a distractingly non- consistent narrative with erratic galloping through time and space, automatically pigeonholes the film in the arty ivory tower, if one is not familiar with the source novel (as myself), it will take more willpower to sustain the attention span and digest its poetic pulchritude. Some literature is innately unsuitable to be transposed into a film, be that as it may, Potter's artistry cannot be diminished as one of the most pioneering female director among her peer. "},{"Title":"If a man had directed Orlando","Date":"10 August 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" If a man had directed Orlando, would Orlando have been cast as a man instead of a woman? If a man had directed Orlando, would the Bronski Beat singer ended the film? Hollywood hates women. It's a man's world. Even now, Kathryn Bigelow is probably one of the few female directors. If a man had directed Orlando, shot for shot, the director of the Orlando we know today would have been hailed the next Stanley Kubrick. Rather, for twenty years, this masterpiece has lingered, without adequate recognition. Hopefully someday it will get the recognition it deserves. Unfortunately, like Derek Jarman, you will have to hunt out the film. I guess that is the curse of any great piece of art. "},{"Title":"One of a kind","Date":"23 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" What in the world do we gather from this film. Tilda Swinton plays the never aging male/female lord/lady Orlando. Queen Elizabeth I is also played by the wrong sex.When the young lord Orlando inherits the queens estate it's on the promise that he will always stay young and he does. What follows is a biography covering about 400 years and a sex change.This is indeed a fun look at the roles held by the two sexes during the course of these centuries. Though it does play more or less as a drama it has large shades of comedy as well. For one we have Orlando often throwing a few comments to the viewers about the plot + the ridiculousness of the whole set-up.Swinton is most certainly up for the challenge here. Portraying the ever changing lord/lady through this most strange journey. With wits and elegance this film comes off as one of the kind and something which should be experienced. "},{"Title":"visually stunning","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I got this film in a free offer from a Sunday paper and I was glad that i did. I hadn't come across this film before , i watched it without any preconceived ideas so I had no bias to it one way or another. This film takes us on a whirlwind tour of history seen through the eyes of young nobleman Orlando who is told never to grow old by Queen Elizabeth 1 and who proceeds to do just that.His journey through immortality even includes a change of sex. Visually this film is breathtaking and though you don't stay in one time period very long you certainly get a decent historical view of each one. Some of the humour is spot on and the best scene is where Orlando sleeps for a week and about twelve people stand around his bed trying to wake him up. This is the first time i have seen Tilda Swinton in a movie but she was excellent and I am definitely a fan. The final scene with Orlando sitting under a tree where the camera lingers on her face for a couple of minutes before panning across to Jimmy Somerville in the sky,as an angel,singing the closing song really packs a punch.It also uplifts the viewer, gives you the feeling that Orlando has finally found herself and enables you to leave the film with a feeling of closure. Modern British film classic 8/10 "},{"Title":"My desert island film","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I was totally mesmerised by Orlando.  The cinematography, the script, the performances and the sets are all excellent.  This could have been a difficult adaptation to undertake, but Sally Potter has captured the transition of the novel perfectly.  Tilda Swinton is very hypnotic in her portrayal of the title character, I adored the moments when she turned to camera and would address me personally (that's how it feels).  Orlando is clearly my favourite, my desert island film.  Now it's out on dvd in the UK I am watching it endlessly, my vhs version eventually wore out! "},{"Title":"Another Stunning Success By Sally Potter","Date":"5 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I must say that without a doubt Orlando has increased my admiration for Sally Potter tenfold.  I cannot deny that some of Virginia Woolf's ideas seem strange at times but Sally Potter has given Orlando a clear direction. I find myself drawn into the plot through music and words not just sitting idly through the entire film.  Orlando is a movie that makes you wonder and think.  You cannot always guess what's coming and that it the most greatest achievement I believe a movie can have.     "}{"Title":"Just chill out and go with it...","Date":"30 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I loved this movie.Instead of trying to read a bunch of sexual politics into Orlando, try just enjoying it as the rambling, time-leaping, plotless pleasure that it is.  Orlando is immortal.  I can see that if you lived forever, there would be no plot - no beginning/middle/end, no goal you were trying to reach. And Orlando is not really part of anything that is happening - s/he's just watching, bumping into people briefly, and moving on...  With no time constraints, s/he is free to try out different lifestyles at different times with no regrets of I wasted half my life if it doesn't work out.Many scenes were absolutely mesmerizing, and the Orlando character had a rather funky charisma that I never tired of watching.What I most enjoyed about this movie was the humor (which unfortunately a lot of people seem to miss).  For one thing, it's a great chance to laugh at hundreds of years' worth of totally ludicrous British wigs!If you require a plot you can actually follow from scene to scene, you will probably hate it.  So try to chill. "},{"Title":"What a lovely film.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film made me feel unreasonably happy. I skipped out of the theatre. Listening to the music for the scene in the garden makes you feel like you are being tickled. The plot change (from Woolf's book) at the end was very appropriate.Very cathartic. I felt so brilliant after seeing this I went and gave my hopeless boyfriend the boot.   "},{"Title":"Only for the Woolf fans out there.","Date":"9 November 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" As someone who knows nothing at all about Virginia Woolf and her writing career, I found this film rather vacuous. Sure the costumes and sets were great, I do love much of those eras clothing styles, but that hardly makes a great film. Hollywood has this thing with books and IMHO if you need to know the book prior to seeing the movie then the movie is at fault either the screenwriter or director failed to make a film that can stand on its own. Maybe it was an impossible task I don't know since I haven't read the book.Too much seems to depend upon knowing the author and her relationship with her friend but without that foreknowledge it loses any irony or bite.Tilde Swinson simply cannot make a convincing male and for 2/3 of the movie that simply got in the way. "},{"Title":"Visually stunning","Date":"5 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Sally Potter's brilliant, visually stunning evocation of a man/woman's travails and travels through time are based loosely on the Virginia Woolf novel. Gender switching time traveller, Orlando, experiences in his own skin what obstacles females face and have faced over centuries. Accompanied by an original and compelling soundtrack that includes artist Jimmy Summerville. A must-see for those who admire non-mainstream visual fare. "},{"Title":"Orlando...concise truths for some....","Date":"1 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" There are only a few things in life that hit you with a clarity of view to match your own experiences/feelings. Orlando did this with me. On purely the production front, I found this to be a remarkable piece of work. A breakaway from the style I am used to seeing. The accent on concepts against traditional story telling I felt totally absorbing, along with a narrative style, managed to score many a bullseye during the course of this film. The entire production crew in my estimation deserve praise for the way such a potentially difficult work by Virginia Woolf and the subject of Androgyny was handled and portrayed. I have a personal intrigue with this film, as it was a home truth for me. I found it to be a profoundly emotional experience watching it, and believe others similar to myself will feel the same. "},{"Title":"Fascination","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Repeated viewing is the answer to this puzzle of a film. I saw it when first released (egad, has it been twelve years!)and was intrigued and frustrated by it. Now, no longer a callow youth (crap, I wasn't a youth when I first saw it!),I find it intriguing and very fine. Casting Quentin Crisp as Elizabeth the First was a stroke of genius and Tilda Swinton is perfection as Orlando. Billy Sommerville (Bronski Beat)is, now and forever, an angel in my mind. Has Billy Zane ever looked so good? Visuals are important in this movie; there are so many beautifully photographed scenes. Sally Potter lets humour sneak in to save it from what might have been total and impenetrable pretension.  "},{"Title":"The Double Life","Date":"4 December 2002","Score":"17 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.The value in this film is in wondering after the fact where it went wrong. Reminds me of another `artistic' woman filmmaker who thinks that decoration alone matters, Julie Taymor.Woolf's work is notable in how she took the emerging notion of self-aware narration and elaborated it. Her stance is one where the narrator challenges the reader she sets up phrases, small images and local metaphors in such a way that we complete them. using deep-seated assumptions about the ay the world works. And then she subtly shows that completion to have been based on assumptions that embarrass us, usually in ways related to gender. This results in a dual narrative the story itself which superficially deals with many of these elements, and the shape of the narrative where the real challenge occurs.This is tough stuff for a filmmaker, and the only transportable solution we have devised is to find an actress (almost always an actress) that can create that dual stance of being the character and also someone halfway between the film and our mind. Brando could do it. Streep sometimes. Today, we have Penn, Moore, Blanchett, and Winslet. (An alternative approach is to honk around with the eye, as with Kubrick, Tarkovsky or -- in places -- dePalma. But this cannot be borrowed by others.)Sally Potter isn't up to this. She tries a little Greenaway to place a certain abstraction in the lush perspectives, but doesn't seem to know how he places the narrative in the environment. Along the way we get a few nice compositions, but they don't do the heavy lifting we need. Her main strategy is invested in her actress. Ms Swinton is completely outclassed by the nature of the problem her solution to the dual narrative is to occasionally look at the camera. Those moments -- a long one at the end -- are supposed to substitute for the rich, engaging thrust and parry Woolf puts us through.Well, they don't. What we end up with is a simple metaphor `Forrest Gump' meets `Boys Don't Cry.' It did have the beneficial effect of sending me back to Woolf. Hope it does for you as well. Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Sad waste of time","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I red -some praise acting of Tilda. THose folks doesn't know anything about acting to write that. when i come across of such works of art- I think of millions people and other creatures of the world who r in trouble and starving. And those people who r responsible of funding this nonsense, instead of spending money wisely and humanely. So much money goes to fund crap like that. Again n again, this movie is perfect example. Yuck to EVERYTHING about this piece of crap. Yucky people are who waste money this way. What about those who gave some better reviews to this? They r loonies and should be very ashamed of themselves. "},{"Title":"A song to mankind","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is one of the most beautiful movies I have ever seen. The plot, inspired on Virginia Woolf's novel, is extremely poetic and the main character, Orlando, as an incarnation of humanity, is powerful and symbolic. This film is full of beautiful images, perfect scenes, and great dialogues. Orlando's path, through 400 years, changing with the times, but maintaining his/her essence, it's something amazing. The actress that played Orlando, is really gifted. Sally Potter, the director (a very talented and intelligent woman) have done a movie that no-one should miss. "},{"Title":"crazy about costumes","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This is an amazing and insightful film with a wonderful cast and absolutely amazing costumes.  Though I agree with the two nominations for best costume design, I can't imagine why it didn't win.  Unfortunately, very little information and few pictures can be found on the net. "}{"Title":"Suck Fest Galore","Date":"26 April 2011","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This movie is about an hour and a half of staring at Tilda Swinton as she stares back at you. Saying that Orlando turned into a woman because he couldn't handle killing another human being is retarded. Women kill people too. They have been doing it as long as men have.I love the book, love it, and I am usually quite open to loose adaptation, but this is one case where the director was in love with showing the different time periods and had skewed ideas about gender.I understand that the book is odd, that it isn't the most cinematic, but maybe that's why the director/writer should have let this project alone. Having Tilda Swinton stare at the camera every five minutes did not add to any themes or ideas, nor did it enhance the plot. It was just creepy and slow moving.Also, what was with the weird singing angel at the end? I mean, what could that have possibly meant? P.S. I wanted a Fly Loo scene. "},{"Title":"visually magnificent, well-produced Virginia Woolf adaptation","Date":"7 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Visually magnificent adaptation of Virginia Woolf's 1928 novel about a young man of noble descent, who in the course of growing up travels through the centuries - and becomes a woman along the way! To those who have not read the book, this film may seem incoherent, even pointless. Those who have read it may fret about the edited plot and the meager exploration of the main character's complex emotions and thoughts. However, most of these drawbacks are offset by splendid photography and a stunning performance by Tilda Swinton, whose direct addresses to the audience are especially touching and effective. A fine literary adaptation, if not necessarily for the ordinary movie-goer. "},{"Title":"A great movie and a great experience","Date":"18 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Tilda Swinton takes her acting to a new level here. If you accept her as both a guy and a girl, you will swim anew with joy. Firstly she's a girl. I hope that is not a spoiler for you. Her name is Tilda. Get a clue. Okay, so she plays a guy-not unusual in Elizabethan England, on the stage.Actually guys played girls-you get the idea. Tilda's character meets Elizabeth 1st.Being acting, of course Elizabeth is played by gay actor Quentin Crisp, who is a guy. Moving along. Tilda just rocks as a guy. Okay, this movie is about how girl/guy Tilda just moves along in life as a guy/girl. Trust me-this movie works because Tilda-the main actor- is just so freaking beautiful. You-the viewer-love Tilda-the actress-because she is playing a girl playing a guy. And so on. This movie works because of course Tilda Swinton is beautiful. This is a great movie because it has ideas, beauty and fine acting. I think my review was changed here by IMDb.Why is that? "},{"Title":"Art Movie - in the best sense","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" In many respects this is not necessarily a great film. But for me it is that much rarer thing -- a film which is firmly embedded in its medium. So many films, even very good films, feel as if they are simply being delivered to you in one form (a film) but could just as easily have been related as a TV show, a short story or even (in some cases) a painting or a song. I have not read Woolf's Orlando (although I am a Woolf fan) but seeing this film on its own terms, I was very taken with the fact that it felt as if it made full use of the medium and would be a lesser tale if told in another. Whether or not this impression is correct, It as a delight to feel so strongly that way after seeing a film. It left me with the sense that I had been in the hands of a true film artist, rather than a filmmaker/technician.As for the story itself, it is not perfect, not as deep as it wants you to think it is and a little ham-handed at times. But the fantastic elements that are woven through the tale -- really almost a magical realism a la Garcia-Marquez, et al. -- helps brush away the flaws. And the cinematography and Swinton's performance are quite lovely. "},{"Title":"More admirable than enjoyable.","Date":"25 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I saw Sally Potter's 1997 film 'The Tango Lesson' before I saw this more well-known one, but after viewing 'Orlando' I had the same overall impression of both--that is, I wish I could have enjoyed it as much as I admired it.As a director Potter is a brilliant craftsman. Scenes are always compelling to look at; sometimes they are luscious, even stunning. Cinematography, art direction and costume design are outstanding. As a feast for the eye, Potter's films are hard to beat.I have a little more trouble with the narrative, though. Trying to comprehend the meaning of Orlando made me feels like one of two scenarios is possible (1) I'm a thick-headed Philistine that can't understand anything but the most literal story, or (2) the screenplay and its execution aren't up to handling such a difficult premise in an accessible manner. Even a bare-bones relating of the plot will show one that this is an extraordinarily ambitious and complex undertaking, and Potter's screenplay, which tends towards minimalism, is so obscure and just plain unfathomable at times (and aggressively so, as well) that it leaves me cold. If you're hoping to understand four hundred years of sexual politics by watching this movie, good luck, I don't think it does the best job of explaining things.Again, as with the 'The Tango Lesson,' I would have to give the movie an overall positive rating, but only slightly, as the visual and the narrative elements are at loggerheads in my estimation. I would like to be able to praise it to the high heavens as a work of transcendent brilliance. Maybe one day I'll be so enlightened. Or maybe one day Ms. Potter will make a film that one can feel comfortable eating popcorn to while watching.  "},{"Title":"Better than what I expected!","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" An entertaining slice provided by Sally Potter, Orlando, based on a Virginia Woolf adaptation, tells the story of an effeminate young nobleman in the 1600s who is blessed by Elizabeth 1 a life of eternal youth. Throughout the next 400 years, Orlando finds love, loses love, travels the continents, discovers his love of poetry, seizes control of various castles, and even changes sex! Tilda Swinton is a witty, charming actress, and she showcases her talents as a man (later a transsexual) with such graciousness, you look beyond the weirdness and admire the character for what he/she is. Billy Zane is a added bonus here, however he doesn't appear till the end of the film, and only for about five minutes total.If you're a fan of anyone in the cast, of Virginia Woolf, or time travel, then this is for you! "},{"Title":"one of a kind, and often rather wonderful","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  For the first half hour at least, this is a real joy there's so much visual splendour, sly wit and ingenuity on show in the Elizabethan and Jacobean sections that I'm inclined to forgive the longeurs and lapses later in the film.  But then, how could any film live up to the casting coup of Quentin Crisp as Queen Elizabeth I?  He is quite wonderful this isn't just a stunt, but an utterly convincing portrayal of the ageing queen, that helps us suspend disbelief and enjoy the gender-bending high jinks of England circa 1600, with its distinctly unshaven Desdemona (in a glimpse of a quite startlingly terrible production of Othello), and of course Tilda Swinton's Orlando.  She's never particularly androgynous, though she does catch the body language of awkward male post-adolescence, and is well paired with the *very* feminine Charlotte Valandrey in the second segment. Throughout these sequences the look of the film is remarkable considering the tight budget, and the script is sharp, subtle and funny.Things do go a bit flat for a time, both in the script and the execution Heathcote Williams' poet on the make isn't terribly interesting, and the caricatures of various 18th-century literary luminaries are too crude for their feminist point to register very convincingly (it can't be said that the script is always subtle). The limits of the budget and shooting time mean that the supposedly traumatic sight of a man shot dead in battle (he's not a man, he's the enemy!) doesn't have enough impact to motivate the central transformation of Orlando from man to woman.  Luckily the film revives in time for the Victorians and a delicious, fairly preposterous modern coda. The final impression is of a movie that got slightly compromised, mostly because it was so hard to persuade investors to sink their cash into something so eccentric, but it's still a unique and gleeful highbrow entertainment -- even if it doesn't really say anything all that deep about gender or identity. "},{"Title":"Could have been great, but you simply can't believe what you're seeing","Date":"20 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Interesting film. Weird story, indeed, that makes you think a bit. But I found it quite unforgivable that you simply can't believe in the first part of the movie the main character is a man. Filmed already in these times of CGI and make up professionals, I can't understand why the filmmakers didn't make the actress look more like a man. Or, if this was too much a hard thing to do, why they didn't choose a real man to act in the first minutes. This is too obvious and too much disturbing not to rate the movie as high as it could have been. It leaves you with the feeling that the people who made this really didn't care enough about their work, or didn't think we deserved a clean job. "},{"Title":"Great movie, beautiful soundtrack, awesome cinematography, great acting, haunting","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was very good.  Tilda Swinton is awesome in the role of Orlando, playing it with such assured dignity that she anchors what is otherwise a surreal and ethereal plotline.  One is never too sure of what is being meant in anything to do with Virginia Woolf, at least her good works, and the film takes on the challenge of engaging the viewer in a very complex allegory of the sexes with great success.The music, which was apparently done by Sally Porter herself, really works seamlessly with the movie.  And the cinematography is just so lush and sensuous and crisp that it almost approaches Kubrick's trademark dream-aura.The movie can seem a bit tedious and long though and really demands a lot from the viewer.  I would recommend it on a softly rainy day at home with a hot pot of tea in place of a book.  Yes, it's THAT kind of movie. "},{"Title":"Time passes but nothing changes - except his sex","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A visually stunning film. I can't think how they could have improved the locations/makeup or the atmosphere created by some of the outdoor shots.The film covers a 400 year long period in the life of Orlando (Tilda Swinton) who we are introduced to as a well educated young man of high position in the court of Queen Elizabeth I. She takes him as her favourite and asks him to Never Fade. He obliges. Time passes, and we are presented with several scenes from Orlando's life up to the end of the twentieth century. He does become a woman during this time, but it really has no bearing on the story except that she loses her house and jumps into bed with an American (Billy Zane).Orlando's character changes little throughout the film. Over 400 years of experience and nothing to show for it? This film revolves around a single character without any real examination of him and his connection to time and place. Quite a shameful waste. Completely unrealistic and unentertaining , unless of course you assume this was intentional as part of Queen Elizabeth's original decree.I would have loved to have seen an epic journey through Orlando's life especially since Tilda Swinton can act well and her pale skin and striking hair give weight to the kind of frightening confidence/knowledge/experience you would expect to find in a 400 year aristocratic human.This subject has been better explored in supposedly lower brow films such as Interview With The Vampire or dare I say it even Highlander. "}{"Title":"Senseless...","Date":"23 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I am really at a loss in trying to review this movie... What is there to say about this film? Unfortunately, not much. Yes, Swinton gives a good performance, and yes the costumes are good, but that is just about all there is to this motion picture.Everything else is a mass of senseless mumbo-jumbo. This film has no story, no meaning, says nothing and is going nowhere. A complete waste of time and money, I really don't know what else to say about this film.But then again, it's probably one of those 'intellectual masterpieces' I am just too ignorant to understand. Silly me... "},{"Title":"Unapproachable and over-rated","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  This film is  a classic example of an arty film on a hallowed novel which gets brilliant reviews but is unapproachable and dull to the majority of the movie going public.  Unless you have read the novel and are au fait with the subject matter, even the intelligent viewer will be left bemused and quite frankly bored to tears.  Only for the die-hard Virginia Wolfe fans. "},{"Title":"Compelling Swinton in a ruthlessly pursued adaptation","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" A Viriginia Woolf adaptation or a Tilda Swinton vehicle? I watched for the latter &#150; it's how the film is marketed since it turned into a seminal film for the actor's career. It's difficult to emphasise just how good she is. Comic to grave in a twitch, undulating between romantic, lustful and unremittingly beautiful. There's no point in the film in which she fails to merit the fine photography or production design in which Sally Potter couches the project.I kept waiting for the art-house to consume anything worth watching. It just doesn't happen. The acting around Swinton is solid and colourful; the script holds its own. Above all everyone maintains a sense of purpose &#150; of faith in Potter's direction. The result is curious. A pungent, absorbing film which doesn't really seem to say much coherent or cumulative. Perhaps this is the icing on the cake, an adherence to the Woolf's stream of consciousness literary character. It makes for an admirable film if not a thoroughly satisfying one. 6/10 "},{"Title":"A piece of poetry!","Date":"23 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Orlando! The human predicament incarnated in a poetic piece of art. The movie is far from being entertaining; however, I couldn't get rid of that urge to watch it twice and thrice because it simply challenged my mind. For me, it was like reading a beautifully rhymed poem in a strange language. I had to see it more than once to understand every word, every gesture, every look. An in the process, I discover something new. Despite the strong feminist undertones, the movie generally ponders on the human existence presented by the tiresias-like symbolic figure Orlando, the androgynous lord who lives for more than four centuries discovering the true nature of death, love, poetry, politics, society, and sex. Orlando is a must-see if you want to keep your mind buzzing for days. One important lesson I learned from this movie Tilda Swinton is an acting goddess! "},{"Title":"Overall compelling","Date":"7 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  Had it not been for the movie's incredible imagery and music, I would cast it among the genre of dead-beat movies.  Even though it's not good policy to get by on the beauty of one's cinematography, the movie does succeed in fobbing itself off as a compelling piece.The first half an hour is ghastly, it's only saving grace a very quirky scene with the Queen...The movie definitely takes a turn for the better. Overall, worth your hour and a half.    "},{"Title":"Good movie mostly for Swinton's performance","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I remember seeing this in the theater when I was about 16 or 17.... I must have been growing out of my action movie phase because this isn't the type of thing that I saw often at that time. It's a very interesting movie, I just re-watched it after all this time. The photography and costumes and just all the physical aspects of the production are quite remarkable. Virginia Woolf's story as adapted for this film feels whimsical and at the same time it makes some interesting comments about gender roles in our society and how they've changed (and stayed the same) over the years. It shouldn't be overlooked that every time a royal figure is named in the film, it is a Queen (Elizabeth, Anne, and then Victoria). And for some reason that I haven't completely figured out there's also a recurring motif of eunuchs.Tilda Swinton's incredible performance as Orlando is the main strength of this film from beginning to end. The director, Sally Potter, isn't afraid to let the camera stay very close to Swinton's face for great lengths of time in the film because she knows that the actress can maintain the interest of the audience and the strength of the character.The early parts of this film are the most interesting for me. I love the scenes with Quentin Crisp as Queen Elizabeth, it works perfectly having Swinton play a man and having a man play the Queen. I also like the parts where Orlando falls in love with the Russian noblewoman and the parts where he's in the Middle East. But the movie does take a turn somewhat for the worse with the appearance of Billy Zane's strangely idealized American adventurer character. And the climax of the movie doesn't really work for me. The music has already gotten to be a bit too much by then, and since I don't really get why the eunuchs are in so many scenes I don't really understand the significance of the angel at the end. It reminds me a little bit of the end of David Lynch's Wild at Heart. But that doesn't help me too much. I think it's a bit too obtuse, I think the audience maybe deserves more closure. I had totally forgotten about that part of the movie before re-watching it this time, I thought the story ended with her on the bike with her kid.All in all, despite some of my problems with the music and the later parts of the film I think it's a very nice accomplishment and a film that's aging pretty well. Swinton is a fantastic actress and it's worth watching the movie again just to see her perform in such an ambitious role. "},{"Title":"Visually quite stunning, plot very empty","Date":"14 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I confess I have not read Virginia Wolf's novel and therefore cannot judge whether the film though very thin on plot and substance is at least faithful to the book.This idea that an eternal being can almost not develop at all just because he/she is mostly bound to a huge house, is very weak.Clearly the theme of an eternal being is very tough to treat, especially in a film - consider that such a being could spend 100 years studying, say, ants, and not mind at all given the infinite amount of time available. Because of this it may be that an eternal being would develop slowly anyway, from a human point of view - house or not.However once one puts aside the weakness and relative emptiness of the plot, one does have to recognize that the film is aesthetically stunning, very beautifully filmed. Worth seeing if only for that.Antoine  "},{"Title":"Really dull, long-winded adaptation of a wonderful, concise novel!","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This was always going to be a hard novel to adapt - the very qualities that make it a great read make a confusing film. The book has a mysterious, dream-like, languid quality - Woolf can slip over hundreds of years in a sentence and the reader admires her prose skill and absolute razor conciseness.On the screen though a jump of that kind, with no explanation, is just confusing. We detect from early on in the book that it's more of a psychological fable set against a literary / historical background than a naturalistic, historical story with a real plot. But on film all the realistic period detail etc taken in by your eye makes you instinctively expect realistic events. Might have been a better film if done like a Greenaway, so clear to the viewer it's not a 'realistic' story etc. Or if completely re-interpreted, or turned into a feminist polemic - by just translating as closely as possible events from the book to screen it's just thin and pointless. Plus many long, silent, madness-inducing pauses in the film, which obviously you don't get in a book.There's simply no 'story' in the film, no reason to care, and the only character seen long enough to register is Tilda Swinton's Orlando, who as a distant, expressionless, apparent immortal you just can't care about. We don't even get to know 'what it's like' to be Orlando, and there's no interest in the whys and wherefores of his/her immortality - so no 'threat', no 'learning', no story arc of any kind. All in all I can't recommend the book highly enough (plus it's really thin!) but don't bother with the film. "},{"Title":"Shakespeare meets RuPaul in an Elizabethean Ferris Buellers' Day Off","Date":"20 September 2008","Score":"7 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" My wife just made me watch this movie. I don't think I'll ever forgive her for that.Aside from the setting of Elizabethean England and a cast of unknowns subjecting the viewer to the gluttonous indulgences of the 17th century English aristocracy, the cross-dressing confusion only adds to the films lack of appeal to me.There's a story, but it doesn't make sense. There's no real plot, no real action, and the only real character development comes when the protagonist awakes one morning having had a spontaneous sex change in his/her sleep.I'd rather ritualistically disembowel myself with a salad fork than ever have to sit through this movie again. "},{"Title":"Pop video","Date":"2 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Woolf's novel, Orlando is witty, clever, funny and has a remarkable evenness of tone and writing skill - certainly for her. It is a work of an artist in possession of their craft.This film version of that book has none of those qualities and while it is excellently designed and shot on a modest budget it lacks intelligence, wit and purpose it is a pop music video. It is all surface and eye candy an Winton's performance incarnates that gloss. While she has a fine face, she is overtly wooden.But worse than that it has a smug and ever so cool media studies artiness as it breaks the frame to address the viewer. The film version is like a tier 3 university course called Feminist Poetics and Male Narratives...the mediocrity of its cinema realization is much to clear. "}{"Title":"confusing.","Date":"9 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I find that this movie is hard to understand. The transition is not smooth. How can orlando fall in love with a teenage girl, then fall in love again with a man. The director did not do a good job of explaining the whole novel. I have never read any novels of virginia wolff, I don't know anything about her. However, it is a movie, then I should be able to understand it without reading the novel. "},{"Title":"A masked ball and nothing more","Date":"14 November 2008","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Someone wrote in response to another confused, disappointed viewer I'm hoping you are a brand new film student...if you cannot analyze this easily interpreted film, you are going to go crazy with Fellini, Truffant, and most other works of greatness. Wait till you see The Battleship Potemkin!! Don't give up though...art is an incindiary form of annoyance for many...open discussions are the secon best part of art.The writer was correct in stating that open discussions are the second best part of art. Great art arouses the soul and covers the spectrum of feelings, emotions, and the mind. However, for me, comparing this film with the great works of Fellini, Truffaut, and Eisenstein is annoying in itself. I saw this as a double-bill with Le Plaisir by Max Ophuls. For me, the distinction between art and an incendiary form of annoyance is clear - Le Plaisir is a realized masterpiece with brilliant source material. And then there is this, the annoyance!This film is not dreadful, but it is mediocrity teetering on the edge of the cliff. A very interesting proposition by Virgnia Woolf is just completely reduced to shallow banality. With so much worthy plumbing available with the source material's take on immortality, relationships, and androgyny, this (literally) skates on ice. This effort reminds me of Rand's The Fountainhead with Gary Cooper and Patricia Neal - full of shimmering possibilities and strikingly photographed, but poorly realized and interpreted. Tilda Swinton has the metamorphic wherewithal of Meryl Streep and Toni Collette required to pull off this role, but she doesn't ring true at all - there is none of the world-weary angst that this character, burdened by his/her past and fearful of the future, should embody. This character should oscillate between manhood and womanhood from a deep central core of wisdom, but I don't see this at all in Swinton's performance. Billy Zane's striking good looks don't translate well to the intriguing dovetail of Shelmerdine - his performance is weak, he photographs poorly, and there is no chemistry between the two characters. Quentin Crisp's take on Queen Elizabeth is the interesting moment in the film, but it is at best a campy one.This rates about a 3 for me. As such, I would love to see a remake of this up for the taking. "},{"Title":"At times visually stunning but ultimately empty film","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Adapted from a novel by Virginia Woolf, this is a classic example of the triumph of style over substance. The plot concerning a young English aristocrat initially set in Elizabethan times charts how the character longs for love and companionship falls for a Russian girl who toys with his feelings and ultimately breaks his heart. Queen Elizabeth offers him a house and land if he can remain young and not wither away. Miraculously Orlando does not age at all and remains young (However the reason for this is not explained). He is given an then ambassador post in the East, forms a friendship with the ruler and gives them weapons to fight of a mutual enemy. He returns to England and falls into a long sleep and awakes as a female (yes really)and whilst out horse riding falls off her horse and amazingly along comes Billy Zane and the same thing happens to him they immediately feel something towards each other and return to Orlando's house and make love. He is a free spirit and ultimately returns to America. Then we quickly are rushed through the World Wars to the present day London where she has passed her writings to a publisher in the Docklands and we see her and her child riding off back to the House she owned for centuries. I have probably left a few things out. But then I felt there was a lot of emotional depth missing from this film. I did not for once find Tilda Swinton believable as a man in the beginning of the film. Even when Orlando changes sex I did not find her acting to be of the required emotional depth, although the script was probably partly to blame for this. I found some of the dialogue to be quite trite in places. And even though the story of Orlando could have been interesting this 90 minute film seemed like it was well over 2hrs. As another reviewer has stated, the character passes through these times but there is no real connection, you do not find out a great deal about the periods and what life was like as the film concentrates more on Orlando's emotional quest. Also I am not really a fan of movies where the protagonist often makes asides to the camera, in most cases it is not essential to the plot and adds nothing to the film.I would give this film 3.5 out of 10. It is not worth the time, unless you are a fan of Virginia Woolf's writing or interested in feminist movies, but even then there has been better. If you want to see a much better Tilda Swinton film I highly recommend you check out a 2001 movie called The Deep End she co-stars with Goran Visnjic. "},{"Title":"Beautifully filmed but...","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" I watched this because my wife wanted to see it and the synopsis on the back of the DVD case made it sound interesting. To be honest, if I hadn't read that synopsis I wouldn't have had a clue what the story was supposed to be about - even then I didn't think it was about self discovery as the synopsis claimed.I didn't find Tilda Swinton at all convincing as a man. Yes she looks vaguely androgynous but her voice gives her away as obviously female. There's also the small matter of her being almost the only male character in the Elizabethan scenes who isn't sporting a beard...I found the pace of the film to be dreadfully slow. There seemed to be endless long shots of people walking towards or away from the camera. I eventually reached the conclusion that these were to show off the wonderful cinematography (and some excellent Foley artist work) rather than to advance what there is in the way of plot. The first half of the film probably devotes more time to nothing much happening than it does to dialogue.Not a film that I'll be watching again. "},{"Title":"Costumes, score and not a lot more","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I haven't read the Virginia Woolf original, so no comparisons will be made, illuminating or otherwise. This review refers to the DVD edition.Excellent costumes, stunning cinematography, effective score, but only a seriously overheated feminist could find any hint of a serious examination of sexual politics in this film. It doesn't help that no one could believe for a moment that Orlando is EVER male, let alone masculine, at any time. It's quite obvious that Potter has chosen early on to avoid the real prickly issues of what it means to be male, female or ultimately even human in favor of creating a visual style that first amazes, then seduces but ultimately wears thin as one's brain kicks back in.I hoped for a good deal more than style in a film this good in every way but substance. I was disappointed.  "},{"Title":"How Can 400 Years Be So Boring?","Date":"2 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" What would happen if we could live a series of past lives, strung together like pearls, with full cognition of them all? Orlando, written and directed by Sally Potter, explores this theme, but then also weaves another few strands along the way. The title character, played by Tilda Swinton, plays Orlando like a skittish school girl, who remains confused and emotionally isolated from herself, those dearest to her, and the world at large.While visually fascinating, Orlando bounds helter-skelter through 400 years of history and politics to make some fuzzy social commentary on gender, sexism, and love. The score is perhaps the most interesting element in a film that fails to connect with this viewer. It travels well through Orlando's four centuries, complimenting Swinton's movements with vibrations that haunt our senses. Like most art house period pieces, the sets are sumptuous creations, if a bit overblown with fabric and muted color.I kept asking myself was Swinton's restrained performance purposely done---or just purposeless? Well, with art house cinema, we'll be debating that for many centuries ourselves! "},{"Title":"painting by numbers","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" This film deserves recognition by virtue of its cinematography and for the first class (almost brilliant) job done by the leading actress. The story was over worked and under researched. The suspension of disbelief must be supported in drama, not undermined as it was here. For a man to change sex, face a mirror for the benefit of the audience (look, breasts and no penis) and then declare that she felt no different but only looked different, is the biggest insult ever leveled at women in the history of storytelling. The differences between men and women (even the obvious ones) go far and above breasts and a penis. For many reasons, the story was too simplistic too obviously a slap in the face for pater and a nudge in the ribs for anyone who would giggle and snort or nod knowingly. What could have been a meaningful story about the dreadful abuse of women and the crazy notions forged by generation after generation of self interested, jealous and frightened men of power, turned out to be a soulless and simple romp, highlighted here and there with the help of painting by numbers. "},{"Title":"not entertaining","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  ORLANDO is a risky film that could've been worst than ED WOOD if Potter wasn't such a delicate crafts-person.  Nevertheless, how she makes the film bearable is still a mystery to me.  Perhaps it is her ability to capture that neat, ornate feeling we all have about Victorian England.  Or maybe it's her undying adoration to Virginia Woolf, a true visionary of literature and modern narrative.Unfortunately, whatever the case is, I still wanted ORLANDO to end the second it started.  I'm sorry.  I'm a 23 year old male and I like Zeppelin and the Stones and I just got bored of watching this bland chick have tea and talk about the Duke and how good the red plum cake was.         "},{"Title":"My personal opinion","Date":"15 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":"  I don't have much to say about this movie. It did not make a lot of sense but conceptually it was an interesting idea. I do have to say it was the most frustrating movie I have ever Seen!!! Every time I was about to turn off the movie and walk away (cause I think it s**ked), it started to get interesting, then it would drag on again. This is the kind of movie that feels like it is about to begin all the way till you see the end. It was a pointless waist of time. I recommend it to people that like to take risks (big risks of wasting your time). Worst movie I have ever seen... Sorry guys. "},{"Title":"the worst  film ever made","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"5 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" OK so i was made to watch this film as part of a college assignment and my god did i regret it. According to the blurb on the video this is a sweeping epic, well my first bone of contention is not many epics last an hour and a half! My second is that also most if not all epics have a story, this film doesn't, be warned. it drags on and on with nothing happening and the audience is meant to be entertained by the grand set designs and nothing else. The script is appalling, the direction is abysmal, ever heard of a little thing called pace miss potter?, and the acting? well my dogs can do better and they haven't had any lessons. I wont give away what paper thin story there is but i urge anyone with a respect for life not to watch this film as you may well be tempted to end your own life and those around you just to get away from it. "}{"Title":"Pretentious yet intellectually hollow, dull drama.","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Fantasy","Review":" Orlando is a man, then a woman. Orlando lives hundreds of years and writes crap poetry. Orlando speaks to the camera occasionally, but has very little to say. Etc...The director aimed far too high here, considering her lack of intelligence; the dialog and the script simply aren't a match for the production and design. The dialog is relatively scarce, and when it does take place it tends to be irrelevant and not at all philosophical or deep, which the director clearly wanted it to be. A woman directed this, but I fail to see any radical feminism. The movie has a pretty reasonable premise, and should/could have been much better. Sally Potter is obviously a pretentious little Englishwoman whose ambitions of relaying a message to the film-viewing humanity far surpass her intellect. Better luck next time, Sally how about a Pepsi commercial?(For an even more unpopular IMDb comment, check out my Der Untergang review (1 out of 178).) "}]