[{"Title":"Great movie!  Those who hate it just don't understand the joke.","Date":"31 January 2003","Score":"263 out of 303 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay folks, this movie is what's called a spoof, send-up, parody, satire, or all of the above.  If you were expecting a serious action movie, well DUHHHH!! No wonder you hated it!  I happen to think that it is real clever that Arnold was willing to spoof the genre that he had been trapped in for most of his life.  So few actors are willing to do that, even in a bit of fun.  Acting is a job, but it's supposed to be fun as well.  Not every movie we see is meant to win an oscar. They are just entertainment.  Take it for what it's intended.This movie is on my top five of my favorite Arnold films, because of it's boldness, and the fact that Arnold can be really funny when he wants to be.  It's on my top twenty favorite comedy movies, and it's also in my DVD collection.  Don't worry Arnold.  Your true fans love this movie. "},{"Title":"Too intellegent for it's target audience","Date":"26 December 2002","Score":"247 out of 293 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After a string of predictable cookie cutter script action flicks that made money from Arnie's muscles and persona, one studio decided to take a chance and try a Hollywood self-mocking film starring the big guy. It had a story line that actually made one think and pay attention in order to appreciate the paradoxes arising from its premise.( A fun side effect is that its movie within a movie allowed for some more over-the-top stunts and tough guy scenes than even the simplest knuckle dragging mouth breathing 'action' film fans would normally sit for) Scenes with recognized characters drawn from recent popular films were played tongue in cheek and while the story proceeded on a couple of levels there were enough innuendos and amusing elements in the background to keep the viewer's appreciative attention. The result of this comparatively well polished gamble was the sort of reception reflected by the vote results in this IMDB poll.  A surprizing number of viewers don't like it.Maybe the studios waited too long to try a movie like this with Arnold. It is possible that the market segment that would appreciate a film like this had already dismissed Arnie as the Commando/Raw Deal lout and dismissed the film unseen, while the usual shoot'em punch'em fans found their brains hurting too much from trying to follow a real story.One thing is sure, the studios are watching and you can bet they won't make that mistake again.  Get ready for more movies that play to the lowest common denominator and are written so the dullest gonk in the movie house can still comprehend the plot. Red Sonja, Judge Dredd, The Running Man, here they come. "},{"Title":"Underrated post-modern take on action movies","Date":"29 June 2002","Score":"189 out of 207 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Highly underrated Arnie movie. Is it a comedy? An action movie? A spoof of the entire action movie genre? Well, it might be all of them, and more.This movie could be interpreted in several ways. In it, Arnold is spoofing himself (or his on-screen persona, anyway) and the genre of action movies in general. What's more, it's a story within a story, making an audience member part of the story, giving the whole thing a post-modern twist. The movie is full of genre in-jokes and self-references, making fun of many of the clichés - while at the same time referring to other films, actors, and even other genres, making this sort of a celebration of the entire film business.On the other hand - in case you don't care about all of this - as an action movie in itself, it's still very entertaining. If you like Schwarzenegger action movies, you'll like this one as well.Don't let anyone tell you this is a bad movie. See it for yourself, and make up your own mind.  "},{"Title":"quick reviews!","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"163 out of 181 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Another underrated movie, and one which few people understand, or try to. This is a spoof of action movies, primarily those starring Arnie and Stallone, ones which director McTiernen has made a living from. That said, the action, stunts, effects are good, the cast, especially Arnie, ham it up as much as possible, and the plot is pretty clever. Tons of in-jokes make this an entertaining film, and I'll admit that's all it is. But that's all it is trying to be. Don't whine to me about artistic merit, character development, internal meditations on life and all that crap-I have those movies on my list too. It's an action movie, where the bad guys are supposed to die, cars are meant to explode when scratched, the good guy is untouchable, and it knows it. 8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"An Unappreciated Gem","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"115 out of 126 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" We all have that one movie we absolutely love but of which no one else seems to think very highly. My 10/10 rating for LAST ACTION HERO signals that this is mine. But before you laugh me out of IMDb, allow me to explain why I think this notorious bomb is in actuality an unappreciated gem.The central highlight of LAST ACTION HERO is the plot. I've seen this film three times, and in each instance I've been completely drawn into the notion that there exists a magical Movieland where we too could travel if only we had a magic ticket. It's sort of every film buff's fantasy, one that we get to enjoy through young Danny Madigan(Austin O'Brien) as he meets up with clichéd action hero Jack Slater (Arnold Schwarzenegger, of course). It's priceless to see the real-world youth interact with the silver screen community and its cartoon cats, 555 phone numbers, and impossibly perfect women. It's equally entertaining when Slater comes into our world, discovering that he can't effortlessly smash his fist through a vehicle window or blow up his enemies with ease. Love it or hate it, you have to admit the story gets high marks for originality.The writing is another highpoint, convincingly mixing so many great elements. Those behind the script nicely exploited the vast potential within the storyline. LAST ACTION HERO is on the one hand a satire of so many action films in which the likes of Schwarzenegger have straightfacedly starred. The oft-sequelized Slater chomps a cigar and wields bullets like confetti at a wedding, effortlessly taking out the bad guys and spewing witty quips. At another angle, the movie is a lighthearted romp, with one-liners and plenty of pokes at Hollywood. From another viewpoint, it's a dramatic piece, with Danny struggling to make it through an awkward age and Slater coming to grips with his unreeled existence -- and that in the real world, the bad guys can and do win. Nowhere along the line is it Oscar-caliber stuff, but it is entertaining.There are other things to like about LAST ACTION HERO. The action is well-paced and well-placed. The acting is more than up to par, with O'Brien and Schwarzenegger great individually and as a tandem. The humor is sharp and effective, with Arnie often hilarious in his self-deprecating ways.Perhaps much of the negative criticism directed LAST ACTION HERO came from those who didn't understand what it was trying to do. This was never meant to be another one of Arnie's shoot-'em-ups, lame attempts at comedy or even a family film. It was just meant to be fun to watch. And that's what matters most in any film. There are things about the film that don't work, but there are things about THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE that don't work, either. All that really matters is, Are we entertained? On that note, LAST ACTION HERO delivers. "},{"Title":"Arnie sends himself up brilliantly","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"97 out of 111 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This would have been the movie of the summer had Jurassic Park not been released at the same time.Arnie sends himself up brilliantly and the it never takes itself seriously. My god the people who slate this movie are sad as it seem that they search for art when it's not even been thought of by the writers. Smile and give your faces a rest.Great action scenes which are obviously fake. Charles Dance is also superb. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"28 November 2002","Score":"91 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What can I say? A lot of people looked at this as a cheap Arnold action movie, and while it's not a great film it's certainly a good one with a very good concept.  The intentional continuity errors are funny and clever, the movie cliche's are great.  So what if it's a little cheesy and Arnold is the only decent actor?  Enjoy the conflict of reality and fiction, and see this movie because it's a fun and somewhat thoughtful flick. "},{"Title":"A little confused, but very fun and totally under-rated.","Date":"2 June 2004","Score":"89 out of 112 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  LAST ACTION HERO went down in the books as a notorious, hopeless bomb, putting it in the same company as films like HUDSON HAWK, BATTLEFIELD EARTH, and GIGLI.  And although it was a huge financial dissapointment back in 1993, this film stands head and shoulders above those other stinkers, and has certainly found an appreciative audience over time. Perhaps it wouldn't have earned such awful word-of-mouth had it not been advertised and released as a straightforward action film. No doubt 1993 audiences were expecting a TERMINATOR- or TRUE LIES-style adventure. Instead, LAST ACTION HERO is fairly misleading, and it shifts tones pretty dramatically, from a free-wheeling action adventure, to something much more dramatic, set in the real world, and back and forth again. This can be quite jarring upon a first viewing, and certainly unappealing for anybody who doesn't enjoy Hollywood satire.  Eleven years later, the American public is a little more film-industry-savvy (its seems like every Mom and Pop follows the salary rumors and box office races these days), and may appreciate the insider jokes a little more. If you prepare yourself for a cheeky spoof- and DONT expect TOTAL RECALL!- you'll definitely find LAST ACTION HERO better than you remember. "},{"Title":"Totally THE best action spoof movie of all time (and prob one of the best spoof movies ever).","Date":"1 September 2004","Score":"45 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I am totally amazed that most of the so-called expert film critics at the time didn't seem to have a clue what this movie was doing. It is positively one of the tightest, most brilliant, sly, wickedly satirical action movie spoofs of all time. I am also rather amazed that Arnie actually agreed to this one; it's almost like he's biting the hand that fed him.The biggest clue of this movie is in the opening shot, when the whole picture wipes into frame in the shape of a movie screen (hint, hint!) From then on, anyone with any experience at watching blockbuster action movies at all should have picked up how the scene was taking the standard setup-action pieces of the time, and then pushing them a little bit further than normal; so that they become an obvious (to most people) parody of the situation. The close-up of the feet as Jack exits from the car is just a little closer and off-angle than normal. The ranting chief yelling at the hero that he's gonna get fired if he disobeys orders is just a little bit more heated that the standard action movie would do it. Come ON people, couldn't you get the tongue-in-cheek nature of this?Then we fuzz out and see the real story - introducing Danny, our viewer's representative (played by a very adorable and very chatty Austin O'Brien). The one scene I dislike in this movie is the actual real-life robbery scene at Danny's home, which comes across as a little too bleak and depressing; even though it does set up the thematic contrasts in the story very well. On the other hand, one of my all-time favorite scenes is when Danny is in school watching the Olivier version of Hamlet; and he starts to drift and re-imagines the story in a modern action style. (Gee, if I had a penny for every time I've done that with a pretentious old film - well, anyway...)Of course the two outstanding highlights of this movie are the police station/video store scenes in the Jack Slater movie; and the climactic show-down at the big premiere, especially when the action hero confronts the movie star You have caused me a lot of pain. I don't like you very much. (Y'know, I've often felt that is movie characters could come alive, some actors would have great reason to worry. Just a thought.)All I can say is, if you can't get this, you don't really deserve to be watching movies, or even let out to the cinema. It's too complicated for you! Just go back to your padded cell, and vegetate.Best lines Mom, you're turning him into a wimp!; This has got to work. I'm going to win. Wait a minute; I'm the comic relief. I'm NOT going to win. Ahhhhh!; You go through all this pain and suffering, only to find it's all the product of someone's sick imagination, for public entertainment! -probably not a precise quote, but you get the gist of it "},{"Title":"I've got my Ticket Now I'm Going To See The Movie!","Date":"22 June 2003","Score":"53 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Last Action Hero may well have arrived DOA due to Dan Cortese's lame as could be tagline for Burger King  I got my ticket, now I'm Going To See The Movie!.Aside from that unsuccesful cross promotion, there is little in this film that actually is not as it was intended to be. That is, funny, over the top and full of explosions! I am a fan of self depricating humor and a fan of Arnold, so this movie hit the spot for me.The cast is all good too, with the obvious exception of the homely kid who plays opposite The Schwarz. Recomended for fans of TV action shows and for those who appreciate Arnold's experimental comedy films. I liked this well enough to take the time to recommend it, if that helps.By the way, I didn't bother to summarize, because this not that kind of movie. Just watch it and you'll realize the reason people like it, and it has nothing to do with the plot. "}{"Title":"Say what you want about it . . .","Date":"16 June 2003","Score":"50 out of 84 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" but I actually liked it, and I'm not particularly an Arnie fan (he's not a very good actor and he's a terrible governor). Some of his movies are pretty good, some are pretty lousy, but this one isn't, IMO, anywhere near as bad as its reputation. I happen to think it's a lot of fun. Sure it's cartoonish, but ARNIE is cartoonish! That's what makes this movie so much fun; all of his movies--in fact, all action movies in general--are not much more than live-action cartoons, and this movie gleefully makes fun of them in general, and Arnie in particular, and the best part of it is that he's in on the joke. I don't know why it was savaged so much when it was first released; it really didn't deserve it. Several of his later movies (Eraser and End of Days, for example) were far more deserving of that kind of treatment than this one is.Anyway, I just like this movie. The action scenes were exciting, there were some very funny lines and a ton of clever in-jokes, some great cameos, and it was just an all-around fun flick. Try it, you'll like it. "},{"Title":"The  Blazing Saddles of Action Movies - Arnold's Best","Date":"29 November 2005","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Whether you laugh at him because of his bad acting, or laugh with him because he is able to make fun of his own persona, Arnold Scwarzenegger has always been one of my favorite actor/comedians. His scene in Terminator 2 as a robot learning how to mix and match teenage slang into the appropriate insult from a young John Connor showed how funny he could be while not trying to be funny. Having said that, Arnold made a quantum leap forward in his comedic abilities with the hugely underrated Last Action Hero.Unfortunately, audiences in 1993 were not ready to accept Arnold Schwarzenegger spoofing himself in this wickedly funny satire on action blockbusters. The rich use of background gags, cameo appearances and in-jokes playing behind the main action in this film make it is as good a genre spoof as Blazing Saddles, The Naked Gun, or Austin Powers. In addition, Last Action Hero contains a number of original elements that elevate it above the normal spoof (which only confused the unsuspecting and unsophisticated audience further) 1) The use of classical references twisted to fit the action film genre are hilarious - Schwarzenegger as Hamlet was one of the funniest things he has ever done.2) The movie within a movie device present in Last Action Hero is just as powerful a juxtaposition of reality and fantasy as we see in The Matrix, but it came out six years earlier.3) Jack Slater's growth as a character throughout the film reveals a depth in him that far surpasses most of the real people introduced to us in other films. There are so many instances where we see this growth his understanding of current vehicle specs in the third chicken scene (which takes place in the dangerous real world); his consistent ability to surprise the audience with out of character choices like the scene with classical music and the choice of a new action hero one liner; and his ability to learn the nature of physical pain. Especially entertaining is the background monologue at the end of the movie when he tells the chief that he is perfectly capable of hearing and that he would like to develop a more respectful relationship.There are a number of reasons the film was panned at the time that have been referred to by other reviewers - a misleading marketing campaign that had people actually expecting an action blockbuster, the misfortune of premiering right around the time of Jurassic Park, and an anti-Arnold backlash. But the biggest problem the film faced was the inability of the audience to accept Schwarzenegger as more than an ignorant muscle man. As Arnold has proved in his rise as Governator, he is far more intelligent than most people give him credit. (Don't get me wrong, he has been a terrible governor, but when you consider that his competition is made up of lawyers, businessmen, and self-made millionaires, he has certainly held his own in game of politics.) If someone else had played the role spoofing Schwarzenegger and Mel Brooks was credited as the producer, this would have become an instant classic. However, twelve years have gone by, and people are beginning to discover how good the film really is. Which is good news for Arnold, because he will most likely need a job after the 2006 gubernatorial election, so at least there will be a built in audience for Last Action Hero The Sequel. "},{"Title":"An intelligent, under-rated and over-looked satire","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"11 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It's sad to think that 18 years after its release Last Action Hero is still trying to find its target audience. Audiences don't like smart movies. Or perhaps I should say audiences don't like to be OUTSMARTED by movies. In the summer of 1993 the world was going crazy for a certain dinosaur movie, almost everything else didn't stand a chance. LAH came out a week after Jurassic Park. The only people who really went to see it were those who were too late for sold-out screenings of Spielberg's movie. Bad word of mouth spread for many reasons.Those lucky enough to actually see it on the big screen walked away confused and disorientated. They thought they were in for a straight-up action movie, not an existential, meta-fictional parody of the genre they cherish. It was just too much and they weren't ready for it. Arnold had been riding the wave of Total Recall and Terminator 2 before the release of Last Action Hero, no one expected such a radical deviation from the norm.Danny Madigan is a lonely kid living in a tiny New York apartment with his single MILF. His only friend is Nick, an old-time projectionist at a run down theater (a REAL theater, no multiplex nonsense). Danny likes to escape into the world of action movies, his biggest hero, obviously, being Arnie himself. The latest Arnie blockbuster, the simply-titled Jack Slater IV, is a day away from its premiere, and old Nick has been tasked with checking the print. Before Danny sits down for his own personal pre-premiere midnight screening Nick gives him a magical ticket he's been saving since childhood. Five minutes after Jack Slater IV begins Danny is warped into the cinema screen and becomes part of the movie.In the movie world Danny quickly learns that the laws of physics and simple logic don't apply (how often has THAT proved to be true?). He's partnered with Slater, a renegade L.A. cop and the absolute zenith of action hero stereotypes, to find who killed his favorite second-cousin Frank (BIG MISTAKE!). Danny and Slater smash their way into a hokey, James Bond-ish plot, though it's not long before suave English henchman Mr. Benedict discovers Danny's secret and plans to escape to the real world. Danny and Slater follow, but Slater's movie-world abilities are rendered useless in reality. Doubt begins seep in for the first time as he ends up questioning his powers as a good cop.Last Action Hero scores huge points all round. It's technically wonderful, with gorgeous anamorphic Panavision photography full of wide angles and lens flares. The writing is sharp is funny. Arnie is great as an infallible hero in crisis as well as making fun of his screen persona. And the action, both fictional and meta-fictional, is wild, overblown, and exciting. I just love Slater's huge fall from the elevator.It's interesting to note that it has a lot in common with Loaded Weapon, which came out earlier that year. Both are send-ups of the 'L.A. cop movie' genre, both star F. Murray Abraham in supporting roles. Both feature Frank McRae as a screaming Lieutenant. Both have obvious Die Hard references (also directed by the infamous John McTiernan).The bad reputation is unjustified. The financial loss was a mistake entirely on Sony's part and their lack of foresight into the 1993 summer season. Last Action Hero and Jurassic Park went head-to-head with their advertising but the dinosaur movie's marketing campaign was just too groundbreaking. They also competed with each other on a technical level. JP was the first film to feature DTS sound, while Last Action Hero was the first to feature SDDS (Sony Dynamic Digital Sound), an eight-channel system that delivers every decibel of Slater's big gun and the multiple explosions of his daily life.It may be a satire, but Last Action Hero just may be one of the last true action films. Real stunts, real explosions, real destruction, reality gone twisted. It's Arnold's most subversive movie, and it's many things, but bad ain't one of them. "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of Last Action Hero","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you look at this movie as a cartoon-like adventure story, not to be taken seriously, it is great fun. The elitist critics took the movie seriously and panned it.. They couldn't see the film for what it was....just fun and nothing else. I enjoyed, but I have a few complaints of my own, too, so......THE GOOD - It's very entertaining, start-to-finish. You never fall asleep watching this 2-hour-and change movie. Arnold Schwarzenegger, obviously is the hero and Austin O'Brien does a nice job playing an 11-year-old kid who is wise (a bit too wise) beyond his years.The villains are particularly interesting in here. They are very colorful, sporting different glass eyes, doing Jack-The-Ripper imitations, etc. Some of the action scenes are spectacular with good special effects.There are good lines about fantasy and reality. (This was one of those film within a film stories like The Purple Rose Of Cairo.). They make fun of many Hollywood clichés in films, including my favorite the villains talking too much instead of just killing their opponent. There are many cameo appearances by other stars, some of whom don't even speak any lines. It's fun to pick them out.THE BAD - It's inappropriate for an 11-year-old co-star to be in a film with questionable language and a bunch of sexual innuendos. Here is another example of a PG-13 movie than should have been R. As for the kid himself, his character is way too obnoxious. There is too much violence in here and a desperate need for a few more lulls. Give your ears and other senses a rest! A cheap shot, too, of showing a nun with a machine gun at a funeral was unnecessary.Overall The pluses, as you can see, outweigh the minuses, but a note of caution to parents wondering about showing this to their young kids. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated movies I've ever seen - an ingenious satire of action movie clichés","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last Action Hero has to be the most underrated movies I've ever seen. I've seen it at least four times, but I still like it. Stuff the critics and enjoy it for what it is a spoof of action movies and their clichés. It's something that probably hasn't been done before and hasn't been done since (because this was undeservedly bashed, I'd say). I would say that it was poorly received because audiences expected a mindless Rambo or Terminator-style film, rather than a satire.The plot concerns this kid Daniel Madigan. He leads a pretty poor life and the only good thing that happens in it is that he gets to go to the movies to watch his favourite movie(s), Jack Slater with Arnold Schwarzenegger. He finds a golden ticket and travels into one such movie Jack Slater IV. Madigan marvels at his good fortune and observes the many action movie clichés a police officer getting blown up two days from retirement, Jack Slater evading every blast and machine-gun burst that comes his way, the bad guys never winning, the attractive daughter and not one unattractive woman to be seen. He also witness a whole array of unrealistic characters, including an animated cat and Robert Patrick (AKA Liquid Terminator from Terminator 2), as well as the stereotypical screaming boss. Let's not forget the big explosions and loud noises that always take center-stage in action movies. The sidekick also always get into trouble (i.e when Madigan plays chicken with a car). This is truly brilliant stuff.If Last Action Hero has a flaw, it's that Daniel Madigan himself is excessively annoying and this doesn't bode well, as he is a major character.However, that only has a slight effect on the rest of the film. I've said it before, I'll say it again This is an ingenious satire, a spoof of action movies and their clichés. Not only that, but it is entertaining in a mindless way as well. It is not perfect, but it is about ten times better than the critics say it is.Ignore them and see this film.4/5 starsEDIT (1/4/2013) This movie is slightly more flawed than I remembered. The second half does drag a bit while Austin O'Brien remains annoying. Still grossly underrated though. "},{"Title":"Keep an open mind...","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film is one of Arnie's most thoughtful, in terms of creating the film within a film world. For example, the fact that there are no 'ugly' women, or the sheer scale of the L. A. P. D precinct. There are some brilliant cameos made by celebrity names, including Jean-Claude Van Damn, and even Arnold's wife, Maria Shriver. The action is fast and furious, and shows off even more of Arnie's sense of comedy.There is also a dark contrast between the film world and the real world, for example, the fact that Benedict can kill people in the real world, without anyone caring.Arnie also performs the action scenes with humour, in a way, taking the mickey of his past characters.Keep an open mind, and it's hugely enjoyable. "},{"Title":"An incredibly underrated film","Date":"8 December 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last Action Hero has a young boy get magically transported into an action film starring non other than big-old Arnie. Although it sounds like a kids film, IT'S NOT.This film is incredibly underrated, and for the life of me I can't see why! It's all here, action, Arnie, beautiful women, comedy, tons of inn-jokes that poke fun at the clichéd action films (especially those of Arnie and Stallone's caller). This is done with the really cheesy punchlines, over exaggerated action (which is spot on superb...eg, a villain throwing a stick of dynamite at Arnie, who shoots it, knocking it back at the guy) Plenty of in-jokes include cameos by Sharone Stone and Robert Patrick, reprising their roles from T2 and Basic Instinct. Ian Mckellen plays an interesting role as Death, and Charles Dance is excellent as what is possibly the best villain ever created.The story is spot on superb, mixing effortlessly classy action, with comic dialogue, inn-jokes and emotional binding factors.However as interesting as a boy taddling along with his action hero may be, it gets better once the villain escapes to the real world, in which Arnie and the boy follow. Things turn around now, as the boy is now in his element as opposed to Arnie (eg, Arnie punches in a window of a car, then complains of it hurting...he also did the same in the movie world as if it was paper) All in all, this is a fantastic film, and possible Arnie's best. Perfect blend of action, comedy, witt and depth...whom I'm sure movie-buffs to appreciate more than the casual viewer. "},{"Title":"Last Action Hero","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember as a teenager at the time how Last Action Hero was deemed a major commercial flop of the proportions of Heaven's Gate & Waterworld. LAH was considered a sign of Arnold Schwarzenegger's decline in the action market, perhaps signaling to the world that he had lost his appeal. Watching it for the first time in ages, I don't know why it wasn't more successful other than it was PG-13 and more teen-friendly(..as in, aimed at a younger audience and without the kind of graphic on-screen violence often associated with Arnold's 80's movies). I like how LAH pokes gleeful fun(..as does the actor himself, always winking)at the persona, image, and movies Arnold has made that led to his financial and cult success.The knowing, tongue-in-cheek script and playful performances, makes such a ridiculous action movie as LAH easy to swallow, since most of the film occurs in the cinematic unreal world of the character of Jack Slater, from the point of view of a kid who adores his films(..a representation of us who grew up watching his R-rated blood-and-guts action movies behind our parents' backs). A kid, Danny Madigan(Austin O'Brien) receives a magic ticket from a movie house proprietor whose theater is being shut down. The kid uses it to enter the world of his favorite action hero and, in turn, gets caught in the middle of Jack Slater's feud with a sadistic, glass-eyed assassin, Benedict(Charles Dance, having fun with his fiendish killer) working for an evil mafioso. As expected, plenty of car chases, explosions, and machine guns firing off rounds of ammunition, not to mention damage to buildings, vehicles, and streets as a result. I think if one might have a beef with this film, it is probably when Slater, Danny, and Benedict exit their world into the very real streets of New York City as his newest movie is about to premiere. There are some jaw-dropping action stunt set-pieces from great heights, and, as mentioned before, plenty of structural destruction wonderfully lampooning how Slater is always able to survive such devastating feats which would undoubtedly kill mortal men outside of the celluloid universe. Many might find the movie premiere of Arnold's movie quite amusing in it's inclusion of memorable Hollywood faces and how Benedict attempts to use a villain from one of the Slater series to kill the actor himself! It's a diabolical plot to erase Slater by killing the man who portrays him!I think LAH will probably find the audience today it didn't have back in '93. It's directed with a stunning versatility from a man who knows how to make action movies. Part of the movie's charm is how Danny attempts to clue Slater in on how his world is fictional, make-believe and how Slater allows him to tag along, getting themselves in grand, and dangerous adventures only a movie could concoct. Tom Noonan(..as a hideous heavy in a raincoat) and Ian McKellen(..as Death from Bergman's The Seventh Seal!) have memorable roles as fictitious characters brought to life from movies because of the magic ticket. Dance's Benedict enjoys the fact that blatant open violence in the middle of a New York City street at night after shooting an innocent man doesn't necessarily draw the attention of the police it would in the cinematic world for which he derives. The one-liners and constant nods to action movies of the past are in full force so if you hate these aspects from the genre, beware. "},{"Title":"Nice effort!","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The concept here is brilliant, as it was in Buster Keaton's Sherlock Jr. or Woody Allen's The purple Rose.... Collision between fiction and reality is given an ironical and witty treatment, and that makes Last action hero one of the most interesting commercial action films of the late years. Then, why everybody says it is flawed? Aside from the ambivalence of having born with a smash hit vocation and wanting to be something more, which makes the original premise to lose weight along the way, I would say the principal flaws have its roots in a bad structured screenplay the plot of the movie within the movie (a vane, not original at all mob story) is given too much importance, and when we come to the real point (the confrontation between fiction and reality) we are almost at the end and then a lot of a good story beats happen quickly and disordered,  creating a little bit of a mess.Anyway, let me insist this is, at least, very curious and fun, and movie lovers will appreciate it above all its flaws.  "},{"Title":"A good send up of itself","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last action Hero, makes fun of the Hollywood action flick and stars one of Hollywood's most successful action hero's. Danny Madigan (Austin O'Brien) is crazy about the screen character Jack Slater (Arnold Schwarzenegger) and when he uses a magic ticket he is pulled into his latest film, where guns don't need to be reloaded, cars can jump the grand canyon, and the hero can't be hurt, etc. When Jack Slater comes over to the real world in pursuit of the bad guy (Charles Dance) the fun really begins, and for once Jack Slater seems out of his depth.The whole movie is a funny parody of itself, and it's crammed with ludicrous stunts and action throughout. Beneath the fun is a reasonable storyline, but its the concept of the movie that makes i so much fun.6/10 "}{"Title":"A MASTERPIECE","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"    This is UNDENIABLY one of the greatest action movies I've ever seen. I CAN'T BELIEVE THIS FLOPPED AT THE BOX OFFICE! Arnie is at his wisecracking/comic/action best in this picture and there's a fantastic supporting cast too! The film includes many cameos from other movie stars like Chevy Chase, James Belushi, Tom Noone (THE RIPPER), Jean-Claude Van Damme and many other! GET IT NOW!!!! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better.","Date":"27 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Jack Slater Four, is a typical action movie, am I right. Well a typical action movie is say Predator or Die Hard. But where in these films do you see animated cats, heavily sterotypical characters, glass breaking when someone loudly shouts and outlandish costumes, you don't. So why are they in Jack Slater Four. I mean they could have explained it, the film could have been a spoof, a disney film or had to gain a PG certificate, but they don't. Overall this is a well underrated film and at times it's really funny at times. I hate the bit where the dogs form a pyramid on command. The direction by the formidable McTiernan is absolutely dire from the man who gave us Predator and Die Hard 1 & 2, and so is the cinematography and the script could have been much improved. You get the feeling McTiernan could have been bigger than James Cameron if he could script his own movies, or even seemingly give a damm about them. "},{"Title":"One Word Underrated","Date":"1 December 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Director John McTiernan (director of Die Hard, Die Hard with a Vengeance and Predator) and Action star Arnold Schwarzenegger teams up again, delivering another good action movie, but this time, a little bit different.Last Action Hero is a satire of the action genre, showing us it's over the top moments and how they DON'T work in real life.This is one of the best performances of Arnold Schwarzenegger, his character does what we like about him Saying one liners and working on the action fest ! The action scenes are cool, the unrealism and the over the top moments can be justified because of it's satire and it's comedic theme.The rockish soundtrack is cool, making the action scenes more enjoyable and exciting.Watch it, you will get a wind of explosive nostalgia that will fill your screen ! "},{"Title":"Hate or love it","Date":"20 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is definately one of Arnolds best... Why most peóple don't like this beats me... If they cant see that its a total parody on all action films and espeacially arnold flicks, then... well, anyway this really is pretty intelligent film, even though plot tend to drop on occasion, but all time classic scenes like outruning a trillion bullets at the mob funeral and after falling into a pool of tar cleans him self up with a paper napkin... and lines like Ha... You're out of bulletss.... This really is a very wacthable film "},{"Title":"A meta thrill ride for movie lovers","Date":"3 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" LAST ACTION HERO (1993) is a clever satire of blockbuster action films and is loaded with meta references that are sure to delight movie buffs.At the heart of the story is Danny Madigan (Austin O'Brien), a young movie lover, raised by a single mom (Mercedes Ruehl) in New York City, who skips school to watch his favorite action flicks for the umpteenth time at a dilapidated movie palace run by a dotty old man named Nick (Robert Prosky). Danny escapes his troubles in the adrenaline-pumping fantasies of the cinema, especially the JACK SLATER film series.The JACK SLATER movies spoof the action franchises popular at the time, like DIE HARD or LETHAL WEAPON. Jack Slater is the ultimate badass, working for the LAPD but doing things his own way. Chomping on cigars, kicking down doors. Going where other cops wouldn't dare.In the film, the star of the JACK SLATER series is real-world action superstar Arnold Schwarzenegger, which is LAST ACTION HERO's biggest meta concept as Schwarzenegger stars as a parody of himself (playing both Arnold and Arnold-as-Jack).With the help of an enchanted ticket given to Nick by the famed escape artist Harry Houdini, Danny is able to enter the world of the newest JACK SLATER movie and help Jack beat the bad guys. It should be a dream come true, but instead of just going along with it, Danny tries to shatter Jack's worldview by proving that he lives in a fictional movie universe, full of improbable explosions, predictable one-liners, and physics-defying stunts. Danny calls out Jack for using well-known Arnold catchphrases like I'll be back and tries to explain the absurdity of Jack's LAPD colleague being an animated anthropomorphic cat (voiced by Danny DeVito). Jack thinks Danny's crazy (obviously), but Danny's uncanny knowledge of secret information (gleaned from watching prior installments of the JACK SLATER series, as well as the opening scenes from this one) gets him assigned as Jack's partner, in true buddy movie fashion.Danny is always completely self-aware about being the comic sidekick in an action movie. He knows Jack Slater's world is governed by plot contrivances and movie clichés. He even calls out the villain for monologuing. Austin O'Brien doesn't do a bad job in the film, but he does start to get on my nerves a little.The fun really starts once the villain (Charles Dance) gets ahold of the magic ticket and enters the real world, a place where heroes can bleed and bad guys can actually win. Jack and Danny track him to the star-studded premiere of JACK SLATER IV, where fictional hero Jack Slater comes face-to-face with Hollywood superstar Arnold Schwarzenegger (among other fun celebrity cameos).The satire of LAST ACTION HERO is on-point. Besides getting Arnold Schwarzenegger to spoof himself, the movie is directed by John McTiernan, who directed DIE HARD (1988), and the screenplay was co-written by Shane Black, who wrote LETHAL WEAPON (1987). The top-notch pedigree surely helps sell the film's high concept.The script has a lot of potential for the right actor, and Arnold Schwarzenegger seems like he's having a lot of fun with the material. It wouldn't be the same without a real A-list action star playing Jack Slater. Arnold has a good sense of humor about himself and seems to enjoy playing with his image.One of the best in-jokes for serious movie buffs comes early in the film when Danny's English teacher, played by Joan Plowright, introduces a clip from Laurence Olivier's HAMLET (1948), suggesting that the students might know the British acting legend from his late-career role of Zeus in CLASH OF THE TITANS (1981) or an older TV commercial for Polaroid. Plowright is, of course, Olivier's widow.In addition to HAMLET, the movie includes nods to Ingmar Bergman's THE SEVENTH SEAL (1957), Francis Ford Coppola's DRACULA_(1992), and WITNESS (1985) with Harrison Ford. In the movie world Danny warns Jack not to trust his FBI buddy John Practice because he is played by F. Murray Abraham, the guy who killed Mozart (an allusion to AMADEUS (1984)). A Humphrey Bogart-type detective in a trench coat appears in one of the JACK SLATER police station scenes. And since Arnold Schwarzenegger can't exist in the fictional world of Jack Slater, his famous role in the TERMINATOR films is played instead by Sylvester Stallone.The JACK SLATER action is hilariously over-the-top and stylized, satirizing Hollywood action blockbusters and further contrasting the fantasy world of the silver screen with the real world Danny knows. The original story, developed by Zak Penn and Adam Leff, is quite clever and the film, unconventional as it is, succeeds because of its uniqueness. The movie's a lot of fun and there are plenty of Easter eggs for hardcore cinephiles. "},{"Title":"Mixed feelings","Date":"12 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have mixed feelings about this picture.It is truly a bombastic,self conscious,loud,obnoxious film.  But..for my money,it still does manage to entertain!.  Once you get past the extremely irritating opening of the film,you become hooked in by the action and occasional humor.  There are some funny lines in this film.Though every time I hear Frank McRae scream SLATER!!!,I want to run and hide!!.    "},{"Title":"A good movie, but one major downfall is too much to bear.","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Last action hero was a good movie.  The plot was very interesting and creative and Arnold Scharzenegger, despite other opinions, does a good job of acting.  The whole plot of Jack Slater (Arnold) taking on the villains, having to come out of the movie to catch them, and being assisted by a fan of the Jack Slater films is well thought out and entertaining.  This enough, should have been in line for a great film and it would have been if one key factor would have been left out.  The main character, Danny, is so incredibly annoying that one gets worn out of his constant blabbering to convince Jack Slater that he's not real, everything around him is a movie, and that in real life, he's Arnold Schwarzenegger.  Seriously though, if ANYONE, especially a kid that's a fan of the film, was able to go into their favorite movie of all time, they would be living it up and enjoying it!!  But in this film, they had him irritated the whole time because no one would believe him that none of it was real and that it was just some movie.  The line because this is a movie! just got a little old after the umf hundredth time. If Danny's dialogue had been altered to express the idea that he was just having fun and helped Jack Slater nail the bad guys, and help him out when they enter the real world, it would have been a fun and enjoyable film.  But the annoyance level of the main character was a little too much to take. I wish the kid's dialogue would have been done right so that I could have been allowed to enjoy what could have been a good movie.  It's a real shame. "},{"Title":"No Great Accomplishment, But...","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've no profound thing to say about this film, just that I liked it a bit more than I thought I would. I'm not a big Arnold fan. Basically, I liked seeing the characters exit the movie-within-the-movie and intermingle with the real world, including the actors who portrayed them. Oh, by the way, the funniest thing in the movie Real-life actor - and I do use the term very loosely - Schwarzenegger is incorrectly identified (by his escaped film character, as I recall) as Braunschweiger (imagine it with the accent). No, one funny line doesn't make a movie worth seeing, but I'm sure I'm just not remembering everything worth mentioning about this movie.There you have it. "},{"Title":"The world is a better place because of John McTiernon.","Date":"28 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" John McTiernan is a master action movie craftsman. He helped change the equation with the blockbuster Diehard. He made sitting around in a submarine exciting in Hunt For Red October. He also made Predator, a great action vehicle for rising star Arnold Schwartzenwhatever. Last Action Hero was in reality a different genre than another Hollywood action flick, and is both successful at the attempt and at fault at the execution. McTiernan helped reinvigorate the action genre by turning the action hero into a normal guy in Diehard. Similarly, the man who saves the day in Hunt for Red October is just a CIA analyst who reluctantly gets involved. For Arnold, he had done over-the-top Total Recall and been nearly invincible in Terminator 2. For this director/star pair, it seemed like the next step in 'taking it to the next level'. Both probably realised that any action film that tried to top the last big action film would become a self-parody. So they deliberately poked fun at the ridiculousness of the genre. However, that made the film no longer a big Hollywood action movie, it made it an experimental film, almost like a Godard film.Playing with the characters, the story conventions, the glitzy production sets, the always great looking actors, etc., the scriptwriters managed to pigeon-hole every cliché into this screenplay, and for the most part it looks like the filmmakers had a ball doing it. The folly came with the primary character being a 13 year old (or so) kid. He was played a little too cliché as well, not realistic enough for supposedly being from the real world. Then there was the whole gimmick of transporting to the movie world via a magic ticket. That really had little inspiration and should have been more indistinct (a worm hole, the kid is really dreaming, etc).What works, ironically, is that however over-the-top the crimes the bad guy commits in the movie world, he seemingly can get away with much more in the real world (at least in the tougher neighbourhoods in New York). The other statement (which reshoots probably backtracked on) is that people actually get hurt in the real world when they go through a plate glass window, or get shot by a bullet. It is easy to see why the movie was not well received. The main objective of a summer movie-going audience is to forget about the troubles of the real world, and basically take a roller coaster ride for 2 hours. The moment the blood or pain we see on the screen is supposed be real, it is no longer fun.For the first 2/3 of LAH, we are given that roller coaster ride that would later be the norm for director Michael Bay. Flying cars, explosions every few minutes, and bad bad bad dialogue. I found myself smiling along during the wink and nods at the movie clichés, but only to get annoyed when the kid started griping about it constantly. The old theatre guy also felt a bit uninspired. I think McTiernan should feel lucky he was able to get away with making this film, because the world is a better place for it. "},{"Title":"Harmless fun","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Until I saw this (as part of a captive audience on a bus travelling to Quito), I was probably one of the few people alive who had never seen a Schwarzenegger movie.I'm still not sure that I've seen one, and not only because the thing was dubbed into Spanish. But going by reputation alone, this film makes you feel you've just seen everything Arnold has ever done, conveniently compressed and amusingly exaggerated and self-parodied to boot. Which can't be bad.I don't watch low-grade action movies as a rule. Yet even I could at least smile at some of the obvious send-ups and references here, which extend beyond the specific genre of shoot-'em-up action to embrace such things as the cartoon laws of physics or the convention of the villain's before I kill you, here's what I plan to do speech which we all know from the Bond films. Not much of the parody is particularly intelligent or subtle (Leslie Nielsen does this kind of thing better), but it is disarmingly good-natured and unserious, and the timing is generally adequate - tired old gag follows mildly amusing in-joke fast enough to make the thing look lively, or even, for some viewers, stylish (sic), if not exactly fresh or daring. Plus there are enough two-wheeling, bridge-hopping, exploding cars for your money to make the thing justify its parodic remit.As far as I can tell, the film scores low with critics who wanted it to take itself a bit more seriously than it obviously does. It's true that the last third of the film seems to come unstuck at a worrying pace, and I agree with whoever it was who found it annoying that the real world that Slater strays into begins by frustrating his expectations, as it should, but then, unaccountably, adjusts to them to the point where it allows him to perform an unconscionably silly Heroic Rescue Of Child, complete with undercurrent of schmaltzy sentimentality - one aspect of Hollywood scriptcraft that this movie does not even attempt to take issue with. And yes, the intrusion of Bergman's Grim Reaper at the end is pure toe-curling embarrassment it reads as look at me! I've watched a serious movie self-advertisement on the scriptwriters' part, with no other apparent raison-d'etre. That last chunk of plot is disappointing, and does definitely need a rethink.So - daring, iconoclastic this movie is certainly not, and no, it doesn't have what you would call a coherent plot, although it might have had, if the scriptwriters hadn't apparently hit the bottle head-on towards the end of what was presumably a six-crate overnight slog. But it's good, harmless fun, and has the odd inspired touch - like the Schwarzenegger version of Hamlet, which I defy any high school English Lit teacher to not find funny.What surprised me most is that the Governator comes across in this movie as quite a likable, humorous, self-deprecating guy. But maybe that's down to the poor quality of the dubbing. Some scripts do occasionally come out better in Spanish. "}{"Title":"Call me when the Governor gets here, wait I am the Governor","Date":"24 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw this one at the theater, and while it is most definitely not Arnold's best, it is far from his worse.  In fact, overall, I think it is an okay movie, which could have been a lot better.  I like Arnold and his movies, I think he is a good and fun actor to watch...is he Oscar caliber?  No, but I still enjoy his performances and this movie is no different.  His performance is an Arnold typical performance.  One of the main problems with this one is the kid.  I found him really annoying and he took the attention away from Arnold, but not in a very good way.  In fact, I enjoyed the whole Arnold as a cop routine, I think that would have been a very good movie...even making it sort of a spoof would have been good.  It is just the whole magic ticket thing and the kid kind of bog down the movie.  This story has the kid going into a movie where Arnold is the star, and the last part of this movie is set back in the real world.  By this time though I was thinking shouldn't this be over.  The whole movie could have been a success and another blockbuster for Arnold if it was without the kid and the magic and the movie world and all that stuff.  Just seeing Arnold in a cop movie where everything was made a bit goofy would have been great.   "},{"Title":"John McTiernan makes a lite Oliver Stone movie","Date":"22 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Pop quiz, hotshot!What do Die Hard, The Wild Bunch, the Usual Suspects, and Das Boot have in common?  Answer they are all the magnum opuses of directors who haven't done anything better since.  All have fallen into mediocre 'money pits' except Peckinpah (who kicked the bucket about 20 years ago).  Unlike Kurosawa, Kubrick, Lynch, or even Spielberg, they never made multiple films really worth watching.Last Action Hero certainly has enough promo power to knock it into the theater and it could have been an interesting satire/spoof of the way Hollywood conveniently coordinates matters.  However, three really big factors keep me from recommending this outright.1) The cast everyone is annoying, even Arnold's intentional self-referencing loses any power it can hold within the first 10 minutes.  Don't even get me started about Austin O'Brien; rule No. 1 with action movies is Don't involve Children.2) Lack of effective dialog.  I wasn't expecting Hamlet (more on that later), but this is a mess.  Too often the movie becomes the very kind of film that it is insulting to the audience.  Nonetheless, I found the wide range of targets for the film to be more than acceptable--Hamlet included.  This is a half-step smarter than most of Mel Brooks.3) Lack of creative vision.  Too often it is obvious that Arnold made this in an attempt to patronize the kids he was becoming a role model too.  Heck, the old VHS version comes with him touting exercise and physical fitness to the youth of America.  In all honesty, the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles were more honest than that.  John McTiernan's success with Die Hard can only be described as a fluke since he never made anything like it beforehand and still hasn't matched that power since, even with the sequel.Overall, I can't say I recommend this, but it has some positive points.  Too many weaknesses, though.  It it too mature of a topic for its target audience, just make it for adults since they'll understand.  1.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"More Comedy than Action","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  If you view this film as an action film, you'll be very disappointed. The overall intent of the picture is to more or less spoof action films-therefore you get very cheesy dialogue, cliche scenes, and a lot of dramatic irony.Even if you view the film as a comedy, you're still likely to be disappointed. It is by far not hilarious, and I've seen Arnold in funnier roles. But, as a stand alone spoof, it is definitely worth a look, especially late at night with some friends who aren't looking to get anything serious out of the film.That said, The Last Action Hero is not a bad film. There are several scenes that are pretty funny, including an early parody of Hamlet with Arnold portraying the title character. Also, the running gag of Arnold not knowing that in Danny's world he is a huge action star remains funny throughout the film. References to this, such as the famous video store scene filled with cameos, do evoke a few chuckles.In conclusion, The Last Action Hero is not to be taken very seriously. It's not an action film, and it more or less tries to be a spoof. Although it's not the greatest movie ever made, it is the kind of movie that you can just gather around with a group of friends and get some meaningless enjoyment - which, in my experience, is one of the best ways to watch movies. "},{"Title":"It's just not very entertaining","Date":"7 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Synopsis Schwarzenegger, essentially at the top of his game, spooks his own image as an action star. A young boy from a lower class existence spends his days endlessly watching the movies of Arnold Schwarzenegger's franchise action character Jack Slater. But a twist of fate through one mysterious ticket puts the young boy in the film himself. He ends up discovering a world where disbelief is non-existent. As he teams up with a reluctant Slater to shut down a mobster and his hitman.The Review It just isn't good. Not for all the pedigree in this film. Schwarzenegger headlines a movie with a fairly strong cast from the likes of Anthony Quinn, F. Murray Abraham, and Mercedes Ruehl among the many other actors who appear in the film (including an uncredited Danny DeVito). The film seems to be in love with itself as it just doesn't carry a strong enough story. It's dragging, and you'll feel it as the film bounces from one part to another. It's just not worth seeing. It's only an example of Hollywood emptiness at it's best. It also came out during Jurassic Park's reign.Grade D "},{"Title":"AAAAAAAAAAAAARRRRRRGHHH!!","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Last Action Hero taught Hollywood an important lesson just because you enjoy laughing at yourselves and having a big back-slapping contest, doesn't mean the audience will enjoy it. This 1993 lame-fest is as self-indulgent as they come...except for Steven Spielberg's appalling Hook, that is. Arnie is presented as the greatest man in the world who we all love, and whoever that kid is is annoying as they come, with his 'I'm so exasperated, no-one understands what's going on but me' attitude. To actually tell you why this film is so bad is very hard to explain - you'd need to understand Film Studies - but it's to do with the self-counciousness of the film. Scream got irony and self-refrence right, Last Action Hero gets it wrong - woefully so. To be honest, Last Action Hero is almost unwatchable.  "},{"Title":"So much wasted potential, it's painful","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I rented this thing the other day, my expectations were low. Why shouldn't they be, after all? The thing bombed notoriously, and was chided by critics all over. But it picked at my brain continuously, so I figured what the heck and picked it up. As I watched, I saw myself looking at a scene and thinking how much better it could've been. The occasional flash of wit pops by, like a Did I just see what I thought I saw shot of none other than Humphrey Bogart walking around in a police station, complete with black and white! I wanted to see more of that neat, 10-second shot, but instead they showed me a wisecracking cartoon cat. Don't get me wrong, the scene in said station where police were getting teamed with cartoons and rabbis was clever, parodying the ridiculousness of buddy cop junk like Stop or My Mom Will Show You This Movie, but they decided to put that stupid furball in four more scenes. Why? Ah!... um, I dunno. It became annoying after the first shot, though. See what I mean? A waste. Seeing Ahnie drive around in a squad car with a black and white Bogart droning noirish monologues would've been priceless. Another thing The editing was awful. You see one thing, it's established as something important, and it suddenly disappears. Like Jack Slater's daughter, Whitney I believe. She's shown as a main character, even in the real world, and she has one scene and disappears. With the exception of a scene where she brings her dad clean clothes. Um... what?? Why bother showing her at all?! Also, a lot of it doesn't make ANY sense. The magic ticket (ugh) drifts into a nearby INGMAR BERGMEN FILM FESTIVAL (?!?!?!), and Death from the Seventh Seal comes out of the screen, walks down the street, goes to a dying Slater, the kid begs him to help Slater, he doesn't, but he suggests  the kid find the other part of the ticket, and walks away. WHAT?!?! That scene almost gave me an aneurism! First of all, what importance does Death or Bergmen hold in THIS movie?! Why not Freddy Krueger, or Jason, or the T-1000, or Anything?! Secondly, where did Death go? The Motel 6? Did he go back into the movie, or what?! Thirdly, why were there so many people at an Ingmar Bergmen Film Festival IN NEW YORK?! Fourthly, who in their right mind would try to show a film festival literally across the street from a gigantic blockbuster Hollywood premiere?! Fourthly, if Jack Slater's ability to not get hurt and smash things without consequences didn't carry into the real world, why did Death's ability to kill go into the real world?! Ugh... SO Many things wrong with that scene. So many things wrong with this MOVIE. And that really is a shame. Because once all the legal ducks are in a row, think of the possibilities! Hannibal Lector conversing with Norman Bates in a Midwestern diner! The Men In Black meeting Mulder and Scully! Jules and Vincent meeting Mr. Orange and Mr. Brown! Forrest Gump meeting Raymond Muntz! A huge fight between the CGI Godzilla and the rubber suit Godzilla! Castor Troy meeting H.I. McDonnel! The possibilities would be endless, and great to see. Getting a big name as a director could convince the actors to get together for quick cameos, and great scenes could be brought out. But no, we got this mess. That's a shame. Someone once said, They should only remake the bad ones. That should go with this. Get someone big behind it, and go with the great characters meeting each other idea. I would pay to see two hours of scenes like the above. Millions would. It would be FUN. Sigh. Oh, and this kid was obnoxious. But at least it was fun to see Charles Dance as a great villian. He belongs in a better movie.  "},{"Title":"Corn-Filled Schwarzenegger Vehicle","Date":"1 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Last Action Hero is a chaotic mess of an action film which will disappoint even the greatest Schwarzenegger fans.  The ponderous film-within-a-film gets annoying real quick as this movie struggles with paper-thin material that is so disjointed that it is near impossible to get anything out of The Last Action Hero other than a splitting headache. 2.5 out of 5 stars.   "},{"Title":"Silly and weak...","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Am I the only one around here unimpressed by this film?  This is a silly, silly film that I found hard to swallow because it was so self conscious of it being a parody. But at the same time an action film, and yet both really kind of work against each other.  This film works neither as action or as comedy, especially since the very premise of this film is just ridiculous. It undermines the film's stance as an action film, and as a parody of the genre. "},{"Title":"A curious oddity","Date":"19 February 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When young Danny Madigan (Austin O'Brien) is given a magic movie ticket by friendly cinema owner Nick (Robert Prosky) at an advance screening of new action movie Jack Slater IV, he is magically transported into the movie and into the car of supercop Jack Slater (Arnold Schwarzenegger). Danny starts to inform Slater about who the bad guys are after seeing them on screen, and the two are paired up as a mismatched investigative duo by Slater's screaming boss. Glass-eyed bad guy Mr. Benedict (Charles Dance) manages to get his hands on the magic ticket, and escapes into the real world, where he finds things are much easier for the bad guys. Slater must leave his action movie cliché of a world where he is nigh on invincible behind, and enter one where things are slightly more difficult.Last Action Hero had one of the most expensive and turbulent page-to- screen stories in recent cinema history. Originally written as a self- mocking action movie that embraced the clichés of the genre, that was also a proper action movie in its own right. After an unexpected bidding war, the young scribes Zak Penn and Adam Leff were shocked to find that Arnold Schwarzenegger had taken a personal interest in it (the original hero name was Arno Slater). This was to be the turning point. Arnie saw the potential for a franchise as a kid's film and immediately wanted to tone down the violence, so Penn and Leff were fired, and genre legend Shane Black was hired to spruce up the script. Things changed yet again when director John McTiernan was brought in, and, due to the success of his previous films, was given full control.A few script re-writes, firings, and storm-outs later, the film was shot and ready to hit the market. A toy franchise and a ridiculously expensive and calamitous advertising campaign (they paid half a million dollars to have the film's name on a NASA rocket, only to have the launched delayed till long after the film's release) were put into motion, and the film's release date was announced for the week after Jurassic Park's. Last Action Hero had disastrous test screenings, but the release date was not changed, and naturally, Jurassic Park stormed the box-office and merchandising range, and Last Action Hero was revealed to be an over-ambitious, confused dud of a movie. However, the legend is rather cruel on Schwarzenegger's biggest flop, as although it is a gigantic mess, it has plenty of interesting ideas than are unfortunately spewed out onto the film in ungraceful belches.The biggest problem is that it doesn't know what kind of film it is. At its heart, its a kid's film, complete with annoying mop-haired child, a kindly old man, magic tickets and, um, a cartoon cat. Yet on its surface, its a rather uninspired action film that is actually rather violent and, once in the real world, is quite grim. The film never seems to know whether it wants to homage, spoof or simply in-joke. The movie world it creates is itself confused - while it has some funny touches such as the police line pairing together various mismatched partners - it also has women walking around in sexy, futuristic costumes, and the aforementioned cartoon cat called Whiskers (voiced by Danny DeVito). Seriously, whose idea was that? I've never seen a cartoon cat in a live- action action movie!However, the sheer mess that is the complete film does prove Last Action Hero to be a curious little oddity. There have been much finer examples of action-movie send-ups, namely in Shane Black's own excellent Kiss Kiss Bang Bang (2005), so perhaps the producers weren't ready back in 1993 to take on such an ambitious project. Arnie is pleasantly game for sending himself up, and Charles Dance chews the screen with his gloriously hammy British bad guy. But Last Action Hero will ultimately always be a reminder of how the Hollywood system to suck up an interesting maverick project, f**k it over a few times, and bundle it over the finishing line with such unbelievable inefficiency. I did love it as a kid, however.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Laugh out loud comedy","Date":"28 July 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is comedy, comedy, comedy... with a little bit of action. Most action is just spoof action, deliberately over-the-top.The first time I laughed was when the movie in the movie starts. The opening is so marvelously over-done. And then Danny makes smug comments, knowing exactly what is going to happen, just the way we all do when watching a too predictable standard action movie. And the movie kept being funny pretty much throughout. There are few cheap under-the-belt gags, basically just one fart gag but otherwise there is enough real humor to avoid that. That is a big, big plus!The movie includes at least one visual goof which makes you wonder if it is deliberate or not (the mechanism hauling an exploding car into the air is visible) but I am not sure it is a goof at all. It can just as well be an intentional, subtle gag; we are in an action movie to it is perfectly normal that anything that explodes do so with mechanisms that enhance the explosion.Acting is just fine. Anthony Quinn does the Italian gangster with good style. Arnold acts as he should. And I actually liked Austin O'Brien as Danny. His reaction to the movie world is so right!In the later part of the movie, the movie wanders off into action-thriller, which makes it go slightly off-course, but not too bad. Even then, the script is smart enough to make fun gags.Overall, I was extremely pleased with the movie. Watch it as a comedy, as a spoof of Arnold's simplest movies, movies with too much empty action, like Raw Deal (his worst IMHO) and Commando (ending in particular). But if you expect a movie like those, you will be disappointed and might even be offended, because then the jokes are about you. "}{"Title":"A quite witty and sophisticated sendup of the action film genre...(no really!)","Date":"10 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last Action Hero is a grossly misunderstood film. Everybody hated it because they just couldn't understand it. Either they were expecting another Schwarzenegger action blockbuster, or another film that deflated his tough guy persona like Twins and Kindergarten Cop.The finished result is actually a combination of the two, but that clearly didn't satisfy audiences. It had the bad luck to open in the same week as 1993's biggest moneymaker Jurassic Park, and it bombed big time. Which is a shame because LAH is that rarest of things. An action film that deconstructs itself one cliché at a time.I'm not sure what people were expecting with LAH. But I can't say I hated the film. In fact I found it refreshing and witty. I loved the way it punctures the unreality it surrounds itself with. I think its a film that deserves reappraisal as one of the most knowing and sophisticated action movies you could ever hope to see.Everything about LAH is designed to spoof and comment upon action movies. It is for the action film genre what Scream was for slasher movies. Or Galaxy Quest for Star Trek fandom. If its a film that seems overblown and over the top, that's only because its making fun of its contemporaries, which are exactly the same, only without the self-reflexive philosophising.The film opens with a dead-on parody of many an action film. A hostage situation. A crazy criminal. Dozens of police cars and even more guns. A blustering, hot-head of a police chief. And then the camera focuses on a glaringly aggressive closeup of a pair of heavy-set boots. It pans reverently up past jeans, a belt buckle, shirt and jacket, until it reveals the face of Arnold Schwarzenegger.Holding what must be the biggest handgun ever constructed, he barges onto the scene and manages to do what the entire LAPD couldn't. He saves the hostages (bar his son), boots people out of his way like they were footballs, gets the crazy and saves the day.Its a scene so ludicrous it could only be a fantasy. And it is. Because it's a film. Jack Slater III, starring the biggest action star of the moment, Arnold Schwarzenegger. Danny Madigan (Austin O'Brien) is the only one in the audience, and he can't wait to see the next instalment, Jack Slater IV. When he acquires a magic ticket from a cinema projectionist (Robert Prosky), it ends up transporting him into the film.The film of Jack Slater IV has become a blinding and bewildering world. And Danny is caught right in the middle. Partnered up with Jack, they must track down Benedict (Charles Dance), the film's villain. Which becomes more complicated when Benedict gets his hands on the ticket, and breaks through to our world.Anyone who says Last Action Hero is ridiculous and absurd only demonstrates a fundamental misunderstanding of the film. The film's excesses are the exact type of thing its mocking its contemporaries for. And the film never misses a trick. Any cliché or plot hole, and you can be sure LAH will assault it somewhere.In fact its nice to see an action film that's fully aware of how inane action movies usually are. Director John McTiernan, one of my favourite action filmmakers, explores every possible angle there is to be found. A typical day in Jack Slater's life is so full of unbelievable absurdities you wonder how he could have survived in the job for so long.McTiernan is quite merciless and scathing when it comes to spoofing action movies. He leaves no stone unturned. The typical gigantic explosions. Connect the dots plot lines. Villains who talk to they're enemies when they should be killing them. Slater has tons of guns on his person. He's almost never seen without a jumbo-sized cigar. And in the car chase to end all car chases, Jack drives off an overpass and lands on the road with no discernible damage. And then does the same thing in reverse. It even looks suspiciously like the storm drain from that chase scene in T2.There are too many in-jokes and observations to mention in one review. In fact the film is quite exhausting at times with its extensive knowledge of the genre. But just about every pun hits the mark. And it gives Arnie plenty of opportunities to do what he enjoys most, sending up his own image.LAH is basically one long commentary on action movie clichés. All helpfully provided by Danny. And when the film reenters our world, it achieves new and wondrous heights. Jack can actually feel pain. Things don't come as naturally anymore.And in the film's most inspired moment, Jack meets the man who made him, Arnold Schwarzenegger. Arnie clearly enjoys riffing on his own image, enthusiastically endorsing Planet Hollywood, while his wife Maria Shriver looks off to the side in frustration.LAH does sometimes feel like it has a few ideas too many (such as an animated cat in Jack's world) and it does perhaps go on longer than it needs to, but this is an exceptionally witty and very involving action movie parody. Packed with in-jokes, surprise cameos (Sharon Stone and Robert Patrick's are particularly inspired) and every gag in the book, Last Action Hero is a real unopened treasure.It deserves high commendation indeed for having the guts to satirise one of Hollywood's biggest breadwinners. And if any genre deserves a bit of spoofing, its the self-important action genre. Shame people didn't understand that. "},{"Title":"Weird, unfunny hybrid of an action-movie parody and a kid-fantasy film","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Last Action Hero stars Arnold Schwarzenegger, who plays a character who is played by Arnold Schwarzenegger. Sound fun? Prepare for an offbeat, off-putting bore.Austin O'Brien plays a fatherless boy who lives in a crime-infested neighborhood, but finds escape by going to see Schwarzenegger movies in a run-down movie theater. The kindly old projectionist (Robert Prosky) gives the boy a sneak preview of Schwarzenegger's latest, Jack Slater IV. Thanks to the stub of a movie ticket once owned by Houdini, the boy is able to leap onto the screen and join the adventures of Jack Slater, who doesn't know he's just a movie character.So far so bad. The idea of a boy magically transported into a violent Schwarzenegger action picture is singularly charmless, and the movie does nothing to overcome this basic problem. O'Brien is a cute, blonde Hollywood kid, who could never pass for the friendless nerd he's supposed to be here. His dialogue sabotages any hope of credibility. The boy sits in the movie theater, making the kind of criticism that a movie critic would make, mocking the clichés, bad puns and so forth. These aren't the quirky gripes a real kid might have about a movie.Remember Cop and a ½, the hilariously awful, low-budget action comedy where Burt Reynolds and an eight-year-old are buddy cops? That kid watched a lot of cop shows, and made comments much like the kid in this movie does. Only this kid is not just aware of genre conventions; he's seen the first reel of the film. He knows he's in a movie, and tries to prove it to Slater by taking him to a video store. But in this parallel world, Sylvester Stallone, not Schwarzenegger, is the star of Terminator 2.That's pretty funny, but most of this movie isn't. The problem here is much the same as in Scream, the movie that tries to be both a slasher movie and a parody of slasher movies. You can't parody a genre that is already relentlessly stupid. You just look like a fool, chortling at something that no one could have taken seriously in the first place. The funniest scene in The Last Action Hero is early on, when the boy watches Hamlet in school and imagines an action-movie version of it. Hamlet is good enough to parody. Schwarzenegger movies aren't.Now, Terminator, Total Recall and others are a lot of fun, but only because they're played straight. This movie is what one of those movies would be if it were smirking at itself.Halfway through, the snooty movie villain with a glass eye (Charles Dance) finds the magic ticket stub and enters the real world, followed by Slater and the boy. Things become a bit more engaging, because now there are real stakes involved and all sorts of possibilities are opened up. But the movie makes little of them. For instance, the inevitable meeting between Jack Slater and the man who plays him is a huge disappointment.I won't give away how this movie ends, but one of the last lines is repulsive. Slater says to the boy, I need you to believe in me. Like he's Tinkerbell or Santa Claus. The movie-within-the-movie may be PG-13, and it may feature a cartoon cat and titanic flatulence, but it's clearly an R-rated adult action fantasy at heart. Believe in a Schwarzenegger hero? What a comedown from Peter Pan. "},{"Title":"Why was this movie put down so much?","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have yet to talk to a single person who did not like this film.It got so much bad press and jokes were made about it but that has got to be based on poor box office performance because as I said I have yet to run into a single person who did not like it... That was all I wanted to say. There are plenty of good comments that seem to back my experience up. (8/10)  "},{"Title":"How to destroy a career in one easy step","Date":"28 December 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ***********Spoiler Warning*****************In the early nineties it seemed Schwarzenegger could do no wrong.  After the back to back success of Total Recall and Terminator II on top of the string of action movies he'd done in the 80's Arnold was flying high.  Even Stallone had an in-joke in Demolition Man about Arnold being so popular he would be elected president someday.Then came Last Action Hero.  Taken by itself it's a ho-hum flick that would have been forgotten as another stupid Hollywood movie.  Having characters go into the movie world is nothing new, nor is a buddy action flick where the sidekick is some kid.  This movie excelled, however, at the $ spent on it and the really bad on-screen jokes that didn't work or just-weren't-funny.Arnold had probably thought he'd been playing serious for so long that it was time to poke a little fun at himself and maybe be silly for a bit.  Trouble is he had the aura of someone who had never made a mistake, and his movies had always been a little bit of a spoof anyways--comic book violence, one liners and his thick accent meant you weren't watching Oscar material.So putting himself in this sort of flick only made the bad parts of it seem magnitudes worse.  It was like watching Harrison Ford do a comedy on Han Solo and expect it to be taken seriously.  The Schwarzenegger mystique evaporated almost overnight, the one-liners stopped being funny and his movies for the most part became like forgotten fads.Arnold didn't help much with his choice of movies after this one.  He almost returned to form with True Lies, but for the most part cranked out awful semi-comedies geared more towards children, and started to return to the action genre perhaps too late.  The only things he has coming up now are sequels to his better known movies (Terminator 3, True Lies 2, Total Recall 2, etc.) and I doubt he'll be able to get it back as much as relive a few memories.   "},{"Title":"Better the older you get","Date":"24 April 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Grandiose, like Schwarzenegger takes the mickey out here himself, knows his last name wrong constantly and eventually called Arnold Braunschweiger. There are ongoing links to other movies, where, like in Die Hard. Danny makes Jack's attention to look up after a car accident even if the bad guy except death. In Die Hard, it was finally so that the blonde is hanged, and at the end is still alive. Grandiose, something is a feast for action lovers.The final rise to the film premiere of Jack Slater IV in New York. Schwarzenegger plays himself here, and is approached by his wife to make lasting advertising for Planet Hollywood. John Belushi announces Jack Slater movies so he does not like, and Van Damme, yes, even the Belgian martial arts goes to the premiere. Just plain funny.Slater is run by Danny corrected. Whenever he I'll be back, says Danny knew beforehand that he will say that it is, after all, his trademark. Even the testing center for movies, the MPAA will not be left out. Danny writes a word, probably fuck on a piece of paper. Slater read it will not. Danny Comment You can not read it, because this movie is PG-13 Just wonderful.Who wants to keep checking back for once really look over a very successful action movie parody must. However, you should really have already seen some in the sector to understand everything. In order to find every hidden joke I have seen the movie a few times anyway.Well, anyway, the story is incidental and not the hammer. But is sufficient. I admit Movie Review 9/10 "},{"Title":"The most underrated spoof of all time","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Im one of those few people who got the joke. I got the joke back in 1993 when it came out. I know that this movie was meant to spoof those absurd action movies. Its these bonehead cookie-cutter critics that don't get that point. Bunch of pinheads keep saying the same thing because they allow smarmy d***head dictate to them what qualifies as quality movies. Check out the negative reviews on this site. They all go along the lines of worst movie I've ever seen. Simple-minded predictable sheep. And now....... the review.Premise Daniel(Austin O'Brien) gets a magic ticket from a movie store owner given to him by Houdini. While watching the latest Jack Slater movie, Daniel gets transported into the movie itself and ends up joining Jack Slater(played by Arnold) in his crazy adventures. This particular adventure involves Jack finding out the killer of his brother.Opinion There are plenty of good things to say about this movie and very little bad things to say about this movie. The action is plentiful and the sets look great. That kid is annoying little wimp though(I must have watched this movie 10 times and still find that kid insufferable). The humor hits(the outlandish stunts, shooting TNT away with bullets, the hackneyed catchphrases, a funeral filled with strapped mob families etc). My biggest gripe with the film is that it has to constantly explain itself through that craven kid. Its obvious that Daniel is the voice of reason in this movie and what an annoying voice that is! Plus he is a major wimp. You mean to tell me that somebody breaks into your house armed with a knife, dares you to stab them in the back with the knife and you do nothing? What a wuss! Besides these flaws, this movie is still underrated gem that is worth picking up. A noteworthy satire on ludicrous action flicks and compared to the rubbish that passes for parody now(Date Movie, Epic Movie, Disaster Movie, Meet The Spartans etc)it holds up well after all these years.I'll leave you on this note Not every movie that bombs at the box office is bad and not every movie that succeeds in the box office is good. There are plenty of movies that failed at the box office that are good and there are some movies that succeeded at the box office that stink to high heaven. Stop being a trend-follower and see for yourself.Last Action Hero the most underrated parody of all time. "},{"Title":"One of Schwarzeneggers best","Date":"19 August 2002","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  After Terminator 1 this is Arnold Schwarzeneggers best movie. I can't understand, why this is so underrated. I love the self-ironic in this film. This movie shows that Arnie is much more intelligent and humorous than a lot of people thought before. I gave it a rate of 9.  "},{"Title":"Should have been better","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" In spite of a promising premise (Arnold Schwarzenegger as Arnold Schwarzenegger as Jack Slater in JACK SLATER IV) and some very funny jokes (the HAMLET trailer, the whole movie premiere scene, He killed Mozart!), LAST ACTION HERO ultimately fails.The reason is simple For LAST ACTION HERO to work, JACK SLATER IV needed to play like a real action movie. The jokes should have been *on* JACK SLATER IV, not *in* it. The comedy should have come from the *inherent* silliness of action movies, which we would be seeing from one step removed and could therefore laugh at it (or with it, if you prefer), since we would have no emotional investment in JACK SLATER IV.Instead, they play JS4 as a Mel Brooks parody of an action movie. Cars explode *before* they crash. Our Hero causes cars to spin out behind him as he drives casually down the freeway. Nuns pack submachine guns to funerals. Arnie wipes his entire body clean of tar with a handkerchief. Ha ha ha. Unfortunately, the exaggeration destroys the premise of the movie (LAST ACTION HERO, I mean). Instead of being a parody of Arnold Schwarzenegger action movies, it's a parody of Leslie Nielsen action-movie parodies. And since the script never indicates that JACK SLATER IV is intended as a parody, what we're left with is a mere nonsensical muddle.But what totally kills the film are things like the rabbi, the cartoon cat, the attack dogs that make a pyramid, the women's JETSONS-style clothing, and stuff like that which has nothing to do with any action movie ever made.If Mr. McTiernan had thought back to his experiences helming DIE HARD, PREDATOR, and THE HUNT FOR RED October, he might have noticed the complete lack of animated animals or heavily-armed nuns. And he might have made a better movie.AddendumOn reflection, I think the problem is that the filmmakers didn't really believe that action movies are silly. That's why they felt that they had to pump up the silliness by making JS4 into a parody. But this means that instead of laughing at the silliness of action movies, we're supposed to laugh at the silliness of a parody, which makes no sense, since parodies are *supposed* to be silly. "},{"Title":"Don't listen to the critics on this one...","Date":"12 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last Action Hero is a Classic the critics obviously didn't get it with this film it's movie on top of a movie with a kid getting inside the film and going threw a journey with a Fictional Hero pretty much everyone's dream the movie is funny, it's full of action and it has some cool cameos also it has some touching moments. This film definitely deserves a higher score in here and in Rotten Tomatoes probably the most underrated film of all time another underrated movie that the critics didn't get was the 2015 Terminator Genisys and Tomorrowland just because they don't get the film that doesn't mean it's bad just ignore the critics on this one it's a great movie with a great cast and directed by the guy who made the 2 of the greatest movies of all time (Die Hard & Predator) and Arnold Schwarzenegger as Jack Slater is amazing i can't think anyone else playing this role. The one liners are pretty epic and hilarious also the cast does a great job from the great Mr. Benedict (Charles Dance) the kid Danny Madigan (Austin O'Brien) and Tom Noonan as the Ripper and let's not forget the legendary Anthony Quinn as Tony Vivaldi. Trust me you going to love this film a straight 10 out of 10!! "},{"Title":"Not Bad Action-Fantasy!","Date":"2 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger stars in this 1993 action-fantasy as film hero, Jack Slater who is idolized by young kid, Danny Madigan (Austin O'Brien). Soon, Danny meets Jack and becomes part of the action when he's given a magic ticket that transports him into the movie world where he meets unusual bad guys, attractive women and faces danger. Arnold also appears as himself and heads an all-star cast including F. Murray Abraham (Scarface), Charles Dance (The Golden Child), Robert Prosky (Mrs. Doubtfire), Anthony Quinn (Only the Lonely) & more. This isn't a bad flick with not only action and fantasy, but humour because the film pokes fun at other action-themed flicks and Arnold is great as usual. I recommend this, especially if you're an arnold fan. "}{"Title":"great potential not fully realized","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well-intended but unsuccessful action-comedy/fantasy about an obsessed movie buff (O'Brien) who acquires a magic ticket that literally transports him inside the whimsical world of a live-action movie starring his favorite hero maverick cop Jack Slater (Schwarzenegger). Features a number of clever cameo appearances, cheesy one-liners, and deliberate continuity errors to add to the in-joke tone of the film, but it falls short as it too often resorts to senseless comedy and fails to exploit the premise for all of its possibilities. 'Slapdash' action scenes are a lot of fun though, and die-hard Schwarzenegger fans will have a good time watching the star spoof himself. **½ "},{"Title":"It could have been a contender","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It could have been great if there was more plot.  The going-ons of the fictional world were never explained so we could care less.  In Who Framed Roger Rabbit there was a separate plot within Toon Town.  In this movie there is nothing but stunts.  Plus, wouldn't it been great if the two Arnold's in this picture teamed up buddy film style?   "},{"Title":"An escapist fantasy brought to life; Last Action Hero functions well enough as a deliberately mediocre action flick-come-self aware blockbuster piece.","Date":"3 September 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last Action Hero is essentially a fable about a young, father-less boy living in amongst the squaller of New York City with his single, middle-aged mother in a grotty apartment. His escape is films; specifically trips to the local cinema, which nobody bothers to frequent anymore, so that he can watch re-runs of his favourite action films in conditions that are large and completely empty. But the premise is mis-leading; this is not about a young boy mentally escaping from his life and 'into' the movies as a side-show amidst all the other griefs he might be facing in life like high school, adolescence and maintaining friendships. No, this isn't an observation nor mediation on life and the world around you as a youngster, alá Terrance Davies' 1992 piece The Long Day Closes &#x96; this is more about a physical escape; a thrusting away from one reality and into another.It's a good thing that the lead in the film is the young boy that he is, and one whom loves his action films, otherwise the film would be somewhat stuck attempting to make parodies, pastiches and statements out of things like The Seventh Seal and Olivier's Hamlet. Not many films can claim they have an instance in which The Seventh Seal's 'Death' character morphs out into our world, only to have a young boy point a heavy duty handgun at it in, where else? &#x96; a cinema aisle. Last Action Hero can. The boy is Danny Madigan (O'Brien), his 'ticket' into this alternate world is one of the golden and magical variety, given to him by Nick (Rosky), who runs the cinema.Danny's a kid who likes his films, he just doesn't know it yet. He seems to WANT to love cinema. He sits, somewhat slumped in his chair at school, as the aforementioned Hamlet is played whereas all the other kids laugh, mockingly. He somewhat pays attention, but cannot help but trail off into a fantasy that tells us what it might be like if is his fictitious movie-hero Jack Slater was cast in the lead role. It's a very early instance of the low-art clashing with the high-art within Last Action Hero; a sort of hybridity that is not limited purely to genre, and represents the sort of content the film will play with later on, particularly when the again aforementioned 'Death' leaves a poster for The Seventh Seal and will be seen sharing the screen with an action lead.Last Action Hero represents the sort of read that allows its viewer to sway either way. Its clear blurring of the boundaries between the 'real' world and that of a movie inspired one is handled pretty much to the point it can be. The film wants to get across a point of how grimy and nasty 'real' New York is by contrasting the 'scum' of a fake reality with that of an actual reality, best highlighted when the sadistic and uncompromising villain of the piece Benedict (Dance) walks down a night-set, damp and cold New York street encountering underage prostitutes and muggers out solely for an individual's shoes. Others will criticise the film by noting how a piece so pent up on pointing out the flaws and annoyances of the action genre is quick to conclude on the rooftop of some building, as forces of good and evil do battle 1-on-1 under the murky umbrella of doom, gloom and rain. The counter-argument might be that this is deliberate, we remember that this is exactly how one of the earlier Jack Slater films concluded, indeed it is exactly how Last Action Hero as a stand alone piece begins, meaning the whole thing is entirely self-aware.The progression of the characters in Last Action Hero sees Danny share his circular journey, fittingly beginning and concluding in a cinema, with action man of the hour Jack Slater (Schwarzenegger) as he undergoes a somewhat meek transitional period of self-discovery. When Danny sits in the cinema for his own private premiere of Jack Slater IV, he puts his feet up; munches his popcorn and smiles as the action, gunfire and general chaos is played out &#x96; he's enjoying it. Five minutes later, the ticket has worked its magic and he's actually in the film amongst all the madness. Suddenly, he's frightened; he's unsure and doesn't want to be able to witness the action, the gunfire and the explosions any more.One has to wonder if someone like Michael Bay has ever seen this film, and if they have, did they at all understand it? Here's a film, which many people have already pointed out, that sends up the action genre, indeed the 'blockbuster', with its vast cast of attractive female characters clogging up the screen, although some of the women at a roof top funeral look a little odd; its glowing, warm, dry weather which illuminates the screen when it needs to; its ludicrous product placement unashamedly being exploited in the background and its should-be pathetic macho introduction to its lead character a cigar chomping, car-roof stomping man of muscles carelessly and nonchalantly dealing with a pretty sensitive hostage situation in his own manner.It isn't without faults, and I would've liked the fantastic idea of this golden ticket to have been explored a little more. What happens if you go into a silent film - does it mean you can't talk? What happens in a black and white film - can you no longer see in colour? What if you hopped on a plane and flew to where you lived in real life within the film - would you be able to then meet yourself? Technically, wouldn't the ticket work as a time machine if you were to 'journey' into a period-set piece? Flaws and annoyances aside, Last Action Hero stands up as a spoof; and ironically it's more thrilling, more entertaining as a self-aware piece than some other genuine action films from recent times are. "},{"Title":"waste","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"   I remember when Last Action Hero came out. I wanted to see it because it looked like it couldnt miss. I even enjoyed it when I first saw it but bottom line is that this movie is a dud. Arnold plays himself but mainly a matinee action star who is idolized by a nerdy kid. The kid is a movie buff and goes to the movies instead of school. One day he gets a magic ticket which transports him into one of Arnold's alter ego's movie. Something happens and everything is overdone. * "},{"Title":"Simply not as Fun as it Could have Been,","Date":"18 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last Action Hero is a mediocre movie with an interesting and unique storyline and a cast that all sadly didn't work out as well as it should have. The concept of the movie seemed like a lot of fun, and while I will admit there were many parts that brought me genuine joy, there simply wasn't enough of it. The best parts was when the humour was very over the top and strange, such as Schwarzenegger playing himself in one scene and the animated cat, but there simply wasn't enough of this and it took itself too seriously at times for such a ridiculous film. Arnold Schwarzenegger is certainly the movies highlight, he has proved before with movies like Twins that he can do comedy, and his performance in this is no exception, his character made me laugh the most, as he was basically mocking the films he has done the most of, action, the child in the lead role, however, is very unlikeable. It has its moments, but the Last Action Hero had much more potential than what it delivers, because of this disappointment and its overlong run time, I simply can't recommend it. After being given a golden movie ticket, a young boy is sucked in to the universe of his favourite action film franchise. Best Performance Arnold Schwarzenegger Worst Performance Austin O' Brien "},{"Title":"This hero stuff has its limits.","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last Action Hero is directed by John McTiernan and written by Shane Black and David Arnott. It stars Arnold Schwarzenegger, F. Murray Abraham, Charles Dance, Tom Noonan, Austin O'Brien, Art Carney, Robert Prosky, Anthony Quinn and Bridgette Wilson. Music is by Micahel Kamen and cinematography by Dean Semler.Film within a film action parody that sees young Danny Madigan (O'Brien) magically transported into the parallel universe of an action film featuring his fictional hero, Jack Slater (Schwarzenegger). A financial failure and beaten relentlessly by the critics upon release (even McTiernan would condemn it down the line), Last Action Hero is viewed some what in better terms these days. Whilst the arguments that it was ahead of its time, misunderstood and released at the wrong time due to competition with Jurassic Park (the last one was Arnie himself, bless him) are weak and really not worth considering, it's a decent and intelligent film that could have been very good if cut by at least half an hour.Running at over two hours in length, the film's central concept of parodying action movies, with Arnold broadly laughing at himself, runs out of steam, the joke just becomes a millstone around its neck. You can see the drop in quality of the action in the last third as well, purely because so much is thrown at the audience, it gets tiresome for the director, which is such a shame given that it's McTiernan at the helm, the man who in Predator and Die Hard gave the 80s its two best American action movies.As it is, and I was helped enormously in my viewing of this because I watched it back to back with Hard Target, much of the parody and cineaste jokes strike a humorous chord. While the roll call of actors lining up to be in on the joke is impressive and often laugh out loud funny. Yet amongst all the satire and tongue in cheek wink winks, there is also some depth to the dizzying narrative that is worth appraising, particularly when the picture pitches up the real life of an actor to that of the character he plays, with one sequence as Arnie faces up to Arnie particularly brilliant.Better than you may have heard it is, but still a film that's difficult to recommend with confidence. Some self-examining depth and smart in- movie jokes ensure it's no dud, but entering the last third it becomes tiresome and routine and that leaves a disappointment that's hard to shake. 6.5/10 "},{"Title":"Clever underrated action comedy","Date":"11 April 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There was this actor called Arnold Schwarzenegger, see. He was Austrian, and he wasn't actually that good an actor, but he was very impressive physically and had tremendous screen presence. As a result he ended up making a string of action movies which traded on that presence they grew in popularity until he became the top box office draw in the world.And, when he was at the height of his popularity, he made Last Action Hero.In Last Action Hero, Schwarzenegger plays Jack Slater, who is exactly the sort of character Schwarzenegger plays. Oh, and himself.The main character is young Danny Madigan, who finds himself in possession of a magic cinema ticket which takes him into Jack Slater's movie world. It also enables both Slater and Slater film villain Benedict to come into the real world, where the rules are somewhat different - bullet wounds can be fatal, and villains sometimes win.This film is original, visually great fun, and is full - crammed, absolutely jam-packed - with movie-based gags and references.I saw it when it first came out, and I loved every second of it. I was absolutely mystified at the negativity towards it at the time, and I could only put it down to people simply not getting it.So the verdict is - if you get the joke, you'll love it (and familiarity with a lot of movies, particularly from the action genre). If you don't, then stay away. "},{"Title":"sort of a spoof, sort of brilliant","Date":"15 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film is brilliant, it takes the concept of one of those huge, explosive action films and constantly makes fun off it with observation between the movie world and reality which aren't recognised by the characters. One, less than subtle example is a police officer who is a cartoon cat, which to jack slater is perfectly acceptable. Having said that, action fans will love it because it is packed with fast, fun action.Surpprisingly, Arnold Schwarzenegger was very good at comedy in this film, as well as bringing his trademark action. He took the mickey out of himself with terminator references and not being about to pronounce Arnold Schwarzenegger, which obviously he didn't write but well done to the big guy for the delivery. The magic ticket was an interesting way of getting the film going and it is absolutely brilliant when fantasy meets reality and this is an absolutely brilliant film, if you like, humour and action, WATCH THIS FILM! "},{"Title":"Overly harsh critics shouldn't put you off this enjoyable if flawed blockbuster satire","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Danny Madigan is a young action fan who is more comfortable in the local cinema than his school. When he gets the chance to attend a late night test run of Jack Slater 4, he ignores his mother and slips out to go. The eccentric projectionist makes it a special night, giving Danny a supposedly magic ticket &#150; all a bit of silliness Danny thinks but when he finds himself suddenly inside the car chase he was watching seconds earlier he realises that something is very wrong. Jack Slater may not believe that his life is a movie but the fact that Danny seems to know all about the plot and villain Benedict.When this film came out the critical mauling was so severe that it was hard to really get a balanced opinion of it. The critics just seemed to be overjoyed that bankable Schwarzenegger seemed to be having problems with this one and they smelt blood in the water (forgetting that it was they themselves that had thrown it in there). I suppose it is easier to writing reviews that praise or put the boot in rather than balanced, even reviews but I was always surprised by how strongly they went after this one. I can see their point because the film does have major problems but overall I actually thought it was a clever try at something different from the usual blockbusters that doesn't quite work but is still quite fun.From the very start the film sends up the clichés associated with summer action movies and, although not a film in itself, this idea made it much more than the basic story suggests it will be. Of course it sends them up by showing them and many audiences have rightly had a problem with a plot that is silly, dialogue that is hackneyed and action that is overblown. Of course these problems exist in many summer action movies so at least this film does it deliberately and manages to be quite fun with it. As an action movie it is a bit too self-aware and not as smart as it would like to think it is but it delivers enough in terms of fun and sly humour to cover the weaknesses up. At least, I thought it did.The cast mostly buy into the joke and Schwarzenegger in particular allows his movies and himself to be sent up in grand fashion. He is funny and yet also does reasonably well with the silly action man stuff. O'Brien is a typical kid in the movies but at least is overly cute or too annoying; sure he is hardly a character but he matches the mood of the film pretty well. The support is starry and includes some nice turns from Dance, Abraham, Quinn and others who get the joke and turn in performances that, although not great, at least match the tone of the material.Overall this is not a great film especially if you are coming to it looking for the standard summer blockbuster. It is cleverly self aware and unafraid to poke fun at itself and the genre that both director and star made their names in; perhaps not smart enough to carry a film but it also manages to be fun. The critics may have beaten the life out of it but this is actually worth seeing because of what it tries to do even if it doesn't totally manage to do it. "},{"Title":"funny and clever","Date":"27 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How can this get a 5.3?I read the top 20 other reviews here and the majority was likeVery good, great, funny underrated...  So I decided to watch it tonight. And yes this movie IS all of the above. I think it deserves at least a 7 but I am voting 9 because it's TOO underrated now.  "}{"Title":" If God were a villain, he'd be me","Date":"26 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger is listless as Jack in this diligent adventure farce. The supporting cast is fretful. The costumes are sexy. One of the fair movies in the genre, Last Action Hero introduces loose adventures. 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Last Action Hero","Date":"29 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Not as dreary as others think, but also not Arnold's best. Some fine action sequences, more than likely borrowed some other Arnold flicks, that deserve some credit. The story had potential, but ends up too flat and watered down after a few minutes. Child actor O'Brien is infuriating to watch.  "},{"Title":"A missed opportunity","Date":"20 October 2013","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last Action Hero is notorious action film that attempted to be a meta satire, being a box-office and critical flop despite it starring the biggest action hero of the time, Arnold Schwarzenegger and helmed by Die Hard and Predator director John McTiernan.Danny Madigan (Austin O'Brien) is a movie obsessed kid who skips school so he can watch the over-blown action series Jack Slater, starring Mr. Schwarzenegger. When Danny's friend, the elderly projectionist Nick (Robert Prosky) offer Danny the chance to see the fourth Jack Slater film before anyone else the kid jumps at the chance and Nick gives Danny a magic ticket. But Danny ends up transported to the movie world where he tries to convince Jack Slater he is really a fictional character as the villainous Benedict (Charles Dance) sees an opportunity to be more then a Mafia hit-man.Last Action Hero had a troubled production and post-production, from getting Shane Black to radically rewrite the script, having an awful test screening, being edited to the last minute and coming out a week after the hugely popular Jurassic Park. Added with the negative reviews Last Action Hero failed. But since its release Last Action Hero has developed a cult following and some see it as a misunderstood classic. I do not share that view point.As you would expect from McTiernan the action is of a very high standard and wonderfully over the top. There are explosions galore and Schwarzenegger continued to be an action presence. Schwarenegger also did have some funny jokes. But the meta approach of the satire falls flat. The idea of satirising action movies of the 80s and early 90s was fair game and still serves a way to deliver an excellent action film, but it was affected by the framing device of the movie-within-a-movie, allowing Danny to break the clichés down for us instead of letting us figuring it out ourselves. It is a bit like the Scream series but the Scream series was able to get away with it more due to the universe created.Some of the jokes in Last Action Hero really do fall flat like the cops getting mix-matched partners and it gets puts to extremes like someone getting partnered with a rabbi, another with a cartoon cat and a black-and-white Humphrey Bogart also gets in on the action. Another really ill-advised joke was when the police captain is yelling at Jack Slater so much that steam comes out of his ears.Dance did make for a good villain and are some decent character actors in supporting roles like Tom Noonan and F. Murray Abraham, but O'Brien was a grating presence as the know-it-all child.Last Action Hero is far from being Arnie's worst film, it wouldn't even be in the bottom five, but it is a wasted opportunity at satirising the action genre, being too meta for its own good. Hot Fuzz is a much better satire of the buddy cop and action genre. "},{"Title":"Too underrated. How could this one get only 5.4??","Date":"3 June 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I have no idea why this movie has such low rating and mostly bad critics reviews. Possibly it's not the best Arnold's movie but definitely the most underrated one. It's a two hours of great entertainment with bright satire and many incredible funny lines and dialogs. Last Action Hero is a bright and charming Arnie's parody to himself. It provides a very unusual and funny look to his typical characters as well as to numerous silly action movies that filled theaters around the world. Also it is very nice to see moral messages and such warm story in Arnie's movie (that's a very rare thing for his works). The direction is very good and the strong chemistry between young Austin O'Brien (best his role in my opinion) and Arnie is one of the best parts of the story. I recommend Last Action Hero to all viewers. This movie is much better than a usual modern silly action movie. My grade 7.7 "},{"Title":"How could this movie only get 5.3?","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm shocked that The Last Action Hero has received so poor reviews.The movie makes fun of all action movies made, and who could play the leading role better than Arnold Schwarzenegger?I really laugh each time I think about this movie. Jack Slater refers to Arnold Schwarzenegger as Arnold Braunschweiger, he makes fun of how complicated his name is for Americans. Also the scene where Schwarzenegger is talking to the press about his new Jack Slater movie is funny, he comes with the usual comments that you hear before each premiere over and over again.The acting is like you can expect in an action/comedy-movie. Schwarzenegger is so good in this genre, but it seems to be a dying genre which is sad.This movie deserves much more than 5.3, and I think it deserves 7/10. "},{"Title":"I was right the first time.","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I first saw Last Action Hero back in 1993; I didn't like it. Twenty years later and I begin to wonder whether my opinion was a knee-jerk reaction to seeing Schwarzenegger in something a little different to his usual fare, and that perhaps I would appreciate the film more second time round. Well, I just watched it again and, if anything, I disliked it even more than the first time.The basic (high) concept&#x97;action movie fan Danny Madigan (Austin O'Brien) enters the fictional world of his movie hero Jack Slater (Arnie)&#x97;is actually pretty clever, allowing for lots of ingenious meta-moments, but the way in which it is all realised is diabolical the screenplay is full of misjudged humour (what is it with that dumb animated cat?), child star Austin O'Brien puts in a thoroughly annoying performance, and the exaggerated action scenes within Slater's movie-verse are completely devoid of excitement. There are also quite a few jokes that have dated extremely badly, especially the 'star' cameos from people that are no longer as famous as they used to be.The saddest thing about the whole film is that, given the great talent involved (Arnie, screenwriter Shane Black, director John McTiernan) it really should have been much, much better. Studio intervention may have been the reason it turned out so bad, but knowing that doesn't make the film any more enjoyable to watch. "},{"Title":"Laaaaaaaaaaaaaame.","Date":"26 August 2009","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last Action Hero is...I don't know, a satire of Arnold Schwarzenegger? A satire of action movies in general? That's the first problem, it doesn't know what the hell it is. At first you think it's going to be one of those fish-out-of-water movies where someone from our world is transported to one he doesn't belong in, but it also has the satire elements there, even though it isn't sure what it's a satire of. Then later on it seems like a sort of existentialist thing? Come on, you idiots, pick a theme and stick with it. Whatever it is, there are some funny parts here that are really genuinely witty, tongue in cheek and clever, and some parts that just make you roll your eyes out of boredom, and that's the main problem with this - it's dull. It doesn't seem to have much direction at all as it plods on and on for what seems like forever, and while there are good ideas here and the intention seems to have been good, it's just too contrived and stale, and it doesn't really excite that much, as hard as it tries. Austin O'Brien plays the kid in this movie in what is probably its most annoying point, too, dragging it down in mostly every scene he's in. Lame. We don't really need to have all of this self-reflective, obnoxious it's a movie! it's a movie! bullshit shilled at us, anyway. And why is he even doing it? What's there to gain by ruining what is supposed to be his favorite movie franchise? It makes no sense. This movie could have been a very funny and clever parody without the kid or any of the bullshit about the real world, or any of that, and you know what? It would have still been manageable as a full length theatrical movie if you took out all of that. Well the ending FINALLY comes after what seems like aeons, as well as suffering through some painfully stupid scenes and a plothole or two - why would the kid need to get Jack Slater back into the movie? Wouldn't the real Schwarzenegger play him again anyway in another sequel? This makes the climax very hard to really get into, especially when it seems like they wanted you to. This whole movie is misguided, strange and not at all well thought out. Pass. "},{"Title":"Seventy Million Dollars! And most of that money is on the screen.","Date":"3 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are many things I enjoyed in Last Action Hero and also many things I did not like. The not-likes first I found the plot difficult to follow and I'm not a fan of TV-style direction with the camera chasing close-up after close-up. On the other hand, there's no denying the sheer gusto of the production and its pell-mell pace from first to last. As the movie runs no less than 130 minutes, that's a large amount of space to fill up with virtually non-stop action, but that's exactly what director John McTiernan provides. The cast is solid, although apart from the lead himself, the kid and the projectionist, many of the name players are difficult to recognize. Also I don't like the modern habit of mumbling. Once again, aside from the three principals, many of the players tend to mumble their lines and are virtually inaudible. And alas &#x96; for most people &#x96; the otherwise superb Columbia DVD does not provide English sub-titles. Fortunately for me, it does provide Spanish sub-titles, so I had no problem, but how many other viewers would be sufficiently conversant with Spanish, I'd rank at less than one per cent. The movie reputedly cost $70,000,000 - and most of that money is on the screen! "},{"Title":"Starring the famous comedian, Arnold Braunschweiger","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" So many times I've wanted to watch this movie, but never did until just recently. I didn't know what to expect just from the title, other than that it'd have some action (which is what you always expect from Arnold Schwarzenegger movies).I was pleasantly surprised of how good Last Action Hero actually was. In my opinion the plot was unique, and I didn't expect there to be a magic ticket that allows you to travel from the real world to a movie world! There was plenty of action, but a lot of humor too. The jokes actually made me laugh. I also love how Arnold Schwarzenegger basically played Arnold Schwarzenegger in the movie, and made fun of himself (like when Jack Slater calls Arnold 'Arnold Braunschweiger').The movie isn't the best I've seen, but it's definitely a great film to watch and I'd recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I enjoy this movie, despite its many faults, for the fact that it's not only quite a clever satire of the action movie genre as a whole, but also because it's a very good action movie itself. Indeed the number of plot holes in this movie could put Iceland on the bottom of the Atlantic, but if you take it for what it is, a silly, over- the-top action movie, then you're guaranteed entertainment!So what's the Calamari? Danny Madigan is a lonely boy with a big imagination but a busy mother, and spends a majority of his time watching the new series of action movies starring Arnold Schwarzenegger called Jack Slater. However, his friend, the owner of the cinema, gives him a magic ticket which transports him into the movie, and thus he has to try and convince Jack that all this is a movie whilst also trying to dodge death from violent gangsters.The bad bits? There are a million tons of plot holes and story problems in this movie, be they through continuity errors, incidents in the movie that either don't go anywhere or are never addressed, which can be quite confusing, and at points it can drag as there are quite a few talking scenes.But other than that, if you're someone who enjoys action movies with a bit of emotion thrown in, then this is really the movie for you. I wont give away what the emotional scenes are, but let's just say that they are handled quite well. The acting in this movie is largely done to satirise the action movie genre, including the sarcastic main hero, the cool, calm (and quintessentially British) main villain, a selection of comedic sidekicks and quite a few rather obscure cameos. In fact if you want yourself a drinking game, count how many celebrities or characters from other movies show up in this film, you'll be under the table in no time!Apart from the various problems, this movie is still great fun! I really enjoy it as both a satire of action films and a satire of itself, really pointing out a majority of the clichés both in terms of previous movies and indeed of Arnold Schwarzenegger himself! "}{"Title":"People weren't expecting this","Date":"1 June 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I realize that any movie on here that has an average-to-low rating has at least one person saying it wasn't that bad or something along those lines, however, I'd say that at least part of the blame for the reception of this was that it wasn't what viewers thought it would be. The names attached to it promised a run-of-the-mill effort, and this can't be taken entirely as that. This is parody, but the fans might not have cared for that... and those that would like it might have skipped it, thinking that it was what it made fun of(a disguise that it does wear rather convincingly). The in-jokes, references, clever material, puns and intentional clichés tend to work marvelously. The sound is utterly spot-on throughout. The acting is fitting with no real exceptions. The music is well-chosen and cool. McTiernan and Arnie, as the director and lead, respectively, are perfect, they know the genre, understand it(and have a sense of humor about it), and the self-irony and tone that they add is immensely valuable to this. You don't spoof action flicks with comedy people who thinks they get it, you use experts in the field who don't take themselves too seriously. The biggest drawback of this is that it is just too long, and while the steam lasts the duration, the audience's patience and interest do not. The pacing is also a bit uneven. This comes off as confused about what exactly it wants to be, at points. The plot isn't bad. The violence is mild. Sex is limited to eye-candy. Language is relatively plentiful and moderate. I recommend this to all who wish to watch a send-up of of the type of feature that most expected this to be. 6/10 "},{"Title":"the artificiality of it, and the film's own continued acknowledgment, ALMOST works","Date":"11 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last Action Hero starring Arnold Schwarzenegger is a very odd hybrid that never quite pulls off watching it today. As a kid it was dumb, silly tongue-in-cheek fun, with the soundtrack being one of the best I'd heard at the time. Now as I watch it I find as much to praise as I do to pan on. And it's not necessarily the fault of director John McTiernan or Arnold- the problems lie in two places, the script and in casting Austin O'Brien. By casting a kid alongside Schwarzenegger, even if it is a quasi-send-up of the action film genre (specifically the kinds of films Arnold made worldwide successes in the 80's), there's already the possibility for trouble. Casting a kid in a major role is always chancy, and even when you know the intentions behind it were pure (i.e. Phantom Menace), more than half the time its bound to disappoint. It's a shame then that O'Brien makes this self-conscious attitude of the picture that much more of an annoyance. His continued utterances, reminding us till no end 'it's just a movie' start to wear on a viewer. And by the end, when the story gets overly emotional- and with a very un-needed Ingmar Bergman reference no less- not to sound cynical but I understood why he hasn't had much of a career since.This being said, there are things that make Last Action Hero passable as long as you're prepared to turn off most of the synapses in your skull. The action sequences are achieved with as much of an adherence to conventional techniques while making a wink at it all the time. My favorite was seeing Schwarzenegger's 'new' bad puns (maybe not as good as Terminator or Predator but close) as he drove around without steering and going every which way possible in the first chase. And the star power in the film is impressive, with a nice laugh at seeing F. Murray Abraham in a choice cameo-type role, also Art Carney in his last film. But, as mentioned, all of the stylistic fervor and bits of real entertainment, it lacks a certain durability that other summer blockbusters have. It's not as funny as it means to be, its only half as clever as it is, and its Schwarzenegger-packed action is good only in spurts. In short, it's not too much of a wonder this was 2nd banana to Jurassic Park in 1993. "},{"Title":"Bad career move for Arnold, entertaining movie","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Minor Spoilers present The Last Action Here has made it difficult for Arnold to be taken seriously, as it exposed all the flaws his movies had ever had.  This was not an action movie, it was a farce, if not full satire.  The hard-rock music playing in the car, for instance, turns out be Arnold just playing music on his car stereo.  His overuse of Jack Slater's trademark line Big Mistake and his clear force of I'll Be Back poke fun at his longtime association with the phrase I'll Be Back as well as Trust Me and the Terminator 2 exclusive Hasta La Vista, Baby.  One error was the fact that the movie was supposedly the fourth in the Jack Slater series, though Arnold has never even a third of any movie.  He has always stopped at sequels.  However, that will change if Terminator 3 happens, which looks to be potentially devastating to Arnold's suddenly fragile career.  This movie entertained me, but it really damaged Arnold's image.  Also, when the actual Arnold interacted with Jack, it made Arnold look like a jerk.  His stock fell far after this film, as it was at probably an all-time high after Terminator 2. This movie turned his career into a joke, and combined with the ill-advised Junior, turned him into a novelty act.  People automatically hate his more recent work, such as Collateral Damage, when they would have loved it had it come out 10 years earlier.  That said, I do not dislike this movie, I enjoyed it, and would recommend it to anyone who wants to watch a light action-comedy.  F. Murray Abraham puzzled me by performing in this, however, despite his great skill, he didn't exactly have people knocking out his door.  Arnold played a caricature of himself, which is more difficult than you might think.  People usually did not see this, only choosing to see intentional plot holes, but ignore their cleverness.  One interesting facet of this is allowed them to have the ultimate in movie conveniences, and instead of being an example of poor writing and direction, its clever. Unfortunately, the cleverness made most people miss it, thinking it was, you guessed it, poor writing and direction.  Its unfortunate that this movie caused the problems it did, for Arnold, and for the Arnold fan, namely me. People blind themselves now by seeing all Schwarzenegger movies as Jack Slater 4 and no longer allow themselves to observe actual good film-making, such as The Terminator, Total Recall, and End of Days.  Overall 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"The Best Movie Never Made.","Date":"26 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Full of good ideas, in-jokes, parodies and action. On the face of it this movie should have been a major hit. Unfortunately the cinema-going public are fickle and demand the entertainment that they have paid their hard-earned dollars and pounds to view.This film just didn't deliver; the plethora of good ideas just went over the top leaving one wondering, at the end, what one had just watched. Arnold's previous ventures into comedy territory were mildly amusing and, again, relied on a degree of self-parody. They were not major screen hits either though.Arnold Schwarzenegger is a major box-office star. He is not an actor however.Neither is he a comedian. The ability to deliver clever one-liners in the heat of a tense action scene does not mean that he can sustain a full comedic role for a couple of solid hours.For me the best bit of the entire film was the Hamlet scene. This was absolutely brilliant and perhaps this short interlude might be a candidate for the title of The Best Movie Never Made. Any Hollywood producers reading this?Despite the public's apparent move away from the shoot 'em up action movies there is obviously still quite a lot of demand for that genre so play it straight Mr. Schwarzenegger - it's what your public wants from you and it's what you're best at.If they want comedy they'll go see an Eddie Murphy flick. "},{"Title":"You either love it or hate it","Date":"25 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is of the bigger is better, or bigger is funnier school, like Landis' Blues Brothers or Spielberg's 1941, and like those efforts tend to polarize the viewers into two camps.  The first (which tend to be the majority) are turned off by the complexity and chaos, and are not amused by the cameos, inside jokes, the numerous excesses.  The second group is a smaller but more fervent following, among whom i count myself.Last Action Hero is unique within its genre, by having been directed by John McTiernan at the height of his considerable powers, having come off Predator, Die Hard, and Hunt for Red October, and of course by starring Mr Schwarzenegger.  That these two, at the pinnacle of their careers would collaborate on parody of their spectacularly successful formula is remarkable, and they both deliver earnest or often winning results.  In the end, while not entirely successful, the film is far better than its reputation.  It also contains some astonishing action sequences, particularly the car chase in the beginning of Jack Slater IV (two-wheeling past the truck, the minigun in the minivan, etc) "},{"Title":"It's not that bad...","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'm with the majority (as of this date) here...this film isn't THAT bad.  Although savaged by critics and viewers alike, the film is ambitious, sporadically funny (not always intentionally) and has some good scenes.  Not many stars of Arnold's magnitude will produce a self-parody at the height of their careers.  (Unlike some - Stallone? - who inadvertently self-parody at the peak of their careers.)  Viewers will most likely NOT rent this again and again, but it was DEFINITELY better than The Avengers and Batman and Robin.In sum, you've got to like an Arnold action flick that introduces the mass film audience to Bergman.  A 6 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"I don't do fiction.","Date":"22 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Kind of a flop when released, but I always had a soft spot for this mega send-up action blockbuster by John McTeirnan which had Arnold Schwarzenegger (an ideal choice) going up against the devilish Charles Dance. Oh and let's not forget Anthony Quinn, Frank McRea, Robert Prosky, F. Murray Abraham, Bridgette Wilson, Art Carney, Tom Noonan and Ian McKellen. That's just to name a few, as there's plenty more showcase cameos and some stars are playing themselves. The cast is great, as everyone looks like they're enjoying its satirical film within a film structure. Real-life characters mixing it with fictional ones. No sequel for you. This gave the biting material plenty of ammo to mock, but also glorifying its dissection of the conventions / clichés that drive action features. It's a parody with numerous in-jokes (probably why it didn't score with an audience), but a messy one making it an amusing bemusement of ideas, gags and encounters. You could say at times it's like having your cake and eating it too. At least the fun is there, as it shows in McTeirnan's execution. Colourful, zany and gung-ho all the way. The noisily pulsating action comes thick and fast, with punches, bullets and explosions coming off the screen. It's ballsy comic-book nonsense. The stunt-work is spectacularly staged. Schwarzenegger as Jack Slater, the ultimate action hero was a blast with his constant one-liners (To be or not to be? Not to be) and Austin O'Brien is likable as the movie buff lad who gets transported into the movie of his favourite action hero where he finds himself in the heart of the action. Last Action Hero is nothing more, nothing less than enjoyable Hollywood popcorn entertainment.Holy cow, I'm in the movie! "},{"Title":"Schwarzenegger versus Braunschweigger","Date":"2 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Few sub-genres have become associated with so many iconic elements as the 1980s-1990s action film, obsessed with their own overblown stereotypes to the point of becoming almost self-parodic. As such, it is particularly poetic that three of the most celebrated contributors to the aforementioned period of explosions and shootouts, director John McTiernan (of Die Hard fame), screenwriter Shane Black (creator of the infamous Lethal Weapon, among countless others) and star Arnold Schwarzenegger convened for a particularly surreal anomaly of a film. Part parody of the past (and future) action films of all three, part philosophical breakdown of the usage and cultural importance of the genre and part pulse- pounding action romp in its own right, Last Action Hero on occasion gives the impression of having bitten off more than it can chew, but its bludgeoning enthusiasm coupled with rare introspective wit makes it a delightfully entertaining and frequently fascinating experiment, continually denied the acclaim it deserves. While it would be simple to dismiss the film as mere post-modern silliness (as many have), the vast array of thought and reflection hiding behind the barricades of bullets is too complex and compelling to immediately warrant writing off. Black's script (co-written with David Arnott) makes a valiant attempt to delve into the cultural relevance and usage of the action genre as cathartic for real life trauma, juxtaposing the violence, crime and poverty in child protagonist Danny's neighbourhood with his adoration for a simpler world where the good always triumph and any adversary can be vanquished by a hail of gunfire. As Danny enthusiastically gushes regarding his favourite cinematic action hero, Jack Slater can't lose - never can, never will. This belief leads to the central hook of the film, as Danny is transported (via a magic ticket stub) into the realm of Slater's latest action blockbuster, where his knowledge of action film conventions helps him both predict the plot and save the day. Danny's presence serves as ripe comedic potential for sending up the genre stereotypes Slater experiences as real life (where are the ordinary, unattractive women?) but also carries the continual uncertain tinge of the film being geared towards audiences younger than its legal demographic, with many of the script's largest faults centering around many of the cringe-worthy jokes and irritatingly broad humour revolving around him and offsetting the film's more crafty wit. However, Last Action Hero never descends into mere Kindergarten Cop silliness, but remains even at its worst something far more intelligent, insightful and supremely entertaining, even if the general thematic tone is generally as hard, loud and overstated as the movies it sends up. McTiernan continually toys with viewer expectations throughout, not only identifying and parodying action film conventions and Schwarzenegger's associated persona, but also knowingly addressing and winking at viewer desire for an outrageous satire and spectacle with sequences as Schwarzenegger playing a gun toting Hamlet, one of the film's most outrageously entertaining points. Of course the innate magic realism centering on the magic ticket gimmick and the film in general may strain credibility to occasionally unreasonable levels and require above average amounts of suspension of disbelief, but those willing to commit to the film and take it in stride may likely find rewards far exceeding the usual thematic content of an explosion-fraught blockbuster. Conversely, those with less complex designs can still enjoy the film as a straight out action romp, as McTeirnan clearly has a ball topping the larger than life explosive confrontations which made Die Hard such a riotous success, though such an approach may likely make the film's more surreal touches (an animated cat saving Slater's life within the realm of the film) all the more jarring and an undeniably overly saccharine ending all the more out of place. Similarly, regardless of the viewer's approach, certain criticisms are inescapable, as the film, despite a supremely hilarious and energetic start, sags throughout the second half and drags on at least 15 minutes too long, and the occasional comic misfires hardly help.Of course no star could truly play 'Jack Slater' other than the king of pulpy action blockbusters Arnold Schwarzenegger, and Schwarzenegger is a consistent delight to watch, both enthusiastically delivering an extreme parody of his own persona (both in character and as 'himself', which, despite the lack of bullets, proves just as hilarious) and even delivering a surprising level of emotional depth in scenes where 'Slater' existentially ponders his nature as a fictional construction - though, as expected, Arnold's real strength lies in his blowing things up and shooting cheesy one liners, which he gleefully delivers in spades, raising countless unquenchable laughs. Similarly, Austin O'Brian mercifully manages to mostly avoid the irritation frequently associated with child co-stars, carrying enough charm to make up for the moments where he overstays his welcome. The eternally classy Charles Dance proves deliciously suave and maniacal as a master assassin, delivering a parody of supervillainhood superbly rendered enough to stand up to Schwarzenegger, as does Tom Noonan as an unhinged, axe-wielding psychopath. Robert Prosky gives a charmingly warm and likable performance as the elderly projectionist who gives Danny his magic ticket, and F. Murray Abraham, despite being saddled with a thankless supporting character, is a worthy inclusion if only for Danny's he killed Mozart! crack. The treatment of Frank McRae's stereotypical, incomprehensibly jiving police chief is likely to evoke as many groans as roars of laughter, but the hilariously unorthodox inclusion of Sir Ian McKellen as the character Death from Ingmar Bergman's The Seventh Seal is in itself nearly worth seeing the film single-handedly, as McKellen's effortless class, dignity and stage presence carry through even through a tragically brief role. Despite occasionally tripping over its own excesses, the cunning wit throughout and moments of sporadic brilliance make Last Action Hero an undeniable success with enough energy and fun to spare even if it may not be the cinematic triumph it appears geared to be at its triumphant beginning. -8/10 "},{"Title":"Superb Action Thriller Satire with Arnie sending himself up.   ****1/2 out of *****","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Last Action Hero' is one of Schwartznegger's best movies, he sends himself up perfectly in a satire of the action genre and many of his own films.The story is every kid's dream, of being transported into an action movie starring their favourite star.Great co-stars including Anthony Quinn,Charles Dance & F.Murray Abraham - Well written with many in-jokes and references to many other films throughout & Action packed from start to finish and from the Director of Die Hard & PredatorAt the time of it's release it was projected to be a huge hit - It didn't happen - on a huge budget (of it's time) of $85M it opened to only $15.4M and made a mere $50M stateside and $137M Worldwide - The fact it didn't make the huge business anticipated was probably down to opening the Week after Monster Hit (and at the time the highest grosser of all time) Jurassic Park, so it was a case of bad timing on behalf of the Studio - Sony ended up making a $27M declared loss on 'LAH' while not being in Pluto Nash Territory that's quite hefty!The only small complaint I have, is that at 130 Minutes, it's rather TOO long and could been 15-20 Minutes shorter.All in all a vastly underrated and under-appreciated Action Thriller that a lot of people don't 'get'****1/2 out of ***** "},{"Title":"Underrated Classic!","Date":"9 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is one of the most underrated and under-appreciated action comedies of all time. This movie is considered to be Arnold's biggest dud, due to many fans not understanding that this was an action adventure comedy. Arnold is pretty much making fun of himself and the over the top violence that makes him an action legend. Arnold is funny and bad ass as the fictional Jack Slater. A young kid, who loves Arnold movies, gets sucked into the latest Jack Slater movie by a magic ticket during a special personal showing. While in the movie world, the boy teams up with Arnold to solve a murder and is trying to convince Jack Slater that he is in a movie and being played by Arnold Schwarzenegger. Eventually the bad guy gets into the real world and the boy brings Jack Slater into the rel world. Slater soon realizes that things aren't as easy in the real world. This films got classic Arnold lines, great over the top action, and some very funny scenes (one of my favs is when the kid takes Jack Slater to a video store and trys to prove he's a fictional character being played by real-life Schwarzenegger and to prove his point he trys to show him a poster of T2....only Stallone is on the poster dressed like the terminator! LOL). It's a real treat and am surprised so many people dislike. All the Arnold fans i talk to say they also love this film and can't understand why people don't get it. Last Action Hero is a bit long but the film does offer many different treats. John McTiernan (Die Hard/Predator) directs, so you know you're going to have some good action. It's an overlooked action classic. Give a chance, you won't be disappointed. "}{"Title":"much more than a simple spoof","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've been reading different comments on this film here on and off for a while. I'm sorry to say even those who love the film, and some do love it, don't fully get it. If it was nothing more than a complex spoof on action movies, many of the gags would have been cut off the pace would have been relentless and many action fans that came to see another Schwarzenegger movie wouldn't mind some extra jokes. They didn't mind Twins all that much.If you look carefully you start realizing all those gags have a certain sense. The whole movie is in fact about the shifty relations between the art of cinema, the commercial life of cinema, and the real world. Its been done many times -Woody Allen did a few films on the subject Zelig and Purple Rose of Cairo are just two examples. Jhon Landis comments on it in most of his good films, Even Steven Spielberg does it in his fantasy films like Hook another under-appreciated film and in his Indiana Jones trilogy (didn't see no.4 yet). But I can't think on anyone who did it so straight forwardly in an action film. It was a tricky combination to begin with and it proved to be too much for most of the action lovers. As I don't want to add any spoilers I'll direct you all to the trivia section of this site. But I want too add one more thing. While commenting about the relations of cinema with reality this movie doesn't forget that it is a movie which means that all the things it says about the art and the industry from the so called real world inside the film apply to this film as well, and it does. And I for one simply love it. "},{"Title":"Delightful Spoof","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I continue to foist this film off on my friends, demanding that they watch it. Some actually do. And generally they agree with me that it is far better than they expected it to be---which pleases me to no end.If there is one moment in the film that is not to be missed it is when Arnie confronts himself (as his alter-ego Jack Slater) and is faced with a less than enthusiastic response. This is a perfect summation of the real-vs-fantasy motif of the film.The running gags, the spoofing of the Action genre, the ridiculous ending and how Arnie manages to play it all with such a deadly seriousness makes this a completely delightful comedy. Surprise! How many stars? Oh, four should do. "},{"Title":"I'll be back! Ha! You didn't know I was gonna say that, did you? A great action film parody that's pretty clever & funny.","Date":"22 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last Action Hero starts in New York City where a film obsessed young boy named Danny Madigan (Austin O'Brien) is looking forward to special midnight preview of the latest Jack Slater action flick arranged for him by his projectionist friend Nick (Robert Prosky) who also gives Danny a supposedly magic gold ticket given to him by Houdini. Danny takes his seat & the film starts, the magic ticket actually does turn out to be magic & Danny is transported into the film where he meets his film idol Jack Slater (executive producer Arnold Schwarzenegger) & he becomes part of the film helping Jack avenge the murder of his favourite second cousin. However the films main bad guy Benedict (Charles Dance) gets hold of Danny's magic ticket & uses it transport himself into the real world where the bad guy's can actually win unlike in the movies...Co-produced & directed by John McTiernan after Steven Spielberg turned the chance to direct down to make Schindler's List (1993) I really rather enjoyed Last Action Hero & I must confess I'm at a loss as to why it was so badly received when it was originally released. The script by Shane Black & David Arnott is actually a very knowing & clever parody of the mega budget Hollywood action flick for which star Schwarzenegger is most famous for & I thought it was very funny to see him parody & make fun of himself, in particular at the end when the real Arnold Schwarzenegger is being interviewed at his films premiere & he says his new film is more responsible because they only kill 48 people in it rather than 148 or when during the same scene he tries to plug his own Planet Hollywood restaurants! I really liked some of the ideas here like the fact the film world Danny finds himself in is populated by beautiful model like women which he comments on or that in the film a wound which would have killed Schwarzenegger in real life is seen as nothing more than a flesh wound! The filmmakers have great fun sending up the action film as a whole from the puns to the fact the character of Jack Slater is running out of family members so the bad guy's have to kill his second cousin! Then when Danny brings Schwarzenegger back into the real world & he tries to smash a car window with his hand he actually feels pain, the scenes on top of the roof where Schwarzenegger is holding onto the cable & rescues Danny slightly ruins the stance taken by the filmmakers as it imitates & essentially copies what it's been parodying & trying to send up but what the hell the film as a whole is great entertainment that pokes all sorts of light hearted fun at the action flick in general. I never thought I'd say this but Last Action Hero is a clever & very knowing Schwarzenegger film that might go on for a bit too long but when a films this much fun who cares?Director McTiernan does a good job & there are plenty of over-the-top action scenes, car chases, shoot outs, explosions & fights amongst all the countless film references & homages from E.T. (1982) to Lethal Weapon (1987). There are also lots of fun cameo appearances from the likes of Jean-Claude Van Damme, James Belushi, Chevy Chase, Sharon Stone leaving a police station & Robert Patrick dressed as an LAPD cop like his role in Terminator 2 Judgment Day (1991) as the T-1000! There are so many gags & visual references for action film junkies to spot there's no way you'll spot them all the first time you watch it, I just think this is an action packed film which doesn't take itself too seriously & is great fun to watch.With a supposed budget of about $85,000,000 this flopped at the box-office with very negative critical & audience reactions which is a shame because I really liked it for what it is, making only $16,000,000 at the box-office bad word of mouth & opening the same weekend as Steven Spielberg's monster hit Jurassic Park (1993) probably were the main reasons why & Schwarzenegger's $15,000,000 he was paid didn't help the budget either. It's well made with plenty of big bangs & big names on screen for your money, the acting is alright & even the kid didn't annoy me.Last Action Hero is a really good slice of light hearted action that uses the genres clichés to amusing effect & there's even a message here about real life being very different to what happens in films & there are consequences if you try to smash a car window with your fist! I know a lot of people don't like Last Action Hero so I won't say you definitely will but I think it's a film that's worth a watch if nothing else, to be safe watch it on TV or rent it rather than buy it & you may just like it. "},{"Title":"Screw it! Have some fun with this picture!","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I've seen the movie twice and everyone states its has to be a traditional action film, a mediation on film themes, an intellectual exercise that failed, it has to be this , it has to be that ...Screw it. It's a fun parody that the now-Governator had of himself.Everyone wants Mr. S. to be Conan, a Commando, a Terminator, a spy ... etc. They want(ed) the one-liners. They want predictability, and to tell the truth. I never was a big fan of Arnold's movies. They were okay, but you knew anyone that big is virtually indestructible in real life too. Maybe Arnold got tired of playing a recycled character, so he said screw it. Not to his fans, but to himself. And for the first time, I was laughing with him.This movie throws the kitchen sink at everything it touches crazy cop combinations, the actor vs. the character, the car chases, the hair never out place in a fight, the flesh wounds the size of Arnold's hands, plus it has Ian McKellen as Bergman's version of Death, the late Anthony Quinn as a crazy gangster, and a heck of a lot of movie tie-ins that relate to Arnold and other films.In short, it's Arnold's 8 1/2 ... millimeter (couldn't resist) When you view the movie for yourself, just do it for crazy, wild fun. Yes, you are finally able to laugh with Arnold instead of at him (as some would do - behind his back, of course.) But it's okay, just think like the kid in the film and you might be able to relax and enjoy the show. "},{"Title":"Better than the critics would have you believe","Date":"30 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Two words that spelt doom for this movie...... Jurrasic Park! If it hadn't been for Steven Spielbergs movie, I think LAH would have been held in slightly better regard than it is by the ill informed today.Critics gave it a hammering, and it appears that they were all unanimous with their ignorance.I'm not going to suggest for one second that its the best film in the world, far from it, its not even Arnolds best film, but the unfair slating this film got back in 1993 just beggars belief, and its only in recent years that people have gone back and given the film a reappraisal.Witty dialogue, nice ideas, a brilliant performance from Charles Dance, a humorous cameo by Sir Ian McKellen as Death, Arnold at his over the top best, the many 'spot the stars' cameos, all helped raise the level of this film way above the mediocre.Only thing that did annoy the hell out of me.... Austin O'Brien, and history has not been kind to him..... Lawnmower Man 2!!!! But even he wasn't enough to ruin this film.If you haven't seen it, or haven't seen it for a while, go back and revisit it, its probably a hell of a lot better than you 'remember'. "},{"Title":"The  Purple  Rose  Of  Pyro","Date":"31 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 12-year-old Daniel Maddigan is a die-hard-fan of the fictional action-movie-cop &#132;Jack Slater played by Arnold Schwarzenegger in the film-series within this film. Dannys old friend Nick &#150;a repertory-cinema-owner on the edge to retirement- makes him an irresistible offer Nick just got the fresh copy from the latest Jack-Slater-flick and offers Danny to watch the midnight-test-preview which Nick usually does alone to check his copy. To be the first to watch YOUR movie-of-the-year... completely alone in the aisles &#150; &#132;Last Action Hero deserves thumps-up alone for picking up this little charming idea! To stray some stardust, Nick gives Danny a billet at the entrance it was once handed over to him by the legendary Houdini (or a fairground-illusionist that claimed to be him) when Nick was a kid. That ticket was told to have the magical power to offer his bearer a passage into foreign worlds and other dimensions. Nick never hat the nerve to try it for he feared it wouldn't work and ruin his personal childhood-myth. Danny gets his half of the billet and &#132;Vorhang auf!&#132;Last Action Hero picks up the same motive as Woody Allen's &#132;Purple Rose Of Cairo and does that incredibly well and solitary. The film plays ironically with typical action-film-clichés when during the climax the fictional character Jack Slater is forced to tress-pass from screen to real world and gets upset finding out that some reliable action-movie-rules don't work there ... here anymore. The confrontation with his alter-ego Arnold Schwarzenegger is one of the key-sequences of the film and even offers some interesting philosophical questions about the relations between actors and their roles. Finally Jack and Danny face the biggest &#132;Boogeyman in the history of cinema ever, who also managed to escape from his flick into the real world. That encounter is another respectful salute to the great old European cinema and grants this hopelessly underrated movie another friendly shoulder-clap from the classics. Aside, passionate movie-goers find a lot of cameos and references to other films, for example when Danny tries to warn Slater not to trust his buddy, performed by F. Murray Abraham because he killed Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart! In fact Abraham played the rivaling composer Salieri in &#132;Amadeus, but since the sequence here plays in a fictional action-world beyond the screen, Slater neither knows classic music nor &#132;Amadeus and of course this ain't one Salieri or Abraham but his partner John Practice. Later confronted by Slater with the insult of killing Mozart, John Practice just answers &#132;Moe... who? Jack, I've killed that many people... THIS is smart entertainment! Even the great Anthony Quinn obviously recognized the qualities of the script and joined up to portray a Mafia-boss who you'd rather like to give a hug than a bullet.&#132;Last Action Hero is definitely and by far the best Arnold-comedy he ever made! He deconstruct his own image and the most action-movie-standard-situations in it. Nevertheless it is solid entertainment, action and fun. Other comedy-attempts like &#132;True Lies, &#132;Kindergarten Cop or &#132;Junior were just stupid. This one is not. "},{"Title":"Why do people hate this movie?","Date":"25 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I think Last Action Hero is great. The tongue-in-cheek self irony is very rare in Hollywood, and the film has a brilliant sense of humour.Arnie actually acts, and acts well (again, a very rare occurrence). And the film premise is very unusual and interesting. It also pokes fun at standard Hollywood formulas and pre-packaged characters very effectively.This film is terribly under-rated. It's not meant to be an action flick, and if you try to look for an action flick in it you'll be disappointed. If you want to be entertained by Hollywood making fun of its action movies then you'll enjoy it very much. "},{"Title":"Underrated Action Film","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last Action Hero the film that was Arnold's first real flop makes up for what money it lost at the box-office with a fresh, inventive plot and great performances. Looking back at this movie, I'm surprised that this was one of the box-office bombs for Summer 1993 and the year of 1993 in general.Everything was believable about this film. The acting was very convincing and the whole movie within a movie theme really works well for this film. The plot alone is what makes the film stand all by itself in an elite field of movies that contain a lot of shoot 'em ups and blow 'em ups. I still wonder why this film flopped. Maybe it wasn't the right summer to release it or people just didn't get it. Though it is far from being another Terminator 2(which is probably what people expected and wanted it to be) it is a good social commentary about the action movies that are made and the people that watch them.I will say one thing about the movie. However, the only bad thing about this movie is that it kind of lags behind during the second half of the movie and doesn't seem nearly as interesting as the first half. Other than that it's a well-thought out entertaining film. One day, if it hasn't already have, it will become a cult classic. "},{"Title":"Whoops - too subtle, Arnie?","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Badly misunderstood, criminally underrated movie.Witty, charming, and overflowing with enthusiasm, John McTiernan's love song to the action movie genre is just way, way too rich for the palate of lazy critics who see Schwarzenegger's presence as a license to dismiss. Casting a better actor rather than having Arnie play himself might have mollified the nay-sayers, but it would also have missed the point; this movie is as cathartic for its star as for its audience.If you don't get it, it's a shame, but it's not the movie's fault.At times Last Action Hero is up there with the movies of Billy Wilder or Rob Reiner for arch quotability. The Hamlet trailer is worth the price of a magic ticket all on its own! "},{"Title":"A Refreshing Twist on the Action Genre","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last Action Hero is an action-comedy-fantasy. The action involves car chases, explosions and guns. The comedy involves one of the main characters pointing out movie in-jokes (the talking villain, the 555 phone numbers, etc.) and his partner's responses. The fantasy element involves a magical ticket -- from Harry Houdini -- that allows real people to enter films of their choice and even to allow the films to enter our world.This movie is funny, exciting and meant for those of us who have seen too many movies (action or otherwise). If you think references to Die Hard, Amadeus and Basic Instinct are your cup of tea, this movie is that cup of tea you're looking for.Could this be Schwarzenegger's best film? With all due respect to T2, Totall Recall, Commando and other fine films (I could go on) I must conclude this is his best. So if you like Schwarzenegger and you haven't seen this film, get off your keyster and see this movie tonight.Very highly recommended! "}{"Title":"Brilliant skewering of action movie clichés","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" John McTiernan skewered the action movie genre with such a sharp knife, nobody felt the initial incision -- which is why this sly pulp masterpiece flopped like a dead pigeon in a radiation cloud. Ironically, McTiernan had contributed boldly to the genre with Predator and Die Hard, so when he knew the genre had hit its zenith, he opted to dish this one up. Few got the joke.As spectacle, the film hits its stride early on and doesn't let up. The centerpiece car chase is a blast, as is the Hamlet segment where Arnie takes the p*** out of his on-screen persona. Some of the parody doesn't work and walks an uncertain line at times, but what does work works brilliantly.These days, the film still feels fresh and perceptive, and its tongue-in-cheek, critical slaying of Hollywood action clichés retains its bite. "},{"Title":"Typical of Hollywood to hate this movie.","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You know, over the years I see a repeating pattern. This big movie, destined to be a blockbuster, great plot, great story and great acting, goes down as a flop. This was one of those films. It is a great film, and yet it didn't make money in the boxy office. You know why? Because its an intelligent film. You've gotta THINK to get some of those gags. You've gotta have a half decent memory to catch that Terminator walking out of the police station. So once again. If you're a person who loves intelligent, well plotted movies with action and comedy, buy this movie. If you're one of those morons who went to the movies and came out going Wha? DUh...I don't get that.... then forget it. There have been plenty of movies like this. Movies like The Shadow, The Phantom, Dave and The Distinguished Gentlemen. Movies that are too smart for our average moviegoers and thus failed in the box-office. 9/10, an awesome movie. "},{"Title":"The early nineties were filled with, shallow, shallow people...","Date":"11 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It is quite sad when movies are watched by people who make hasty decisions. I'm not surprised in the least... Over the years sinse its release I'd crossed people who had told me how much Last Action Hero sucked. For shame... Yet I'm pleased to know I'm not the only person who watches movies to enjoy (Oh noes, a sin) what they have to offer.Remember when The Shawshank Redemption first came out and it wasn't well spoken of? It had to take more than 5 years for people to come out of the woodwork (Or come to their senses in the privacy of their own home) to decide that it was not only underrated, but also very intelligent.THE FOX POINTS OUT A SPOILER This movie (As a generous amount of people had stated here) is a spoof, a parody... Everything is stereotyped exactly, yet no one in the movie ever notices.Throughout the first half of the movie Danny and Jack wander about in the fictional world of L.A. to seek out and stop the main villain. This world is bright and cheery, but when danger shows its head you know it's there. The villains wave guns like the uber-villains they are meant to be, and they seem to show no remorse or sign of a conscience (Like a typical action movie). X amount of bullets from the hero's gun mow'ss down bad-guys and causes vehicles to explode *Suddenly remembers the scene in UHF when Al dreams of being Rambo* while the villains accuracy rating suffers greatly. At a certain point in the movie the villain makes his escape into another world where things seem the same, except the setting is dreary, dismal at times, and may ultimately cost you your life without warning. Bullets kill and injure, and they do so indiscriminantly. Cars don't explode when shot at either, and they don't fly dozens of feet into the air when the collide with another car for that matter.Find it on DVD. There are many Easter Eggs throughout the film (T-1000 cameo, Jack's apartment number and various movie posters and billboards). After sitting through the entire movie you might even want to take the time to go through again just to pause and zoom in for a closer look.Trust your own imagination and not some movie critic, unless they can protect what they claim. Movies are meant to entertain, and the more you get out of it the better you'll feel. =) "},{"Title":"Definitely worth seeing","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" A solid 8 due to its awesome plot and the nice twists in the storyline. The idea behind the movie is breathtaking. In this sense - the sense of inventive movie-making - it deserves a place up front. Arnold's double-embodiment is utter genius and the non-stop action together with the witty dialogues made this one a really enjoyable experience for me to watch. You may complain about the stereotypical depiction of characters and their standard black-white draft. However I would not put too much emphasis on criticising these aspects as this movie has a different premise. It is meant to entertain and to provide an awesome background story, and that is what we get. "},{"Title":"My favorite Arnold Schwarznegger film. If you're not that fond of Action hero movies BY ALL MEANS WATCH THIS ONE","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm not a movie critic.. What I don't know about film production, acting,directing etc. would fill several large books. For the most part I cherish my ignorance. The only reason I got into this comment thing was because again and again after watching a favorite movie for the nth time, I've looked it up to find it rated as 5.1 out of 10. Reading many of the comments has often supported my impression of the film and makes me wonder who weighted the thing so much that it pulled it down so low. So...You won't see me panning films I don't like. However, I do often feel compelled to counter what I feel was an uncalled for low rating. Now having got that out of my system....My favorite Arnold Schwarznegger film. If you're not that fond of Action hero movies BY ALL MEANS WATCH THIS ONE.As a normal American male, I've frittered away quite a few hours watching Arnold, Sly, Claude, Steven et.all do their macho thing and my personal (admittedly biased) ratings would be 4 to 7. Probably one thing I'm up to here with is the incredible number of dead bodies, the lousy shooting of hundreds of bad guys and the over use of pyrotechnics. I must admit however, I'm fascinated with the career of Schwarznegger. As it says in this movie only in America - (rather), only in Hollywood.By now I assume it's understood that this is a spoof of action hero movies and especially Schwarznegger's own. Apparently the hard core A-H watchers didn't realize this and were disappointed. That's understandable. Its parody on the genre is a masterpiece, if somewhat complicated. Where can you find an action hero who dislocates his shoulder doing a simple stunt, likes classical music, comes up with the new tag line of rubber baby buggy bumpers, works with a cartoon character and takes the last bullet in the movie with fatal consequences? ( I won't spoil the movie by telling the end of the ending). I liked the supporting cast, and find the whole project hilarious. In this one Arnold is obviously a little tired of the genre himself. So if you can stand to see a few more bodies and explosions done in fun, I recommend you see this one. I believe you'll like it. I'll raise the average with an 8. "},{"Title":"I'm not sure if I've laughed harder","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The scene in which Arnold does his take on Hamlet must be one of the high points in comedy throughout human history. I think back to all the great comedic moments throughout my film viewing lifetime, including Dr. Strangelove, the Python films, American Beauty and countless others but cannot come up with a moment in any of those films that is more laugh out loud funny than that scene. Even moments from MST3K, The Flying Circus, Seinfeld, Mr. Show, Hogan's Heros, Curb Your Enthusiasm just don't compare to the genius of this scene. Just so that readers of this will know I'm not being sarcastic, I understand why Arnold didn't win an Oscar for this, but what I want to know is why they didn't create a category for this sort of thing so that he could. "},{"Title":"This movie rocks!","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I can't understand why this movie was such a flop. It's got all of the action and excitement of your typical Arnie film of the era, plus a relatively brainy plot. The movie is heavily clichéd at times, but that's done intentionally to parody the action genre. I love the way the movie is willing to make fun of itself. At a time when Arnold was an action star with a capital S, it's amazing that he would even make a film like this. I especially like the part where the characters come into the real world and discover things like that it hurts to break a window with your bare hands or to get shot. Having the villain recruit evil characters from other movies was a great idea that they could have expanded upon. Why not have Jack Slater versus Darth Vader and Chucky? Let's have Last Action Hero 2, starring The Rock! "},{"Title":"A brilliant Parody!","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First of all I have to say the reviewers who trashed this movie wouldn't know a good movie if it came and bit them in the ass.This movie was a brilliant send up of the entire action film genre. They did a hilarious job of blatantly setting up just about every action film cliché they could come up with. I loved how Arnold was able to basically make fun of himself in this movie. Some of the Cameo appearances were incredible. My personal favorite is the scene when they enter the LAPD HQ. The biggest problem the movie had was that too many people were expecting a real action movie, not a parody of the genre. You could say Danny did one thing a lot of us dream of when he actually became part of the movie for real. BTW the AC/DC video for Big Guns is a gem too loaded with clips from the movie and ultimately seeing Arnold transformed into a super sized copy of Angus Young and even mimics him during the guitar solo. "},{"Title":"Forget The Critics","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is not a normal Arnold Actioner. It is an unusual satire, full of neat touches, aimed squarely at a movie buff.Mr. Schwarzenegger has done comedies before this but this was aimed higher than most.Possible spoilers throughout the following.When the boy spends time trying to convince Jack Slater that he's a movie hero, every proof is arguable to Slater. The visit to Blockbuster was a nice touch, but probably wasn't a slap at Stallone.Jack Slater in the real world was okay, but what had me laughing out loud was when the magic ticket stub drifted into the art theater playing Bergmann's The Seventh Seal. To me, that was the high point of the film.To a movie buff, this is a great film. To those expecting another Commando, it would probably just be puzzling. "},{"Title":"An underrated Arnie classic","Date":"3 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This film has been described as a turkey by many a film critic,but then there aren't many Arnie films which aren't largely panned. However, if you watch the film with an open mind you may discover a hidden gem. The first time I saw this film I couldn't stop laughing. From the outset it was clear that this film was a parody of all those classic over-the-top Arnie movies rolled into one. One-liners, mad action, improbable stunts, a decent child actor, a good supporting cast (including a host of cameos), and plenty of humour. As Jack Slater (Arnie) walks into his apartment he immediately pulls out his gun and shoots his closet, opens the door and a man falls dead to the floor. Danny Madigan (Austin O'Brien) asks Jack how he knew there would be a man in there. Without thought Jack says  there's always a man in there. If this is to your taste, watch the film, if not, too bad. "}{"Title":"Much Better The Second Time Around","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The only thing I could recall about seeing Last Action Hero in the theater was that it had a fantastic hard-rock soundtrack, and the movie itself was a disappointment. But after giving it another chance on DVD years later, I was surprised by how good of a film it really is. I think that is because I was young when it was originally released, so I didn't get the satire, and was only looking for action.As it turns out, there is great action *and* satire in this film. In fact, after the second viewing I'd say the film's weakness is that it didn't include even more obscure references to Arnold's previous films, and make even more fun of the way Hollywood insults viewers' intelligence. But then again, Last Action Hero was released before Mystery Science Theater 3000 had trained me to expect riffs and puns flying faster than speeding bullets.Still, I wasn't quite prepared to laugh as hard as I did during this film, especially when blindsided by our hero's two questions for the villain. I won't ruin it by quoting here, because that just might be the funniest line Arnold has ever read on screen.The soundtrack still has the best and most appropriate songs of any film I've seen, although this is not as evident in the film as in the soundtrack CD. And it was great to finally see a teenage boy character in an action film who didn't annoy the hell out of me with constant screaming and whining. Austin O'Brien did a fabulous job as the hero's unlikely sidekick.The only thing that really bothered me occurred late in the film, which was supposed to take place in the real world. After spending so much time emphasizing that there is no deus ex machina in the real world, the hero-villain conflict is resolved in just such a manner. I would rather have seen a battle of wits, or at least brute strength, to carry our hero to victory.One last thing I watched the full-screen version DVD, and a lot more than usual seemed to be trimmed from the periphery. If a widescreen version exists, I'd highly recommend that instead. "},{"Title":"A good movie misunderstood.","Date":"30 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If you are looking for a typical Arnold action flik don't bother with the Last Action Hero. However if you are looking for to see Arnold act in what was probably one of his most difficult roles this movie is not to be missed. Most people don't get that this movie was a parody. It must have been incredibly tough for an actor used to working in a world where cars explode if you scratch them and characters are thinner than a piece of newspaper to move into a world of real cars and real characters. What worked for me in this film is that Jack Slater became a surrogate father to Danny Madigan. People looking for bigger and better explosions should move on and see True Lies. To view Last Action Hero start by thinking in terms of Kindergarten Cop, Twins, or Junior.-- Chris "},{"Title":"under-rated Arnie to the max","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Some of the best Arnie one-liners and bad throw-away puns are included intentionally in this HAM CAMP meta-film roller coaster. I mean come on! Arnold Schwarzenegger's Hamlet!?! Brilliant! A film that makes fun of the bottom of barrel Hollywood action scene, using the cheesiest mainstream action star of the earlier 90s (even better lines than Kurt Russell, Sly, Bruce Willis, Segal, and VanDork)There are many sections which are just too much for serious movie fans, and rightly so. This film celebrates Hollywood predictability for those of us who love to say what happens before it does.It's no mystery why this film was a box office flop. The acting blew, and it was full of cheap sight gags. But in the name of fun, this is one of the coolest stories of its day. Too bad it's been basically lost in a swarm of negative criticism from various malcontents. Absolutely worth seeing, unless you don't get it. For fun, I give this film 8/10 big ripe pieces of cheese.-B "},{"Title":"Arnold and Danny explore literary theory","Date":"9 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I remembered going to see this movie when I was about 8, and taking it quite seriously. Now I am about twenty and last night, after much trepidation, I put the disc into my DVD player to see it again after about nine years. It was a completely different film than what I remembered.You know what the man says about not being able to cross the same river twice?Most obvious was the shockingly corny action movie sequence. I could remember things like the women wearing funny clothes, people not being able to say cuss words, the hero always winning, etc. But now, having seen over the years so many Miami Vices, Lethal Weapons, and Die Hards, not to mention the traffic thriller scenes in Terminator 3, I realize Hey, they're making fun of it! (They killed my favorite second cousin. Big mistake!) It was always obvious that Arnold was going to meet the charectars that he played, but at the time I first saw it I didn't realize the deeper meaning to all that. (Mom wouldn't let me go see very many action films)The film doesn't work for some people because it slips from action parody into literary criticism too easily. They should have spent more time in the real world at the beginning to highlight difference between the real world and the fairy tale world of Jack Slater. There were alot of things I'd forgotten about when they come back. Arnold --I've never just sat down and talked to a women. It feels good. I like classical music.The crux of the movie comes when Death from Seven Seals walks up to Jack and Danny in the theater. The moral the hardships of life come to us all, but not in the movies. In the movies every thing is OK.(spoiler) but at the very end we hear Arnold talking to his boss I don't want to shoot people and blow up things anymore. A prophecy fullfilled? "},{"Title":"A Fine Film","Date":"3 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I feel this is one of those films you have to see twice or more to appreciate the sheer complexity of its finer points. It wasnt until recently that I realized it had such a decent soundtrack to go along with its colorful dialogue and snappy one-liners from you-know-who. A good enough ending to this picture was a welcome thing in today's movie trend of sequel after sequel. Casting seemed alright. Good amount of cameos. Pretty well done visual effects. All in all, this is probably my favorite of all of Arnie's movies yet as far as entertaining me. Can't wait to see if he decides to make some more after he gets out of the California Governor's Seat. Come back, Arnold, come back!  "},{"Title":"It used to be fun","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I was 9 years old along time ago. Now it makes me laugh really hard when I watch it and think how bad it is. It's a huge mess with Arnold telling the kid what to do and not to do the whole time. It's about this kid Danny who gets this ticket from this guy Nick and he's watching this movie when the ticket magically makes him go inside the movie. In the middle everyone from the movie gets out of the screen and they are real. Jack Slater is a god in the movies, but he;s in the real world now so he can die. Overall 6.1 only because it used to be my old favorite movie. "},{"Title":"Funny, comedic look at action blockbusters","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  People didn't get this movie back in the day.  Back in 1993, Arnold was fresh off of 'Terminator 2 Judgement Day' and everything else would pale in comparison.  But this is a different type of movie altogether.The fact is, this movie is a funny look at the action movie genre, of which Arnold was the king of at the time.  The one-liners, which people panned, were meant to be corny.  Big Mistake is part of the fun.  Many action movies had famous one-liners at that time, and this was the hommage to that.The jokes about never running out of bullets, flesh wounds, cleaning tar off quickly, people showing up coincidentially, police coming as a person is shot, are all easily verifiable as action movie staples from the time and earlier.Watch it with this in mind, and you'll see that it's a great movie for what it is intended to be, and that's a comedic look at the action genre. Enjoy it for what it is, not what it isn't.   "},{"Title":"A Movie that Deserves Another Look...","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film got a undeserved bad rap because it debuted at a time Hollywood was beating its breast over it's reputation for producing too much violent entertainment. It is not a parody of action films but a sly homage to them. True, just about every genre cliche is lampooned   But, from the deliberately awkward rendering of Steven Spielberg's Amblin Logo, to a character's early observation that, of all the world's evils, politicians are twice as bad as anything else, you'll find lots to smile about--and ponder. The movie rises to classic heights when a touching scene makes the point that, in the final analysis, our imaginary heroes may be the only ones that never abandon or disappoint us. Go on--give this movie a fighting chance!    "},{"Title":"Good film with a bad rap","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film got a bad rap; it's a good idea with many funny moments.  It seems clear that the original witty screenplay was massaged (by the studio?) in an attempt to make the movie more mainstream and tack on a sentimental angle. The result is, at times, neither fish nor fowl, which is why the film got such a bad rating by critics.   You wish the filmmakers (or the studio) had gone all the way with the original idea and trusted audiences to get the joke.  But enough of that original idea remains to make the movie quite enjoyable.  Some scenes are very funny indeed.  "},{"Title":"Outrageously self-reflexive!","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Last Action Hero is an unbelievably self-indulgent film, but also an undeniably unique one; simultaneously both parody and homage of the action film, it demands several viewings to take in all of the references due to its sheer messiness.  The parody is spot on however, and come the film's climax, I was surprised at how beautifully the film captured the appeal of the action film, and how affectively it had homaged it.  The sheer assault of the film means that it is not for all tastes, but there are moments to treasure... 'To Be Or Not To Be... Not To Be!' BANG! "}{"Title":"VERY tongue in cheek action parody","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Been a long time since I'd seen this and watched it again last night. There are so many puns, double entendres, refs to other Arnie flicks, and just poking fun at Hollywood in general. Really fun stuff. The exchange between Arnie and his wife (Maria) in the premiere sequence is a riot. Great fun when the actors take us in to the movie with them and demonstrate they get the joke every bit as much as we do. Watch it for entertainment and not to see a hardcore action flick. Good for several laughs...watch for the killer dogs and how well trained they are! "},{"Title":"Fun action Flick.","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Lots of EXPLOSIONS, Unreality-Reality, and lots of stuff. Has a Moral, but I don't think the kiddies are supposed to be watchin it. Cheesy, but good, and in some parts, FUNNY. Give it a try, it's just entertaining if you don't...THINK... "},{"Title":"One of my favorite guilty pleasures.","Date":"4 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  To be or not to be... not to be.  Schwarzenegger playing Hamlet with machine guns is just one of the many reasons I love this film.  The sly references to other great action films such as Die Hard and Lethal Weapon; which screenwriter Shane Black also wrote; and of course Arnie's own Terminator films, give this action film a fresh twist.  And the lengths that director John McTiernan, of Die Hard fame, goes to show the absurdity of it all makes dissecting this film a real treat.  Anthony Quinn as the inept crime boss Tony Vivaldi gives a dizzying performance as he searches endlessly for the right words to make himself understood, and Charles Golden Child Viva Nepal! Dance as the mother of all villain sidekicks simply floors me with his impatience and frustration at having to take orders from the spaghetti slurping cretin.  (My favorite scene is one where Dance as Benedict has entered the real world and commits cold-blooded murder to see how long it will take the police to show up.  I have just shot someone and I want to confess!  Hey, shut up down there!)  It is this never-ending tongue-in-cheek humor that propels this quirky, often chastised film.  The only real drawback to the film is the somewhat labored performance of Austin O'Brien as Danny.  Sure his lines are cheesy, that's the point!  But a better actor could have taken this role to a level that O'Brien failed to. This film has everything you would expect in an action film stunts, explosions, fist fights, cameos - tons by the way - car chases, the obligatory good guy gets shot in the chest but survives because he was wearing his bullet proof vest scene, and of course guns.  Lots of guns. (Keep and eye out for the old Sicilian grandmother on the hotel roof... she's packing heat so big she has to stay seated to fire it!)  And in the end, (and I am not giving anything away here!) Jack Slater waves goodbye as he drives off into the sunset.  So what I am really saying here is... Is this film to be missed or not to be missed?  Not to be. "},{"Title":"Better then it's made out to be","Date":"9 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This film is underrated. Sure - if you can't deal with irony and cliches, you won't like it. however I believe that a true movie lover cant help but to love this one. Great Direction by McTiernan, so its a 7,5/10 for this original flick. "},{"Title":"When Ah-nuld breaks the fourth wall, it REALLY breaks....","Date":"27 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Surprised this didn't get better reviews when it came out.  I still get a kick out of this movie.  The whole premise (a movie character THINKS that his reality is real until his greatest fan gets transported into the film and starts interacting with him) is hard to accomplish, but here it gets done very well.  Lots of in-jokes, satire, cameos all over the place, and quite a bit of action as well (although in the 'real world' it gets a bit more dark and realistic).   This is one of those flicks where you just have to turn your rational brain to 'simmer' and enjoy the movie.  At the same time, don't blink, or you'll miss some of the good stuff...  "},{"Title":"A great movie about movies","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This 1993 action fantasy was, in my opinion, unjustly lambasted by critics. Arnold Schwarzenneger Plays Jack Slater, a cop which epitomizes every cliched action hero you can think off, and parodies himself as an actor, and later on, as a celebrity. This movie pokes fun at the action movies Hollywood makes (Or used to make especially in the eighties), it is filled with great in-jokes which should be appreciated by film lovers, especially those who love American, Hollywood movies. Schwarzenneger parodies himself brilliantly, he has great support from top notch actors like Charles Dance and F. Murray Abraham. The whole thing is directed with great style by action extraordinare John Mctirnan. The co-writer of the script is no other than Mr. Shane Black, creator of the original Lethal Weapon, which is also spoofed here heavilly. It's a great romp, filled with imagination, inventivness and yes, great action. An intelligent, humorous work by everyone involved. Sure, it has plot holes and a sappy ending, but it never takes itself too seriously. And the most important thing of all, it makes us remember why we love movies. "},{"Title":"Why the hell did this fantastic movie flopped?!?!?","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I guess I'll never understand why people seem to not like this fantastic and enchanting movie Last action hero? Perhaps it was too smart to captivate the audience or maybe they just didn't want to see Arnold in the role like this, makíng parody of himself right after the superhit Terminator 2 Judgment day. However when I saw Last action hero for the first time in the movie theater I was absolutely stunned. This was something I had never seen before. Nine years later this film still amazes me and makes me laugh hard. Of course Arnold's image is pretty soft but it doesn't matter because unlike in some of his other comedies, this time he really is funny. Robert Prosky is moving as Nick and late Anthony Quinn makes one his last excellent performances as gangster Tony Vivaldi. Last action hero is filled with superb cameos and script is incredibly ingenious, entertaining, hilarious, inventive, clever, wild and witty and the film just gets crazier and crazier every minute. How can someone come up with something as hysterical and unbelievable as this? I also love the soundtrack, especially AC/DC's smash hit Big gun. (If you have a chance check out the music video featuring Schwarzenegger as Angus Young!) Last action hero is quite likely the finest action/fantasy/comedy of the 90's and it will always be one of Arnold Schwarzenegger's best movies and unfortunately last ones I can call truly marvelous (True Lies being the last). "},{"Title":"Not the lost treasure some claim it to be","Date":"13 July 2015","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last Action Hero is deeply flawed and incompetent both as a dumb film and a smart one. The script wants you to think it is being clever, yet never once takes time to actually delve into what it's trying to say; the closest we get is Jack Slater, freed from celluloid, experiencing his first genuine conversation outside his action-filled life, yet that moment misfires by being woefully brief and shallow. It's also incapable of creating a real-world tone that feels grittier or more dangerous than that of the celluloid one; there's a scene that should have a shocking impact from the real world where Danny is assaulted in his apartment, so lost that it's hard to know if it's the celluloid world, the real world, or a dream.The movie tells us time and time again it's being a clever, tongue- in-cheek, meta look at the world of big Schwarzenegger-style action films of that era -- it screams this into the audience's face. But never does it actually succeed at commentary in a meaningful way, instead relying on cutesy moments and the same shallow style it's mocking to cover up for not being remotely smart enough to justify itself.I can't blame the cast, they seem to be doing an adequate job of what they're being told to. But too much of this film falls on young Austin O'Brien's shoulders, his character of Danny Madigan feels only slightly more authentic than Jake Lloyd's Anakin Skywalker in The Phantom Menace. His character is given too much to do and too much to carry without any real character integrity, and as a kid he struggles to make it all compelling. He's not bad at all, but his character is an oddball and a bad fit, and O'Brien is wearing a lot of early '90s kid traits that just didn't translate to likability *or* believability.A lot of blame can be put on the shoulders of the writers, especially when Shane Black is mocking his own Lethal Weapon films by doing what he always does of making this script into yet another Lethal Weapon film - look at Die Hard 3, The Last Boy Scout, Iron Man 3, Kiss Kiss Bang Bang, etc., and you'll find many of the same exact buddy cop film tropes pouring out of them as you will here. The writers don't get the difference between a cinematic universe that feels like movie Los Angeles and a real world that only feels like movie New York; it's not enough to just change locations and put in one scene pretending to show real consequences. Jack Slater is an intentional sendup of Schwarzenegger films, a direct pastiche, yet the Jack Slater movies contain a cartoon cop detective paired with a human while a clown detective waits in line with a rabbi cop -- is this supposed to be an Arnie film with that stuff, an R-rated violent kiddie movie? Arnold hadn't done anything remotely kid-friendly, and nothing stupid approaching a ripoff of The Naked Gun or Roger Rabbit, yet the Jack Slater film universe that stuff is constant and we're asked to relate to that at face value. Jack Slater the film series seems to be something akin to Space Jam, and we all loved that, right?But the truth of the matter is that this movie's failure is its choice of director. Having come off a pair of action/adventure successes with Predator, Die Hard and Hunt for Red October, John McTiernan is the absolute worst choice for directing this film and it shows in every scene. McTiernan shows no experience in comedy or satire of any kind and directs every scene as if it were a standard, heavyweight action scene. There isn't one instance of comedy that works on a smart or funny level, much less the more nuanced need for satire and parody that Last Action Hero's complex premise demands. His version of storytelling is semi-gritty and action-based; while his version of comedy is the dumbest, simplest, shallowest type, right down to a giant fart bomb, and it's all tonally incompetent, directed as straight action. There's over 2 hours of this, couldn't something have been cut out?The movie also looks shockingly cheap considering how big its budget. The cinematography looks lazy and slapdash despite a competent D.P.; the special effects are mostly middling but there are some downright terrible. The gang members' casual car explosion at the end of a chase scene looks like an afterthought created on the video toaster, undermining what could have been a funny gag of our hero totally ignoring a giant fireball behind him, if not for the fact that it looks like that premise was added late in post despite coming from the shooting script, otherwise they wouldn't have shot it that way. Production doesn't even feel bloated and lazy, it just seems entirely out of its element and scrambling to put together something, anything because there's a release date and a mountain of cash riding on this, not to mention toys and soundtracks. Last Action Hero wasn't misunderstood when it came out, it was seen as the sloppy, wrong-headed mess it still is. The film is filled with action yet every scene drags, the plot is bloated and lost, the characters are shallow and paint-by-numbers despite pretending to be realistic. The producers, writers, and director all got it entirely wrong, this is a dumb movie pretending to be a smart one, substituting subtlety and cleverness. Last Action Hero yells its gag into your face endlessly while telling the joke wrong the whole time, and then it's also bad at being a regular dumb movie! It's movies like Last Action Hero that paved the way for even more studio schlock like Batman & Robin and Speed 2, movies that were driven by corporate spreadsheets instead of vision. "},{"Title":"Underrated like much more forgotten classics","Date":"9 February 2014","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Actually I saw many kinds of action releases from the early 90s, and I don't think it really needs some explain because of the 6.1 points, that's just one of the hundred films which are also highly underrated. 2 years ago for example THE ADVENTURES OF FORD FAIRLANE (1990) scored 5.7 out of 10, it was a terribly misinterpreted rating choice by the users. But now it has a more solid number like the BACKDRAFT (1991) or FLATLINERS (1990) - these were in the same situation- The Last Action Hero earned its right place in a top 10 list of Schwarzenegger's filmography. The soundtrack is powerful and well-selected, plus the characters were also epic. No one can disagree that is a special piece of modern action movies which also contains hilarious elements.The real problem is Movies rated average are usually avoided by the interested audience. There is no matter what the films offer. "},{"Title":"Under-rated, but not flawless, gem","Date":"26 May 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last Action Hero has got a lot of bad mouthing over the years, but it seems a lot of critics were just jumping on the bandwagon, afraid to say something positive.It is difficult to see why no-one would like it at all. While a tad heavy-handed, the constant riffing on typical macho action flicks is spot-on, always amusing, and yet at the same time the film delivers saw awe-inspiring, sometimes deliberately implausible action set-pieces. Arnie sends himself up fine, while Austin O'Brien often says out loud what most often think watching these kinds of films. Charles Dance makes a menacing villain, and provides some dark amusement of his own - I JUST SHOT SOMEBODY, I DID IT ON PURPOSE.Where the film begins to falter is when the fictional characters, plus Danny, enter the real world. Until this point, it had been going along at a roaring clip, constantly amusing. Perhaps it was necessary to show a dose of reality to those brought up on mindless action flicks, but it starts becoming a little more serious and darker in tone, more sentimental, and consequently less fun. That doesn't make it bad though, and it does provide some food for thought, with Arnie-in-character ranting about how he's fed up of shooting people in films, and blowing things up.Not a masterpiece perhaps, but deserves to be ranked high on Arnie's filmography. "}{"Title":"Mediocre Action/Comedy,  starts fine but falls hard","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This'll work, It's a movie, and I'm the good guy. so says young Danny Madigan, as he pedals furiously on a stolen bike towards an oncoming bad guys car. This is the kind of movie that Last Action Hero wants to be. Danny's hero is the character of Jack Slayer played by Arnold Swartzenegger. Hollywood is about to release the fourth entry in the Slayer series. Danny's projectionist friend has access to a copy of the film, and he offers to give Danny a private screening. A stroke of magic takes Danny into the movie itself, where he becomes Slayer's partner. Together they are going after a notorious drug lord in LA.So long as it sticks to self parody, Last Action Hero is watchable. dozens of cars (and one ice cream truck) explode in impossible ways, people go flying through mid air, off buildings, across rooms like there is no gravity in the movie, Slayer has more guns and ammo in his glove compartment than is physically possible, and for reasons he cannot figure out, he can't bring himself to say the 'f' word (because as Danny tries to point out, it's a PG-13 movie)And it's not just Action movies that get a comedic treatment, We have jokes from Amadeus, Witness, and The Seventh Seal. It's curious how an eleven year old boy can know so much about movies which he'd be too young to get into. Despite its ability to wink at itself, Last Action Hero still feels at a loss. It never quite rises about the stuff it mocks, because it still feels like a b-movie experience. And this isn't even the worst problem.Eventually, director John McTiernan takes the fight out of the movie world and back into the real world. It is here where Last Action Hero crumbles. It's astonishing how long it takes to end. The fluidity and humour just about vanish. The appearance of Slayer at the premier of his movie is amusing, but I found myself getting bored really fast. Another problem is that Swarzenegger and Austin O'Brien, don't make a good pair. Swarzenneger gets good one liners but like most action heroes he delivers them all the same way, and O'Brian acts like he is only half involved in the movie.The Last Action hero is good for a few laughs early on, but it gets carried away, and the finished project feels too clumsy and unbalanced to recommend. "},{"Title":"You wanna be a farmer? Here's a couple of acres!","Date":"29 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember watching on the biography channel and Arnold Schwarzenegger was on, so I decided to watch it. It's weird, I've seen so many of his movies, but I never saw Last Action Hero. They said that this movie was a huge flop and got nothing but bad reviews, so maybe that's why my parents never showed me this movie. But I decided to go ahead and watch it on my own and you know something? I loved it! Sure, it doesn't come without flaws, but I really enjoyed this movie and don't understand it's bad reputation. I think it's a spoof on action movies and how silly they are when you compare to what real life is. When you watch an action movie like Commando, Die Hard or First Blood, they take you out of our world and into an exciting one where the good guys always win and all is well with the world. Last Action Hero takes a clever idea where we have every action cliché and it's pointed out and makes for a very funny story and some comedic situations that are a good homage to our favorite action movies.Danny Madigan is magically transported into the surreal world of an action film featuring his fictional idol, Jack Slater; Slater is the hero of the Jack Slater film series, a fearless LAPD detective. Nick, a movie theater projector, invites Danny to a private screening of Jack Slater IV and gives him a magic ticket. Before the movie, Nick tears the ticket in half, gives one half to Danny, and puts the other in the ticket box. A few minutes into Slater IV, Danny's ticket stub begins to glow, and some dynamite from within the movie flies out of the screen, lands near Danny, and explodes. When Danny wakes up, he is in the back seat of Slater's car. He tries to convince Slater that they are in a movie, but Slater sees nothing unusual about his world. Jack doesn't believe him, but when one of the villains figures out with Danny knows so much about the world, he goes into Danny's world to destroy Slater in a different way where the bad guys always win.Now my only complaint being is that this movie is too long, we start off with Danny going into the action movie and him pointing out every cliché which was just great, he and Arnold had awesome chemistry, but then when they go into the villain going into Danny's world, we have another half of the story that could have been shorter. Jack Slater finding out his fictional, we didn't need so much sulking for an action movie. Also at the end where we're in our reality, it does turn into a bit of an action movie that goes back into clichés. But despite it's flaws, I still had a great time with this movie, it has some good laughs. I loved the part where the villain is in New York City and it's our reality, he shoots someone and screams in a public street that he killed a man and someone shouts out for him to shut up was just classic. Arnold also fighting Arnold(as Jack Slater) in reality was so funny as well. I loved this movie, I took it for what it was and really had a good time watching it. Give the movie a fair chance, if you're an action movie fan like I am, I'm sure you love Last Action Hero too.8/10 "},{"Title":"Totally misunderstood and underrated","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Last Action Hero was one of the most commercially-publicized films of 1993. Millions upon millions were pushed into the extravagant advertising campaign, which included a blimp with Arnold's face being flown over the premiere. (According to the biography Fantastic The Life of Arnold Schwarzenegger by Laurence Leamer.) However, it was being released in the throes of Arnie controversy - Sly Stallone, Arnie's enemy, had devoted millions of his own cash to exploiting Arnold as a Nazi in the hopes of ruining his prospering film career. Sly paid off a tabloid reporter (in secret - the truth only emerged years later) to dig up evidence on Arnie's father - and some contribute this smear campaign to the failure of Last Action Hero. For some reason, it is regarded as one of cinema's biggest failures, when in fact it grossed $50 million past its budget of $85 mil in theaters alone, bringing its worldwide gross to $137,298,489. Not exactly a flop, considering it also brought in quite a bit of cash once it reached the home video market.In Hollywood, someone hears something and it becomes truth. It has become a fact that Last Action Hero was one of the biggest flops of all-time, even though it wasn't.And, much like its box office intake, the critical reception of the film was vastly misunderstood. Last Action Hero is brilliant satire - spoofing all the clichés and inner-workings of all action films, but most specifically Arnold Schwarzenegger's - beginning with Jack Slater (Arnold) going to his cousin's house a bomb goes off, kills two nearby cops (one an aging black man days from retirement), but Arnie is left unscathed. Then he devotes his life to tracking down the killer.This film is being watched by a young child in a movie theater. His idol is Jack Slater, and soon he gets a magic movie ticket from an old theater owner and finds himself magically transported into the cinematic world. He becomes Slater's willing sidekick - the catch, however, is that Slater is unaware that he is a fictional character, and doesn't believe the child's lies about his origins.Last Action Hero was directed by John McTiernan (Predator) and set back his career a few years; he found trouble headlining major productions again (indeed, he also went on to direct the 2002 flop Rollerball).However, the satire of Last Action Hero is sharp and consistent. For anyone who has ever seen an action film, there's plenty to laugh at here - from the movie in-jokes (I love the F-word bit), to the Hollywood/celeb jokes (loads of cameos!), to the satire of violence and its influence on children, and so on and so forth.The only fault of the film is its ending - the last twenty minutes are a bit sloppy. The symbolism is too obvious (Jack is brought into the real world) and doesn't work out so well. It's not horrible, but it doesn't close off the film as well as it should.When Last Action Hero flopped in '93, Arnold made a statement claiming his intentions of satirizing violence had backfired and the result made him feel uneasy. He basically said the idea of having a child in the middle of the film's events disturbed him and didn't work out the way he had planned.I beg to differ. I think it works brilliantly, and if you're a film buff, you should appreciate this underrated movie all the more. It's one of Arnie's most daring and unique films - how ironic that it was one of his least successful motion pictures. In fact, it's all the more ironic that a movie satirizing the banality of Hollywood fails to make a fuss at the box office. "},{"Title":"It's actually very good!","Date":"5 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't know why so many people dislike this flick.  I rented it a long time ago, and my initial reaction was, Wow, that was really good!  But even my nephew, who is a big Arnold fan, thought it stunk.I dunno.  I didn't think Heaven's Gate was that bad, either.  And I'm very selective in the movies I like.  I think most of the stuff out there is either awful or just okay.  LAH still is good in my book! "},{"Title":"A postmodern Epic","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For some reason, this film doesn't nearly get the credit it deserves. Yes, it wasn't the best film Arnold Schwarzeneger has been in, but it proved to be one of the more entertaining. While I love the postmodern aesthetic, this film really brings out many principles which seek to give the movie an inner meaning to break away from placid conventions. Full of great one-liners, this film had some hilarious dialogue which was specifically written for Arnold. But the really interesting thing about this film was Arnold's deadpan caricaturing of himself in a typical action film.What I especially enjoyed about this movie was the first half where they were stuck in the movie world. The utter absurdity of the action genre world was put into full view. The only downside, they didn't have the right angle for the movie. Danny should have been living it up as the kid pulled into his favorite action film. To me, the film would have ultimately down better at the box office if they had gone in that direction as opposed to Danny always trying to discredit the false world. "},{"Title":"Sorry Ahnold, no cigar...","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Interesting misfire, would have worked much better with more interesting villians and a kid who wasn't so pathetic.  Still has some good ideas but the movie doesn't come close to coming together as a unified whole.  I give credit for the filmakers trying something different, but here they are obviously trying too hard, and as a result much of the movie seems forced. "},{"Title":"Not funny","Date":"24 November 2013","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Danny Madigan (Austin O'Brien) is a big action fan, and skips school to watch movies at an old decrepit theater. Nick (Robert Prosky) is the old theater operator who uses a magic ticket for Danny. During a big explosion, a bundle of dynamite gets thrown near Danny and blasts him into the movie. He lands in the back seat of action hero Jack Slater (Arnold Schwarzenegger)'s car.Arnold is trying to parody his action hero persona trying to deconstruct it. It's an interesting concept, but the execution is lacking. The movie world isn't particularly funny. The only way to make this work is to make us laugh. They do all the over the top action ridiculousness. Then they wink at us and expect us to laugh. It's not funny. And others have done it better, funnier, with more insight.Simply breaking down the 4th wall is not enough. Somebody actually has to write funny jokes. I look at who was involved with the film and I wonder if there was any comedian or joke writer in the bunch. The action part is certainly taken care of, and the movie has good action. But that's not what this film needs. "},{"Title":"Not Arnolds best","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This was probably the start of Arnolds fall from being the top Hollywood action star, the whole idea for Last Action Hero is lame and should never have been filmed. Is it a comedy? a fantasy? an action film? or all three? Whatever it is I never enjoyed watching it, it is actually a very annoying film. Arnold made a far better film with the same director called Predator and I had high hopes for this film in the summer of 1993 but Jurassic Park and Cliffhanger were far better summer blockbusters. Arnold followed this up with pretty good True Lies and the awful Junior and Arnolds time at the top was over, it was time for the likes of Keanu Reeves and Nicholas Cage to take over in films like Speed and Con Air. Action Heroes had changed and the likes of Stallone, Arnie and Seagal seemed old hat. One positive thing I can say about Last Action Hero is at least Arnold was brave enough to try something different, it didn't work. "},{"Title":"The Parody To End All Parodies","Date":"27 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" During the better half of 1980's and 1990's, action movies were huge, and even that can be considered a vast understatement. Full of explosions, cheesy one liners, and over the top characterizations, this genre was just BEGGING for a parody. While Hot Shots! Part Deux did an admirable job, Last Action Hero is the absolute last word on the subject of action movie parodies as it takes an already takes an established beefcake action star like good ol' Arnie and thrusts him into the spotlight as the mega-hit cop hero, Jack Slater.The film centers around a delinquent kid named Danny who skips school constantly so he can watch movies (namely Jack Slater Films) in a rundown theater run by a kindly old man. The old timer offers to show Danny an advance screening of the latest Jack Slater film provided he attends school. And he does so after being mugged in his own home and having day dreams of Arnold (who also plays himself along with Jack Slater) starring in a much more action oriented version of the film adaptation of Hamlet during class. When Danny arrives at the cineplex, he's given a magical ticket by the old man who says that it was given to him by Harry Houdini. Later on, while Danny is enjoying the movie, the ticket sparkles and he's instantly thrust into the celluloid world of Jack Slater who's hot on the case of Tony Vivaldi. And Jesus, this film plays homage to so many action film tropes that it is quite honestly INSANE. Cops dying three days before retirement, the henchmen double crossing his incompetent boss. the hero getting his badge revoked during an important case, etc, etc, etc The tropes are openly mocked as well as celebrated and I feel is the biggest underlying theme of this movie the celebration, not mockery, of action movies. And what's strange is how many people see Arnold's other film Commando (1985) as a parody movie (namely Doug Walker, alias The Nostalgia Critic) and view Last Action Hero as some shlocky mess of a film that can only be laughed at ironically.Bottom line If you like Action Movies and a good bit of satire, get Last Action Hero "},{"Title":"Misunderstood but ultimately brilliant lampoon of old-school action flicks.","Date":"5 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Rubber Baby Buggy Bumpers. Ha! You didn't know I was gonna say that, did you?! - Jack SlaterIntended to be a huge summer blockbuster, but ultimately becoming a big-time flop, Last Action Hero stars the then-infallible Arnold Schwarzenegger as the fictional action hero, Jack Slater. Jack Slater stars in his own franchise, Slater and is idolized by Danny (Austin O'Brien), a young boy who escapes his real-world troubles with an unhealthy movie-going habit. When an opportunity arrives for Danny to see the upcoming Slater IV prior to its release, he can't pass it up, and a magical ticket given to him by the theater owner propels him into Jack Slater's world, where clichés rule the realm and anything can happen.Unfortunately, Last Action Hero has been maligned through the years for being both misunderstood and eclipsed by the success of another 1993 blockbuster, Jurassic Park. What many may not realize, until they give it a fair chance, is that it's a brilliant action satire that serves a double function in that it is as action packed as it is humorous. As Jack Slater, Arnold pokes more fun at himself than any critic ever could. Teamed up with director John McTiernan (Die Hard, Predator), it's got loads of explosions, stunts and special effects, so much so that it represents the best of 80's/early 90's action film, while simultaneously mocking it. Austin O'Brien plays the young protagonist well, and thankfully, isn't just another annoying kid in a summer blockbuster. The subplot of Danny's escapism will appeal to and hit close to home for many a film fan, which is one of the film's greatest strengths.If there is one flaw, though, it's that the film is about twenty minutes too long, which means the joke wears thin after a while. It seems that Last Action Hero is stuffed with almost too many ideas and in-jokes, which is where it loses points. Despite this, though, it's immensely entertaining and unrelenting in its roasting of typical Schwarzenegger fare. Forget the fact that critics hated it and audiences rejected it; Last Action Hero is like a valentine to action fans everywhere, a bold and unique blockbuster that perhaps never found its way to its true audience "}{"Title":"Title is lame but movie was good","Date":"30 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" this movie is actually underrated.Last Action Hero is a 1993 action comedy directed by John McTiernan. The film is a satire of the action. The film tells the story of Danny, a young boy who likes action movies, particularly those featuring action hero Jack Slater. It is established within the film that Slater is portrayed by Arnold Schwarzenegger, who plays himself as well as portraying Slater. Thanks to a magic ticket,the lines between reality and the movie world blur as Danny is catapulted into Jack Slater IV.The Hamlet scene was strange but still very clever and funny.i love the end scene with the boss when Jack Slater(Arnold Schwarzenegger)hits his boss window glass broke and says his boss says you buy it twice.his boss were before his dictator,but he says go to hell sucker.mostly boss's are like these idiots. "},{"Title":"Review By starwarskid1992","Date":"24 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'll be back... ha you didn't know i was going to say that did you !-Jack Slater Last Action Hero is the tale of a boy who is transported into the movies ! He then teams up with the biggest action hero of all time.. Jack Slater (Arnold Schwarzenegger). But, the fun becomes real when they're transfered into the real world ! This is my 2nd favorite Schwarzenegger movie and EXTREMELY under-rated. The producer's should have also released this film earlier or later to make it successful. Anyway, it's a great film ans should be remembered as Arnold's most understood film.I give it a 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Good film?","Date":"16 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This action genre plays with the everyday stereotypes we as film audiences recognise, to me this film conforms to the action genre and provides fun to its audiences. After watching this film from an early age my expectations were clearly met. I really enjoy how Arnie plays the hero archetype really well and is really enjoyable.overall i did find that the ripper character played a very dominant antagonist and did scare me when I was younger. I do agree that this film is a bit too scary for young children.very enjoyable nevertheless A must see!ARNIE IS A LEDGEND in it so watch itthank you "},{"Title":"Best action movie, ever","Date":"4 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I hate action movies. There, I've said it. I know that I'll probably get so much hate mail from every guy that reads this, but the truth is, I find action movies, dull and boring. There is nothing to them generally and it's just a bunch of fighting. I find it boring, more than anything. But, to each his own I suppose. Give me Steel Magnolias, any day. At any rate, this movie is set apart, far from any other action movie. In a way, it makes fun of all other aciton movies. Sort of like 'Scream' is to the horror genre.Danny (O'Brien), a thirteen year old boy from New York, lives alone with his mother in the 'not-so-nice' area of town. He skips school to go to the movies, and to hang out with his fifty-something friend, who runs the projectors. One night, after his apartment is robbed, he runs to the theater at midnight, to see a sneak preview of the new Jack Slater movie, played by Arnold Schwarzenegger. Now, when I say that, I mean in the movie, there is a separate Schwarzenegger.With a magic ticket that his friend gives him, Danny enters the world of Jack Slater, and is now inside the movie. With (of course)action, girls, more action, and more than a few punches at the expense of Arnold (in real life and in the movies), the film is made up of good humor, and plenty of guy action, and is very entertaining. Quite enjoyable, and very laughable, and fun to watch.And, guys, don't think that just 'cause I'm a girl, and I don't normally like action movies, that this one sucks, or anything like that, 'cause it doesn't. It's probably more of a guy movie than a girl movie, but I still love it! "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"27 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" You know what, I kind of like 'Last Action Hero'. It has so much fun with itself and its star Arnold Schwarzenegger you just have to smile occasionally. It borrows an idea like we have seen in Woody Allen's 'The Purple Rose of Cairo' where fictional movie-characters and real people are suddenly in a world together. Here we have a boy in the real world named Danny (Austin O'Brien) who is suddenly, with the help of a magic ticket, in a film that contains his favorite character, Jack Slater (Arnold Schwarzenegger). The boy realizes this pretty soon and he tries to convince Jack that it is only a movie.The movie within a movie, 'Jack Slater IV' deals with villains such as Benedict (Charles Dance) and a mafia-family and from a previous 'Jack Slater'-movie we have The Ripper (Tom Noonan). The story is never that clear, but the film is more about the idea than about the story that carries the idea. There is a lot of fun at times when Danny tries to explain why it is all a movie. All women are beautiful, coincidences happen a lot, when the villain pops his glass eye out we see he has two normal eyes, things like that. A lot of the little things are actually pretty clever, especially the little continuity mistakes. Maybe not all of them are on purpose, a lot definitely are.A lot of the fun also comes from Schwarzenegger himself and the way he mocks his own image. He has proved a couple of times he can handle comedy; here he is at the top of his game. Cameos from actors like Jim Belushi, Chevy Chase, Sharon Stone, Robert Patrick and Jean-Claude van Damme (which makes this the best film he is in) all help on this aspect and a scene with Schwarzenegger's wife Maria Shriver is simply hilarious.The movie is not perfect, certain things like the story could have been a lot better. But that movie already exists with 'The Purple Rose of Cairo'. This one only wants to have fun and it has a lot of it. It makes fun of itself, its star, other movies from the genre and it contains a lot of jokes that require a little movie-knowledge. There is even an encounter with Death from Ingmar Bergman's 'Det Sjunde Inseglet', here played by Ian McKellen. 'Last Action Hero' is underrated, probably because a lot of people do not get the joke or do not care for it. I do both and I like it. "},{"Title":"Nice movie..Great One, But..Hmm..","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 90's Those were the times when Arnold was the action god, I was thrilled to see any movie from him. When I first saw this one I was BRAIN DEAD!Last Action Hero (Spoilers******) Directed by extreme action director of DIE HARD movies John McTiernan, this was his second venture with Arnold after the acclaimed film Predator.It is a story of a young boy (like me) who is a Die Hard fan of Arnold Schwarzenegger. Danny Madigan (Austin O'Brien) often misses his class by thinking of his greatest action Hero Jack Slater, a famous character played by film star Arnold. He never misses a single chapter of Jack Slater franchise from theaters which makes him a great friend to its film operator. One day he gave a special ticket to him for the screening of Jack Slater IV. The ticket has some black magical spirits that makes Danny to enter to the fictional world of silver screen. There he meets his hero Jack Slater, the rough and tough cop who find Danny a disturbance.Danny tells about his world but Jack didn't believe him. But things went wrong when the villain of the 'Jack Slater' movie finds the truth about Danny. He enters the real world and set up a plan so that in the movie world he can live in peace. The plan was to kill the actor who plays Jack Slater and that was Arnold Schwarzenegger.What will Jack Slater do to save himself. Can he save Arnold, the story of the movie in a movie starts to get twisting from that point.Scripted by Shane Black and David Arnott for the story of Zak Penn and Adam Leff tells the mind-blending story of a fictional character entering the real world, where he finds he has no power that he acquired in the film world. A nice plot which could have been done better, but the screenplay and directions failed.The problem seemed like the writers wanted it be a movie like Who Framed Roger Rabbit, so they added various characters, plots, events to make it like a complicated world. If director Robert Zemeckis did this movie it would have been set in a strong storyline. But vision less John McTiernan treated it as a stupid action venture even tough it is an action film.As always in all Schwarzenegger films Arnold is the strength. WOW, he rocked in that outfits. I don't know any other movies he portrays so deeply, doing all his actions, all the running, all the free-falls. WOW, also the camera works were so excellent, especially in the flash back scenes, slow motions, climax, and that stylish Hamlet's version. As always composer Michael Kamen did a nice work in creating the soul of the Last Action Hero.All in all it's a great movie, I was blown away when I first saw it. Huh, a great, great movie for the Great Arnold Fans like ME! I give this movie 8 out of 10.Last Action Hero = Lasting Arnold FANS. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as Hyped to be","Date":"1 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" * * 1/2 out of four.Sure this film, is Big, loud and noisy, but isn't that what its supposed to be??Arnold is fine here and overall it seems like he's having fun which should help the viewer have fun as well.It's no classic by any means, and in fact its rather strange that Bergman's 7th Seal pops up (with Ian McKellen as Death), but I didn't find this film to be as terrible as it's hyped to be.1. There's pretty good music on the soundtrack, from AC/DC, Alice in Chains, Aerosmith, Def Leppard, etc.2. A pretty cool all-star cast, which features surprise cameos- James Belushi's is funny- (and even a voice cameo), with Anthony Quinn and especially Charles Dance, standing out.3. McTiernan gives us some great action set-pieces, as he does with the Die Hard Trilogy, so there's stuff going on over the 2hr 10min running time, thus not making it over long.I don't know, maybe because of Jurassic Park being the major summer hit of 1993 might have given this negative press, I really don't know. As another commentator has said, this film is good for buffs, especially F. Murray Abraham and the Amadeus connection.It's not a waste so check it out if you get around to it. * * 1/2 "},{"Title":"AHNOLD pokes fun at himself with mixed results.","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Saw this in the theater as part of a double feature with In the Line of Fire. I liked that one quite a bit better!This is not a complete waste, but AHNOLD would have been better served if he'd not made this film. It was in fact a box office dud and his career as an action star began to wane after it. Though he did bounce back nicely the following year with True Lies. My biggest problem with this film is this AHNOLD'S films are often campy enough that they kind of work as satire themselves. Few of AHNOLD'S films are really all that serious, and his constant use of one-liners always gives them a comic undertone.That said, this film does a pretty good job of making the audience laugh and it also provides some excellent stunts. The plot is a little to intricate for its own good, though. Overall, it's certainly worth a look, but I'd rather watch one of his real action films (The Terminator, Total Recall, Conan) any day!6 of 10 starsSo sayeth the Hound. "},{"Title":"Ahead of its time or behind it?","Date":"11 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  One criticism of this movie that I have heard is that it came out too long after the heyday of the action movie in the '80's.  Yet, I believe that audiences simply weren't ready for an action movie to be this intelligent. Action movies aren't supposed to point out their own tropes and then ridicule them.  Things are just supposed to blow up.  When Arnie shoots the cab in the real world, and says that the taxis must be bulletproof - genius. Jack Slater makes a wonderful development from Arnold's most cliched and shallow character to being one of his most convincing once he leaves the movie world.  And the actor who played Danny did an admirable job, for a child actor.  This film secured John McTiernan's place as the greatest action director ever - or at least until he made Rollerball and blew it all to hell.Last Action Hero is perhaps Arnie's second best movie, after Predator. I was going to give it an 8, but then I remembered the scene where Arnold plays Hamlet.  Something is rotten in the state of Denmark - and Prince Hamlet is takin' out the trash!  That's 9 material right there.  "},{"Title":"This movie ain't bad, just OK","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't know why people are thinking that this is a waste of time. It's a alright movie, It isn't the best, It's well scripted, and besides, It's fun watching to find all the Die Hard references, and other continuity. The only bad thing about this movie is the start, which is a disgrace to movies, but It's a great way to burn off 3 hours "}{"Title":"Bum Rap is Right","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'll make my comments brief on this one....This was a box office flop and panned as a movie.  But why?Do people really think Commando was realistic where Arnie takes on an ENTIRE small nation army single handed?  Total Recall was a mind numbing mess of a plot.  Jamie Lee Cutis goes her entire married life not realizing that her hubby is a secret government spy in True Lies?These movies were HUGE blockbusters.  Why?  Because they had action!  They had creative ideas.  They were fun!So, out comes Last Action Hero where a kid becomes PART OF A MOVIE and tries to explain to Arnie if he notices no one ever swears, all phone numbers are 555, and there is never any blood.  What fun!Look, I am not putting this movie up against The Godfather but I think it is on action par with all of Arnie's other action flicks.I still don't get why it bombed... "},{"Title":"A action packed funny movie!","Date":"10 May 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is funny. It also has lots of action. Arnold S. is funny. I like how every thing in life is like a movie. Their is also a bad guy who wears a glass eye. He's ugly. Really ugly. So so so so ugly. Anyway its a good movie. Good for kids 11 and up.  "},{"Title":"A Good Movie that Deserves Another Look","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When i saw this at the Cinema in the UK the BBFC gave this a 15 so Kids couldnt see this movie.Even though this is less violent than Jurassic Park which got a PG.Now First there are faults with the movie the Cartoon Cat.And the Ending being the least exciting part of the picture.Most of the action scenes are good.Arnie is very good sending hisself up.more fun than a lot of action movies that did gross over $100 million in the US. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Excellent movie!!!","Date":"10 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  How can anyone not like this film!? It is the perfect combination between action and comedy. It also focuses in how the media and the public confuse the actor with the character, and how they are two completely separate people. I'm not a Shwarzeneger fan, but in this movie he is absolutely great, one of his best parts! This movie was just misunderstood, and the critics consider it a bad movie, but in my opinion, it is one of the best action movies ever (and I don't really like action movies). I give it 8 in 10. "},{"Title":"Arnold STEALS the show in the Last Action Hero!","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Arnold Schwarzenegger stars again in this excellent fantasy/action film as Jack Slater; a fictional but tough, determined and vigilant police detective. A magical movie ticket somehow sends a young boy (one of Jack Slaters' biggest fans) into this make-believe world of non-stop action where he is able to become part of the action and share in the heroics. There is a lot of typical Ah-nold humor in this film and the action is well mixed with the jokes. You just can't get tired of Ah-nold playing this type of role. This film is a great example of the combination of fantasy, action and comedy. Get yourself a copy and add it to your DVD collection! And hopefully, Ah-nold will be back in many more films! "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people lable it","Date":"15 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Spoiler  The plot of this film is great satire of action films.  It pokes fun at them, and has a twist in them which involves Arnold.  They show the real Arnold as a showman, self absorbed, and his action character says' he is an a** hole.  The bad guy tired of losing tries to kill the real Arnold, in order to win in the movie world.  This film is about 5 years too late, it would have been great back in the 80's, however the crash, chase, gunfight, blowup, action film has been so overdone, it hurts this film out of repetition.  Like an old joke where you know the punch line.  I love the satire part of the film, where it pokes fun at itself. When action film go full circle this type of film will go back in style, but with new twists. The script itself is original, but they could have cut a few things out or poked more fun during the gunfights etc. This movie is a 6 or 7. "},{"Title":"Witty action film 9/10","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I really don't understand how someone could not like this film.  Last Action Hero has so much going for it.  It has, without question, some of the best action scenes every put on film.  Who cares if they aren't *violent* they are still dazzling as can be.  Secondly -- the film has a brilliant sense of humor, which is more original and works better then The Truman Show did.  Next -- you have Arnold, giving perhaps his best performance, and an excellent villain.  This is a wonderful film.One of the most underrated films of the 90's. "},{"Title":"the critics greatly exaggerated","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Despite what you may have heard, this film isn't as horrible as they say. The story is clever, the action scenes are good, and some of the dialogue is very funny. Unfortunately, the film goes on way too long, heavily manipulates it's premise, and becomes extremely corny at times. Uneven, but not totally unentertaining. Might have been successful had it not been for all the negative criticism. 2/4  "},{"Title":"The critics are wrong - as usual!","Date":"20 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Why this movie took such a thrashing from the critics I will never know. Maybe they just didn't know how to catagorize it. But I loved this movie from beginning to end, and every time I see it on TV now, I'll tell myself I'm just going to watch a few minutes of it, but then always end up watching it all the way through. There is just so much entertainment in this film. Great plot, great action, great adventure, great lines, great parody, great... well, great movie.  "},{"Title":"a bedazzled about action movies","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A sort of bedazzled about action movies, it spins out one funny line  or situation after another. I think it's cool, and very pleasant to watch and watch again. The reasons it disappointed at the box office are obvious a leisurely movie with no romantic interest for Arnold except briefly near the end with the young fan's mother; the villain, Charles Dance, is fun but not an overwhelming menace; and Jack Slater--Arnie's  film character--constantly puts down action movies. But the good stuff is the same thing looked at the other way. It's a pleasant side-kick story of Arnie and his fan, who finds himself magically placed into the back seat of his favorite character's car. Arnie's acting is impressive, I think; he shows himself to be a genuine actor here. Austin O'Brien as the kid is very good. He's charming, sweet natured, and witty in turns.  His character's mother is also good--a sequel with them all would have been a delight. Slater's daughter also has a nice bit.  Many many very funny lines! And equally snappy, and amusing, action sequences.  "}{"Title":"A good movie movie, satirizing the super action hero genre.","Date":"10 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I have a weakness for movies about movies, particularly those in which the reel world and the real world interact. I liked The Purple Rose of Cairo, enjoyed Roger Rabbit, Young Frankenstein and parts of Blazing Saddles, and loved The Princess Bride and (most of) Moonlighting (OK, that's a book and a TV series, but WTH). Heck, I'm probably the last living human who liked Paris When It Sizzles. So bear that in mind when I say that I thought Last Action Hero was excellent. This is a movie in which super-hero action star Arnold Schwarzenegger plays a vain, rather dense super-hero action star named Arnold Schwarzenegger, who plays an super-hero cop named Jack Slade in a very successful series of action movies. A young Slade fan goes into the world of the Slade movies, and then brings the characters from that world (and several other movie worlds) into our own world. Schwarzenegger (who supposedly controlled this movie very tightly) mercilessly mocks himself (Arnold Schwarzenegger constantly plugs his restaurant chain), his usual roles (Slade is tired of being a super-hero), and the action flick genre. (When he and the kid go to his apartment, Slade shoots into the closet. A dying ninja falls out. The kid asks, How did you know there was a ninja in the closet? Slade answers wearily, There's always a ninja in the closet!) The effects are great; Death is gentle; both major females are strong (each in the way of her own world); the super-villain is marvellous, menacing and successful; and the ultimate message is, Movies are magic, but they're just movies, and not to be confused with real life. What's not to like?  "},{"Title":"Reading too much into it.","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  People put way too much into these movies. Thy dont seem to get the fact IT'S JUST A MOVIE!!!! They treat it like its supposed to be soooo accurate and not have any mistakes we are all only human for goodness sakes I mean sure there are some very bad films out there like My Own Private Idaho those movies need to be ripped apart but I mean movies like this movie gets no respect. All it amounts too is people dont like Arnie so any of his movies because he is in them are no good. Well people stop it. Not everyone is a great actor but there is more than acting that make a good movie you have to right for the part. Could anyone else have played The Terminator? I DONT think so!!!! "},{"Title":"So much is in the eye of the beholder!","Date":"16 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Another film which polarised opinions. Good? bad? mediocre? brash? tasteless? uneven? inspirational? unfunny? eclectic?  maybe all, maybe none! It is also a reviewer's nightmare, offering a damned if you do, damned if you don't reaction from readers.WHAT, I put to you, is the singular most fundamental purpose of a movie? I would suggest - to ENTERTAIN? It's my contention that LAST ACTION HERO does just that. Never intended as a serious piece of film-making, I think that Arnold Schwarzenegger had reached a point in his life when he wanted to send HIMSELF up. LAH does that quite admirably. This is not a film to bear serious critical appraisal - it's not trying to do or really BE anything (unlike the misguided and tasteless JINGLE ALL THE WAY which set out to be rib-tickling comedy, before it collapsed beneath its own ill-begotten infra-structure)Instead of looking for faults in it....look at the positives. A really good-natured action flick with the simplest of premises...What if you could find a magic ticket would 'suck' you into a movie?  The cardboard baddies are brilliant - Anthony Quinn as the moronic mobster Tony Vivaldi and Charles Dance as his long suffering right hand man Benedict. Who would dare to suggest that the doberman scene (They're exceptionally well trained!) wasn't funny! Maybe the widespread criticism of the violence against children had some validity but in fact nothing gratuitous or graphic is ever seen.I read a few reviews who tagged the film slow in places and boring. They must have watched an alternate cut of the film - the version I saw was neither! Cameo-spotters are well catered for and I just want to make mention of Robert Prosky's touching portrayal as the old cinema manager Nick, who gives Danny Madigan the magic ticket in the first place. He has a habit of making great mileage out of small roles. Some of you may remember him as the gruff but kindly old garage owner with a penchant for profanities, in CHRISTINE.You don't like this flick?  simple, don't watch it! "},{"Title":"A Fun Send-Up","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It is easy to pick apart this movie but you have to appreciate the efforts made to present both parody and camp on a constant flow. Now that Black Knight is about to come out you can see the future in the Hamlet parody.  The LAPD HQ scenes are worth the price of the rental Sharon Stone Smoking outside, the liquid steel terminator walking by, valet parking, roll call where cops are partnered with Bogart or a talking cat, the cop babes in leather and vinyl, and Frank McRae's great performance as the love ya - hate ya lieutenant (his best work since Used Cars).  The idea that there are no ugly girls because it is a movie (no, it's California) was similar to A Little Sex's scenes where Tim Mathieson sees only beautiful women when he is in a relationship and couples after splitting up.  Critics and wags don't decry that.  The movie also points out the hollow and unfulfilled life of an action cop that has nothing meaningful but action.  Many commentators complain about the kid being annoying - Hah! All 12 year olds are annoying - get used to it.  There is also the intricate nature of the Film Premiere (trivia Giant Inflatable Jack Slater at premiere has a badge in his hand but formerly had a stick of dynamite but a bombing that occurred about that time and got replaced)with many cameos and great interaction from Maria Shriver.  ****Spoiler Follows***** And this film takes a sudden and scary dark turn when the kid is threatened with death (just as Slater's fictional son) and narrowly escapes.  I'm just sensitive to kid-death stuff.  But this is off-set by bright spots of the biologically perfect daughter, star roles and cameos and the excellent Mercedes Ruehl who I would pay to read the NYC phonebook to me.  Take this for what it is, look for the constant stream of little digs and send-ups and enjoy the show! "},{"Title":"this film needs a second look to really appreciate it.","Date":"13 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I didn't like it. I thought it went too far; over the top, as it were , and that Arnold had tried to do too much.  My husband had not seen it however, so we rented it and I watched it again. WELL this movie is not over the top, it is funny. Watching Arnold deal with the movies, a child, himself , and still get the bad guys with the appropriate amount of  action is delightful. And another thing; to you antiviolence types, Arnold Always makes it a movie. You don't have to be afriad, because we all know it isn't real--even the star knows it, and he lets you in on the joke. "},{"Title":"A short, thick, inner digit of the hand skyward!","Date":"5 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  --- MILD SPOILERS ---I was fairly impressed with this movie.  After seeing the IMDB rating, I didn't expect much but what I got was a lot more!If you accept the magic premise and realize that this is a fantasy film, there is something for everyone.  Of course, there's the explosions, gun shooting, and fist throwing, but there's also comedy (not unexpected in an Arnold flick), sensitivity, horror, and suspense!  I actually believe this film offered Arnold his biggest acting opportunity (I haven't seen End of Days or The Sixth Day yet, though).  Charles Dance was perfect as the sinister bad guy.  The plot was interesting and not necessarily predictable.  My wife even asked if there was a sequel, and she didn't even want to watch this film initially!  I really am disappointed that this film didn't do better at the box office.  I think it was tastefully done - there was little to no gore or foul language or bare skin - thus the PG-13 rating.  While it may have been aimed at a younger audience, as an Arnold fan I thoroughly enjoyed the film.This is not to say it was without flaw.  I don't think Charles Dance should have talked to the camera in the one scene - it didn't fit with the rest of the film.  And I don't think kids need any more encouragement to watch movies or skip school!  And these days, old Nick could turn out to be a pervert!!These things aside, I liked the movie.  "},{"Title":"Misunderstood and underrated.","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A clever spoof of the action-comedy movie genere, and one which is carried by a good story in addition to a lot of inside jokes about the genre. The movie, which tanked at the box office, seemed to suffer mostly from viewer's expectations.  Perhaps the average action movie fan isn't comfortable confronting the cliches of this genre head on. The Last Action Hero looks at the genre through the eyes of a well seasoned action movie fan and uses all those cliches and predictable plot twists as the basis of its story. "},{"Title":"Highly Under-rated","Date":"3 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A highly under-rated film, Last Action Hero did for action films what Scream did for horror films - and did it three years earlier.  By simultaneously mocking and embracing the conventions of action films, Last Action Hero is able to transcend the genre and be funny and exciting at the same time.Most people who would rate the movie low have most likely missed the point. No, the movie isn't art and certainly won't win any awards, but it is fun and funny.  Give it a shot with an open mind.  "},{"Title":"Soo what if he kills 20 guys with a six round gun !!!!!!","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This isn't like all the other Arnold pictures.Ok the action is the same ( one man army ) but the plot is unique .It's like watching my dreams come true.That's why i think this truly is a underrated picture .The acting is ala Arnold and the directing is one the best. I think that everyone would say it's a great piece of entertainment "},{"Title":"The best Schwartzenegger film i've seen!","Date":"31 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Except of course the Terminater film's, this is his best work yet! From the brilliant injokes(i'll be back! HA! you didn't know i was going to say that! you always say that! i do? yeah, it's like your calling card). the numerous cameo's. This film has it all. how and why this film was/is slated i'll never understand. But one thing for certain, there isn't a funnier action movie around. "}{"Title":"This is what happens when you try something different...","Date":"26 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It pains me to say this, since more creativity in the movies should never be a bad thing, but I think Last Action Hero was perhaps a little TOO inventive for its own good. Who would have thought that Arnold could turn in an effective parody of himself and some of the macho flicks he's starred in? OK, the guy can't act, but that doesn't mean he's not intelligent, and that he doesn't have the good sense to recognise that this project is far cleverer than some of the stuff he gets sent. I'm betting that he knows the difference between films like this (for arguments sake) and mindless action fodder such as Raw Deal which this film often successfully lampoons. It's why he was desperate to work with James Cameron again on Terminator 3, because he's smart enough to know that then it would have had a much better chance of being a great movie.So kudos to Arnold for being able to separate the wheat from the chaff and realise that this is actually quite a good movie. It's too bad that the critics and the majority of the '93 audience couldn't do the same. Is it Schwarzenegger's fault that few people were willing to accept him in this kind of vehicle? No. It's still a good movie. By no means a GREAT one, but far better than its initial reception would suggest. Unfortunately, it was just ahead of its time, and maybe it still is. Who knows? "},{"Title":"Way underappreciated.","Date":"15 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Right up there with T2 as Arnold's best.  A script with intelligence and a creative premise.  Casting was awesome.  Stunts were over the top as befits a parody of the usual action films.  The action film cliches were introduced, commented on by the kid and ignored by A.S.  Arnold falls off a hotel in Long Beach and lands in the LaBrea tarpits...etc. Give it an 8/10 and watch it regularly. "},{"Title":"not as bad as made out to be","Date":"12 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, this film did seem silly. But that's the point of a parody film, isn't it?You really, really, REALLY need to be an Arnold fan to like this movie. You might like it otherwise, but that would really help. The fantasy and the film's ability to poke fun at itself and others work. The kid is perfectly cast, and overall the film was fun to watch.** 1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"under-rated, under-praised","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  People often dismiss this film as a mindless action venture. What they fail to realise is that apart from being critiscised mainly for elements that are far from mistakes, very much intended- This movie is resposible for many of the changes in the film buisness in thelate nineties. Think about, the face of horro was changed dramaitacally by Wes cravens 'Scream(1996)' this was as well as being an exercise in post mordern parody , was actualy just building on the foundations already set by 'Wes Cravens New nightmare(1994)' that's not a mistake , despite misconceptions to the contary, Wes's name is part of the title Anyway the plot of that film involved 80's horror Freddy Kruger breaking out of film world and into the real world. Well if you remember in 'Last Action hero'(1993) - towards the end of the movie charles dances character comments that using the powers of the ticket he could pull freddy Kruger out of the film world and into the real world. Then a year latter as mentioned this concept is turned into a highly succesfull horror film which debunked the genre, thus laying the ground work for 'Scream'. it would take for ever to mention the knock on effect influence has had on both that and other genres i.e- scary movie. So Last Action Hero was resposible for the revieval of the teen slasher flick, but more importantly by causing that revival it is also resposible for the backlash of films against that sort of film, replacing visual horror with phychological thrills, Blair Witch, Sixth Sense, and more receantly the gift, as well as Scary Movie.You could claim that all movies have an influence, but none so influential as Last Action Hero. Don't disragard the brilliance of Mctirrens direction, why do you thinks he was chosen for the upcoming Terminator 3?  "},{"Title":"A Funny, Exciting, Action Packed Film","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Okay, I don't know why a lot of people hate this movie, and at first because of what everyone said, I was biased. But, I watch TBS all the time, and this is always on, so I've watched it several times. It is actually a great movie. There is one problem, the main character, some loser kid, NOT Arnold, is the worst part of the movie. He ruins it. He is the biggest loser ever, and all he does is watch movies. The kid gets robbed and mugged, then is worried because he is late for a movie. Besides him, it's a fantastic movie. "},{"Title":"Count me IN","Date":"20 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I give this one a Plus.  This is a charming movie that will entertain every member of your extended family, as a delightful spoof on the genre, and on Hollywood in general.Granted, I first saw the film because there wasn't much else to do in a town in southern Bolivia that night.  But seeing it again on Cable, I still laughed, whichis more than I do the second time around in a lot of comedies. "},{"Title":"An Action Parody Within A Fantasy","Date":"21 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"      SOME SPOILERS MAY BE INCLUDED This is a very condemned movie because of its uneven mishmash of ingrediants, but I love it because it spoofs every single action movie cliche and allows Arnold to poke fun at himself while flexing his comedy muscle. The movie also shows off the bad side to getting inside your favorite movies (so there! to you Jason and Freddie fans) as the kid gets into trouble for revealing too much of the plot, but Arnold does come up with numerous reasonable excuses to support his reality's idiosyncrasies. This movie reminds me of the film Delirious as I wonder if Hollywood is really dictating their lives or are our films the psychic impressions of actual worlds. Arnold shows a remarkable comic range in this action-fantasy-comedy. F. Murray Abraham is Practice, the man with a million catch-phrases and Anthony Quinn is the misunderstood Italian crime-boss. Charles Dance has a lot of fun with the role of the hit-man who discovers Austin O'Brien's reality-hopping ticket as the young actor discovers nearly too late that he's just a comic sidekick. The movie takes off as Dance comes here and discovers our grim, disappointing reality. there's also a bit of a dark note as the character meets the actor and discovers the reality of his fictitious life. He realizes that the bad events of his life may have come from the pen of a sadistic Hollywood hack. And then there's the beautiful Bridgette Wilson who turns in a spunky performance as Arnold's would-be spinster daughter. I'd walk a thousand miles to meet her ! Mercedes Ruehl and Robert Prosky also round out the cast in this movie which was less than a success but not a complete bomb. "},{"Title":"Why did I like this movie?","Date":"17 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I am 15 years old, and a cynical movie-goer. I hate most big-budget  crisis films. This one, there is just something about it. It is funny because it makes fun of all the movies, and has a terrific cast(F. Murray Abraham, Robert Prosky). Columbia Pictures was litterally asking for a stinker when they had Shane Black(Lethal Weapon, Last Boy Scout, Long Kiss Goodnight) write the script and not bother with shelling out a couple more thou, which wouldn't have hurt(the film cost $75, which for the time was quite a bit) by having Richard Price(Shaft, Clockers) rewrite the script. But Columbia thought all that matters to audiences is big noisy explosions. Well, I liked this movie, because I want to be a producer-director, and I love all the jokes about the celluloid industry, Say this word No Because you can't! This movie's only PG-13 or (talking about F. Murray Abraham) Jack, he was the bad guy in Amadeus, it won 8 Oscars! or how about Where are all the normal girls? They all look like Guess adds! This movie also has some awesome action sequences. Too bad everyone hated it, I enjoyed it. Look for the part when Jack and Danny go in the video store, and all of John McTiernan's movies are in the background(Hunt for The Red October, Medicine Man, Preditor) or when the kid says Like in Die Hard(A McTiernan film) when the bad guys hanging off the roof, he's not dead yet!!! This movie is funny, and has a really cool design by Eugenio Zanetti. See it if you love movies, action, or loud-amusing popcorn fun. If you are looking for romance, drama, or a beautiful filmwork, search elsewere. Although, cinematographer Dean Semler(The Bone Collector) does know his way around a camera.  "},{"Title":"Misunderstood","Date":"11 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Many people have misunderstood this movie as an action movie. It's much more a comedy. The movie is not excellent, but an OK movie where Arnold actually makes fun of action movies, which is his own genre.(at the time) "},{"Title":"Great flic!","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of the best satirical action movies out there.  It has great action, a good story, and lots of laughs.  Arnold is great in this movie. He's a great straight man.  The only thing it's missing is a romantic interest. "}{"Title":"Still a great movie even if it did bomb...","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  It was probably the hype or just a bad year when Last Action Hero came out. This movie was well executed, good action and silly humor at the same time, but I guess people took Arnold too seriously and wanted more attitude than comedy, maybe they weren't ready for Arnold the joker. The script could've been reworked just a little, to make sure the viewers understood the real world from fictional, which was probably the case of confusion. In all, this movie has everything an action fan would love. I  give it a 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Far better than everyone says it is","Date":"2 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie has been maligned by many, many people, mostly undeservedly.  Yeah, it's a little on the cheesy side at times, and the foray into PG-13 territory takes away some of the usual Schwarzenegger punch, but these are minor complaints.  The action sequences are well done, the direction by McTiernan is better than average, and Arnold puts forth a fun performance.  I consider this film to be the SCREAM of action, using the formulas of the genre to it's advantage while recognizing and mocking them at the same time.  It is a little more obvious about it than SCREAM is, but it's interesting, nonetheless.  Decent supporting roles and some excellent (sometimes strange and/or dated) cameos (Ian McKellen, Art Carney, Toru Tanaka, Van Damme, MC Hammer) help the film, but make no mistake, this is Arnold's movie.  So rent or buy this film, I guarantee you'll have fun.  If nothing else, you'll have to admit that the Hamlet scene is a classic (To be, or not to be--Not to be). "},{"Title":"Hasta la vista, maybe?","Date":"2 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I've seen many of Schwarzeneggers movies and after hiring this one, I was a bit confused. This is not Terminator (II). This is kinda like Jingle all the way with a bit more action. Sure, were talking 'bout Arnie protecting (?) a youngster - yeah, where have I heard thàt before???? - but there are a few moments you have to opportunity to laugh. Any volunteers?The point is that diehard action fans, including those who only like Arnie being the tough, good guy, ( here's some change for ya, you blood thirsty movie maniacs )have to accept the fact that he acted kinda silly. No offense, but leave the funny stuff to the pro's. To be honest, the kid wasn't like Edward Furlong at all. Sure, they had some similarities; both fathers are dead and therefore they live with their mothers. And than comes the bad part he's such a softy!I'm really, really sorry, but Last action hero can't get more than 7,5/10. And that's only because I'm in a good mood! Nice movie anyway. "},{"Title":"More than muscle","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is not a basic action film, but the best parody of that kind of movies. Or maybe the second one because commando is a really good parody too. Or maybe not. Well... hum... Anyway, this is a really good one. "},{"Title":"Excellent action-packed movie","Date":"31 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A  movie with a lot of action in it, it doesn't get boring at any point, I enjoyed every minute of it. And I loved the part with all those actors. It was a pretty cool movie. A lot of people say it was confusing but i disagree. I understood every part of the movie. I give it a rating of 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Intelligent Action","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A possible reason why this movie hasn't been received well by some people is probably the exact reason why The Long Kiss Goodnight (1996) had trouble. It's two genres merging.  Action movies are tending to be more and more no-brainer affairs ... people sit and vegetate while watching characters blown apart onscreen.  And then there are the dramas.  Movies intended to make people think, and sit on the edge of their seat wondering what plot-twist will occur next, while the writers work to surprise the viewers with every turn.  Nobody expected an intelligent action movie ... but that's what happened with both TLKG and The Last Action Hero.Firstly, the writing is first-class.  Shane Black (creator of the Lethal Weapon Characters, and writer of TLKG) et al create a  rare situation of a movie-within-a-movie, managing to create what would have been a good action movie AND poke intelligent fun at it at the same time.  It's even very witty!The casting is great, too.  Arnold Schwarzenegger actually comes across as witty, which has to be a reason to watch for.  And if you don't like that, there are the classy performances of F. Murray Abraham, Charles Dance, and a very good performance by young Austin O'Brien.  There are assorted star cameos and movie references!  There's even Danny Devito as the voice of a cartoon cat!  What more could you want?The action is great, the special effects are good, and there's even Joan Plowright and Sir Ian McKellen!It's a movie with action, intelligence, humour AND an important theme!  If only more movies could be like this! "},{"Title":"It's supposed to be extremely silly.","Date":"17 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Last Action Hero had a bad rep because of the fact that it wasone very convuleted and preposterous action film. The obviousone-liners, the cheesy effects, and the overblown acting reallyis a downright slap to the face of good movies. But hey, thismovie is supposed to be this warped, you know? Arnold  Schwarzenegger plays two tailor-made roles as himself(!) and amacho cop named Jack Slater, who loves big guns and to kickcriminal keister. Austin O'Brien plays Danny, a  highly-imaginative kid who becomes part of the picture literallywhen he obtains a magical movie ticket that causes the viewer tojump into the screen. So, Danny teams up with his idol, Slater,to nab a sleazebag named Benedict (Charles Dance, playinganother oily villain like he did in the 1986 comedy, The GoldenChild). From there, it gets really nutty.I have to say this is a decent action movie, because it fits thekind of role only big Arnie can do. Anyone else for the role ofJack Slater could have been really lousy! The major flaws ofthis film are the bad camera angles, which looked like therewere filmed by a camcorder! Also, the screenplay can get too indepth on the concept of li "},{"Title":"Good movie, bad rap","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Last Action Hero was one of those movies where you have to view it a few times to get everything that was intended.  The story was well written, and except for a few mishaps in acting the characters were well done.  The humor in the movie was also very good.  Making fun of itself and other movies, Last Action Hero doesn't take itself too seriously, which makes the movie all the more enjoyable. "},{"Title":"One of the biggest box office flops in history; actually quite good","Date":"15 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I watched this movie expecting the worse, because almost every critic seemed to rag on it ruthlessly.  However, the movie was surprisingly good.  It had some genuinely funny parts in it, and Schwarzenegger was a great sport for making fun of his previous efforts.Although a large portion of it is totally lame, the countless cameos, references to other movies/actors, and mockery of action movies (i.e. the obviously intentional continuity errors) will make you want to keep watching, perhaps even for a second or third viewing. "},{"Title":"one of Arnold's best","Date":"18 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is definitely one of the best movies Arnold Schwarzy has ever done. It is a great spoof of the typical action hero he often plays. It's great how he kinda admits some of his flicks are ridiculous. I especially loved the scenes where Danny tries to prove him that he is in a movie, saying there are no bad-looking women in California, which is impossible. Watch out for the scenes in the video store, where you see a poster of Sylvester Stallone playing the Terminator,(because Arnold Schwarzenegger doesn't exist in the movie) and Jack says that's his best performance ever he's actually saying that his part in Terminator 2 was his best ever AND that that movie is better than anything Sylvester has ever done. So that was a very funny part. But, although this is an action spoof, there are a lot of  good action scenes, i like the one with the elevator and the roof of the building. The scene at the end with the premiere of the movie is great.Pay no attention to the 5.4 rating for this film it deserves much higher! See it!    "}{"Title":"Not bad at all. No, really!","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Caught this one recently and was expecting total garbage. However, after sitting through it, I found it to be a nice surprise and checked the listings to catch the next showing.Last Action Hero is an amusing moving with some really funny scenes that take shots at almost every action movie cliche. The plot is pretty silly when you really think about it, but hey, this is a movie! Silly or not, it's also pretty clever; especially when Arnold character enters the real world outside his fantasy fiction world.Lots of cameos, good humour and references make Last Action Hero a movie to see at least once, in my opinion. If you're into rock music, then the soundtrack is pretty cool too. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Most of the recent user comments on this page tell the same This movie is underrated... and that's true. Don't always listen to the critics and don't rely on the commercial success! I like Arnie, and I like that in this film, after his martial roles, he says C'mon, it's just entertainment!I loved the adaption of Hamlet and the innuendo to Arnie's rivalry to Stallone. Stallone as The Terminator - and Arnie says This was his very best movie, sounding like a praise, but meaning, of course, that Terminator is better than all Stallone movies.This was one of the intelligent scenes in the movie, but not the only one. I loved the moment when Slater sees the movie poster on the wall featuring himself - played by Arnold WHO?.This is a good movie, it's fun to watch. It's surely not Arnie's best, but it's his best comedy. Don't miss it! "},{"Title":"underrated, hilarious satire","Date":"12 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There are underappreciated films, underrated films, unfairly maligned films...and then there's Last Action Hero, perhaps one of the most hated movies of the 1990s.  Well, I thought it was hilarious from beginning to end, a great send-up of Arnie's image.  The movie takes dead aim at all the action-movie cliches, from a non-stop parade of gorgeous women to every phone number beginning with 555 (That's why we have area codes, says Arnold's character.)  My hunch is that people expected another Terminator or Total Recall, and were completely caught off guard by this offbeat film. "},{"Title":"An Ace Arnie Actioner","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  OK, so some of the plot devices and events are cliched and poorly developed, etc.  OK, so Arnie has delivered bigger, better, weightier movies.  Hey, lighten up  this movie is an absolute treat for Arnie fans and Arnie haters alike.  It's so much fun, the stunts are superb, the humour is spot-on.  The pace of the film is excellent - the action doesn't let up for a minute. Appreciate this film for what it is - A blast.  "},{"Title":"Excellent genre-parody with biting self-irony!","Date":"23 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A rather Europeanesque style of humour combines with biting self-irony to create a nice genre-parody, where the real important comment is that it is so vitally important to remember that the world of films are not to be confused as being the real world - in real life all that movie action heroes can do will hurt! And this from one of the most outspoken action heroes in the 1980s and 1990s! Excellent!! Much like the warning William Shatner gave about not confusing Star Trek with reality. It is so positive that actors take this responsibility upon themselves, however unfortunate that it appears to be necessary!Likewise Arnold's comments to himself - the real life man, Arnold Schwarzenegger, actually appears to have a solid grasp on the hype about Holy Wood, err sorry ... Hollywood and the media circus connected to film-making. Maybe that was why the film sort of almost fell through ...?That the effects and action sequences and humour were of medium to good quality as well, is just a bonus - all in all, well done! "},{"Title":"Don't look at this as an Arni action flick, this is much more...","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is not an usual action film from Arnold, it's a parodie, and a clever one, you can watch this movie over and over and still find new reference. This movie cover all. Bad serie B movie to Woody Allen...And oh!, just to watch Schwarzy make fun of himself make this movie good.... "},{"Title":"It's worth a good look!","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was great.  I'm starting to wish that Jack Slater was really a real life action star.  This movie was a great watch with some top of the line action sequences.  They were a little overdone, but that's because the Jack Slater movies are a parody.  Anyways, this movie has a complex plot that works in every angle.  The villain, Benedict, is probably the best antagonist in a long time.  The glass eyes he has fit into the movie perfectly.  This movie obviously got trashed by the critics, but it shouldn't sway your opinion.  It mixes all elements into what makes a movie good.  Don't judge this movie by the critics appeal.   "},{"Title":"Vastly underrated","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I don't know why this film got such a bad reputation.  I watched it the other night, and I didn't know beforehand what the plot was or the premise of the movie.  I thought it was a straightforward action movie. All I knew was that it got terrible reviews, but I thought , what the hell?, I've got two hours to waste.You know what?  It turned out to be a REALLY GOOD MOVIE.  okay, so it's not on the same level as Godfather, or Shawshank, but I thought it was as interesting as Matrix, sans special effects.  Remember, this was made in 1993!!  Plus, its surrealism and postmodernism, along with the self-referential tongue-in-cheek humor, is now found in movies such as Being John Malkovich, Fight Club, eXistenZ, and others.  Last Action Hero was ahead of it's time.I think it's a must see for any serious movie fan, critics be damned!!!  "},{"Title":"Hey...This isss gooood!","Date":"31 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  yeah,yeah i know,another kid with arnold movie....so what!,,,,great story,i mean one of the best story's  ,for a fantasy!,,,jeromy irons is brilliant,,quinn is great,very interesting scene when death is...uhhhh,brought to life?,,death flows onto the earth and scares everyone out of the movie theater,,,pure genious writing here!,,,,the  quick cameos are the only thing that is useless in the film.,,also another great scene,,when arnold goes in the video store only to see sylvestor stalone as the terminator,(LOL),,,very good movie, i advise you to see this one! "},{"Title":"This is a Very Original Film","Date":"21 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  There is a big difference between plot and theme.  The THEME of this movie is that Austin O'Brien gets blown into a movie he knows is fake, from living in the real world (New York City, it's always New York City).  The theme is him trying to tell Arnold (a cop) that where he is now is only a movie.The PLOT is what happens inside the movie, Arnold trying to stop the villain, movie name Benedict.  The whole movie is great because everyone in the movie over acts anyway, so it's fits.  In the real world, things seem more grungy and depressing.  You know like New York is suppose to be.The action scenes are great too, specially that elevator scene, good stuff.That villain was the perfect boss.  He was also in ALIENS 3 (for a while). He was smooth, very collective, and even got to kill his own boss, how cool is that?This is a movie for people with open minds, and there's not too many out there,  "}{"Title":"I was expecting to see a bomb but was pleasantly surprised.","Date":"8 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is a blatant spoof of action movies. If you go to it thinking of it as a comedy rather than a shoot-'em-up thriller you'll be much happier. It was meant to be exaggerated and silly.  I'm surprised it bombed. I liked it.  "},{"Title":"A very good film!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  A 5.5 rating? What to say. This is one of the best parodies I have ever seen! I don't understand (and hopefully a lot of people here in the IMDB) why it was so underrated. Arnie gives maybe his best performance ever and there are so many situations that bring laughs! "},{"Title":"Great parody, very underrated","Date":"27 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I must be one of the few people that really liked this film when I first saw it.  Most the people I was with hated it, but I thought it was a wonderful parody on all of Hollywood's action movies and especially Arnolds.  Making fun of the sequel concept and revenge for killing my half cousin, great stuff.Although it very hard to have a plot as it's really a spoof within an action movie.  For me it worked ok, I got all the &#145;in jokes' and thought it was very entertaining.  The boy was thrown in really to show how stupid most Hollywood action films are, by constantly questioning everything that takes place.555 numbers, beautiful women, etcOverall, highly entertaining.  Don't go and see it if you're expecting &#145;The Godfather', but I shouldn't think anyone would.  "},{"Title":"Like everyone else is saying, underrated","Date":"2 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I'd intended to come out here and be the dissenting voice claiming it's not THAT bad.  Turns out everyone feels the same way.  Perhaps it's that, as action films just get bigger and more rediculous, the satire which permeates the first half of this film gets funnier.  McTiernan only THOUGHT he was making fun of action films in his time.  Turns out he made the movie a few years too soon.  It's worth renting just for the first half. (in fact, I'd argue it's worth renting for the dream sequence with Arnie in Hamlet. No one is telling THIS sweet prince goodnight!) Unfortunately, it still falls apart in the second act.  The real world seems no more real than the movie, and while watching Arnie mercilessly parody himself at the Slater IV premiere is fun, it just loses it.  The final scene in the theatre is SO horrible and SO arbitrary that it'll make one forget how much fun the movie started out.  Just focus on the satire of the first half, and turn off the film when they cross over. "},{"Title":"Worth Another Look","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I must agree with fellow reviewers here, this movie indeed seems to have improved with age.  I saw it when it was first in theatres and at the time, thought it was a disappointment.  Having had the chance to see it again on cable recently, I was surprised at how much more I enjoyed it now than before.  I can't quite put my finger on why this is true, but it is.  It's still an uneven film and some parts of it could have been better, but the action, stunts and freewheeling attitude of Arnold manage to pretty much carry the day.  Give this one another shot, you'll probably be surprised as I was. "},{"Title":"A very good movie, after all","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I never watched this movie all the way through before.  It really is very good.I don't understand why reviewers thought it stunk, but was a very funny parody of Schwarzenegger's and other action movie star's films.  I suppose people were expecting another serious action film, and were disappointed, so they panned it.All in all, I would have to give it a 92 out of 100.  The only bad thing I can say is that some of the special effects were pretty low-grade. Other than that it was great fun.  "},{"Title":"Time Has Been Kind to This Film","Date":"7 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Especially after the overrated Pleasantville, it's worth your time to look at this film again. I recently revisited this overlooked gem, and was impressed with the ridiculous action sequences and touched by some of the problems Jack Slater faces when he enters the real world. The movie is not without its flaws--the Animated Cat still seems woefully out of place, even in a comedy--but Last Action Hero is not even close to the flop its reputation would suggest. I like this movie a lot, which I couldn't say back in 1993 when I first saw it. It is probably the most fascinating entry in the Schwarzenegger filmography. "},{"Title":"pretty funny parody","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is actually a pretty funny parody of action films.  I think people who disliked it for the most part must have misunderstood it, or expected hard action.  This is a send-up of all the tired cliches of action movies cars explode in mid air for no reason; cops are given animated cats for partners; the chief of the LAPD shout his head off at the no-nonsense cop who gets the job done; etc.  Expect a parody, and enjoy. "},{"Title":"underappreciated","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In one of the bravest parodies in some time, Shane Black unflinchingly holds an ironic looking glass up to the box office hit machine that made him rich the action film.  It perhaps came a bit early for public consciousness to be ready for it, and so wound up showcasing (in hindsight) more of Black's prescience than his market savvy.In an out and out clever spoof of not only the action film industry but of the slavering fans of action, Schwarzenegger is brilliant casting.  The fact that he never quite seems to get the tongue-in-cheek aspect of the whole endeavor makes it all the funnier.  (The daydream sequence of Hamlet as an action flick is hysterical!)  Director John McTiernan (Die Hard, Hunt For Red October) strikes a nice balance between the tension of the plot and the relaxed atmosphere of the spoof.  If you saw it before and just didn't get the thrill ride you were expecting, that's probably because you were the butt of the big inside joke that was this film.  Try it again. "},{"Title":"***1/2 out of ****","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Finally, an action movie that's aware that it's an action movie.  Last Action Hero is an extremely clever and hilarious film that actually points out the goofs that most action films make, such as the tar that Slater is able to wipe off with paper towels.  Danny's clever and funny line being, You know, tar actually sticks to some people.  I liked the bond Danny and Jack form.  They're actually believable and the film has fun with itself. Although I wonder how the film playing in the theater can actually be refilmed and work around Danny's arrival when it should've ended hours ago. How does Danny's being there change what's on the film strips.  But that didn't bother me too much.  LAH is a great film.  *** 1/2. "}{"Title":"A Parody Within a Serious Movie","Date":"18 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Or is that vice versa?  Regardless, Action Hero has something to say about the nature of fantasy, movie violence, the absurdities which are accepted as standards in action movies, and a whole lot more.  The only problem is the confusion between the movie parodying action movies, and the movie _being_ an action movie.  Sometimes the blow-out stunts seem to be here just to show us what great stunts they are, rather than to parody such stunts in other movies.Hmmm, does that make sense?  Well, maybe not.  It's just that Action hero seems to be sending out mixed messages.  It's generally entertaining, though, so it gets my vote. "},{"Title":"Way to go, Arnie","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I always liked Schwarzenegger movies. Of course, most of them haven't been too smart, but all of them have been extremely amusing and a real fun too watch. But, after seeing this movie, I have found a whole new respect for Arnold. I mean, to be able to ridicule himself in such a way, to be completely aware of his role inside Hollywood, that can only be achieved by a truly intelligent man. And besides, the movie is great, it's funny, it has action and comedy, and is one of Arnie's best. (Watch for the scene inside the videostore, with Arnold comenting on Sly Stallone. Fantastic!)  "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"20 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Erroneously marketed as a kids' flick, this is actually one of the most clever action films out there. Refusing to conform to the boring paint-by-numbers scheme most action films conform to, this movie takes the mickey out of everything from Ah-nuld to flatulent Italian mafiosi. Watch for a great trailer for Hamlet starring Jack Slater (Something is rotten in the state of Denmark, and Hamlet is taking out the trash) and a deliciously wicked Charles Dance as the villain-assassin Benedict. "},{"Title":"Clever send-up of action films","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The movie was a clever comedy about the conventions of action films and the differences between reality and the movies.  Quite a few funny scenes, especially with the impossibly over-the-top effects -- they are so outlandish they are hilarous.  The film could have been about 20 minutes shorter, though. "},{"Title":"Under-rated and under-appreciated!","Date":"23 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie was very good!  It is underrated, under-appreciated, and misunderstood.  It makes fun of action movies with great savvy and humor.  I can watch this over and over.  Seeing Arnold make fun of the movies he helped make popular is just a real treat.  Good movie, good fun.  "},{"Title":"Bum-rap","Date":"17 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie got a bum rap. It has a good plot, great action, and some really cool cameo's from some very well known actors. Watch with an open mind and decide for yourself. "},{"Title":"Not just nostalgia, newstalgia","Date":"16 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Not a masterpiece, but definitely a considerable work from an acclaimed director and a talented supporting cast (and then there's Arnie!). Arnold's humor and style are really on display here. His acting ability has been questioned by many, but here he makes all the right moves in a script that balances satire with homage. I gave it a six because I typically review more Artfull films, but hey, this is pure nostalgia...and it has become newstalgia for the countless friends I have recently told to try this movie out! Enjoy.Disclaimer The views represented by the author are under supervision of the site and related party. Please do not comment negatively on the reviewer, only if you don't like the posts themselves. Have a nice one! "},{"Title":"Give this one another shot","Date":"20 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This move is not an action movie and it never was supposed to be. It is a satirical comedy.When this movie came out in 1993, it was almost universally panned by critics. After watching it again last night on netflix, I have to say that those critics were idiots, they didn't understand what the hell they were doing, and they probably didn't pay very good attention to what was going on around the main plot.This film is actually an extremely intelligent piece of work but it requires you to pay attention to the little details going on in the backgrounds. Everything in this film is a satirical jab at Hollywood and the myriad clichés that surround the industry. The film doesn't hit you over the head with the jokes, it expects you to be intelligent enough to understand why they are jokes.Why does Jack Slater have an empty apartment with a bed on the floor and closet full of the same clothes? Because he is an action movie character whose only function is to make things explode. No one cares about what kind of TV he has or what he eats for dinner. No one cares what he wears when his time on screen is over. In fact, no one even thinks about the character as person existing outside the confines of the story. Why do the cars in the background scenes constantly swerve out of the way and crash? Because they're in an action movie from the 90s; not a single character has ever looked at the road or driven in their own lane in an action movie since action movies were invented.I would say this move is far, far better than the original reviews first intimated. Arnold is hilarious, the jokes are good, and the sub-textual commentary about Hollywood fantasy cliché world vs. the real world is actually quite engaging and well-thought. Unfortunately, Benedict was correct when he stated that in our world the bad guys can win, and they won in a major when this film didn't get the respect it deserves. "},{"Title":"Tell me, why is this a bad movie again?","Date":"7 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie advertised online and decided to check it out. What I expected was another Arnold-style shoot 'em up. In short, I was COMPLETELY unprepared for what this movie served up.This is not a serious action film. It is definitely an action picture, but not one that is meant to be taken seriously. This is an action film that spends about 3/4 of its time laughing at everything it has the explosions, the car chases, the silly lines, the unbelievably clichéd characters, ANYTHING that makes an Arnold movie an Arnold movie. While it does take a little while to get off the ground, the first bit spent establishing just how boring and scary the real world is, the movie sucks us in (literally) and takes us on a joyride through the explosion-happy world of Jack Slater, the most stereotypical of loose cannon cops right down to consistently being yelled at by his boss for saving the day.This movie is 100% self-aware of how over-the-top it is. It flat out refuses to take itself seriously, even providing us with a slightly annoying but ultimately laughable comedy sidekick to point out the inside jokes when we're too busy recovering from shell-shock to notice them. Why did it tank at the box office? Well, I guess because it set itself up as a metaphysical action movie rather than a satire/parody of action movies in general (even Hamlet, which is labeled The First Action Hero by this movie). Yes, it's Arnold. Yes, it's an incredibly surreal picture. But that's all part of the fun. And if you choose to take it seriously, you're gonna have a bad time. "},{"Title":"It's somehow like comfort food; I'll never get enough of this movie","Date":"16 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The behind-the-scenes story with Last Action Hero is an illuminating one, no doubt; troubled production, ungodly marketing costs, doomed release date. But for me, the film itself is an excellent riff on all the action movie tropes I've seen my fair share of. The shortlist- unlimited bullets- cheesy one-liners- dime-a-dozen explosions- the hero cop that won't die- Al Leong Not to mention all sorts of jabs at Southern California and Hollywood in general (no unattractive women, etc). And give Arnold credit for being a great sport - the guy really does offer up his image for laughs here. Part of my appreciation is nostalgic (rosy memories of Summer '93), but most of it is due to the collection of gags. Schwarzenegger is very likable here (So is, yes, Austin O'Brien) and makes for a great self-aware action movie.. . . And even if you don't like the movie, the whole thing's worth it for Charles Dance.8/10 "}{"Title":"One of Arnold's greatest!","Date":"27 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Last Action Hero is a great film for everyone. It's funny, exciting, and full of action. The first time I saw the movie I was in tears laughing. Everything about this movie is great, the comedy, the action, the music, etc. If you ever want a good laugh, watch this movie.Unfortunately, a lot of people don't appreciate this film like they should. How many films have funny puns like this film does? To me this film is pretty much up there with Avatar for one of my favourite movies.Some of the lines from the movie are funny, and the action scenes are COOL! So once again, if you ever want a good laugh, watch this movie, because Arnold would be really happy. "},{"Title":"Fantasy Comes To Life!","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Shane Black is a co-writer and you can tell certainly because a lot of witty comedy that comes from his hit Kiss Kiss Bang Bang are also in this film.Personally, this is my favourite Arnold movie. Not only is it a great action/adventure movie but it twists the laws of realism while still keeping loyal with the story.Arnold plays Jack Slater, a big time hero cop, in the on-screen series Jack Slater. In the movie Danny (Austin O'Brien) is going to see Jack Slater IV and with the use of a magical ticket from his friend, Nick (Robert Prosky), who also operates the theater's films, he lands himself alongside Jack every step of the way.As the movie goes on, Danny tries to convince Jack that this whole life of his isn't so real, in fact it's just a movie. Jack can't find his theory right until he sees his enemy Benedict (Charles Dance) go through the wall without it smashing or anything. When Jack goes to the real world he's no longer happy Jack Slater, the hero. He's now saddened by knowing that his life is fake. Still he goes after Benedict.It all comes together and Arnold has to play himself and Jack in a scene. It's filled with some great humour, action, kick ass soundtrack and an imaginative story to boot.Not to mention a grand list of cameos and tremendous casting.Arnold himself has some amazing lines and his timing is perfect as well as his emotion. Amazing role for him and I'd say is best, even better than the Terminator.Austin O'Brien plays Danny and though he's a young one at this time frame he's grown to be something much more. He definitely adds a lot of comedic relief to the story and combines a lot with Arnold to make some great comedy. As well as Danny's character would be me no doubt - trying to lecture Arnold (Jack) on movies and how its obviously a movie. He plays the role of the audience superbly.Charles Dance plays Benedict and he does a great job. While he was villain he still has a few comedic lines. Especially when he gives his end-of-the-movie speech and his few correcting lines (ie. It's behind the 8-ball, you old fool.) F. Murray Abraham plays the small role of Jack Slater's friend John Practise. While his role is small here and will be remembered forever as Antonio Salieri in Amadeus, he still had a good role here and did a fine job.The rest are no more than minor characters who just support the main ones, or the had such a small cameo that there is no reason to give an analysis on all of them.The Director is not well-known, but he's done 4 amazing films, including this one Die Hard 1 & 3, Basic and Last Action Hero.While his role in the film wasn't much, for what he did do he sure can show why he was chosen. Great film for him and I thank him for making it come to life. Thanks John McTiernan.If you don't love this movie, you either don't like Arnold or you don't like action. If you like both, you'll absolutely love this movie as much as I do. I keep hoping and praying Jack Slater becomes an actual flick on the big screen. Could be quite an interesting story. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good  sf/action/comedy flick","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Not your usual action/sf/comedy experience, Last action hero, is one of those films which at the end leaves you satisfied. Last action hero presents the story of a young boy named Danny Madigan, a huge fan of Jack Slater, series. One day he receives a magic ticket, from Frank - who supposedly got the ticket from Houdini himself - , the local theater manager, also an admirer the series. While watching Jack Slater 5 (not for the first time) , he is literally sucked into the film. From now, on we have an interesting adventure going, because Danny knows what's gonna happened next, after all he saw Jack Slater 5 numerous times, and he has decided to share his valuable information which Jack (Arnold Shwarzenegger), now his much experienced partner, in order to uncover the plans of the bad side. However things get out of control as Benedinct the antagonist character get a hold on the magic ticket, and manages to bring fictionally devious characters (death, the reaper, Dracula etc), in the real life creating chaos.Tough may present some unnecessary misplaced developments, the story is not at all a bad one. It was intelligent, creative and funny and it can be righteously described as entertaining. There were several great moments sustained with some excellent dialog lines, as well as some very particular and unusual characters, such as Benedict, the hit-man with the glass eye. Those are important pluses, those kind of pluses which keep the viewer's attention throughout the film, as it kept mine. The acting wasn't very good, but not very bad either. The actors succeeded in combining action/suspense moments with hilarious moments, so I can say they got the job done. Arnold fit great in his roll, how couldn't he, since he always, with minor exceptions, plays the hero. Last action hero was as far as I'm concerned a medium-good movie. It surely doesn't deserve this poor rating. It might contain some cheap, ordinary jokes, and the story may be inconclusive sometimes, but nonetheless was fun to watch. I rate this title a ***1/2 out of ***** (7/10) "},{"Title":"You may find yourself, living in a shot gun shack","Date":"23 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Action movie with a twist of lime is this sly tale of a muscle bound mega-star and a kid from NYC, as they team up to take down the ripper...For good. Austin O'Brien stars as Danny im just a kid Matigan from the big apple, who's got no friends in school and spends most of his time trading jabs with bums in front of forty foot Shwarzenegger's. The merchandising arm of this movie was far reaching, fast food, action figures, video games. And i recall this movie receiving a great deal of flack from film critiques and fans alike. I loved it then and do now. its one of those rare action movies thats well written, funny, and still blows ya mind with colossal action. Arnie plays the character he normally just portrays in the movies, in this movie. He cavorts in a fantasy land where -top shelf Hollywood quick to die in amazing fashion- bad guys are rolled out minute by minute. There's something under the surface here though, some feeling, some emotion in the big man. He has a few reflective moments in the movie which are great, i didn't cry or anything but the part where Aaanold and Danny are looking for Benidict is solid. Arnold's reaction to punching out windows in the real world and falling off cab's is equally entertaining. The pacing, camerwork, shot sequencing are all top notch, and the soundtrack is flippin amazing! I would recommend watching this, as i would everything, in widescreen to really savor the shots. So suck on this savory tale of man without cinema and boy without brains. Ten skirts kilted up. "},{"Title":"A smart and fun send up of the action genre with a great performance from Arnold","Date":"13 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When this first came out, I believe it received a lot of criticism. I think the criticisms have been unfair, for this is a very smart and funny send up of the action genre. I also think this is underrated, of course the plot is a little complicated, about a young boy getting sucked into the celluloid world of his hero, in places and it is slow to begin with. But there is a lot of fun to be had; including the spectacular set pieces and the expert direction of Hunt For Red October director John McTiernon. The scenery is lovely, the sets are colourful and the costumes are very nice. Plus the action is exhilarating. Arnold Schwarznegger I think is talented, and he gives a great performance here. Austin O'Brien is appealing as Danny, Charles Dance is terrific as Benedict and Ian McKellan is literally unrecognisable as Death. Other excitements to be had in this film are the many cameos from the likes of James Belushi, Sharon Stone, Joan Cartwright and Jean Claude Van Damme. All in all, a fun and smart take on the action genre, on par with Loaded Weapon 1 and High Anxiety and better than the disgusting trash of Disaster Movie, Epic Movie etc. 8/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"29 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Last Action Hero' - Arnie plays both himself, and action-hero and fictional character Jack Slater in this spoof of Hollywood action movies. Danny Madigan, a fan of Arnie's Jack Slater movies, inherits a magic movie-ticket, and is transported into Jack Slater's latest film.The movie is filled with the action-clichés cheesy one-liners, destructive car chases, loud explosions, last-minute saves, predictable plot-twists etc. 'Last Action Hero' is a fun movie - an enjoyable action spoof, and an can be enjoyable as an action movie if you don't take it seriously.7/10 - not one of Arnie's finest, but still pretty good. Don't take it seriously and you should have fun watching 'Last Action Hero'. "},{"Title":"If God was a villain, he'd be me!","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This is one of my favourite Arnie movies of all time and my family love it too.  It was unfairly mauled by the critics.  Those guys don't appreciate good movies when they come out.  I guess the problem was that they expected this to be a serious action movie.  Well it's not! It's a very funny send-up.Big Arnie does a great job of mocking the conventions of action movies and his own movie trademarks.  His performance as movie supercop Jack Slater is very good, especially the shellshock reaction as he enters the real world.  Austin O'Brien is very good as Danny, his number one fan who frequently points out signs that Slater's world is a movie world (apparently cartoon cats are a normal sight in Slater's world). Charles Dance also steals many scenes as main bad guy Mr. Benedict.  He starts out as a hired gun but becomes a full-blown megalomaniac when he realises that the bad guys can win in our world.The idea of a magic ticket may be a little cheesy, but it works in this film.  There are cameos galore but most of them are blink-and-you'll-miss-them appearences.  This is particularly true of Sharon Stone and Robert Patrick's cameos outside the police station.  You just notice them briefly, then they're gone.  Most of the other cast aren't in the film very long, but are brilliant, especially Frank McRae as Slater's boss, a cop who is so ticked off at Slater that steam comes out of his ears. There is also a great appearence from Ian McKellen as Death (in the Ingmar Bergman mould) and an uncredited Danny DeVito as the voice of the aforementioned cartoon cat Whiskers (maybe I'm too big a Roger Rabbit fan but I wish more could have been done with this character).The action is very good as well, such as a couple of great car chases and there are very suspenseful moments, such as Arnie's final showdown with scary serial killer the Ripper.  I would strongly recommend this film.  It won't disappoint. "},{"Title":"Any movie buff should enjoy this one","Date":"23 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  that's right, if your reading this review your probably a movie buff considering your on imdb.com and your actually taking time to read reviews, believe me im one of you. This movie is great, combining spoofs of action films of the late 80's/early 90's and a generally good action story itself and this movie also contains a rarity, the child actor isn't annoying!! i'm the famous comedian, Arnold Fitzenhousen! "},{"Title":"Favorite Arnold film","Date":"20 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I checked this out at the library and I wasn't sure if I would like it because of the Nostalgia Critic review, but I liked it. This is my favorite Arnold Schwarzeneger movie. I like all of the characters especially the villains. Another thing that I like is the reference to Jack Nicholson as Joker. I read a review for this on Common Sense Media and they recommended it for age 13 plus because of the violence. Even though there is a lot of violence, I think that kids ages 8 and up can handle this movie. I would love to own a magic ticket like the one in the people. If I did, I would definitely meet Batman. I don't understand why I have read so many comments on websites about how horrible this movie is. "},{"Title":"Overall not very interesting...","Date":"26 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  1st watched 1/4/1998 - 5 out of 10(Dir-John McTiernan) Mixed up parody of action & Swarzenegger films.  Most comedy lines fall flat on their face and the plot isn't a whole lot different than many time travel movies.  Overall not very interesting. "}{"Title":"One of Arnold Schwarzenegger's worst","Date":"13 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  ***There may  be a few spoilers in here***Boy oh boy, this movie is not good.  To me the theme of the movie, which is basically movie characters coming into the real world, seemed like an adventure.  It's also a movie that seems like it would draw kids to watch it.  It wasn't really that entertaining to me except when Jack and Danny came out of the movie screen to capture Benedict, the evil villain who discovers a magic ticket that transports the movie characters to the real world, or real people into the movies.When I first found out about this movie, I thought it would be a really cool movie because I liked the main idea of it, but I think the writers could of made a different, more adventurous purpose for Jack Slater.  You see, the theme is unrealistic, but Jack Slater fights off basically criminals and he is apart of the police business.  There's alot of action, but it just doesnt have adventure, which I was expecting.  It's twisted, reality and non-reality is involved.  It's alright, I dont think kids would like it that much though either, since Jack Slater fights off guys that are criminals and even though he is a hero, he is a realistic hero, and that's what I mean by the twisted unrealistic and realistic.  If he played a hero kind of like Superman, it would be cooler and kids would like it I bet.     "},{"Title":"Officially one of the most underrated movies of all time","Date":"17 February 2015","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" And, when I say 'officially,' I basically mean I think it is and that I've seen a fair few other people say that too on the internet. But, anyway, back in the late eighties and early nineties Arnold Schwarzenegger really couldn't do much wrong in terms of Box Office revenue. Then, from out of nowhere (and fresh off the back of arguably his biggest hit ever &#x96; Terminator 2) came 'The Last Action Hero.' How could it fail, people asked. It did. Well, it did... sort of.It wasn't a huge commercial disaster and probably made its money back and, when you factor into video sales (and probably DVD and Blu Ray by now) it pretty much did all right. It was just it was hyped and many felt that it didn't live up to its hype. And, when I say 'many' I kind of mean the film critics of 1993. Basically, they didn't like it. And they made their feelings clear.The plot of Last Action Hero is a little more complicated than Arnie's millions of fans were used to. Normally, he just kills one bad guy after another, pausing only to say a dry quip before carrying on the slaughter. Well, Last Action Hero certainly follows suit there &#x96; he probably kills more people that in Commando, Total Recall and Predator put together (not to mention more witty one-liners). However, the difference here was that the film was a parody of what Arnie was known for. And it just didn't seem to sit right with the critics. Arnold Schwarzenegger plays 'Jack Slater' &#x96; a fictional super-cop in an action movie inside this action movie. Confused yet? The 'real world' is inhabited by Arnold/Jack's biggest fan &#x96; a young boy named Danny who comes into the possession of a magic ticket which allows him to be transported into the 'Jack Slater film' itself and ride along with his on-screen hero, literally 'in-screen.' Then, just when we're secure in the 'movie world' Danny has found himself in, the 'baddie' of the Jack Slater film only goes and gets his hand on the magic ticket, allowing him to cross over into our 'real' world, forcing Danny and Jack to follow him through. And, once in the 'real world' things work differently and Jack finds punching through glass windows slightly more painful than he used to on screen.Therefore, we're treated to countless 'in-jokes' and movie references that you'll only really understand if you know, love and generally appreciate that action movies are pretty far-fetched at the best of times and very over the top. In fact, rather than being an all out no-brainer action movie, the Last Action Hero is actually quite a clever satire (wrapped up in explosions and car chases). There was a theory thrown around in 1993 that critics didn't like seeing film itself mocked on the big screen. I don't know whether that was true or whether Last Action Hero was just a little bit too different, or too ahead of its time.Plus I think people did tend to wonder who the film was aimed at. If you look at the cheery marketing poster that famously accompanied the film, it kind of looks like a happy-go-lucky action romp, similar to Indiana Jones, i.e. something for all the family. It's not. It's much darker. There's plenty of killing and references to films that no younger audience would appreciate. Therefore it's a film starring a kid that's for adults. And that's always a hard sell.But, as I sort of alluded to at the beginning, Last Action Hero has kind of matured over the years. Now many regard it as a classic. Granted it may not be 'pure' action like many of Arnie's fans were used to, but it is action better than that. It combines great actions sequences with clever humour and pokes gentle fun at its own genre. Quite a rarity really. If you like Arnie you should like this. Also, if you like action films in general, you're going to get double out of it. It seems that Last Action Hero does have more than just a few loyal fans out there who refuse to let it be forgotten. Hercules in New York it will never be. And I for one am glad of that. "},{"Title":"Fun, fun, fun","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" My, oh my. I have to join the bandwagon of reviewers who just can't understand why this movie was so poorly received.The reason why I decided to write a review is to explain what I think makes the movie so entertaining. It is the fact that the kid is so much smarter than everyone else around him, because of his advantaged point of view. It is incredibly funny to see Danny explain the ludicrous rules of an over-the-top action movie to the characters around him. There are so many priceless and surprising moments he killed Mozart; the Hamlet sequence; you killed my second cousin - big mistake!; Stallone starring the Terminator; the outrageous opening sequence... True, some stuff doesn't work. Actually, there are a lot of scenes and line that don't work. OK, maybe there are more things that don't work that those that do. But they are not bad enough to annoy; you just tend to forgive and move on when you see the animated cat, the Bogart cameo, the overly formulaic magic ticket, and so on. Bottomline when the movie is good, it's awesome; when it's bad, it's just meh. The key idea of the movie is great, and worked better here than in Scream. "},{"Title":"Very entertaining","Date":"28 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is essentially a movie that parodies action films. Last Action Hero does a much better job at it though than some parodies do at spoofing their genre. It was very entertaining and interesting to see all the action movie clichés, and their contrast to the real world. Although the supposed real world has some of those same clichés.(spoilers start here) For example the main villain (Benedict) is searching through movie theaters to find all the movie villains and basically take over the world. The second protagonist (Jack Slater) is trying to find him by wandering around the city looking for movie theaters for hours. The kid of course tells him that things just don't work that way in the real world because the real world stinks. Almost as soon as he says that though he conveniently spots Benedict exiting a movie theater (spoilers end here).Back to the main part of the movie though. Last Action Hero has a unique approach to the comedy of this film. Most of the comedy is not done through jokes but through showing all the movie clichés. An animated cat in the police station for example and nobody seeming to mind at all. Or when the police chief is yelling at Slater and showing literal steam coming out of his ears. This is a fun film that isn't meant to be taken seriously but is still very entertaining for action and comedy fans alike. "},{"Title":"Under-rated satire","Date":"29 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" As of 1991, it looked like Arnold Schwarzenegger was heading for world film domination after the multi-million dollar box office juggernauts that were Total Recall (worldwide box office of about $260 million from a $65-70 million dollar budget) and the humongous T2 (box office over half a billion dollars from a budget of about $90-100 million). It was inevitable that when he finally decided to do his next film it was going to be impossible to top this high water mark. It also didn't help that this film came out in the summer of 1993, one of the most crowded summer box office blockbuster seasons and had to compete against Steven Spielberg's truly stunning Jurassic Park. Unfortunately for this film this rather funny and very enjoyable attempt to satirise the Hollywood action genre was too clever for that summer's audience, who want summer blockbusters to be plain entertaining (particular those starring Schwarzenegger), and watching a satire of the genre implies also satirising the audience that watches that film, which is a very brave, if not slightly foolhardy decision when talking of a film costing around $60-65 million dollars. This is because an audience is either unlikely to get the joke (so don't enjoy the film) or get the joke but don't appreciate it (so don't enjoy the film at all, and actually hate it!) as opposed to the minority that got the joke, and enjoyed the film as a result (this reviewer and by the look of it at least some others!). It also didn't help that two out and out parodies, Hot Shots Part 2 and Loaded Weapon has already destroyed the novelty of an action movie send- up in 1993. While the film does have is plot contrivances, it is these contrivances that are actually the point. In the alternate reality universe that the lead character Danny Madigan (a solid and entertaining Austin O'Brien, who currently seems to have left acting to become a professional photographer) finds himself in. There is also a rather good turn by Schwarzenegger himself. The supporting cast is universally good, but the standouts are Robert Prosky as a veteran cinema projectionist. Mercedes Ruehl as Danny's mother and the main antagonist Charles Dance who is a lot of fun as the assassin Benedict. There is also a great cameo from Ian McKellen as the Grim Reaper. The film also tries to minimise is useful of visual effects photography, leading to some fun action sequences, which while deliberately stylised are a lot of fun as they are done as far as possible in camera. Miniature and digital effects are present, but service the story and are not there to draw attention to themselves. Due the films crazy 2-3 month post production period, a dozen different visual fx companies were drafted in to ensure the film's visual effects came together in time, and it's a tribute to both the film-makers and visual effects houses that this was pulled off as well as it was. The film also benefits from great technical contributions. Great production design, stunt-work. editing, subtle visual effects, and solid and stylish direction from John McTiernan, who has actually created Arnold's most subversive film. However the real stand-outs are the superb photography by Oscar winner Dean Semler, who gets a subtly different look between the real work and the alternate reality, and the fantastic score by the late Michael Kamen. As someone who defined the action cop movie score with his themes for the first 3 Die Hard films, and the entire Lethal Weapon film series. Collaborating with Bucket-head the score works absolutely fantastically with the film and helps create a real sense of fun that permeates through the proceedings, but then turns surprisingly dramatic and serious for the film's climax and epilogue.In summary, an interesting, funny and subversive satire with fun action sequences and good performances all round. "},{"Title":"A nice parody of an action movie","Date":"30 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I noticed that this movie got some pretty bad reception from critics and didn't do that well in the box office but that was because it was released at the same time as Jurassic Park. And I think the reason why people didn't like was because they took it too seriously. The thing is this movie is a parody of action movies like Blazing Saddles is a parody of westerns or Spaceballs was a parody of sci-fi movies. But even I can admit this movie gets pretty cheesy and over the top at times but parodies are like that. And even the kid, Danny was pretty annoying at times. But I think its a fun movie to watch, especially if you're an action fan and Arnold Schwarzenegger has always been my favourite action star. And I like the idea of the clash between fantasy and reality and it's also funny and exciting. "},{"Title":"Pure Fun!","Date":"8 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Last Action Hero' is Pure Fun! A highly entertaining escapist fare, that works from start to end.'Last Action Hero' Synopsis A young movie fan gets thrown into the movie world of his favorite action film character.'Last Action Hero' is innovative & fun. The pace is perfect & the action-sequences are top-notch. Shane Black, David Arnott & William Goldman's Screenplay is child-like, but works wonderfully. John McTiernan's Direction is efficient. Cinematography is stylish. Art Design is perfect. Performance-Wise Arnold Schwarzenegger plays to the gallery. He enacts the hero with his usual ease. Austin O'Brien is extremely likable, as he's energetic all through. Robert Prosky is restrained. Charles Dance is excellent. Anthony Quinn is effective. On the whole, 'Last Action Hero' is some great vintage entertainment. "},{"Title":"Criminally underrated  action movie parody that deserves more respect","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When i was about 8 years old, I remember renting Last Action Hero and enjoying it a lot, and i recently saw it again and enjoyed it even more as i began to notice a lot of great stuff in the movie that i hadn't noticed when i was a kid, as a film buff i decided to look up the history of the film and i found out That Last Action Hero was a box office flop when it was released in 1993, this shocked me and what shocked me more was when i looked up all the reviews i could find for it, most of them were very negative, I think at that time the public missed the point of the film, the film is a parody of action movies not a serious action thriller and i guess during that time of arnold schwarzenegger's career it was probably the wrong time for Last Action Hero to come out,as before Last Action Hero schwarzenegger had made Total Recall and Terminator 2 both of which are great movies but were also very serious and i think people were expecting that from Last Action Hero, but instead they got a parody and they just didn't understand it.But i think it's time Last Action Hero get's the respect it deserves because it's actually a very good movie. Plot The plot to last action hero is probably the most clever I have ever heard, It's about a young boy named Danny who is going to see a private screening of Jack Slater 4 (A fictional Action series starring Arnold Schwarzenegger),But before entering the movie theatre, Danny's friend projectionist Nick, gives Danny a magic movie ticket which was given to him by the great magician houdini, nick then tears the ticket and gives danny his stub , Danny then walks into the theatre to watch the movie and while he's sitting there enjoying the show the ticket mysteriously activates itself and transports danny into the movie where danny meets Jack Slater(Schwarzenegger) And from then on it's action and laughs all the way, as well as some science fiction because there's Inter-dimensional travel involving the Villain of Jack Slater 4 Played brilliantly by (Charles Dance),getting a hold of danny's magic ticket and planning on creating havoc on the real world and also the movie world, by getting every single movie villain imaginable to take over those two worlds.Overall Last Action Hero Is not as bad as people say it is, It was just misunderstood, the film is without a doubt a Spoof on action films, but it works, there are many Jokes and Cheesy one-liners cracked by Arnold Schwarzenegger which are often hilarious, and even the villain has great lines and jokes, but let's not forget about the action, after all the film is called Last ACTION Hero there are many great action scenes the best being the beginning of Jack Slater 4 where an awesome car chase takes place with AC/DC's Big Gun playing in the background, but there's also an incredible and funny scene where Arnold is up against a gang of mobsters on a building rooftop and his escape from them leads him to being on the hook of a crane where he falls into a tar pit, Now keep in mind the action in Last Action Hero is more Traditional rather than slam-bang, it does have gun's and explosions and the Occasional Crazy stunts, but do not go in thinking that your'e going to see Stuff like Transformers or Avatar The only problem I have with Last Action Hero is that it's a tad too long running at 130 mins and people who don't like their movies long may not like this, i have no problems with long movies but other's may, so i guess that's my only gripe.But for those of you who are fans of movie parody's, you will probably enjoy Last Action Hero a lot, there's good acting (Surprisingly from Schwarzenegger who shows that he has no fear of mocking himself) there's Action,Comedy,Sci-Fi and plenty of trivial moment's as well as many actor cameos. So give it a shot. "},{"Title":"Are you people nuts??","Date":"15 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" People must be crazy to say this wasn't a good movie. Sure there's plenty of goofy stuff going on, but it's supposed to be funny. But what I really like about it is the fact that the action is very over the top and still watchable. The movie makers got to have a ton of fun by setting the movie in an imaginary world. And it's just as fun to watch. Arnold is hilarious as always, how can you not love watching him? I also love the scenes when our hero enters the real world. It immediately becomes grim and gloomy. Plus its a cool plot, and the villains are pretty interesting too.People who bash this movie simply don't know how to take it. Is it action? Is it comedy? Is it supposed to be comedy? Yes to all. Great concept, tons of action, and lots of laughs. Get off your high horses and just enjoy this classic. "},{"Title":"In which Arnie steps through the screen and out of his fans comfort zone","Date":"7 December 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Much like Steven Seagal in the later The Foreigner,Arnie paid the price for overestimating the attention span of his fans who stayed away in flocks from Last Action Hero thus consigning it to the video bins at Blockbusters long before its time. Perhaps he was a little over - optimistic in hoping his admirers would accept a plot more redolent of Woody Allen than they might be comfortable with.Or any plot,really. What did they miss?A great deal,actually.Last Action Hero is fast,furious and very funny and Arnie is terrific in it. Happily guying his own roles as Ur tough cop Jack Slater,he chews scenery and cigars with blithe disregard whilst babysitting a besotted young fan who has entered the world of Arnie's movies via a magic ticket which is then stolen by villain Charles Dance to escape to the real world where Arnie has to follow him and then become vulnerable,like Superman when confronted with Kryptonite. Lots of splendid in - jokes occur throughout the movie at regular intervals and many action movie regulars put in brief appearances to keep the interest going. Far better than its reputation might suggest,Last Action Hero is amusing and exciting enough for anybody who is capable of handling comedy and thrills in the same movie,presumably a big ask for many Arnie fans in 1993. "}{"Title":"9/10 For action movie","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" First i must say that i was devoted about his movie.When i started to watch this movie it was really boarding.I was thinking about turning some other movie on and throwing this one to trash because the dialog was so bad that i was actually wondering who would of done the film like this one but...after the first thirty minutes it becomes quite of surprise!The dialog becomes better,the story really holds you by the TV and so on...and there is Arnold!If you like Schwarzenegger and old fashion action films this is the one you must watch because its full of surprises...first boarding then great.All in one 9/10 for an action film "},{"Title":"Very good!!!","Date":"5 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I don't care what the critics say. This is one of my favorite fiction movies. Danny Madigan falls into the screen of the cinema right in the middle of his favorite movie! Reality and fantasy all the time, all in one. It can be easily compared with Back To The Future. Imagine a mirror, reality at one side, fantasy at the other, and at the same time they inter-cross! Very smart movie. Great actors. Too much characters. A mixture of comedy and action. Awesome soundtrack! I think it has everything that any movie of this kind must have, and more. This movie makes you ask yourself how could someone imagine such story. Too much fun. Great for a lazy afternoon. "},{"Title":"To be, or not to be?","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hey Claudius! This is probably my favourite Arnie movie of them all! Why? Because it's the one that completely mocks himself, the situations he always finds himself in AND the way he talks!! It couldn't have been made better. As he always does, McTiernan takes us on a roller-coaster ride through the life of Jack Slater and Danny Madigan, trapped inside his favourite action movie.There are twists and turns, the action is over the top and Arnie even acts convincingly. I always find that McTiernan films have a special element - you think it's getting close to the end, but then the story takes a completely different turn and you're in for another 40 minutes of entertainment, which I love.Talking about this movie is pointless, you just have to see it. It's a parody like no other, it's amazing! There are some great quotes in this film too.I remember a couple of years ago someone said to me, There's something rotten in the state of Denmark... and I replied - uhh, have you seen Last Action Hero? He said no, and I explained he'd just accurately quoted a line in the movie.McTiernan also takes the mick out of his own film, Die Hard. You should listen to the music too, which plays the Die Hard melody. This kind of intertextuality sends shivers down my spine, and it's doing it now and I'm only thinking about it!! Also, the part where he pulls the driver out of a taxi and yells Billy bunting baby bubba bobba...HA! You did NOT know I was going to say that!! or something, is insanely funny. You have to see it to believe it!! ) Well done Mr McTiernan, well done Mr Schwazenegger! "},{"Title":"I brilliant movie that was too deep for the masses","Date":"27 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Yes I know that header is laughable but bear with me. Nothing about the structure of this film is flawed. As an exceptional writer myself, this was a superb version of an old idea. The problem was, people just did not get it and still don't. There is no flaw to the structure of having a movie within a movie. The flaw is that majority of people in this world do not have the depth to either grasp or appreciate the concept. Yes it was a simplistic story in many ways but the way things played out was just extremely entertaining. Who hasn't watched a movie and wished they could transport to this parallel land of make believe??I honestly wish they had made at least 2 more of these. The scenarios that could be created by bouncing back and forth between the real world and artificial world are just endless. Why the hell can't people just see a movie and have fun? Suddenly everyone wants to be brilliant by trashing a movie they didn't get. The simple truth is, they didn't get it because they are not brilliant. The dynamics of each scene are so artistically beautiful that I guess it should not be so shocking that people didn't get it. This was quite possibly Arnold's very best film... "},{"Title":"Critics Don't Know S**t","Date":"28 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  What was up with all the negative criticism? The movie has a good story, its funny, and the action scenes are great. It didn't make as much money as Schwarzenegger's other movies, but $50 million isn't bad. I read a review that said genuinely bad writing and unpleasantness torpedo the film. They also called it a noisy, smug, self-conscious blockbuster wannabe. I don't understand how they could derive all that from this movie. Its a classic example of critics just bashing the movies they don't like.  "},{"Title":"Satisfactory","Date":"20 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" 'Last Action Hero' is never a dull movie, nor is it a slow one. Nor does the movie ever take a breath. But there's no sense of fun, suspense, or characters worth caring about. It's got lots of action & special effects, but the movie just didn't mean much to me. Maybe this kid could have, or even should have gone into a movie that is altogether fictional, like a fairy tale for example. But that's probably asking too much, since the word action is in the title. Or maybe it would have at least been more believable if this kid actually wished he were in the movie, or even the star of it (what's the point of a magic ticket if he never planned on going in the movie in the first place?). And I didn't find the villains to be truly evil. It seemed to me they're just being evil for the sake of it. The ending (or the scenes close to it) is the best part of the movie. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":"Stupidity stops where its own awareness starts ...","Date":"6 September 2013","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I believe that principle applies for both people and movies. And this is why parody generally provides the cleverest films, mocking the archetypes over-exploited by lazy directors with a subtle, and so engaging, wink to the audience.And Last Action Hero parodies the action-flick, featuring its most iconic ambassador, Arnold Schwarzenegger as the lone-ranger bad-ass cigar-smoking titular hero of a never-ending franchise Jack Slater. As if he was plenty aware that Die Hard put a deathblow on the credibility of such super-heroic figures popularized by Commando and Predator, John McTiernan becomes the iconoclast of his own creations -a demonstration of smart sense of humor a few directors ever achieved.The opening Jack Slater film even concludes with a reference to the genre-defining Die Hard, using the same score to contribute to the whole 'inside joke' effect, completed when Jack Slater becomes a movie-within-a-movie character, from the perspective of Danny, his number one fan, played by Austin O'Brien. Basically, Danny is to Last Action Hero what Cecilia (Mia Farrow) was to The Purple Rose of Cairo a movie lover whose only means to transcend routine's banality was a constant ecstatic stare toward the silver screen. And being a kid of the early 90's, I could only respond to his hypnotic fascination.Action films are indeed the best pop-culture fillers, crystallizing the most common denominators of fun and entertainment and generating codes and formula that are part of cinema's timeless and universal heritage, no matter how overused they are the never-dying hero, the yelling superior, the revenge plot, the villainous monologue, the sexy daughter, the comic-relief sidekick, the sophisticated boss' right hand who becomes the real villain and a lame catchphrase. They're all there in Last Action Hero less because they're obligatory but for the necessity to turn them into derision, by confronting them to reality.Still, there has to be some fantasy in this reality Danny is given by the projectionist Nick (Art Carney) a magic ticket that belonged to the Great Houdini. And while he watches the fourth opus of Jack Slater's adventures during a private screening, the ticket glows, sticks of dynamite are thrown from the screen and land near his feet. Danny starts to take the notion of 'danger' less cynically before the explosion immediately projects him into his hero's universe. The film's greatest moments come from Danny's desperate attempts to convince Slater that they live in a movie where phone numbers start with 555, video-store workers are sexy and profanity is prohibited. Hell, in this parallel universe, his own rival Stallone played the Terminator roles (which made me wonder who then played Rocky or Rambo).The film recycles every cliché in such an over-the-top way it's hilarious the car rams into an ice cream truck and explodes, a henchman gets an ice cone on the neck, many gags feel like these 'McBain' segments from The Simpsons, thus never fail. The film also features one hilarious modernization of Hamlet and two delightful movie references. One of Slater's friends is played by F. Murray Abraham, naturally, Danny warns him that it's the same guy who killed Mozart in Amadeus the film that got 8 Oscars. For a kid, he has the knowledge of an IMDb user, which says a lot about Last Action Hero exhilarating effect as pure geek escapism, reinforced by the obscure intrusion of Death from The Seventh Seal, a joke I didn't even get when I saw the film as a teenager.Now, there are two facts regarding Last Action Hero the film flopped, and it didn't deserve to, not when box-office laws are governed by rules that allow Cliffhanger to be the 7th highest grossing film anyway. Therefore, I can only qualify its bombing as 'accidental', the same accident that made Sorcerer flop in 1977. The parallel is all the more eloquent because Last Action Hero suffered from an ill-fated opening coinciding with the big event of 1993 the release of Steven Spielberg's Jurassik park (Sorcerer had it worse with Star Wars) and perhaps misleading title, trailer and word-of-mouth that branded the film in the total opposite way it expected to a dumb action film, 'another one'.I don't blame the viewers who thought a bunch of reptilian carnivores would be a fresher spectacle, I, was misled too, the first time I saw the TV announcement. But being a box-office flop is one thing, but when I started to examine the disastrous reception &#x96;from those who actually saw the film- I was stunned. Seriously, what's with all these Razzies' nominations? Worst actor? Arnold had to play his usual role. Worst screenplay? Check the review's title. Worst new star? That's the worst thing about vocation-discouraging Razzies the kid was supposed to be annoying and he played that part quite well. Worst song? It's a cheesy action-flick, did they expect Barbra Streisand? Last Action Hero is not beyond criticism though especially in the last act, when they 'get' in the real world. It's true that the film could have pushed its self-reflexive concept to more thought-provoking levels, that the emotional involvement lacked when the action was conditioned by predictable plot devices and needed to be compensated in the 'real world'. It's also true that confronting Slater to Arnold (like in Woody Allen's film) or having Danny talking to him, could have induced more interesting situations, but the reception would make anyone believe the film is like Stop or my Mom Will Shoot!.Talk about unfortunate misunderstanding, not that I believe it truly deserves this 8, but it makes up for the undeserved negativity it inspired. McTiernan would finally make the highest-grossing film of 1995 Die Hard 3 With a Vengeance which feels like his personal vengeance. The film is as corny and over-the-top as Last Action Hero but I guess the average audience wasn't ready for that level of subtlety, so he probably thought  Hell, give them the movie they deserve and give me a break. "},{"Title":"Failure to launch.","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Whenever I think about this movie I believe it should be shown as an example in all movie classes of how you can all the right ingredients for a movie and it still falls flat. First lets examine the ingredients,1. Plot- very promising. Kid who loves an action hero of the silver screen gets magically transported into the movie.2. Actors-Who better than the governator to be the hero. A strong eclectic supporting staff also adds promise. 3. Action-First rate concepts and executed with real flare.So what when wrong? Well, my best analogy is very simple. Think of all these elements I have mentioned put into a blender. You turn it on and it keeps starting and stopping barely spinning at all. After a few minutes, instead of a well blended, frothy shake, you have a congealed, slapped together mess that is very hard to swallow and just leaves a bad taste. I really was excited about seeing this film and I did something I rarely do when I see a movie that is starting to bomb. Instead of getting mad at the film, this time I was rooting for it to regain its footing. I keep thinking to myself, Come on, this can work, don't blow it!, but by the middle point of the movie it was unsalvagable. I'll give the director and actors credit, you could almost feel them trying to get control over this mess but alas, no cigar. Even the action scenes started to get more and more uninteresting as this movie sputtered along. Like the scene where Slater goes to the funeral and tries to steal the corpse and run of with it and everybody pulls out a gun and shoots at him. It felt so lackluster and forced and that is what became of the movie as it when on, more lackluster more forced upon. What might have salvaged this movie is a simple thing, focus! I mean there is just too much mediocrity being focused on in this film and not enough wonder I don't know but, I think I would have had the entire movie take place in one world. Either The movie world or the real world. Here they go to both and that to me is the biggest flaw. Its all lighthearted farce in the movie world but in the real world they play it seriously. One or the other, but put together its a square peg trying to fit into a round hole. On the other hand, maybe they did the best they could with what they had. As this movie has clearly demonstrated, when you make a movie, there are no guarantees! "},{"Title":"Not enough","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Sometimes when it comes to movies i like the idea and ambition but not the result. This is one of those times. The idea of making an action movie that is both action-filled as well as a parody of the genre is not bad really. But the result here is far from what it could have been, despite the potential.There are several reasons why this movie fails. First of all the comedy is not as spot-on as it has to be for something like this to work. There are so many things to make fun of in the tragic genre of 1980's steroid-action. Sometimes they succeed, but many things are also left unnoticed. The transition between the fantasy-world of movies and the real world is really the high-point of the movie. Cars not exploding instantly when hit, hands hurting after punches... This is where the comedy could have been elevated to great levels with a better script.Arnold Schwarzenegger is not much of an actor. But he does have a sense of humor that works very much in his favor, i always find it easier to accept a poor actor if he can poke fun at himself. He works nicely here and i wouldn't put this movies failure on him, nor would i put it on director John McTiernan who (as usual) produces decent action-sequences. Rather it's mostly the script that is lacking. While i consider this to be a failure, it's still worth pointing out that it's a lot better than what you'd expect considering most of the reviews it was given on it's release. I rate it 4/10. "},{"Title":"Sub par, but at least it was original","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I am a firm believer in reviewing all movies that left you with any impression at all, whether they are good or bad. As such I will now tell you my impression of LAH.It was mediocre crap. McTiernnan, who has done my favorite action movie of all time Die Hard, did not take any risks with this movie. It was formulaic. The script was original. I will give Prather and Penn credit for that. Their script originated a genre that Scream made famous, self Parodying. But there is a reason that Scream made it famous and LAH didn't, and that is Scream was good.I mostly place the blame for this movie's overwhelming mediocracy on O'Brien and Schwarzenagger. O'brien you can forgive for being 11-12 at the time. and Arnold just cannot do comedy. I mean look at his track record Junior. Twins. Jingle all the way for god's sake.This movie had a new idea that died in the execution. Maybe it isn't Schwarzenagger's fault at all, it could be the inept screenwriters, but any way you look at it, this movie deserves the Saturday afternoon on fox time slot it will inevitably get. "}{"Title":"Pay No Attention to The Man Behind The Curtain","Date":"20 December 2011","Score":"6 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It seems that there are a bunch of IMDb reviewers who post what an underrated classic this film is. I am not one of those reviews. I say Pay no attention to the man behind the curtain. This was a cash-for-clunkers film.The conceptual story of kid fantasy and action film parody with a magic ticket that transports the kid to fantasy worlds with Two-D fantasy characters is original and probably reads nice. When you see it on screen it is awful.There are 2 primary reasons that the film comes off as awful The first is the main child protagonist. He is a whiny 13 year old loser boy who is from a poor family and he is soooooooooo hurt and he needs his nose wiped. You will watch this whiny boy for 2 hours and 10 minutes. Does that sound like entertainment to you? I didn't think so.The second reason is the fantasy world. Anyone can do anything and it is a world that makes no sense. After an hour of anything goes with little realism and an embarrassing attempt at Buster Keaton like humor with a funeral with a dead body with a bomb in it on the top of a skyscraper the viewer is left going Yawn. They had money to make LAH. The sets and cinematography and the effects are well done. The story is visually a turkey and no amount of money can overcome that. "},{"Title":"Action Movie Fanatic's Dream","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Must watch for all the action movie fanatics, full-throttle throughout albeit sometimes a bit too much, but typical of the '90s action movie vein. Movie begins with a kid whom struggles to pay attention at school, and constantly visits a cinema which is soon to be closed down. This kid is a massive movie fanatic and, once he is given a magic ticket which was from Houdini himself, is transported into his favourite action movie!Would have been rated higher but the appearance of the Grim Reaper at the end ruined it for me, was very haphazard way for the boy to find out how to return Schwarzenegger to his movie. "},{"Title":"Here's a couple of Acres!!........","Date":"28 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Danny Madigan is a huge fan of Jack Slater, a larger-than-life action hero played by Arnold Schwarzenegger. When his best friend, Nick the projectionist, gives him a magic ticket to the newest Jack Slater film, Danny is transported into Slater's world, his number one hero where the good guys always win. It's a dream come true for Danny, but things take a turn for the worst when one of Slater's enemies, Benedict the hit-man, gets a hold of the ticket and ends up in Danny's world, where he realises that if he can kill Arnold Schwarzenegger, then Slater will be no more! Slater and Danny must join forces and travel back and stop him at all costs before it'll be the end of Jack Slater!Last Action Hero or the one that almost ruined Arnie, is a strange beast, beating movies like Scream and Cursed by years. The media and marketing for this movie was all wrong, back in the day, an Arnie movie opening in the summer was a guaranteed hit, and not many other actors at the time could garner a big opening.But it flopped, because people didn't get it, and therefore didn't like it. It was advertised as some fantasy action movie, but it's more of a love in for all action movies ever made.There are so many references to movies, the makers of Spaced would be proud, and Schwarzenegger is fantastic as Slater, really sending himself up all the way through the movie. The on-liners are poor, and the editing is intentionally bad, but this is why the film is so much fun.Dance looks like he is having a whale of a time playing Benedict, and it's all sunny and summery all the what through.This was a typical blockbuster that ironically, didn;t bust any blocks.Give it a go, you will be surprised. "},{"Title":"Action Heroes Still Exist","Date":"2 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" John McTiernan directed this big-budget action film/satire that stars Austin O'Brian as Danny Madigan, a big film-goer and fan of Jack Slater(played by Arnold Schwarzenegger) who is an action hero whose new adventure is coming out, and that he has gotten a secret sneak preview of by his friend the projectionist(played by Robert Prosky) who then gives Danny a magic ticket that enables him to enter the movie, and join in on the plot, though Jack Slater doesn't appreciate the company... Charles Dance plays his nemesis Benedict the hit man, who uses the ticket to enter our world, where the bad guys can win... Ambitious but fatally smug, overproduced, and lazily written film isn't as smart as it thinks it is, nor very entertaining, though the brief sequence with Jack Slater as Hamlet and Not To Be! is quite funny. Pity most of this film is not, though it has a fine cast, including F. Murray Abraham as that guy who killed Mozart! "},{"Title":"Fun cheeky spoof movie that has gained a cult status","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" One of the best things about Last Action Hero is that the more you read about it, you realize the smarter it is. There are so many little nods and cheeky references to the action genre and to Hollywood that you can't possibly catch them all the first time around. It appears, on the surface, to be this huge action film but really the entire film is poking fun at the genre. And who better to bring on board to do that but the King of eighties action Arnold Schwarzenegger. There is so much right about this film. The scenes with Arnold playing himself and the interaction between him and Jack Slater are just awesome. The cameos and the world they create inside the movie is just so much fun to watch. The problem is that the film is almost too much of a joke. Fans of Schwarzenegger and action films might find their genre being made a total fool of a bit much to handle. And also one of the leading roles is really not good but more on that in a minute. It is definitely a PG-13 movie and while there is nothing wrong with that, it feels like it struggles to purposely try to stay PG and it has trouble doing that.I love Arnold Schwarzenegger, he has just always been one of my Hollywood icons. This is such an odd role for him because he is making fun of himself and what he does best. However, it works well and he is actually fun as Slater. He is especially fun in the brief scenes where is playing or over-playing himself. The banter between him and real life wife/ex-wife Maria Shriver is just awesome. Austin O'Brien is the young actor portraying Schwarzenegger's partner and his fan as well. O'Brien is unfortunately the character I mentioned previously that really holds back this film. He is simply unnatural and gives a strained and poor performance. It just is very underwhelming. The chemistry between him and Schwarzenegger is nearly awful and that would be the key point to this movie. Charles Dance is very good as the evil villain Benedict. He is over the top but looks menacing and certainly is the perfect personification of an action movie villain. Tom Noonan is also good as the twisted Ripper villain who is also an amped up spoof of a slasher villain. Everyone else in the film are basically cameos but there are some really good ones worth mentioning. F. Murray Abraham, Art Carney, Frank McRae, Robert Prosky, Anthony Quinn and even Ian McKellan are just a few of the faces you will recognize and they give good solid campy performances.If there was any director they should have gotten to direct this film it would be John McTiernan. Die Hard, Predator, The Hunt For Red October, Die Hard 3, Medicine Man...and more. Every action film he has done has at least been decent so he was the perfect choice to do this film and poke fun at the genre. The action scenes are well done and yet overdone at the same time (which granted is the point.) Last Action Hero is fun and exciting but is held back by making fun of itself almost too much. Still, it is a modern day cult classic and more and more people are calling it under-rated and when you look at some of the hidden Easter eggs in the film, it becomes even more fascinating and fun. 7/10 "},{"Title":"One other action-packed Arnold movie","Date":"17 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I personally like this kind of movies. I also liked Commando and I recomended it. I would love if my life were a movie to, just a ticket and you can go in toany movie you want. If I had it, I would go in to... A movie from Mary-Kate and Ashley, Titanic and ofcourse Charmed=0) This movie is pretty good, but still not one of my favorites, and it doesn't beat Commando so... 4/10  ****  "},{"Title":"Last Action Hero","Date":"12 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" From director John McTierman (Predator, Die Hard), this is an interesting and appealing idea, what would you do if you were transported into you favourite film? Basically young Danny Madigan (Austin O'Brien) is a huge fan of the Jack Slater movies starring Arnold Schwarzenegger (also producing this film), and he can't wait to see the fourth instalment. So his cinema projectionist friend Nick (Robert Prosky) offers him a preview opportunity, he also gives Danny a magic ticket given to him by Houdini, which he never tried himself, as it has a mind of its own. The first few minutes of Jack Slater IV see the bad guys, boss Tony Vivaldi (Anthony Quinn) and henchman Benedict (Charles Dance), then it move on to Jack who finds his favourite cousin they tortured. Soon enough, the ticket works its magic and transports Danny into the film, and he can't stop trying to convince Jack and a few other characters that they are in a film. After a long while of helping Jack defeat the bad guys, Jack does finally see that Danny did come from another world, i.e. the real one, and a poster of Jack's film proves he was right all along. But anyway, Jack still has to catch Benedict, who plans to put a stop to Jack Slater films for good, by killing Arnold Schwarzenegger Also starring F. Murray Abraham as John Practice, Art Carney as Frank, Frank McRae as Lieutenant Dekker, Tom Noonan as Ripper/Himself, The Fisher King's Mercedes Ruehl as Irene Madigan, Sir Ian McKellen as Death, Joan Plowright as Teacher, The Truman Show's Noah Emmerich as Rookie, Tina Turner as The Mayor, James Belushi, Chevy Chase, Robert Patrick, Maria Shriver (Schwarzenegger's wife), Sharon Stone, Jean-Claude Van Damme, Damon Wayans and Danny DeVito as Whiskers. The action is good, the in-jokes are also good, and the famous faces who show up add to the fun of the film. Very good! "},{"Title":"If only it were the last bad action movie...","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Arnold Schwarzenegger stars as Jack Slater the hero of Austin O'Brien who knows Slater's world inside and out. However when the kid gets a hold of a magic ticket, he becomes part of the movie and helps his hero fight off the bad guys although when the bad guys cross over into the real world, it is up to Slater and the kid to send them back and prevent them from ruling the real world. Last Action Hero comes packed with great potential. The idea in question is an idea that was later conveyed in Scream and it's subsequent sequels. Still Last Action Hero is a failure because the problem is that the production is bloated and there is just too much too juggle as McTiernan tries hard to make a coherent story. That isn't to say there aren't a couple interesting touches here and there, the fish out of water jokes with Slater in the real world as well as the whole ugliness of the real world compared to the movie world is an interesting concept. In fact had the movie taken more with this, the movie may have been a winner but because it stumbles around the action movie clichés and tries extremely hard to poke fun at them, the movie becomes a groaner.*1/2 out of 4-(Poor) "},{"Title":"The universe is similar to the honey badger in that it don't care","Date":"1 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Why did they make this movie? Was it me? Did I do something wrong? When we are gone, y'know, post-apocalypse, in the wasteland among the ruins, should a copy of this movie be found, whether in VHS or DVD or Blueray form, WE WILL HAVE DESERVED OUR FATE. Is that what you want to be written on the Human race's tombstone, etched in huge letters upon some cold black monolith moving through space  We Made This Piece Of Sh*t Movie ? The universe means stuff, y'know, matter and energy and meaning are all connected, what the f*ck do you think the universe is gonna say about The Last Action Hero? You think the universe is going to admire that Arnold Schwarzenegger made a hollow self indulgent cash-grab movie? Think the universe will be impressed with that? "},{"Title":"Dear, oh dear....","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I had never seen this, and since I will be without Arnold films for a while since he pledged to terminate Gray Davis, I rented this...I am truly at a loss for words and cannot describe how bad this film is. I don't know where it started, but I'd have to say when this film was green-lit or given the go-go-go it was all down hill from there.  "}{"Title":"Too Much Of A Good Thing","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Once you`ve seen one Arnold Schwarzenegger movie you`ve seen them all with only the original TERMINATOR and TOTAL RECALL having much in the way of artistic merit . In short Arnie was a one trick pony who starred in either overblown actor proof action blockbusters or instantly forgettable comedies. LAST ACTION HERO is an amalagamation of the two made at the height of Armie`s popularity and what your opinion of it is goes on what you think of a typical Arnie film For the most part I did find it slightly amusing and watchable enough with a scene of Sly Stallone as the terminator bringing a broad smile to my face , but the film is also painfully overblown , self indulgent and overlong with the humour missing the target as often as it hits . Is it just coincidence that just about everyone involved in this movie has little in the way of a Hollywood career these days ?     "},{"Title":"Not his worst, but down there","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Some parts of the movie were funny, I'll admit that, but the kid had to be the absolute worst part of the movie. Arnold's character not knowing his life is actually a movie, and the many spoofs of crappy B-rate action movies were funny, but the kid is supposed to represent the realism (shudder) in contrast to Arnold's world. All he accomplished was providing a very good reason like Jar Jar to go up there and smack him.3/10  "},{"Title":"Excellent Concept Poor Film","Date":"4 January 2008","Score":"5 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The concept of being transported into a movie using a magic pass is original and exciting. What let this film down was the poor casting, story and direction. If you had someone like Spielberg on the case it would have been a magical adventure where one boy's dream comes true. Instead you have a very cheesy film with poor gags and one liners with a washed up action hero thrown in for good measure.There was so much potential for this film, to be so much more but what you end up with is Arnold trying to inject some life into his waning career after the post 80's mussel bound action hero genre which he seemingly ended up (trapped) in. There is still potential for this concept to be revisited but with a better story outline and cast.There's got to be someone out there who could take this concept on and do it justice! "},{"Title":"99 Bottles of Beer not a long enough song","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Words cannot define the atrocity of watching this movie.  It was like being handcuffed to a tree while wild dogs snap at you.  Should I laugh?  Should I just lie perfectly still and hope it ends?  Should I just run away?  Should I take this time to balance my checkbook?What I must have done in a former life to deserve such punishment must have been severe.  Or, just maybe I am just that gulable for believing that HBO actually shows ANY OTHER MOVIES EVER!!!! "},{"Title":"Unbearalby boring!","Date":"23 February 2003","Score":"4 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  I saw the movie in a free screening (otherxise I would never have watched it). This is unbearably boring and predictable; there's nothing innovative in it; as its kind, it's full of clichés. The poor script asks constantly the viewer to laugh - this is ought to be a fantastic comedy - instead, one would laugh at the script for its poorness. The arrogant acting of the little boy killed me. I wasted 2 of my precious hours.  "},{"Title":"Yes, It Really Was That Bad...","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"4 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The story, plot, effects, animation, acting was all a big disappointment. According to his biography; Fantastic, Arnold was very surprised by the poor reviews and really thought the movie was great. What can I say, we all make mistakes. Fortunately he bounced back to make some more excellent films after this one such as Terminator 3, the End of Days, Batman & Robin, Eraser, Terminator 2 3-D and of course True Lies. The movie IMO tried to play between the lines of an action film, an animated fantasy, a children's movie and in places a comedy. The bizarre mix of genres left you feeling lost and confused at times while trying to follow the story line. "}]