[{"Title":"Solid And Curiously Touching Modern Noir","Date":"1 November 2003","Score":"53 out of 59 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ROMEO IS BLEEDING is a fascinating and unusual hybrid of highly personalized old fashioned 40s noir and ultra-violent stylized 90s crime drama. It's the kind of movie they never make anymore, with an unappealing protagonist, an entirely corrupt universe where justice and virtue won't triumph and a heartbreaking ending which basically guaranteed it would never be a commercial hit. Obviously some were put off by these things, accounting for the low rating this minor masterpiece sleeper has. Bur that's part of why I love it!While there is significant man's man violence and the obvious titillation from Lena Olin, this movie is at its heart a pure noir cautionary tale carefully structured to get us to the amazingly powerful payoff, which tops all. The writer (Hilary Henkin) is obviously knowledgeable about her 40s and 50s hard boiled repertoire and fills ROMEO with references and touches which students of the genre will enjoy.But the center of this movie is Gary Oldman. His blisteringly desperate performance as a corrupt cop at the end of the long slide to oblivion defines the movie and is both hypnotic and disturbing. His voiceovers are a worthy throwback to the old Raymond Chandler raps voiced by Bogart or Dick Powell or Robert Montgomery. This isn't a nice or likable character but Oldman is believably relatable as he inexorably tries to feed the hole with his greed and inevitably circles the existential drain.Lena Olin is at her menacing best; this is surely the role which landed her the gig as Sidney's subtly venomous mother in ALIAS, and she takes full advantage of the over-the-top femme fatale characterization with deadly verve. Oldman and Olin share a bizarre chemistry which is fortunate for the script, because Olin's repeated seductions of Oldman (where he basically knows she is luring him to his doom) would never have worked if the actors didn't bring it to life on the screen. There aren't a lot of actresses who can out-menace Gary Oldman but Lena Olin absolutely pulls it off.ROMEO IS BLEEDING is not perfect. Roy Scheider's mafioso character is strangely caricatured and sticks out in a world otherwise occupied by three dimensional players. Scheider tries hard, too, which is a shame because it's just not there in the role. Lena Olin's brazen escape from police custody defies plausibility in the extreme. Gary Oldman is seemingly not quite properly motivated at all times. Nevertheless, the searing denouement to this movie burns all of these concerns away because it is one of the most unexpectedly poignant and heartrending in the last quarter century of noir. If you have a pulse, you will well up at the end, and probably think about a longing that you left behind at some point in your life against your wishes. 9 / 10 "},{"Title":"Outrageously Entertaining!","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"53 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Probably everyone has one favorite movie that they consider their own because few, if any, of their friends share their admiration for it. Mine is this one. I just love this film.It is only one out of over 5,000 movies have either rented or purchased that I watched back-to-back nights after seeing it for the first time. A dozen viewings later, It's still just as good, if not better. It is, start-to-finish, the most entertaining crime movie I have ever watched.Being of fan of film noir, those wonderfully-narrated crime films of the '40s and '50s, Romeo Is Bleeding is right up my alley. I may be wrong but believe this whole film is simply a parody of the film noirs an outrageous take on those movies with an over-the-top villain (Lena Olin, the most fascinating female I have ever come across on film), along with over-the-top characters, action scenes, dialog and narration. It's a wild, fun - albeit sick - ride, not to be taken seriously (which a lot of people did and then thought it was too goofy). Evidence of this film-noir spoof is in the dialog, with a number of fantastic dark-humor lines, many delivered by Olin. One has to see this a number of times to catch all the humor in here. Kudos to screenplay writer Hilary Henkin for her work.Oldman is superb and its the glue that holds this unique story in tact. His narration, including the exaggerated inflection in his voice, is fantastic. I appreciate the American accent this British actor used, too. Olin, as Russian hit- woman Mona Demarkoff, she is one character I guarantee you will not ever forget. Roy Scheider, Annabella Sciorra, Juliette Lewis, Michael Wincott and others - cameos by Dennis Farina and Ron Perlman - all deliver great performances with lines that, well,....as I said, are outrageous. If you love the old film noirs, please check this movie out and remember it's tongue-and-cheek. "},{"Title":"Terrific Movie!","Date":"19 July 2002","Score":"35 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I happened to stumble on this one night. What a mesmerizing movie! Gary Oldman is terrific as a corrupt Detective. You get the feeling from this guy that he was probably once a young, idealistic, honest cop, who has just been slowly manipulated, and seduced by the seaminess, the money, the sex, the despair.How this guy could stray from Annabella Sciorra is beyond me, but that's another story.What you see is this guy's whole life crumble down around him, due to his poor choices, his dishonesty, and his inability to control his cravings. Just about everything that could go wrong does, and his entire life, everything he thought he was working for, virtually blows up in his face.To finally see, and realize all he's lost is played out very well by Oldman. A very well-done, well-acted film. "},{"Title":"May 1st - December 1st","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"39 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The ultimate Gary Oldman Film Noir!  If you want to see a great thriller that makes you sit on the edge of your seat with out being overly gory, check this movie out!Big city cop in It, up to here!  Great story and cinematography! Excellent soundtrack, and the weirdest cop story I've ever seen.  I have seen it, I don't know how many times, but I never tire of it.Everyone does a fine job of acting and Lena Olin is one of the most lethal women in a movie I've ever seen.  She should been cast as a killer in a Bond film by now.Oldman is great with his New York accent, and makes you feel the pain he feels when he loses a toe, or should I say, when it's taken from him.  I won't say how, but he's got some bad friends in low places.It's a love story that gets all f***ed up.  But what an incredible ride through the film.  He's up and when he comes down, it's crash and burn all over the place.Rent it, buy it, just see it.  The DVD is here finally, wish there was a commentary on it, but that's how it goes.  Ciao 4 now xoxox "},{"Title":"You Can Dig One Grave, Or You Can Dig Two...","Date":"10 April 2003","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" One of my favorite lines from Romeo Is Bleeding, an overlooked tribute to film noir. Jack Grimaldi(Oldman)is a crooked cop that rats info to the mob about the whereabouts of mob witnesses. He is also a louse of a husband, cheating on his wife(Sciorra)with a waitress (Lewis). Life, in his view, is good, especially when he gets the money from the mob, which he uses To feed the hole in his backyard. Then, one day, his life slowly goes on a descent to hell when he is assigned to watch over the deliciously wicked Mona(Lena Olin, who should have gotten an Oscar nod for this performance). Mona makes a proposition to Jack Help her fake her death and he will be paid VERY well. The problem is that the mob, led by Roy Scheider, wants Jack to wipe her out, or they will wipe him out. What happens to the characters in this film is what makes this a very intense film. The scenes between Olin and Oldman are hot enough to burn a hole in your television screen. This is a must see film that you have to have in your collection. "},{"Title":"Yet Another Great Performance","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romeo is Bleeding is a tale of a fallen man.  And, portraying this fallen man, is possibly the world's finest actor -Gary Oldman.He lives the story of a bad cop, turned worse, with no chance for redemption.Nobody does it better. Lena Olin is wonderful, too, as the psychotic hit-woman who leads Oldman's Jack Grimaldi down the trail to Hell.The combination of a faboulous story-line, and acting like this, should've garnered much more attention than it did.A wonderful film with spectacular acting. "},{"Title":"One of a kind.","Date":"28 December 2009","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" If you're looking for realism and seriousness don't watch it. Always complaining and whining about over-acting don't watch this. Go see Abel Ferrara's Bad Lieutenant instead if you can handle the realism in that movie at least, has a bit of over-acting too though.Gary Oldman, Lena Olin and Roy Scheider are absolutely brilliant and super-cool in this movie.Beautiful entertaining piece of artwork. Extremely violent and very sexy.I've read a few negative reviews about this movie. I suppose those people can't relate to this. Maybe they never crossed a line that shouldn't be crossed and never as a result of this experienced the inescapable downward spiral leading straight to oblivion. Lucky them. "},{"Title":"My Second Favourite Movie!","Date":"22 June 2005","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Romeo Is Bleeding is an excellent film. It is Number 2 on my all time favourite list. Number 1 is Midnight Run. Why doI like it? It has a great performance by Gary Oldman, (from Sid and Nancy and Track 29). I became a big fan of Oldman and watched everything I could get my hands on by this guy! The direction is first rate by British master Peter Medak (Let Him Have It and Ponatiac Moon) and a very moody jazz score by the talented Mark Isham! I also own the soundtrack. Dariusz Wolski did amazing cinematography on this one. He would later go on to do Dark City and The Mexican. So yeah, a good crew and a great cast, what can I say? Other kudos must go out to the beautiful women in this, Lena Olen and Juliette Lewis are breathtaking in this. And the sex scenes are pretty steamy.....for me anyway. Some light B&D in this. Scrited by Hillary Henken (Roadhouse and Wag the Dog) and a nice character by Michael Wincott.....he says HEY YOU GOTTA GIVE ME SOMETHING,....(to a stranger) WHAT THE @&^#! ARE YOU LOOKIN' AT?! Best line hands down Do you know what is so scary about love? It's that you don't own it. IT OWNS YOU!! That line has a lot of truth, for me. So rent it if you wanna see something dark, edgy, and independent! Thank ya! "},{"Title":"The story of a cop who wanted it bad and got it worse.","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gut-wrenching thriller about corrupt cop Jack Grimaldi who tries to become a very rich man by working at the same time for the New York Police Department and for the Mob as an informant. Things start to go downhill when he falls in love with a cruel and merciless assassin, Mona Demarkov, who's being targeted by the Mob. Romeo is Bleeding is the ultimate film-noir of the 20th century, everything about this film is so weird and evokes a sense of despair and hopeless that watching it &#145;till the last minute puts you gasping for more air. It's hard to put it into words, since Romeo is Bleeding is more like an experience itself, but a simplistic way to define the atmosphere the picture creates is describing it as a cross between the violence and style of a Batman movie (only without Batman) and your typical Humphrey Bogart flick, like The Maltese Falcon. Outstanding performances by Gary Oldman as Grimaldi and Lena Olin as Mona Demarkov. This character was a true present for Olin and she chews the scenery every moment she's on screen. The part was perfect for her, no one could pull this one of so perfectly, except perhaps for Jennifer Connelly, it would be interesting to see her in a role like that, since it seems that Jennifer herself jumped right of a 30's-40's noir movie (I was impressed by her in Dark City). Burt Reynolds or Tom Selleck would have suited perfectly into the role of Grimaldi, but Oldman was great. I also found very interesting that Jack Grimaldi wasn't a bad guy, Oldman constructed the character as a man who just wouldn't fit in the life that was given for him, and his thirst for more and more was responsible for sending his life into a spiral of  violence, decadence and death. "},{"Title":"One of my favorite films of the 1990s","Date":"29 August 2009","Score":"12 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I had to comment because I simply can not believe all of the lower rating numbers this film has received; it's one of my very favorite films of the 1990s.This film is not perfect, as stated by other people, Roy Schieder is terribly miscast (although I was more distracted by his obvious face-lift).Otherwise, this film rocks. The rest of the cast is simply superb and I don't know how in the world Gary Oldman, Juliette Lewis, Annabella Sciorra and Lena Olin were not nominated for the Academy Award in their respective categories. Hilary Henkin has written a tight and compelling script and it's directed with sheer brilliance.Gary Oldmaan is one of the best actors of his generation and nowhere is that comment more obvious than in his performance in this film. As Jack Grimaldi, his New York accent is spot-on. He creates a character which most people will recognize somewhere in his/her life and delivers it with such ease that you live Jack's life through this outstanding actor's performance. Juliette Lewis has never been better. Her performance is funny, touching and ultimately tragic. Annabella Sciorra is glorious as Jack's earth-mother wife. Everything about her performance rings true. But, it's impossible to even find words to describe Lena Olin's Mona Demarkoff. Wow! Beautiful, sexy, tough, cold-hearted, vicious and unrelenting. I'm impossible to ever forget her performance once you've seen it. I haven't seen this film in years, and I'm still upset that she didn't win the Academy Award and wasn't even nominated! When this film failed to get any nominations at all was the time I stopped watching the Oscars.Rent it. You'll never forget it. "}{"Title":"Excellent Modern Noir","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I loved this film. Mostly for the acting, but the story line is compelling and you can feel for even the most rotten of people.This story is a great callback to the Film Noirs of classical film times. Gary Oldman does an incredible job, one of his best IMO, as the corrupt cop, Jack Grimaldi.Lena Olin is one of the most deadly women on the planet...if you see her, run.If all this isn't enough, GO is hot as anything in his role.So rent it for that if you hate Noir but love Oldman.Cheers and happy viewings. "},{"Title":"He was between a rock and a hard place.","Date":"30 March 2013","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Romeo Is Bleeding is directed by Peter Medak and written by Hilary Henkin. It stars Gary Oldman, Lena Olin, Annabella Sciorra, Juliette Lewis and Roy Scheider. Music is by Mark Isham and Gary Alper and cinematography by Dariusz Wolski.Oldman plays corrupt cop Jack Grimaldi who does favours for The Mob in exchange for considerable payments. He has a loving wife and a mistress, but even that can't satiate his lust leanings. So when he is assigned to babysit Russian hit-woman Mona Demarkov (Olin), he is soon up to his neck in sexual yearnings. Something which spells trouble for everyone...A box office flop and savaged by some pro critics, Romeo Is Bleeding is clearly not a film for everyone! Yet for those who like their neo-noir sprinkled with satire and Grindhouse flavours, it's definitely the film for you. It's possible that some folk just didn't get it, that it has its tongue firmly in its bloody cheek? While some of the charges of misogyny and it being a macho fantasy are kind of moot given it's written by a woman! Undeniably it is guilty of going too far over the top, where as it cheekily laughs at itself it forgets to rein itself in, a problem since the finale is surprisingly touching but difficult to accept given the carnage previously.The trajectory of story is classic noir. Hapless corrupt copper Jack Grimaldi loves his wife but finds it easy to cheat with other women. Once the incredibly sexy Mona Demarkov slinks into his view, he's in big trouble. Add in The Mob after him due to not carrying out a hit and you get a noir protagonist spinning towards misery. Grimaldi narrates in snatches to keep the mood simmering on desperation, while visual smarts like a triplicate mirror image - or a scene at a amusement park - further enhance the noir atmosphere. While Olin's Demarko has to rank as one of the most potent femme fatales to steam up the screen.Superbly performed by the principal actors and backed up with solid support, film doesn't lack for quality in that department. And with Wolski's photography and Isham's music also leaving indelible marks on the sleaze and greed mood, tech credits are impressive. If only Medak had not tried to take too bigger a slice of cake then this would be talked about as a neo-noir classic. As it is, as appendages are lost and the pulses raised, this still plays out as a disgustingly sexy, weirdly off-kilter and bloody fun piece of film. 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"Best female movie villain ever!","Date":"7 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gary Oldman is a bad cop who doesn't know when to quit. His luck finally runs out when he runs into the best female movie villain ever! (If you've seen The Usual Suspects, think of her as Mrs. Kobayashi.) I won't say anything more, since knowing anything about this movie before seeing it will spoil it.  "},{"Title":"whoever contributed to giving this masterpiece a 6.2 must think Philistine is a country!","Date":"15 August 2007","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I never usually write on these forums but such a low score for what I consider to be a masterpiece of acting and film-making compelled me to express my opinion.I must admit that I have always preferred films which are narrated (if you note the success of the Shawshank redemption, it is obvious that I am not alone in this) and 'Romeo is Bleeding' is no exception! The acting (in my humble opinion (i never attended film school and didn't take a degree in media studies)) is absolutely fantastic (Gary Oldman can do no wrong) and the storyline is both engrossing and compelling. The film has every element which I crave, both a story to die for and the most powerful characters to ever bring homicidal mania to the screen. The end result is a roller-coaster of a movie portraying the inevitable emotional and spiritual demise of those who sell their soul for temporary material and physical gratification. The most important message I inferred from this movie is, if you are lucky enough to find true love in this life, then treasure it and protect it with your entire being. Once you have it and lose it, the worthlessness of your existence will only be compounded by its loss, and your life will be a metaphorical tumbleweed cast adrift in a desolate desert of despair.F*ckin great movie tho - 10/10 "},{"Title":"Lena Olin Shines!","Date":"17 September 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Lena Olin gives the best performance of any actress cast in the role of a villain with Theresa Russell in The Black Widow running a close second. It's one of the few times where a woman is shown as being just as evil and back stabbing as the men, instead of the standard whore, mistress, or long suffering wife. Normally one has to look to Hong Kong to find strong female leads older than 30. This movie is a must have for any fan of Mafia drama. On a personal note, if anyone has worked behind the scenes of this film, I'd love to know what model revolver Ms. Olin used on the set. BUY THIS FILM! "},{"Title":"Lena Olin smolders, and what a laugh.","Date":"21 December 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really like film noir, but the films were usually done on the cheap, and suffered from it. I much prefer modern noir movies Body Head, Lucky Number Sleven and, especially, Romeo is Bleeding. Bleak, sexy, filled with human frailty Romeo is Bleeding navigates the fall of a weak police detective, led down the path of destruction by Lena Olin, who I would gladly follow into a blast furnace.Not since Ingred Bergman (also a Swede)has an actess done the slow burn like Lena Olin. Olin is a throw back to the studio stars of the 40s and 50s, when women were strong, tough, and oozed sex and seduction. When Olin hangs Gary Oldman out to dry, all you can say is, Dude, that sucks, but I'm with ya. This movie is hardcore...Gary Oldman is hardcore...and Lena Olin is hardcore crazy. Olin seduces Oldman with her smile and her laughter. Such glee, such evil, such sexual energy Olin is the flame and Oldman is the moth, and all men chorus, Dude, That sucks, but I'm with ya. "},{"Title":"Leonesque New York Neo Noir","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Romeo Is Bleeding (1993) Leonesque New York Neo NoirWhat is hell? Hell is when you should have walked, but you didn't. That's hell.Its not very often a film comes from way way out of left field and just blows me away, a film that actually holds interesting scenes knowingly long enough to allow you to drink them in. A film that lovingly caresses the essence of classic Film Noir, updates its violence conventions and very stylishly tells a tall tale that's so dangerously close to being over the top but yet is still believable enough to let it all roll. Romeo Is Bleeding is addictive-ly compelling in the same manner that Sergio Leone re-imagined Westerns are, and you have to scratch your head and wonder what kind of opiate were the critics and the viewing public mainlining on when this accidental masterpiece of a film debuted. This has happened many times before not only in cinema, but even in the long history of the Fine Art world. Films that at first are panned and forgotten that finally through the filter of time get interpreted right.A Neo Noir whose all star cast is excellent but actress Lena Olin steals every scene she is in.The narrated story revolves around the decent of NYPD Sergeant Jack Romeo Gramaldi into Noirsville. Jack's voice over narration while a throwback to classic noir is also unique, it's comprised of two voices, sometimes the present one the good Jim (aka repentant Jack), sometimes the bad Jack, and sometimes he listens to one head sometimes he listens to the other one.Jack looked just like anybody but inside he wasn't like anybody, he was going to do something about the dream. Jack supplies tips on the locations of safeguarded witnesses who will testify against the mob headed by Don Falcone. As Jack puts it he puts a quarter in a slot and $65,000 comes out of a PO Box. He takes the cash and feeds the drain hole he dug for it in the back yard of his Maspeth, Queens row house. Everything was going right until they started going wrong. Jack's tip on Gazzara gets both Gazzara and federal agents massacred by Queen of Queens rackets mob hit woman Mona Demarkov. Olin is Mona, the pieces lithe, sexy, Russian Femme Fatale and she is a smart, devious, scary-sexy one at that. She flashes her sex like a neon sign at the bottom of a dead end road. Jack looks like a deer caught in her headlights. She probably scared the hell out of a lot of conservative prepubescent boy scouts out there with her animal like sexuality in 1994. That may be the reason the film did poorly upon release, the Zeitgeist was't ready for the likes of Mona. She is feline, deadly, a fusion of Diana and Venus, and when she presents herself to Jack, he, and any of us out there that's got a pair of stones are goners. This film is one of the definitive depictions of the Female being deadlier than the Male. Jack is hypnotized between the allure of Mona and the money she baits him with. In the tradition of classic Noirs, its far more powerful a scene with what it doesn't show than say a similar sequence in Basic Instinct.After Demarkov is captured the second time she makes a deal with the feds to turn witness against Don Falcone. Sal asks Jack for her location Jack provides it but the info is wrong and Jack is summoned before Don Falcone who says he will make his wife ugly, burn his house down, and gut his girlfriend, and if he doesn't kill Mona he'll authorize it. On top of all this Jack fancies himself as a ladies man, a straying tomcat Romeo with women problems, both with his long suffering wife Natalie, and with dive waitress Sheri. Jack and Natalie have some poignant scenes together as their life together falls apart. Jack realizes too late that you don't own love, love owns you.Romeo Is Bleeding features a New York City festooned with graffiti, during the era of the World Trade Center. Williamsburg, Bushwick, and the JMZ elevated line in Brooklyn, Maspeth, in Queens, and lower Manhattan are all featured in the film. Sal like a chain smoking bad Bogart, tells Jack outside of Coney Island, that it (New York City) is like the Fall of Rome out there, the streets are filled with animals. Don Falcone acknowledges that he knows the barbarians are outside the gates but tells Jack that that doesn't mean we have to leave the door open.Weaved throughout the film both the sound design and the excellent mood pieces that make up Mark Isham's score fit so well to the scenes and overlaps creating a total atmosphere that I again recall the great collaborations of Leone/Morricone, Hitchcock/Herman and Lynch/Badalamenti. The acting is top notch every aspect of the film works amazingly well. This is a hardcore/hardboiled Neo Film Noir about melancholy and regret. Upon multiple re-watches 10/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated movie","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Every time its May 1 or December 1, I think of this movie. It means something, it must be good to leave that kind of impression on me. When a movie sticks in your mind, even if its just one quote, for so long after you have seen it (and the last time I saw it was 3 or 4 years ago) it means it can't be bad. So thats one thing. Another thing is that it has absolutely top notch cast. Gary Oldman, Lena Olin, Michael Wincott, Juliette Lewis, Annabella Sciorra, Will Patton and James Cromwell-all serious and talented actors. And the story is very interesting too. I mean you have this so-flawed main character who is at the same time very human and even sympathetic in a way that he's lost, he can't really help all the mess he's got himself in. It is a very human character, no? And in the end he does the right thing, but is it too late? Seems so. This movie is just about that-how we sometimes don't wake up and see the light until we have lost everything that was dear to us.What is the flaw with the movie? Maybe its that it didn't perhaps get everything it could from such an interesting storyline. I mean, corrupt cop who's in the mafia's pocket and cheats on his wife yet loves her, then gets caught in the dangerous game with a deadly Russian criminal who is a man eater at the same time...well, maybe not after all. Its a movie that succeeds in pulling it all together rather well and at the same time making us stay on the edge of our seat to see whats gonna happen next. Not many American modern movies have done that. I can mention one that came out the same year as this one, Carlito's Way. But that is a different story and genre really. That was a gangster film noir with a love story thrown in, this is both a film noir and a love story. Thats why the title is ROMEO is Bleeding.Gary Oldman makes one of his strongest performances and the same can perhaps be said for Olin, who is very convincing and menacing in her part as the deadly seductress whose only aim is to devour everything in her path. The ending leaves us in doubt to what really happened, there is no typical Hollywood ending and thats good. It again mirrors how things really go in life as Jack is left on his own waiting anxiously for his wife but nobody, not even he, knows if he will ever see her again. And thats art imitating life. "},{"Title":"Gary Oldman is out-crazied by Lena Olin!","Date":"30 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are a lot of actors who made their initial claim to fame through their dangerous persona, Tim Roth, Nicolas Cage, Mickey Rourke, Jack Nicholson and in more recent years Colin Farrell, to which I say puh-leeze.Ladies and gents I give you Gary Oldman -True Romance, Leon, Immortal Beloved, even Air Force One, he plays a crazy better than almost anyone.In Romeo Is Bleeding Oldman is out-crazied by Lena Olin.Big time.Oldman plays Jack, a corrupt cop who takes money from organized crime by selling out informants, witnesses and such. He tells them where the guy is, they whack him. Jack also juggles a wife, a girlfriend and a roving eye, which leads him to get caught by the FBI trying to get it on with a Russian hitwoman he is supposed to be handing over, (enter Lena) as Mona.Mona gets away, the underworld (headed by Roy Scheider) is p****d, and tells Jack to finish the job personally, or else.Jack was already a little stressed but this tweaks it up a notch, what with his girlfriend and wife both threatening to leave, and when he finds Mona she counter offers with a payment to tell the bad guys that she has been killed, assuming by the time they work out they were duped she will have left the country.The basic lesson here is don't trust anyone, by the time Jack sorts himself out he has Mona and the mob trying to kill him, he loses a couple of toes to the latter at one stage, and over a few meetings works out than Mona is absolutely nuts, and will do anything necessary to get what she wants, and I mean anything.Everything about this film is just a bit off kilter, meaning that at times it can feel quite surreal. The tone is always kept dark and if anything it is perhaps a bit of an update on the traditional noir films of the early years of Hollywood, only with a twist.I did like this film, even though it took a while getting where it was going, I guess sometimes you can over-twist things. I have heard some people worship this film and place it right at the top of their all time lists, and they have every right to, though having seen it a couple times I just don't get it personally.What I put that down to is I think everyone has a phase where they decide what it is that they actually like, as opposed to what they think they should like, believe it or not some never work this out.This in large part explains Gwen Stefani's mainstream success.During the immediate period after you make your decision you upgrade anything a couple points, for me this caused me to elevate movies like Tremors and Deep Cover, and I suppose for some Romeo is Bleeding is their example.Final Rating &#x96; 7 / 10. Watch if only Lena Olin going so far Over The Top that she creates a new level of overacting. (I call it Lithgow-ing. ) If you liked this (or even if you didn't) try oneguyrambling.com "},{"Title":"sometimes, she stays a little longer","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Revisiting Romeo is Bleeding after a number of years, I was struck by what still works, what doesn't, and how wonderful endings allow us to overlook any number of faults that lead up to them.Gary Oldman is Jack, a corrupt DS well-loved by his men looking to build an ill-gotten nest egg towards early retirement. And on one level it is all going so well, except enough is never enough, and he just can't leave the ladies alone.Enter Mona (Lena Olin), a femme fatale who manages to inhabit both the femme and the fatale completely. The cop in Jack knows to cuff her, lock her up, and throw away the key, but the Jack in Jack has another agenda.Romeo is Bleeding is every frame a modern noir thriller, made great by Hilary Henkin's script exhibiting detailed reverence for the genre, and some unparalleled performances by the actors. Oldman is breath-taking, cynical and world-weary delivering his Marlowe-style quips, raw and vulnerable reaching crescendo when he puts a gun barrel in his mouth. It would be too much to ask his co-stars to outshine him, but they certainly keep up. Olin produces a nightmarish laugh at the most inappropriate times, and Juliette Lewis's cocktail waitress (what else?) Sheri's innocence is perfectly ignorant, far too ignorant to survive in this brutal arena. Annabella Sciorra as Natalie completes the trio of Jack's women, his not-so-unaware wife. She is not as cold-hearted towards Jack as Mona, not as infatuated as Sheri, but her flawed love contains a bit of both. She points a gun at him, and we know she knows. Sitting on the porch they have one of those oblique conversations only old married couples know, where every utterance is sub-text, and restraint and feigned ignorance are the name of the game. Jack never quite gets to grips with her, and that is to be his ultimate tragedy.There are hints of Chandler here (the letter to Jack from The Boys), and Chinatown, too, most noticeably in the bloodied, deformed demeanor of the protagonist in the final third, but Romeo is Bleeding is a stylish noir piece that acknowledges its antecedents without racking up debts.And then there is the ending, of such heartbreaking, poignant beauty, Oldman and Sciorra pitch-perfect, deftly shot and edited, a wave you ride and crash on shore with. Startling, stunning, and yet how could this tale have ended otherwise? Sometimes, she stays a little longer. And then she's gone. Not a perfect film, but a perfect ending, and I'll take that every time. "}{"Title":"?????","Date":"18 May 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The hardest reviews to write are the ones about movies that are impossible to grasp. Some examples are the ultra-subtle dramas like The Constant Gardener and Michael Clayton. Of all the movies that I would predict would be in that category, a movie like Romeo is Bleeding would probably be the LEAST likely to be included on that list. It's a full-blown noir film, with interesting characters and a decent story.But to my surprise, I find myself at a loss when trying to find words to write this review. The movie has a great sense of atmosphere, and talented actors (Lena Olin in particular), but the story is a complete mess. It's really hard (if not impossible at times) to figure out what is going on. Hence my troubles.Here is what's clear. Jack Grimaldi (Gary Oldman) is a corrupt cop who plays both sides of the battle between the cops and the mob, run by Don Falcone (Roy Scheider). Trouble starts with Mona Demarkov (Lena Olin), a Russian hitwoman (or so says the IMDb synopsis says) that Falcone wants dead and the cops want alive to bring down Falcone (I think). Grimaldi is caught in the middle, but Mona offers him a solution to play them both and get away with a lot of money.The acting is solid all around. Gary Oldman is solid as Grimaldi. Oldman is not afraid to show a wide spectrum of emotion, and that's what makes him great here. Lena Olin gives promise as a complete psychopath, but strangely Mona isn't as developed as she could be. Still, Olin does what she can with what she has, and Mona is uncannily like Catherine Trammell in Basic Instinct (except that when compared to Mona Demarkov, the Sharon Stone character has the viciousness of a housecat). Anabella Sciorra is terrific as Grimaldi's wife, but again, she's not that developed. The only actor that doesn't work is Juliette Lewis as Grimaldi's lover. Lewis seems out of place in this role, but fortunately her character isn't on screen very much.Romeo is Bleeding has a great noirish atmosphere, complete with the soft jazz soundtrack. It's a throwback to the noir movies of the 40's, even though it's in color (director Peter Medak uses this to his advantage). It would be a great movie if the story had any coherence. "},{"Title":"Oldman drives this modern day Film Noir movie","Date":"25 April 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" With apologies to Jim Carrey and Harrison Ford, Gary Oldman is the best actor to not win an Academy Award. He treats every role that he is given and provides legitimacy for every movie he has been in. For proof of this please rent The Fifth Element and realize that he is the one of two reasons why that movie doesn't suck. Much like that movie, Romeo Is Bleeding is made by the intensity brought to the screen by Oldman in this film noir-esquire type thriller.Oldman (Leon The Professional) stars as Detective Jack Grimaldi, a cop who is on the take with the local mafia. He provides any and all kinds of information including where federal informants are located. However, when the mafia sends a Russian hit man or woman to take care of an informant, she kills not only the informant but the cops protecting him. Mona, played by Lena Olin (Chocolat) gets caught by the cops and Jack is hired by the mafia boss Don, played by Roy Scheider (Jaws) to kill Mona. Mona gets away and hires Jack to double cross Don. Don finds out and threatens Jack's wife and girlfriend as well as Jacks life if he does not kill her. Jack then tries to come up with a plan to get away from everybody and try and save is failing marriage.As I have said Oldman carries the movie with his acting. He has this dry wit that works so well in these anti-hero roles he takes on. In this movie he is a true anti-hero. Whenever he is sitting with his wife, Natalie, played by Annabella Sciorra (Chasing Liberty) you can see that he loves her. All of the money that he takes gets from the mafia is going to make a better life for the two of them. But he also has a girlfriend, Sheri, played by Juliette Lewis (Starsky & Hutch), and he treats her like she is, easy sex. Oh, and she is not the first girlfriend Jack has had, so he has been cheating on his wife for a long time. Through all of this, Oldman gives a convincing performance and never once is he not believable as this very loving but evil guy.Lena Olin is also convincing as this mean spirited, well, bitch. Along the lines of film noir, Mona is the main cause of Jacks downfall, and Lena plays it perfectly. She adds to the tension and is remarkable in that every scene she is in there is a felling of uncomfortableness that Oldman works off of wonderfully. Both Olin and Oldman light up the screen together.I do have a few complaints, not big though. Roy Scheider is miscast as the mob boss. Not to be stereotyping but he doesn't look Italian, he is definitely not give the image of being tough enough, and there is another actor Dennis Farina (Striking Distance) in the movie that would have been perfect for the part, so its hard not to think how much better he would have been than Scheider. I like the acting he has done in the past, especially Jaws, but not his time.One last actor of note, Michael Wincott (The Crow) had a small role in this film. I have always enjoyed his work, especially The Crow and I don't know why he doesn't get more work. His voice and demeanor make him the classic bad guy and I wish he was out there in more prominent roles.I am amazed that a woman wrote the script for this movie. There are no scenes in the movie that I would say a woman would enjoy. This is a guy movie. How Helen Henkin, who also scripted Road House, knows how to make a guy happy I don't know, but she does. Another complaint is that she did a marvelous job in that every word of dialog is important to the story, but sometimes the scene was a little long. I don't know how, but she should have tightened up some of the scenes. The director Peter Mednek should have noticed this and make the movie flow quicker. He did a great job of bringing us a modern day film noir movie. I just think the pacing could have been quicker.Overall, this is an enjoyable movie, which makes the fact that this was a challenge from Benn all the more fun. This is not a movie for everyone, especially women, so if you feel like watching a decent film noir flick, rent this, just pay attention to every thing and you will enjoy it. Oh yeah, you get to see Lena Olin's breasts too.*This movie and others can be read at www.bbmc.dockratent.com* "},{"Title":"I was expecting much more than I got. (SPOILERS)","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is by far the worst film I've seen Gary Oldman in.  Sure, he is good, but the film itself stinks.  There is a difference between a nicely convoluted noir plot and an illogical mess.  Romeo is Bleeding strives for the former and ends up as the latter.  Sure, it's unusual (legs around head driving scene), but scarcely is there any motivation for the characters to do what they do, and so we (or I) lose interest.  It could have been so much more, given the cast and plot.  As it is, it's horrid. "},{"Title":"possibly the most underrated film of all time.","Date":"2 January 2004","Score":"15 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  director medak has produced a movie classic; lena olin and gary oldman give (by far) the most outstanding performances of the year in this very complex tale. U WILL NEVER SEE A CHARACTER LIKE OLINS AGAIN IN YOUR LIFE. easily the best movie of 1993. "},{"Title":"Deliciously good neo noir","Date":"8 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Peter Medak's Romeo Is Bleeding is one of the most overlooked crime films of the 90's. It's a downbeat, pitch black, simmering sociopathic neo noir filled to the brim with excellent character actors and actresses inhabiting various delicious cop, gangster and femme fatale roles. It has a lyrical, moody poetry to it it, evoking the noir flicks of the 40's albeit with a decidedly modern, violent and demoralizing bite to it. Gary Oldman, in a monumentally underrated performance, plays Jack Grimaldi, a sleaze bag cop attempting to play the Police force, the Feds and the mob against each other in order to make obscene amounts of dirty money for himself. He's a two timing, amoral asshole of a protagonist, but Oldman plays him in a stray dog, sheepish way that you just can't help root for him, and feel like an outlaw doing so. Of course his scheme falls apart (as all schemes like this do, in movie land) spectacularly so, at the hands of Mona Demarkov (Lena Olin) a tyrannical, deranged Russian contract killer with a penchant for gleeful brutality and unhinged violence. Olin is a wonder in the role, a grinning black velvet spider and a source of constant nightmares for Jack, as well as the audience. The film has a darkly comic, almost fairy tale like quality to it, a sense of inevitable karmic catastrophe at the hands of the mob and the law. Oldman mournfully narrates the proceedings from a hazy desert enclave that may or may not just be a dream, and yearns for a second chance. Medal directs with steely, melodramatic precision. Juliette Lewis does her early 90's ditzy thing to perfection, Annabella Sciorra is sweet as Jack's poor wife, the only sympathetic character in the whole deal, Roy Scheider feels a bit miscast as the vengeful mob boss, but Ron Perlman, Michael Wincott, Will Patton, James Chromwell, David Proval and Dennis Farina are top notch in welcome cameos. I feel like this script alone should have gotten a lot more attention, let alone the simply stunning, beautiful film that it has turned into. Anyone who's a fan of crime films, noir, good story lines, and this troupe of actors (and really, how can you not be, just look at this cast!!) will love this. "},{"Title":"WOW - Lena Olin Steals a Movie..","Date":"14 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" which strictly speaking should not be stealable in the first place.I mean, on the surface this is one of those oddball in-color film noire gangstery films which Hollywood has become so fond of recently.It has an especially clever script and reminds me in subtle ways of the many cross-arcs in Lucky Number Slevin.The two stars Gary Oldman and Lena Olin both do not usually get the chance to do a star turn, they are both very under-used as primary characters, and that should be the end of the review.But it is not. Olin gives an extraordinary performance, part sensuality, part evil genius, part crazy. By the end of the film she makes Kevin Spacey look like a chartered accountant.Also a nice cautionary tale on letting your reach exceed your grasp.Extraordinary. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Don't pay heed to temptation, for his hands are so cold, you gotta help me keep the devil, way down in the hole.","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Franticly looking around for a Neo-Noir to watch for a poll that was being held on the Classic Film board for the best movies of 1993,I was disappointed to find that my original choice of Neo-Noir viewing in John Dahl's Red Rock West was being sold at a too expensive price.Not giving up on tracking down a Noir from 93,I was thrilled,when after spending an hour of searching around everywhere online,I finally found a Neo-Noir that seemed to offer all of the dark delights that I had been searching for.The plotFrustrated over his job being at a standstill and there being a huge gap between his dreams and the money in his wallet,police officer Jack Grimaldi decides to become an informant for a powerful gangster called Don Falcone,with Grimaldi's leaked details to the mob over current police investigations being exchanged for more cash than Jack has ever seen,which leads to Grimaldi deciding that the only safe place where he can safely keep this vast bundle is in a sewer drain,that is based in the back garden of the house which he lives in with his wife,Natalie.Happy over now having enough cash that allows Jack to buy whatever he and Natalie dream of,along with also being able to afford keeping a mistress/girlfriend on the side for the first time ever,Jack accepts Don's new request of helping to get rid of a former friend/fellow gangster of Falcone's called Mona Demarkov,who along with currently being held by police,is also being very vocal in saying that she is now bigger and more powerful than Falcone.Planning to get rid of Don's problem' right away,Jack finds from the moment that his eyes set on Mona,that he becomes tantalised by the alluring sensual powers that she posses,which leads Grimaldi to excitingly suspect that he has finally met a Femme Fatale,who will turn out to be more deadlier than any of the Julliets that Grimaldi has spent his life being round.View on the filmProving that Neo-Noirs do not just come from a mans world,the fantastic screenplay by Hilary Henkin gives the movie a deliciously Black Comedy scar deep across both its cheeks,with Henkin showing Jack Grimaldi's (played by a wonderfully scrambled Gary Oldman) happiness over feeling the garden drain with a newly discovered flow of cash,slowly transform into an addiction,where the whole meaning of his existence lays in continuing to make his money pit go deeper by any means necessary.Working closely with the precise editing of Walter Murch,cinematography Datiusz Wolski and director Peter Medak shoot this terrific Neo-Noir in stylish low angles,which along with showing how low life the characters are,also creates a strong subtle atmosphere for the viewer that they are seeing Grimaldi's life slowly sink into the pit,which he has unintentionally dug out for himself.Along with the stylish low angles,Medak and Murch also give the film a surprisingly surreal edge by revealing the unrolling state of mind that Jack finds himself in,from having nightmares in a fairground ride,to seeing every woman that he has gone with aim a gun at him.Featuring not 1,but 3 Femme Fatale dames!,each of the actresses show a determination in making their own pointed-heel mark in being the leading dame of this Neo-Noir,with Annabella Sciorra slowly revealing a real bite as Natalie,whilst Juliette Lewis brilliantly shows Grimaldi's girlfriend/mistress Sheri finding out that she has gotten too close with sinister folk who will now not let Sheri going back to her normal life,and steaming up the screen the moment she arrives,the beautiful Lena Olin mixes a strong,erotic sensual appearance,with a psychotic,demon like laughs that leads Jack to realising how deep in his self created money pit he has sunk. "},{"Title":"Gary Oldman goes for the green and loses the gold","Date":"30 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Life is a matter of not wanting too much of anything, not trying to be God or play God, not always looking for grass that you think is greener but isn't, being yourself, rolling with the punches, believing in and trusting the man upstairs, playing it fair and square, and, above all, following where love leads and not destroying it when it shows up or you feel it. Break the rules and you pay for it. You lose what's good but what you fail to appreciate because you're too dumb or greedy to know any better.Gary Oldman is nothing short of terrific in this movie, and very effective are the three women with whom he is involved his wife (Annabella Sciorra), his waitress girl friend (Juliette Lewis), and a very twisted Russian hit woman (Lena Olin). Oldman breaks most all the rules I just mentioned, and he is the loser for it. He finds that hell is on this earth, and he says so.He falls in love with his stash of dirty cash. He sells out his job and buddies. He betrays his wife. He is greedy for more money and sex. He doesn't stick with his love. He ends up in the middle of nowhere (another hell) with a bit of hope and memories, and that's after attempted suicide (the gun was out of ammo). Gary goes for the green and loses the gold, his wife. A good woman, a loyal woman, is worth more to a man than any amount of precious jewels. So goes the proverb, and this is true.His wife is so disillusioned with him that she has lost all feeling for life. She believes in nothing. She despairs and now fears death. He has killed her hopes and dreams. She never comes backs to him.His girl friend loves him and is under the illusion he loves her. She's an honestly frustrated soul, but she'd get over it except that he ends up killing her too, not only directly but by getting involved with the Lena Olin. She's a fantastic character who gets sadistic satisfaction at betraying every man in sight, but she gets her comeuppance too, much to her surprise.It's a simple morality tale. Oldman is a dirty cop and a dirty husband and a weak and misdirected man who loses what he had. He pays for it.Despite all that, he's an enormously sympathetic character, because we all have his weaknesses. We want him to beat the odds and win, and he tries very hard to do it. We're rooting for him and ourselves and everyone else who tries, and we know we're all going to fall down to various degrees. What man might not be tempted by Lena Olin's charms, even knowing what a bitch she is and how dangerous she is? What man might not fall for Juliette Lewis offering a simple and uncomplicated love? But why Gary may have betrayed his wife for her sister or her niece, we do not know. There is no surer way to destroy a marriage than adultery.The movie is told in flashback and with voice over narration, reminding me of how Carlito's Way was done. It was effective, lending a bittersweet, sorrowful, and at times comical tone to the essentially tragic proceedings. The music score was very effective at times in its use of a jazz trumpet. In fact, it was written and played by jazz trumpet player Mark Isham. Jazz scores as in such film noirs as Elevator to the Gallows and Odds Against Tomorrow are often very effective, and this movie shows how it can be done in a neo-noir. "},{"Title":"Unique, even if its plot isn't","Date":"16 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Legend says that, after seeing this film, Bon Jovi decided not to allow their ballade Always to be included in it, even though it was written for the film. It's their loss.Romeo is Bleeding is one of those films you either love or hate; it's energetic, unapologetic and raw. Not subtle at all. It goes between a perfect film noir and a parody of the genre. But the best thing about it is the fact it doesn't take itself too seriously.It is a story of a dirty cop and a mysterious, dangerous woman. Gary Odlman and Lena Olin are perfect in their roles, neatly over the top when situation demands it. They understand what kind of the film they're in, even if we don't get it; but everything fits so well at the end.No, it is not a serious, nostalgic film noir. Nor is a highly sexualized 90s crime drama along the lines of Basic Instinct. It's both, at the same time, and more. Some of the action - or sex - scenes will make you laugh, and at one point you might think what you're watching is pure trash. But somehow, it's part of the charm. Because even with the simple (and, dare to say, predictable) plot, this film manages to be unique and memorable. "},{"Title":"Exciting Thriller","Date":"15 February 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was looking at blurays/dvds at Carrefour a few days ago (European version of Walmart) and I saw the DVD of Romeo Is Bleeding in the cheap DVD section. Generally these are crap films which nobody buys. It was 5.99 TL (Turkish liras). I looked at the back cover and saw that Gary Oldman, whom I think is one of the most underrated actors ever, starred in the film. I consider him to be very talented. I bought the film thinking it might be good and it was not only good, it was actually amazing. The cinematography was beautiful, Oldman and Olin were very good in their roles, the rest of the cast was also good though I think James Cromwell could have a bigger part. The storyline was good and I was not bored for a second, I was interested in what was going to happen next throughout the movie so the pacing was well adjusted.The film is a film noir set in the 90s with a sort of New York we have not seen before. Some people might claim the psycho woman character was unrealistic but I do not think so, many criminals are not like normal people, and she's a prime example.In short, this is one of the most unknown great films that can be bought for a low price. It is underrated and not known by many people, but it is still a classic crime thriller. "}{"Title":"Part Two of the Gary Oldman Double Feature","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Right after the Professional. A quite sick and sadistic tale of a talented cop gone horribly bad and the woman he is obsessed with. Oldman plays a detective named Jack Grimaldi who sells out witnesses to the Mob but meets his match when he attempts to sell out Mona Demarkov, a Russian hit woman who is as clever and dangerous as she is gorgeous. Grimaldi must find and kill Mona or a mob boss will kill him. This film had a great supporting cast and an unusual ending. Also look for Dennis Farina as a Mafia killer turned stool pigeon. You can't see him clearly but his voice is unmistakable. The violence is shocking but what do you expect from a crime movie I would have been disappointed if there hadn't been. Nudity is kept to a minimum. Definitely worth watching. "},{"Title":"A solidly enjoyable noir","Date":"13 July 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Jack Grimaldi is a cop who dreams of bigger things.  In his back garden is a hole that he continually feeds with money with every job he does for the mob &#150; a witness handed over here, a blind eye there, it all adds up.  When a dangerous killer, Mona Demarkov, is taken  into custody, Don Falcone wants her dead, but Jack's greed and other complex situations conspire to bring his playing both sides to an end.Shown as a strange `Romeo' double bill with `Romeo Must Die' I gave this a shot even though I knew they had little in common but the name.  This film immediately sets out it's stall as an old fashioned noir, with a clearly end-of-the-line Jack giving us the narration from a broken down diner.  The plot may be rocket science but it does just what it needs to do.  Yes, it may fall into clich at times but that comes with the territory.  The plot works well and contains enough twists to keep the interest.The dark tone combined with excessive violence and plotting make for a good film which I found enjoyable despite all being a bit hackneyed at times!  As well as the stylish and slick presentation the film also has a good cast &#150; so full that many well known names have comparatively small parts.  Oldman is an assured lead and is watchable throughout &#150; he convinced me of his character at every step of the way.  Lewis and Sciorra are both pretty poorly used and both are only average when viewed beside an OTT performance from Olin.  The support cast is deep in faces from cameos (Scheider, Farina and Perlman) to a wealth of supporting faces (Proval, Patton, Cromwell etc).It may stick firmly to well worn tracks but this is a good example of a modern noir.  It follows all the rules of the genre and thus feels a little like a clich, but it has sufficient style and confidence of it's own to be worth watching. "},{"Title":"Stultified noir","Date":"27 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This has the basic fulcrum of noir; red-haired devilish femme fatale, the schmuck who is bedeviled by desire for sex and money, looking bamboozled while being smitten by cruelly ironic fate, desire that bends reality and manifests in offbeat ways. I do like that we have it dictating metaphorical spaces of being lured and trapped by that desire.A hole in the ground that he has to keep feeding with money. Watching through binoculars at sex across the street, inflamming the desire. A dream where he's inside a giant ferry wheel and buffed around while she is playing his life at dice down below. The embarrassment of rolling on the floor with her when his colleagues walk through the door. It ends in an aptly noirish way, quoting Detour, where he's been the narrator gone mad as he waits hopelessly in some desert limbo, flicking through the photo-album that chronicles a life wasted when desire entered the pictures and all this (diner, photos) as being trapped in his own mind that relives the past and is conjuring the film itself.Even that is rather intermittent here, not the result of focused vision like the Coens or Almodovar did. Truth be told, I'm simply not too enamored of the obviousness that accompanies many of these modern attempts at film noir. It's like an excessively made up face wearing with some effort a selfconscious grimace as it makes its way through the amoral occasion. For whatever reason I am reminded a lot of Lynne's attempt at Lolita; something that was elusively fluid in its original guise, stultified by too much focus on grooming appearances.Oldman affects his usual twitching self, rather apt in the whole thing. The femme fatale can be overtly sexual in ways she couldn't in Hays code days.Noir Meter 3/4 | Neo-noir or post noir? Neo "},{"Title":"Scumbag is bleeding more like","Date":"23 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie was the best when it tried to be sexy. When it got to actual violence and life philosophy, it was garbage. Scumbag cop who does everything wrong is the hero? And he is so terrible at everything.So much time passes while Gary Oldman is confused, Gary is limping, Gary is smoking, Gary is making over the top facial expressions. His character is an idiot.He closes his eyes and lays his head back when in the car with a mafia hit woman. He shoots her in the leg later after she tries to kill him and then drives off with her in the back seat almost waiting for her to wake up and choke him some more.Was happy to try an old movie, but this movie has so much false advertising. His girlfriend on the side is so face ugly, and the tragic hero is just too stupid to care about. "},{"Title":"A lot of bleeding can be found in this Peter Medak film sans Romeo !!!!","Date":"2 June 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The main character in the film 'Romeo is bleeding' is not at all an ideal person to deal with as he has too many bad qualities. He is a corrupt cop who is turning out to be a bad influence on his wife. No woman has been able to get emotional satisfaction from him as he has deceived all of them including his mistress as well as wife. As a film noir with plenty of comic touches, Romeo is bleeding begins with the protagonist explaining his downfall. It might sound to be a very ordinary description of a film noir but director Peter Medak has made his film interesting especially in the manner the story has been told. He brings the protagonist closer to his contacts in order to understand his motives. Although actresses Juliette Lewis and Annabella Sciorra have got limited lines for their secondary roles, they have managed to do their best to change their man. Finally, it is actress Lena Olin who get maximum amount of praise in her role as a femme fatale who is responsible for ruining everybody who oppose her. For his philandering ways, Gary Oldman was a perfect choice as a policeman cum romeo whose irresponsible actions bring about his downfall. "},{"Title":"The film is an exercise in noir, playing out more like a 'what's what' of the genre than anything else.","Date":"19 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" When it comes to the genre of film noir, you know what to expect if you look closely enough. It's the same with the Western genre or the Science Fiction genre &#150; you go into one of these sorts of films knowing what to expect and the same can be said for film noir. Director Peter Medak basically uses Romeo is Bleeding as an example he knows what to put into a film noir and thus, it's no real surprise that masses of people don't like the film since the majority will not know what to look out for and why such content is included.There are plenty of references to noir as a whole. The way the story is told through flashback, the blatant femme fatale, the protagonist/focus working as some sort of law enforcer and the way certain characters such as the mob boss, the 'rat' and of course the femme fatale are included. Romeo is Bleeding is no doubt an entertaining film with a smart idea and a basic if not effective plot but its look and feel is a little disappointing and as someone who has seen multiple film noirs and neo noirs, I found it to be a disappointment overall. The film feels like a cross between Angel Heart (1987) and Basic Instinct (1992) as its voiceovers and disturbing content is mixed in with a very dangerous female character. Why I think Romeo is Bleeding leans more towards the film noir genre rather than the neo noir genre is because of its content. Jack (Oldman) is a law enforcer but not a lone private eye since he has his authoritarian buddies around him most of the time. He narrates his story in the same way Walter Neff does in Double Indemnity, telling us what happened from a safe place yet Walter was shot and injured physically, Jack is injured psychologically. Mona Demarkov (Olin) wears all the bright red lipstick and jewellery and is seductive enough to represent a femme fatale but it's at a very basic level &#150; she just wants to antagonise Jack rather than out and out get rid of him. Again, this is director Medak showing us he knows his stuff about noir without really convincing us these people are characters, more-so wax work model examples in a noir museum.What I did find clever is that the main difference between film and neo noir is its content and how that is played with in Romeo is Bleeding. Neos are more violent and have more sex and profanity but Romeo is Bleeding doesn't have much of this until its climax. We see Sheri (Lewis), Jack's barmaid squeeze on the side, in lingerie at various points and we see Mona in bondage attire towards the end on top of Jack but we never actually see the sex. Jack also rather unfortunately loses one of his body parts at one point in the film but we don't see it get 'removed', just him turning up at home with a whole lot of blood in a certain place. I feel this is Medak's 'nod' to film noir in terms of censorship. Sure, there is blood but the aftermath of the taboo events are emphasised not the acts themselves. This is similar to Double Indemnity and other classic noir but more distant to neo noir such as Angel Heart and Basic Instinct where the violence and sex is full on, graphic and we see it all. Romeo is Bleeding also utilises its location very well The constant passing of L-trains, the graffiti covered walls, the way lights are missing their lamp shades when they need to but have them when required all act as great visuals to combine with the voiceovers and the sax music at various points to make and noir fan get excited. The film, however, just plods most of the time and although I found it interesting I feel the majority of people will dislike the film but that's probably because they see Gary Oldman is in it and realise it's a crime film and probably tell themselves it'll be good before even realise what they've got here. This is an exercise in noir &#150; both film and neo and should only be tackled by those interested and familiar with the genre(s). "},{"Title":"**Warning Spoilers** I really liked this movie about being alone.","Date":"9 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Gary Oldman gives a very performance of a bad cop on the take. Lena Olin is great and gorgeous and such a tease and such a good bad guy. Roy Scheider gives a very good performance as someone who is willing to hurt you, say cut off a toe or two. But the tables are turned on Roy and what goes around, comes around. Roy does a fantastic scene knowing his going to die. Roy is very terrified and his acting is right one cue. Roy makes a great small role in the movie. This is a good movie, do not confuse it with Romeo must Die <- that movie is terrible, but this movie is great. You will love it. I loved it. This is the way movies should end. He does not get the girl, He does not live happily ever after. He is alone, haunted by memories of past loves, haunted every time the door opens to his coffee shop, he can see images of what he would like to see. He does not see them. Remember this movie when you think you can get away with it. Remember this movie when you hurt the one you love. Remember this movie when you are alone. "},{"Title":"not too sure...","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  i'm not too sure how much i like this movie. i had trouble getting through it both times i've seen it (once more than five years ago, and just the other day). it seems that this movie is easily interruptible, if that makes any sense. the acting is good, so is the action and gore. the story is so so, but better than most cops and robbers/caper movies generally are. oldman is great. he doesn't disappoint. neither does the writing. however, i can't say that it's that good because really, if it were, i wouldn't have been too distracted to sit through it all in one go (i stopped and started this movie at least four times in two days of watching it)...and i wasn't really all that busy. all in all, it's worth a go. it is especially good in places that other movies lack. i say this is one for tarantino fans or oldman fans.7/10* "},{"Title":"Alternatingly Brilliant & Perplexing, But Still Good","Date":"3 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Previous reviews have stated all the obvious issues people seem to have about this movie.  It is a maybe bit over the top at times and the plot is possibly somewhat too rambunctious or perplexing or something to be believable at other points in the movie.  But in the end I cared about Oldman's character and really wanted to see what was going to happen to him, and what would happen with he and his wife.  ***POSSIBLY VERY MINOR SPOILER AHEAD***The scene at the end of the movie where he is waiting for his wife and reflecting on his situation, is very moving and real and believable.  It is hard for me to explain why in the end I cared so much for what Oldman's character was feeling and about his predicament, given the direction the movie took to get there.  But I still did care.  I think anyone who likes movies that aren't predictable with a little edginess too the plot, will really like it.  Check it out, man. "},{"Title":"Violent, perverse, sexy, sad.","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is almost as fun as reading Dr Bob's review below where he seems to be channeling James Ellroy. One of the strangest reviews I've yet read here.Romeo is Bleeding is a wild ride. All the performances are good, especially Olin who is a tornado of sexy evil malevolence. The movie ends on what I thought was an extremely touching note. Some might find it contrived but I liked the ending very much. An intense, fun and wild picture for those with a taste for something different. "}{"Title":"A grand neo-noir","Date":"11 June 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can never remember that this movie is as recent as it is, because it feels to me like a mid-80's neo noir rather than a mid-90's noir. I think that's a good thing. YMMV.Gary Oldman does some of his better work in this movie, but Lena Olin Rocks My World. She is WAY beyond bad, and there is more than a little sex in her violence. There are some great plot twists along the way, and the tone reeks of the emptiness of American life.There's voiceovers, long shots of The Big Empty, and Williamsburg Brooklyn before gentrification. What more could you want? "},{"Title":"A case of delinquent morals and misguided affections","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" ***************Contains spoilers*******************Perhaps the darkest of Oldman's roles. A fine pair of acting and directing make You actually cringe with anticipation and fear. You want so badly to direct the lead character to a clear path. His direction is self paved as a crooked cop who dabbles with organized crime, a thoughtless husband, careless lover, and a crooked dancer high on greed low on concern. It is hard to imagine that such a person as the films early unconcerned character exists. There are stylish scenes on rooftops, amusement parks, cheap hotels, backyards and even a back room of a bar. If that person does in fact exist Oldman depicted him vividly. The most important moment of the film for me was one in which Romeo is secretly dictating a love letter while in grave danger of his life, and even then he manages to create extraordinary lies and unbelievable denial. In addition to being a dark noir piece there is a horror story, and a morality play hidden within the dark images and brash dialogues. This is not a film for everyone, there is a barrage of violence and anger stewing. There is some impure romance in this movie but, it is not at all a love story. "},{"Title":"A flamboyant, ghoulish 21st century gangster western.","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The most original contemporary film where a female dominates the action in such a grotesque and inhumane way leaving the viewer unsure of what he has seen; and not just once, but several times. It is a 21st century western that could have never been made in the 40's or even 50's. The closest strength which drive Lena Olin I can only recall in Spencer Tracy's performance in BAD DAY AT BLACK ROCK, except he was a protagonist, whereby, Olin is the personification of pure guile and without any apparent soul. She is sexy, tough, and steady and always sure of herself. Having seen it several times, I cannot imagine any actress except, perhaps the young Joan Crawford being able to pull the part off, except she might not have had the brazen sexual passion which makes one almost fear Olin...Crawford would mainly had the drive she showed in the campy JOHNNY GUITAR. This film is so ghoulish and wicked that I doubt that even most adults should avoid it if they haven't the stomach to watch pure evil portrayed with absolute conviction. "},{"Title":"My favorite Oldman film","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gary Oldman in my mind is the best actor of our time.  Romeo Is Bleeding is a incredible movie with a terrific cast and soundtrack.For some reason though Gramercy pictures released It overseas on DVD but not in North America, why is this? "},{"Title":"A movie to watch and listen","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romeo is bleeding is one of the best low key American films i have ever seen.The performances are exquisite and the dialogue is short of being totally poetic. The use of the voice over is surreal in style and sometimes very tragic. the film has every element. Romance, intrigue, Black comedy and brutal violence. I am not a big fan of huge violence but it is done so powerfully in this movie you can not avert your eyes. You need to watch the terror.Gary Oldman shines as the corrupt sergeant and Lena Olin is perfect as Mona the assassinIt is a great renter. "},{"Title":"Film Noir is alive in the 1990's.","Date":"4 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  To those of you who like nice, happy, Hollywood endings- screw you.  Tie yourself to your chair, tape your eyelids open, and prepare for a thrill ride through the darkest bits of the human psyche.  This movie is dark, ominous, and ultimately depressing.    Jack Grimaldi (Gary Oldman)pays for his bad deeds and he pays big.  One could say that he perhaps pays the ultimate price- he is condemned to a life without love.  The movie is beautifully executed both technically and dramatically.  The Mark Isham soundtrack fits perfectly, creating a dark, brooding atmosphere that propels the characters ever forward into midnight.  The ending might not be happy, but you'll find the darkness quite a comfortable fit. "},{"Title":"Contemporary Film Noir with excellent performances.","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romeo is Bleeding is a riveting thriller. It is a contemporary film noir. Classic elements of film noir are represented the shadowy and dark city, the jazz score, the cop on the take, the wife, the mistress, the mob, the double crosses, the sad end. Romeo is Bleeding, however, does noir better than most. Strong roles by great actors is key to this movie. The performance of Lena Olin alone is enough to make this film stand out. But there is so much more to this film.....The film begins with a foreshadowing. An intriguing opening that keeps you hooked throughout the movie, trying to figure out how the film arrived there. We are introduced to Jack Grimaldi, a cop who has made some bad choices. He is a cop on the take, working for the mob. Basically, Jack sells the lives of witnesses, $65,000 at a time. He lies to himself by saying what he is doing isn't all bad, since his instructions are to kill only the witness and not the cops. But soon the mob ignores him and murders cops who are guarding the witness. Jack starts to want out, but the mob boss reminds him that he's in deep, too deep to get out. He is given another assignment to find Mona DeMarkov, an assassin the mob wants dead....When Jack is assigned by the police to guard Mona, we can't believe his luck. His assignment will be easy, we presume he has Mona, now all he has to do is make a phone call and collect his money, right? Wrong! Mona is a formidable woman who's not so easy to kill. Add to that Jack's fascination with his sexy target, and we know we're in for a wild ride. Ultimately, Jack's undoing is his attraction to Mona. She seduces Jack and draws him into her deadly web. They play an intricate cat and mouse game, double crossing each other again and again. Just when you think its over, the plot twists and shocks you. I must comment on the wonderful performances in this film. Gary Oldman is terrific in his role as the cop, caught between the cops, the mob and Mona. The whole film shows his progression from a corrupt cop who cheats on his wife to a man fighting for his life, then to someone trying to do the right thing and finally to what we see at the end. Incredible! Lena Olin is also amazing as the sexy assassin. A strong female character as an interesting villain is a rarity and Lena Olin plays it perfectly. Annabella Sciorra is good in her small role as Jack's wife loyal, but sad. When the film ends, her character turns out to be a surprise we didn't see coming. (I hope you see this movie so you know what I mean). Finally, the plot is terrific. The cat and mouse game between Jack and Mona is riveting, as we wonder how it will all end. The ending of the film does turn out to be a surprise, in spite of the foreshadowing in the beginning. An unforgettable film......   "},{"Title":"Outstanding entertainment!","Date":"5 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Dennis Farina, in a brief and uncredited role, is chillingly superb as a hood (while eating a steak dinner) matter of factly, describing (to the cops guarding him) his participation in the brutal murder of an associate.His scene is a gem that stands out in a movie of great performances by the cast.  The opening setup frames a mesmerizing story you will want to see a second, third or more times. "},{"Title":"If you're not a police officer, DON'T READ!","Date":"15 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Big city police officers with basement-filth addictions will identify with much of this masterpiece.  I did.Jack has a problem;  Money and Sex.  When he's not getting enough of one, he seeks way too much of the other.  Jack had big dreams.  And, he was doing something about those dreams.  Everything was going great, until one day...everything started going wrong.  You see, there's not much future in playing four sides against the middle.  Especially when the four sides include a mobster, an opposing mobster (a female sex-goddess), a beautiful supporting loving wife, and a super-hot luscious girlfriend.  Jack is not just bleeding...he's hemorraging!If you're a police officer, this In-Service Training Film is a requirement! WARNING  HAVE DRINK IN HAND WHEN VIEWINGLike Jack says, Hell...is when you should have walked away, and didn't. Good Luck! "},{"Title":"Oldman Is Bleeding","Date":"3 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A must see...! It's truly a man's world, about usual guy who's willing to take everything for himself. Real typical man.The story is much basic, but the casts are perfect. Gary Oldman is at his best, combined with Anabella Sciorra's innocent and lovely looks, Juliette Lewis' child-lazy acts, and Gena Olin's violent acts, this movie finally make it's shots.The ending, although I've seen it in some Hong Kong movie, is still much original. Very strong and gripping...Watch this movie with your spouse... he..he..he.. "}{"Title":"One of the Wildest Rides You'll Ever Take","Date":"5 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Lena Olin is vicious, frightening and extremely sexy in this offbeat film noir about a corrupt cop (Gary Oldman), his bored wife (the beautiful Annabella Sciorra) and his dimwitted mistress (Juliette Lewis). Sometimes it's bloody, sometimes it's funny and sometimes it's very sensual. But, it's consistently alive and truly a unique film experience.There is an insane sequence towards the end when a handcuffed, blood soaked Lena Olin wraps her legs around Gary Oldman's head while he's driving a speeding car. It sounds odd, and it looks even odder, but it's probably a classic action sequence. Romeo Is Bleeding didn't get much attention when it was released and didn't do much at the box office, but I believe it will rise above obscurity in the future and be hailed as a truly original piece of cinema. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Dark movie, horrific death scene that stayed with me, but good.","Date":"31 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This was a really good movie if you like the genre. It was psychotic and filled with mayhem. Kind of a watered down Natural Born Killers minus the artful touch. Lena Olins Character is just purely evil. There is one disturbing scene which i cringe at everytime I see this movie***spoiler***In this movie you have a lot of good actors and actresses. My favorite being Juliette Lewis. In the movie she plays a blonde haired New York maid named Sheri. She has some interesting scenes, but in the middle of the movie she gets on a train and leaves jack. So we think. Later on we discover that she had been kidnapped and taken to a building where Jack shoots her thinking she is Lena Olins character. But it doesnt end there. Jack after crying and considering suicide, leaves her body there. Lena Olin then comes in takes sheri's body and lays it on the floor. She then procedes to cut off sheri's arm and replace it with hers, which she had previously cut off! Then she lites sheri's body on fire and leaves. It was all done to make it look like it was Olins characters body. The scene is chilling and disturbing, but it was well done and gives the movie even more mayhem.***end spoiler***If you like gory unpredictable movies with lots of twists and surprising ending, check this out. "},{"Title":"_Romeo Is Bleeding_ and _Fargo_","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Coen brothers must have seen _Romeo Is Bleeding_ before they wrote _Fargo_.  The themes are very similar- each starts with a simple man trying to get *just a bit* ahead by stepping *just a bit* outside the lines of ethical conduct.  The rest of each movie is a chain of increasingly crushing events that spiral to a final, inevitable conclusion.What I appreciate the most about these films is how unforgivingly fate treats the two lunks.  They both think they can get away with a small little scam (of at least what they convince themselves is a small little scam), but by taking that first, almost innocent step they unwittingly lock themselves into a breathtakingly steep dive down toward rock bottom.And they are absolutely helpless to escape.  By the middle of both films these two have a dull, dazed look about them, as if they can't believe 1) what is happening, and 2) that they have brought it upon themselves, however unintentionally.And what I think we don't like to admit is that there is a lot of Everyman in these two.  The first step across the line is so easy, and looks so harmless.  Nobody expects the ferocity with which the consequences can come roaring back.And what is still more human, neither Jack nor Jerry will bail out once things start going bad.  They both keep trying to fix what they have started by taking one more step further in.  All they end up being able to focus on is getting things back to the way they were, before they made that first mis-step.  Then everything will be all right.  But this, of course, serves only to deepen their holes until everything finally caves in.I think _Romeo Is Bleeding_ one-ups _Fargo_ with its ending, probably my favorite movie ending ever.  Just spine-tingling.What is hell?  Hell is when you should have walked, but you didn't. That's hell. -Jack Grimaldi "},{"Title":"See it...","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is truly excellent.  I'm a big Gary Oldman fan to begin with, so this movie was like candy for me.  The soundtrack is excellent, the acting is magnificent, and the storyline is confusing but wonderful.  My advice See the movie and try to say it isn't really good.  "},{"Title":"Downward Spiral","Date":"23 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You have good cops and bad cops. And really bad cops. In this film Jack Grimaldi (Gary Oldman) represents them all. On one hand he's sick of the scum in the city. On the other hand they are his life. This other hand he likes most. He's corrupt as hell, but it's hard to have no sympathy for him. The movie has a lot of unpredicted plot twists, and really keeps you on the tip of your chair in the end. It's a bit like, and as good as Bad Lieutenant... So see this movie! "},{"Title":"I love this movie.","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie at least a dozen times since 1994, and it seems to get better every time I watch it.  Gary Oldman is one of the finest actors alive.  If this movie snuck past you while it was in the theatres, like it did me, then rent the video.  You won't be disappointed (unless you're a freak.) "},{"Title":"Pure Film Experience","Date":"30 September 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  To descend into the heart of darkness, one must see Romeo is Bleeding.  It can be described by no words, explained in no words and catagorized into no catagory.  It quite simply must be seen to be believed and absorbed. "},{"Title":"Calendar mistake !","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Well, May 1st and December 1st ARE NOT every six months, as been said many times along the movie ! Apart from that, there are lot of irrational developments and non-understandable small details, so many turns of the story just don't make sense. Lot of blood, temptation sounds and Penny-worth philosophy don't make a film. Most of the figures' voices are unbearable, probably done so on purpose for the right atmosphere but the result is unpleasant for the spectator. What's more - Roy Sheider's performance is really not to standard. Other characters are doing just fine (It is not her fault, but Swedish actress is NOT a Russian one - why not cast the original ?). "},{"Title":"dark, dark, dark","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A two-timing, amoral cop (Oldman) meets his match in a ball-breaking Russian femme fatale he is sent to assassinate. He really should have killed her while he had the chance Cop Jack Grimaldi (Oldman) is as corrupt as they come, overseeing the police witness protection scheme by day while killing his charges, for the Mob, by night. He's also playing away from his wife (Sciorra) with the delicously nymphish Sheri (Lewis). So a job to terminate turn-tail hit-woman Olin shouldn't be a problem. But when he discovers she's a ball-busting Muscovite sex goddess with a killer pair of thighs, you just know he's in trouble.Medak's neo-noir uses vicious sex, crunching violence and a neck-breaking plot of cross and double-cross to sustain its ram-raid pace, only to crumble under the weight of its own excess. This is a battle-of-the-sexes movie played out at such a pitch of pervsity and amorality that it ultimately becomes rather laughable. "},{"Title":"Ages badly","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Policeman Jack Grimaldi (Gary Oldman) gets involved with seriously disturbed assassin Mona Demarkov (Lena Olin).That's about all I'll say--the plot is VERY convoluted.  I saw this in a theatre in 1993.  I was pretty impressed.  Seeing it 11 years later I'm not.  What looked inventive in 1993 has been done since...and better.  This now comes off as an amoral, sleazy, very bloody, very violent and (surprisingly) tedious movie.  There's not one likable character in this--I hated everybody.  The jazz score got on my nerves quickly and the pointless nudity and extreme violence just annoyed me.The acting is pretty good.  Oldman is excellent (as always) faking a credible American accent.  Juliette Lewis is pretty lousy as his mistress--but then, she's never good.  Poor Annabella Sciorra isn't given enough to do as his wife--but she IS great.  And Roy Scheider is VERY good as the big crime boss.  But it's Olin who steals the movie.  Her performance is WAY over the top--she's totally ruthless, incredibly sexy and goes full force all through the movie.  I'm really surprised her performance didn't get more attention back in '93.  The movie just came and went pretty quickly.I'm giving it a 6...mostly for the acting.  It plays like a Quentin Tarantino/film noir cross--a BAD one! "}{"Title":"One f**ked up movie","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  And by f**ked up, I don't necessarily mean bad.  That it's not.  However, it leaves you in awe thinking, OK...What the hell was that?  It is a movie beyond comprehension.  Gary Oldman is one of my favorite actors.  He has the kind of versatility that few other actors share, even the great ones.  He has tackled every role from a Russian terrorist in Air Force One to Dracula in Bram Stoker's Dracula to a black wannabe pimp in True Romance.  In this role, the English actor feigns an Italian-American accent, playing crooked cop Jack Grimaldi.  He is great, as always, and the cast is full of talented performers, but a lot of them are wasted.  The only actors, besides Oldman, who have standout roles are Annabella Sciorra and Lena Olin, though she struggles with her American accent.  But Lena is a very sexy, beautiful actress and she is seductively good as a dominatrix who kills her victims by placing their heads between her legs and snapping their necks.  What a pleasant way to die!  I'd choose that over lethal injection.  But Juliette Lewis has a thankless role, and Dennis Farina and James Cromwell make very brief appearances.The film is shocking, violent and over-the-top...but it doesn't have much else to be remembered for.  The director tries too hard to be flashy, and the film is entirely way too superficial.  I would say this is another Pulp Fiction wannabe, if it didn't come out a year before.  Romeo is Bleeding is an eye-opening action/crime drama, but style triumphs over substance. My score  5 (out of 10)   "},{"Title":"Soft-Boiled Neo Noir","Date":"15 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This curious pic doesn't know if it wants to keep a straight face or make bizarre faces. It opts for both ways which results in a highly uneven genre bastard that leaves one unsatisfied despite some choice moments such as the sad coda, which works better than it should.Oldman's desperate loser, Olin's over-the-top femme fatale, Scheider's old-school Mafia don... they all are individually convincing, but not when thrown together in a mishmash of soft-boiled philosophical voice-over ramblings, heavy-handed cop flick and film noir genre tropes and, eh, sexually connotated arm amputations.So the pic's quite a mess, particularly in the story department, but it's still worth a look. At least, it's not by the numbers.4 out of 10 tell-tale photo albums "},{"Title":"Confusing first time round!","Date":"28 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay heres the plot- Jack (Gary Oldman) has a wife (Annabella Sciorra), has a mistress (Juliette Lewis), earns $56,000 as a cop and gets $65,00 from the mob for everytime he works for them. How? He is assigned to a witness-protection program and then he sells his secrets to a mob boss. Things couldnt get better for him....... until he meets Mona (Lena Olin). She's a killer. Jack is assigned by the police to protect her whilst the mob wants him to kill her. And shes got a proposal of her own- to help her fake her death in return for $325,000. What's worse is that Jack finds her attractive and she knows it and toys with him sexually. This is not your average love affair!!!Sounds confusing? IT IS! It becomes more mind-boggling on the screen with Jack becoming the victim of a dangerous woman. In the end, it all comes to a terrific climax with Jack living in the worst hell possible- with nothing in the world, except endless and useless hope!This film has holes in it and for some reason near the end of the film, the narrative changes round, with the narrator changing from talking about himself in the third party but rather taking a more direct approach. It took me two viewings of this film to understand what was going on.Despite this, its brilliant to watch. Oldman is brilliant as Jack, the man who just wanted more and loses it all. Olin is terrific as Mona, the femme-fatale who brings this film into the film noir category and mentally castrates Oldman. She is Alex in Fatal Attraction, she is Meredith in Disclosure, she is Catherine- she is able to succumb Jack into her web and ruin him forever. Although Oldman shows of his brillaint talent in this film, he has done better roles and films- like LEON but this is highly recommended to Oldman fans. If you are not an Olin or Oldman fan, avoid!9/10   "},{"Title":"YOU EVER SEE A GHOST?","Date":"3 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This flick rocks.  Lena Olin is a goddess.  This is one of the best film noir films I have ever seen.  The screenwriter, Hilary Henkin, proves herself to be one of the best scribes working in Hollywood.  Finally a woman in Hollywood is making real movies.  Everything about this film to the music, the acting and Peter Medak's direction is flawless.  This movie came out the same time as Pulp Fiction did.  This flick was much better film noir in my opinion.  Long live the femme fatale! "},{"Title":"I guess you never forget the first time...","Date":"16 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Olin's character quotation at one part of the movie. One of the things you shouldn't do with this movie, in my personal subjective opinion, is underestimate the film. Don't even think of finding more on what is the story about without having watched the movie before, or you might not feel the same emotion when you finally encounter yourself with it. The film's plot could have been easily been set in the 50's, it's an essential noir, with the femme fatale and everything but...these one goes far beyond it. Acting is great, Oldman, is really excellent; pay attention to the parts with Mona, when Jack is looking at her, his face when he watches Demarkov's hand at the beginning is really priceless. Olin is the most beautiful and diabolic of all villains in history, her acting is truly deep and convincing, moreover when Mona is laughing manically. Sciorra, Lewis and Scheider are somewhat good, yet they aren't the movie's sick essence a dark, evil, sad and ghostly environment Romeo Is Bleeding transmits to the audience... You'll see why.WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING!!!!!!! BIG SPOILER AHEADThe movie has an interesting point of view about good it doesn't pay and makes us suffer, but for Jack, evil didn't worked either; which immediately lead me to think that what matters is who is weak and who is strong, those are the ones that win. Selling him in such a sex way was too much, really excellent. But not for Jack, although he fell in love with her, that filthy f**k was so selfish that he was willing to be with her even if not in this world. His face when trying to commit suicide is superb!!! ( I believe that he wanted to kill himself because he couldn't have her, if just she had been in love with him, he would have forgive her). And in the end it seemed as if those two would be together forever, with Mona haunting Sgt. in death, a ghost of what wasn't and what could have been; suffering 'till death, for the love he will never gave to any of the women he had. (sounds like your classic story, and you oh it's another tragic relationship what a waste... But would you like living a life without someone you love?; not that you'd commit suicide, but the pain will eventually kill you, slowly. A pointless hope about his wife that could be just a faken. What I felt after watching the film was a big sadness and fear a ghost made out of them, haunting you just like Jack. Good movie, especially for Lena Olin's acting. "},{"Title":"All's Fair in Love and War","Date":"31 August 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Feed the hole Feed the hole  Feed the hole.... Romeo suffers from the Madonna-whore complex big time.... wifey gets no lovin... girlfriends get the limp noodle... sexual transference to a hole in the back yard stuffed with cash....Let's all pray that Viagra doesn't end the great american male sexual inadequacy tradition we have throughout every decent movie ever made.  What the hell are we going to have as motivation for our male protagonists?  Are they all going to stay at home now slipping it to wifey and playing bridge with the neighbors?  That rough voice dude wasn't kidding when he said it's the fall of Rome out there.  I don't care what Tacitus says, Yohimbe killed the Empire. "},{"Title":"Fair portrayal of police intelligence.","Date":"25 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Very odd film that has it's moments and is reasonably entertaining. It does however faithfully indicate police intelligence -Since when were December 1st and May 1st six months apart????  This statement was repeated many times throughout the film by Jack.Gary Oldman was much better in Leon - altogether more sinister. "},{"Title":"What a sad movie ...","Date":"8 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is one of the weirder movies I've seen - so you get about 90 min of incredibly bloody violence and over the top sex scenes (I'm not too surprised this seems to have sunk Lena Olin's career), and then it ends on this most incredibly sad note. A great performance by Gary Oldman, though (and a totally wasted Roy Scheider). "},{"Title":"Embarrassingly pretentious claptrap.","Date":"15 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Pretentious 'noir' wannabe with the boom mike getting nearly as much camera time as the star. Olin as a Russian hit woman chews the scenery to such an extent she makes Garry Oldman look like an introvert. With its 'cool' jazz sax score, 'arty' camera angles ( look for the one in the squad room from above the lights ) and its Double Indemnity type narration it tries so hard, but delivers so little. Oh and it's pretty poorly lit too. "},{"Title":"Two thirds of a good movie","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Romeo Is Bleeding never seems to quite make up its mind if it's noir, a parody of noir, or merely noiresque. Great performances by, among others, Gary Oldman, cannot rescue a plot that turns ludicrously improbable in the last third, not to mention a gimmicky, sacharrin trick ending that the film hasn't earned.The film is strong through the first hour or so as it establishes Oldman as a corrupt cop whose entangled personal and professional double-crosses are coming apart just as moral qualms are starting to touch him. Oldman's characterization is impeccable, despite the overwritten, mock-Chandler voice-over narration.***Minor spoilers aheadUp to this point the film is grittily believable, but then takes a sudden turn into laughably implausible action drama of the worst kind. Mona, the assassin/mobster queen (the plot never quite decides which she is, nor explains why the head of one mob would be acting as paid assassin for another), escapes from Oldman's car in a ridiculous scene that asks us not to notice Oldman could stop her simply by taking his foot off the gas and putting it on the brake. (See it and you'll understand). Strangely, a preview of this second-worst scene is featured early in the movie. The script also asks us to accept that Mona cuts off her own arm, walks downstairs, and calmly leaves it alongside a corpse that will be burned so as to make it appear to her pursuers that she is dead. Never mind dental records; never mind that she allows Oldman, a witness to the whole scene, to walk away; some of us would have thought of burning a whole corpse and leaving a driver's licence.This moment is followed by the movie's best cinematic Noir scene, but by that point I had already given up the will to believe in the plot.This is a film that delivers many of the elements of Noir - the doomed hero, the dangerous woman, the dark city - but fails to build a compelling story out of them.  "}{"Title":"Ineffective neo noir","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not a stupid person, but frankly I don't understand Romeo is Bleeding. I'd like to think that it is the film which is problematic not me. Romeo is not merely bleeding, he is falling apart. What we have here is a classic case, of a film that tries to be more than it is capable of. It feels convoluted, unbelievable, and unfortunately is not very involving. NYPD Sargent Jack Grimaldi has been doing petty jobs for a mob which the department has been going after. He gets a few thousand dollars with every job, and he adds it to a pile hidden in his backyard. His latest job is to take out the Russian assassin, who he just arrested the other day. While in his custody she offers him an even better deal with more money. But first , he has to fake her death, getting him clean with the boss, and then he must get out of the mob gig before he gets caught. Things are getting tougher with each passing moment.The whole thing doesn't come together very well. Romeo is Bleeding would have been better with the less is more approach. Some details like Jack's involvement with three different women, and the stiff necked feds (who only appear twice) prove fairly useless to the story. Their screen time may have been a bit more worth while, if anyone bothered to act well, too bad no one does; no one except Roy Scheider. This guy has never done a bad movie, and his one talky scene is actually a pretty good one, certainly the best in the film. Him aside, there are two kinds of performances in Romeo is Bleeding; there are the lazy ones, and there are the over-done ones. Gary Oldman is a case of the former. This is not the kind of person we end up caring for. The ending, which is supposed to earn our sympathy instead earns our impatience. It has an overwritten melodramatic monologue which drags on way too long. Romeo is Bleeding delivers the classic 'noir' first person narration. If it had done a better job of explaining the story as it unfolded rather than the tiny little voice in Oldman's head, I think that would have also been an improvement on the filmWhen all is said and done, Romeo is Bleeding qualifies as a swing and a miss. It is in desperate need of a rewrite, an energy boost, and some brains. I'll have to say skip this one. "},{"Title":"Watchable for all the wrong reasons","Date":"24 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I really don't think this is a neo film noir masterpiece some would have you believe it is - it's messy, a little unbalanced and plods occasionally, but it does round up a remarkable cast, employs an inspired Mark Isham soundtrack to great effect and has its stellar moments, namely every time Lena Olin, the true engine of this film, is anywhere to be seen on screen, and for that reason only the movie is worth spending time on. She infuses all her scenes with energy which even Oldman has problems keeping pace with and effortlessly steals the entire film, directed to slightly overdo the grind-glass voiced Russian hitwoman Demarkov as a genuinely dangerous yet irresistible psycho bitch from hell. She pulls it off with great panache though and her performance is what you'll remember long after watching the film. Elsewhere, Oldman freaks out convincingly and by the book, Juliette Lewis pouts around in her underwear pulling her usual few faces before she is bumped off to oblivion, while Sciorra and Scheider leave their mark but end up underused in their episodes. An affectionate yet uneven tribute to film noir that occasionally loses its step and spreads itself a little too thin for comfort, but still definitely watchable. "},{"Title":"Had to stop it halfway through","Date":"8 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  More ludicrous, unoriginal swill in the Tarantino vein. Crooked sergeant Oldman moonlights as a hitman until (shocker!) his luck runs out. Hasn't aged well at all, and the dialogue is terrible. Lots o' boobs and butts, of course. It's hard to believe that the screenplay was the subject of numerous tug-of-wars in the early 90's. "},{"Title":"A one of a kind surprise.","Date":"5 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A dishonest cop only wants to live like the filthy rich but pays a high price for it as he tangles up with the wrong crowd. Oldman's performance makes it hard to take your eyes off him while Medak's direction supplies the wild ride to hell that is worth taking. "},{"Title":"Some great scenes, but sometimes it's just too much","Date":"16 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A dark thriller with a hopelessness at its core that eats away at you the same way it does with Oldman. At one point his character says All I could think about was feed the hole, feed the hole... That hole represents his own private Hell, one that he created and he is perpetuating - but as long as things are going smoothly, if badly, things are OK.One great, great scene is where Oldman casually sets his gun down on the kitchen table and Sciorra - sadly, in too small a role - picks it up and points it at him. The look on his face is priceless.This movie has the same ethos as Bad Lieutenant, but doesn't have that movie's crushing, personally wretched banality. It's also not quite as shocking or intense. Instead, it uses its main character's arrogance and sadistic tendencies as fatal flaws which ultimately help to bring down an otherwise quasi-noble guy.I liked this movie up to a point, but sometimes it feels like I'm being manipulated - shown something shocking just for the sake of it being shocking. Like the scene with Olin and Oldman in the car that is excerpted at the beginning. A lot of that is just unnecessary. It's supposed to help set the tone, but by this time the tone has already been set - these are both desperate characters with a lot to lose and little to gain. "},{"Title":"A Dark, Dark Thriller","Date":"17 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"   Gary Oldman and Lena Olin star in this dark thriller about a corrupt cop called Jack Grimaldi. Juliette Lewis and Ron Perlman co star as lover and lawyer.    Although often slow, Romeo delivers a heavy drama with a little action. Armageddon's Will Patton also turns up as one of Jack's mates and fellow officer, Marty. Oldman does well, coping with the unadventurous script and diluted dialogue. Lena Olin, however, does not. She is shady, and unsexy. Her viscous laugh is untidy and overused. Lewis is enjoyable as Grimaldi's mousy, clinging lover and Ron Perlman adds the same gruff tough guy that he did so well in Kevin Costner's Robin Hood, and Sigourney Weaver's Aliens Resurrection. Rating=3/5 "},{"Title":"Missteps, every step of the way.","Date":"17 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Open to the present, the story, to be told in reflection, jazz in the background, narration in the foreground. These days, this is the sort of composition left to late-night cable erotic thrillers. The HVAC man in suburbia, with a good wife, and family at home, he meets the rich, much younger wife on the job in the hills.Sadly the filmmakers won't stay down where they belong with this uninventive jive. They dress it up with a name brand cast (Gary Oldman, Lena Olin), and cut back just enough on the explicit sex to let you know this is not exploitation. Still in doubt? Toss in Juliette Lewis, salt-peter in human form. They  think this is a main stream movie,  a little legerdemain over an unsuspecting and gullible audience, a clever approach to psuedo-noir, a psychological thriller.Missing a key element? Throw in lots of off-color language and yelling to replace lack of story, or lack clever dialogue, or lack of plot. Seems I've seen this somewhere before, 'Roadhouse'? Are you listening Hillary?Could you turn up that jazz a bit?This is not Pleasantville, or even Cop Land....it's strictly Amateur City.  "},{"Title":"What was that?","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie is a complete waste of time. A bunch of us picked it up because it had a great cast and looked rather interesting. Well, bleh! It was boring, poorly acted and way over done.The score is overpowering, distracting the viewer from the movie, although, that is probably because the script is so bad, they wanted any reason for the viewer not to notice.And it was dark! I mean physically dark where you can't really see what's going on (again, I suspect that's a distraction technique!) About half way through, we turned the movie off and started a different one...we just didn't care how things turned out! Avoid!!!! "},{"Title":"is it over yet?","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" There are very few pictures I would give a 1 to. But this movie really had me thinking pretty quicklyis it over yet? That's pretty much all I could think when I watched this.I actually almost fell asleep watching this. To this day, I don't remember the specifics about the plot but I do not think I knew even while the movie was on because it's almost impossible to understand. I guess there is a story in there somewhere but it's kind of lost in a haze of shady goings on and as the movie went on it became more and more difficult to watch.I remember thinking, when watching this, that it seemed muddled and murky. There was a lot of violence, crime, sex etc thrown in but it seemed impossible to understand what was going on at any given time. Where is the plot? This movie sounded sounded interesting before I watched it. And I'll watch almost anything that has Gary Oldman in it. But I wish there had been more of an emphasis on plot and character development. I understand this move will appeal to some people but it just didn't click with me.One interesting thing worth noting is that this is almost the opposite of a chick flick. It seems to appeal more to the men I know then the women. I saw this with a group of people. Of the people I watched this with, the females Hated it and the males absolutely loved it.All That being said, Gary oldman is a great actor(loved him in Sid and Nancy), Though I dislike this movie, I know there are some major fans out there. Maybe I'll give it another try, but there aren't to many movies I was as bored by as this one. "},{"Title":"Horrible!!","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I can't say that Romeo Is Bleeding is the worse movie I've ever seen but it ranks up there as a memorable stinker. The over-acting was horrible. I thought I was in a ham factory. Gary Oldman, who is a talented actor, is prone to over emote and in this movie no one tried to rein in the ego and self importance. He was ridiculous. The story was ridiculous. Lena Olin was ridiculous. Annabella Sciorra was depressing. The other characters in the movie were a cross section of Hollywood stereotypes. There wasn't an original idea in this mess. The pacing was abysmally slow and that was interrupted by cartoonish violence often in slow motion. The narration was laughable and only showed how poor the screenplay was. If you have to be told what the story is then the movie is not doing its job. It was a bad, bad movie. Please miss it. "}{"Title":"Not Thrilling","Date":"9 June 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A 90's-style noir that lacks the moodiness and clean story-telling of the great 40's and 50's noir but with loads of gore and violence yet not enough action to be consistently entertaining. Lena Olin's deliciously over the top performance as a psycho mafia hitwoman is a highlight of the film. The plot is rather convoluted and doesn't make much sense when you think about it; all the crosses and double-crosses seem entirely unnecessary to achieve the characters' endgame. The cinematography is too bright and sunny to be a true noir, I believe.The site wouldn't let me post this without at least 10 lines of text. This is ridiculous. I've seen reviews with fewer lines than that. Sorry to pad this review to achieve the mandatory 10 lines. "},{"Title":"Art is Boring.","Date":"7 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A screenwriter friend recommended that I rent this--I'm sorry; it was boring.  No character arc was present for Gary Oldman's character.  Why was Juliette Lewis' character even in the movie?  I didn't care that Lewis' character met with ill-fate.  Now, if it were Annabella Sciorra's pathetic, but adorable, character that got in the chest . . .Okay, some really nice acting chops from Lena Olin and the rest of the terrific cast of character actors, but . . .It's nice to make art, but could I please have my art a little less soporific? "},{"Title":"Henkin and Medak are equally to blame","Date":"8 July 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" But it is Oldman with his lack of inspiration who pushes this collection of random plagiarized film noir clichs into the self dug grave, as he moonwalks thru the entire movie obviously too stoned and drunk to let anything show on his wax like facial expression he carries around here. The script is a mess, as we are being served an already cold meal of voice-over detective story with a limp, ludicrous plot points like the one where Mona waits for Jack to arrive to kill her, just so she can talk him into killing Falcone and set her up with a new identity, him falling for it when he could have easily got out, as it was already clear he had to kill at least one person. They blame it on the voice, but actually it's the dumb alter ego of both director and writer who is at fault. And the casting director, because given some chemistry between Jack and Mona, his moves might have been more understandable. Oldman, terribly miscast here, fails to portray an average Joe, mainly due to his emotional over the top acting style, more fit for a conflicted crack addict, or a flamboyant pimp, but under no circumstances a functional guy in society. The slow witted story teller walks us thru what is supposed to make us witness the down fall of a guy who gets stuck inside his own web of mistakes, but as it turns out, the only part credible enough is the one where he drives himself into a pole losing all his leverage. The whole things rapidly plunges from laughable to dumb and pretentious crapolo, and finally to involuntarily breaking the fifth wall, and making the viewer search for the remote control. Terrible and boring. What a combo. "},{"Title":"Romeo is Bleeding never adds up...","Date":"10 June 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Lena Olin's performance, no matter how cartoon-like, is memorable as the hit woman from hell. The movie itself is vicious, and extremely disjointed. For example, how did Roy Scheider suddenly and without explanation wind up in the trunk of Lena Olin's car? Another problem is Lena's miraculous recovery from severing her arm. A movie should be more than the sum of it's parts, which Romeo is Bleeding is not. There must be a story here somewhere, but from my viewpoint, the movie makes little sense. Ultimately it is this uneven and somewhat unbelievable storyline that sucks the film down to levels that are less than acceptable. Romeo is Bleeding never adds up. - MERK "},{"Title":"Not Much Romeo Too Much Bleeding","Date":"19 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Film noir shot in black and white from a screenplay by Hilary Henkin who several years later contributed Wag the Dog. This is no satire or comedy. It's one of those movies where afterwards you ask yourself what you were doing wasting two hours in the theatre and wondering what other movies were on that night that you could have seen instead.Mark Isham provides the requisite brushes on snare drum, standup bass, and trumpet. Gary Oldman provides a somewhat different maniac from what you're used to seeing this one implodes from the inside.Mrs Hallstrom provides the chillingly scary psychopath, and in some scenes, especially one towards the end in her car, she shows that classic 'bone structure', stereotypical Scandinavian blonde or not.And for the record, pronounce her name 'Layna O'Leen' please. If you meet her and say it as they do in the trailer, you're likely to get a slap in the face. As it sounds like one of the Swedish words for a part of the male genitalia.But she's good and almost everyone is good. Scheider is about the only one doesn't work for me. He just doesn't come across as a scary grotty mobster. Sciorra is good too in the part they give her. And you get to see James Cromwell from LA Confidential again in a part that could have been written out it's so small and irrelevant.This movie is a look at pathology, but not the kind you'd expect. It's a look at the pathology of whoever came up with this dumb idea for cinematic entertainment. "},{"Title":"Romeo is Bleeding...and this film doesn't help!!!","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I regret spending several hours watching this film. How could anyone call this movie superb? It was more like a spoof than a serious bad cop vs. deadly woman gangster film. The acting was very good but the story was ridiculous. Probably the most absurd scene was Mona appearing with the replacement arm in place of her real arm. Did she cut it off all by herself with a chain saw, then bind and treat it with one arm? And their love scene...Do you want it with or without? Give me a break!!!How could anyone take this movie seriously? And what about Jack's mistress Sheri? He apparently didn't care that he shot her then left her body hanging from the wall. And, I didn't get the love story between Natalie and Jack. He seemed to love every woman he came across...and his wife knew he was a womanizer and just a convenient partner. I think this film started out as a thriller...then the writer ran out of a storyline and didn't know how to finish it. What a misuse of good actors. Don't waste your time watching it. "},{"Title":"Absurd Crap","Date":"18 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Warning, spoilersYes, this movie creates a dark moody atmosphere, but it goes way overboard in trying to portray its really evil characters and becomes more laughable than disturbing. After Gary Oldman makes a phone call and tips off the mob to the location of a sequestered witness, he blithely dances around with glee in anticipation of the payoff he's going to get - no attempt at discretion or any concern that he's just been instrumental in getting someone rubbed out. But that's nothing, later in the movie, we see Lena Olin LAUGHING with smug satisfaction as she fits herself with a prosthetic arm - she's an international hit lady and she's actually cut her own arm off (!) and left it with a dead body in order to fake her death. Uh, yeah right. And Juliette Lewis - yes, she's a decent actress, but she has to be the screens ultimate victim of unspeakable acts; she's been terrorized, kidnapped, raped, unfairly executed and here she's murdered and dismembered. This girl's done a lot for female empowerment. This movie is like a Batman sequel without the hero or the humor. Skip it. "},{"Title":"Really, really poor","Date":"14 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was constantly reminded of Gary Oldmans character in The Fifth Element, over-acting or what? I honestly thought it was a bit of a spoof. I don't really care but Mona didn't say Natalie was dead, she said she was a dead woman, ie she was going to die. Therefore she wasn't at the diner at the end cos she knew all about his cheating. And how can he get a medal for killing Mona? Did anyone really watch it and think it was sad at the end? It must have been a spoof, surely. I'm glad I didn't read any of these comments before the film. I would have really expected a good film. Not the poor one I was subjected to. Is there anyone who agrees with me? "}]