[{"Title":"Very Tongue-in-Cheek Funny","Date":"5 June 2000","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I just feel bad for the girl that admitted to enjoying Pauly Shore films. This movie is a complete original and doesn't take itself seriously. I honestly feel that some movies are made for people with a certain level of intelligence or, for that matter, dementia. I believe that only highly intelligent, somewhat demented people are in on jokes like this one. We don't take kindly to dead kids around here. C'mon, that's hysterical. It's completely ludicrous and that's why it's funny. Anyone who doesn't appreciate the humor of this film is operating on a lower level of intelligence than those who liked it. Count me in as a demented devotee... "},{"Title":"Underrated Black Comedy","Date":"19 July 2004","Score":"15 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  You want to see a zombie movie, but your girlfriend wants to watch a romantic  comedy.  What do you do???  Compromise!!!   This movie bombed at the boxoffice, if I recall, and didn't do too well on video either.  As such, its hard to find  out there (I had to visit 15 video stores personally), literally making this a hidden  gem!  While the narrative is a little off, the one liners alone make this Romantic  Black Comedy about a zombie truly entertaining!  And while most of the actors  in it have fallen off the face of the earth (except Edward Herrmann and a very  young Phillip Seymour Hoffman), they help make this film what it is.  Definitely  worth hunting out if you want something a little different than your average run of  the mill comedy. "},{"Title":"Strange, one-of-a-kind black comedy.","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  As a comedy, My Boyfriend's Back is pretty one-joke, the joke being that the existence of a zombie barely raises an eyebrow in this peaceful little town (until he starts eating people, that is). The film is more interesting as a not-too-subtle anti-racist parable about the plight of the outcasts. It has some near-inspired moments, as well a feeling of profound sadness to it, which make it hard to dismiss as quickly as most critics have.   (**)  "},{"Title":"Makes a mockery of the typical teen schlock.","Date":"5 February 2005","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'My Boyfriend's Back' is both great as a political analogy (dealing with generic prejudice and social mistrust) as well as a hard mockery of standard teen fare. The story is that of a teen who is dying to go to the prom with the school beauty. Unfortunately, a plan to get her attention backfires and he dies. But, he rises as the walking dead in order to keep the date. But, even though no one seems to mind much that the dead kid pretty much resumed his normal life, he is quickly decaying. And, it requires that he eats living things in order to slow the process until a doctor (played fantastically by character actor, Austin Pendleton) can figure out how to chemically reverse the process. Of course, his cannibalism does not blow over well with the towns folk, who soon begin to ostracize the boy (and violently, at that).It is a witty little black comedy that does sometimes strive too hard to impose its humor on the audience (though, maintaining some witty subtle humor at the same time). The generic supporting characters such as the oblivious father (played by Edward Hermann), the exceedingly prim mother, and, of course, the doctor (Austin Pendleton) are great. Its seems like a more scaled down, cheaper version of something that Tim Burton could put together (and sort of did, with Frankenweenie). Also, look for Cloris Leachman, Paul Dooley, and a then-unknown Matthew Fox and Phyllip Seymour Hoffman in supporting roles.If you enjoy this movie, check out 'My Best Friend is a Vampire,' 'The Applegates,' 'I Was a Teenage Zombie,' 'Terror Vision,' or the disturbing black comedy 'Parents.' This is one of those oddball varieties. "},{"Title":"Sweet. Charming, Blackly funny","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This really is special a zombie movie about acceptance and love. Our zombie's parents accept him with barely any question, because he's their son, and our zombie's girlfriend accepts him because the depth of his love is what has enabled him to return from death and make it to the prom, even if that means his devouring a couple of classmates. Charming and sweet, and I mean that sincerely,  "},{"Title":"You don't have to think a movie is good to like it","Date":"13 February 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I'll be the first to admit it. This movie is terrible. While the acting is decent and the cast (Edward Hermann, Chloris Leachman, Paul Dooley) is just plain awesome, this movie is terrible... in the perfect way. What most people don't get is that it's supposed to be campy and over the top. That's what farce is. In terms of production value, yes, this movie is a load of stinky camel poo, but it's funny and weird and it changed my life. I was eleven going on twelve when I popped into the theaters for this one and I was moved by this pathetic romantic. I maintain that if it wasn't for all the cannibalism and borderline necrophilia, this would be one of the most celebrated love stories of all time. I mean, he died for her! He came back from the dead for her! And to this day, I ask myself Do I love this person enough to eat someone's stomach... just for ONE DANCE with them? That's love. And I think people take far too insecure a pride in the eschewing of campy humor. I know this movie is terrible, but I love it for its humor, its wonderfully bizarre characters and for teaching me what true love is all about... not eating people, but being willing to eat people for someone you love. Sick? Perhaps. But would you eat someone's stomach just to dance with your significant other? I wish I could find someone I loved that much. "},{"Title":"funny and well-written with lots of winning moments","Date":"17 April 2000","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I thought it was hilarious, a bit graphic for the extremely squeamish, but really well-done.  The script was well-written with lots of fondness for the characters.  Traci Lind was a stand-out as the class beauty trying to get a grasp of a weird situation.  The way the townspeople adapt to a zombie in their midst is another great thing about this very funny and well- done movie. "},{"Title":"A+ for a B movie","Date":"14 May 2011","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My girlfriend and I had a movie night recently in which we watched the critically (and audience)acclaimed Black Swan, Jackass 3 and this. I bought it mostly because I heard it had some A listers in early rolls and I enjoy trying to point out future stars before my girlfriend can recognize them.I'm sure I would be mercilessly attacked for saying this on a Black Swan board -or even a Jackass board for that matter- but we both chose My Boyfriend's Back as easily our favourite of the three. Sure it was stupid, but after the dark, serious feel of Black Swan, it's silly, goofy tone was all the more appealing. Andrew Lowery is quite likable in the lead, and Traci Lind is lovely in a roll that was likely quite difficult to play. Her character was required to show some very serious emotions in a very unserious movie, and she seemed to walk the line between them admirably.The supporting cast was a joy, without fail they understood the script's oddball, offbeat humour and really ran with it. The scene stealing Mary Beth Hurt was a stand out as Lowery's too understanding mother, and Cloris Leachman was excellent in a small, rather thankless cameo. Celebrity watchers will find plenty to keep them busy here as well. A young Matthew Fox (future star of Lost)makes his film debut; Oscar winner Phillip Seymour Hoffman plays his loathsome sidekick;as well as Edward Herrmann and Austin Pendelton(from HBO's Oz, not to mention countless other films and TV shows); character actor Paul Dooley; JFK's Jay O' Sanders; and even Matthew McConaughey makes his film debut as Guy in Movie Theatre. Perhaps this means I don't have any future as a film critic, but I was really surprised that both of us enjoyed a low budget flick with a rating under 5 and less than two thousand votes hands down over a 13 million dollar movie with 100,000+ votes and a rating over 8. I guess my point in all this is that you really can't judge a movie based on the general consensus about it. Had I dismissed this movie because of it's low approval among both critics and IMDb user's (as I normally would have), we really would have missed out on a sweet, irreverent little hidden gem. When selecting a movie, don't just check the star rating or critic approval percentage, but scan the fan reviews as well and see if any really speak to you. You just might end up turning a rather uninspired date night into an unexpected last minute success. "},{"Title":"'My' favorite movie!","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I saw this movie a while ago on cable and since then I've rented it a couple of times because it is the funniest movie of the 1990's. It is just a really funny movie. It's not your average teen comedy and that's what I like about it. It's kind of gross, but it could've been a lot worse. If you're a teenager and you don't mind seeing a little gore, you will probably enjoy this movie!!! "},{"Title":"a must-see horrible movie","Date":"14 January 2001","Score":"9 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  first of all, this is not a good movie.  however, it has some of the best lines i've ever heard.  and the whole dead guy as a satire on societal discrimination was great and probably not easy to do.  if you appreciate the stupid/funny/strange, then this is a good choice.  plus, it has austin pendleton, who just rocks.  "}{"Title":"Boy meets girl.  Boy dies for girl.  Boy craves human flesh.  Hilarity ensues.","Date":"13 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" My Boyfriend's Back is easily one of the most clever satires of high school life I've ever seen. On the lines of Heathers and Clueless (The early-to-mid-90s were great, huh?) this movie mocks group mentality as well as the groups themselves in such a genuine way that the main characters aren't two dimensional. The dialogs is amazingly funny, especially when the script treats Johnny Dingle's posthumous nature as just some flaw, like acne or bad hair. Look for appearances by Matthew McConaughey and a pre-Lost Matthew Fox. They play pretty convincing high school students. Edward Herrman and Mary Beth Hurt are great as the parents. (Hurt is significantly less creepy than in Parents, another Balaban movie.) The look of this movie, with its comic book context, is prefect, but the writing is the biggest asset to this tragically underrated comedy. "},{"Title":"Funny throughout","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie kind of reminded me of the naked gun. Although this was not quite as good as the naked gun, both movies share their sense of humour. It is not a masterpiece but watching worthwhile. "},{"Title":"I loved it","Date":"24 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Yes the story is a romantic comedy. I'm hopeless, what can I say? But I loved the movie. I don't remember Rene Z in the movie though. The whole Zombie back to go to the dance with the girl of his dreams kind of dumb but the romantic aspect is beautiful. I didn't like the popular kid's side kick, he was ugly and dumb. Then there is the repeated theme of the family that seems to be the target of food for Zombie Johny. But overall this is one of those, I'm alone on a Friday night and snuggled in my bed for a movie, movie. The song Holding on for Dear Life is really beautiful. I think that is what really got me at the end. Again, if you're a hopeless romantic, and are in the mood to stay indoors and snuggle with a movie, get this. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Good B-movie filmed at my old school","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  When I first heard about this movie, I thought it was cool as hell because it was filmed at my middle school (or junior high). The inside was my school, C.D. Fulkes Middle School in Round Rock, Texas, but the outside was some university in Austin, not UT.  It's really a good movie with lots of cool tongue-in-cheek moments. Great for a classic slap-stick horror. Hopefully this will end up as a cult classic in Round Rock.Trivia - took the janitors a week to clean up the bloody mess from the ax scene in the meantime all of us students were freaking out about it. "},{"Title":"I was smiling a lot during the movie...","Date":"13 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was smiling a lot during the movie but there was no roaring laughter.The funniest part was his parents. The perfect couple decent, friendly and his loving mom puts a corpse in the fridge if he wants a snack. A nice teenage comedy with some unexpected twists. I bought the film as a used laserdisc for $5 and I think that's worth it. "},{"Title":"Strange, Hilarious, Charming","Date":"10 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my favourite films from the 1990's it's funny, bizarre and yet sweet at the same time, My Boyfriend's Back is different than most of the teen comedies of today. Mary Beth Hurt & Edward Herrman played the part of the parents to perfection, they supported their son and didn't seem frightened by his return from the grave.Supporting cast members Traci Lind, Matthew Fox, Austin Pendleton, Paul Dooley & Phillip Seymour Hoffman all delivered great performances in this demented comedy.Johnny Dingle (Lowery) has been in love with the prettiest girl in school Missy McCloud (Lind) for 12 years now with the senior prom coming up he's finally gonna get up the nerve to ask her to be his date. However her jock boyfriend Buck Van Patten (Fox) squashes his chances of that happening in an attempt to get her to go with him Johnny comes up with the craziest idea ever.This film seemed bizarre, weird and yet romantic at the same time the main character played by Andrew Lowery showed the depth of his love for his girl by returning from the dead to have the dance he's been waiting for.for anyone who loves the strange and the undead I recommend this delightful and demented comedy. "},{"Title":"Greatest Love Movie of All Time!","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay.. This movie is the best. Almost no one I know has ever seen it but man! Its awesome. Picture a cheezy teen love flick... Now Add Zombies... come on can it be any better? Okay without ruining the movie its about this guy that is in love with this chick then gets killed and comes back from the dead. Its awesome because like everyone is like totally just natural about him being a Zombie except for the fact its Unfashionable!. Seriously Dude. Girls, this movie is romantic in a twisted silly way but you will be shedding a few tears by the end. Guys; you will never stop laughing and man - ITS A ZOMBIE MOVIE THATS ACCEPTABLE FOR DATES come on! Take your opportunity to see the funnest, wackiest, movie. This is Best movie ever made! THE 90s RULE!! If you don't like this movie then you are a Whore of the Undead "},{"Title":"entertaining","Date":"3 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Granted this is not the best film I've ever seen, but it is one that I will watch again for the mere point that it doesn't take itself seriously. The makers of this movie knew that it wasn't going to be winning any awards for best movie so they went out and had some fun with it. I liked that about it.  "},{"Title":"Great blend of comedy and romance","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The best thing is how the movie can go from being comical one minute to romantic the next.  It proves that they knew what they were doing and they do it well.  The prom scene is easily one of the most memorable moments from any movie.     "},{"Title":"Kinda nice","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It´s nothing but a teenage movie, I know, but I liked it. It was showing on cable tv and I saw it twice. I don´t feel like love can do such great things as reported on the movie, especially teenage love. Yet sometimes seeing a movie with such a message is good for the heart. "}{"Title":"Funny Movie","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok I loved this movie, I was one of the people that went to see this movie in the theatre. I don't understand these people that have written about how bad this movie was. Why did they take it seriously? It was a comedy, everything in it was meant to be comedy.They talk about the acting, and how horrible it was. Well how stupid are these people to think the acting is going to be terrific in a low-budget comedy movie like this. I thought the acting was great for the movie. It wasn't suppose the be a big blockbuster movie, and let's face it people alot of those movies have the worst acting in them.They talk about the writing, and dialogue, and call it crap. The dialogue, I thought, was perfect for a COMEDY! The dialogue made sense, it went right along with the movies main parts, and was funny. How can anyone hate this movie? All the the people that have written about this movie on here, and said it was horrible, took the movie as something serious, like a big time drama or something. What's wrong with you people? I admit the movie wasn't the best, but it bothered me when I read all of these negative comments. Out of a 10 I give the movie an 8. I agree with some of you that didn't think it was the best movie ever made but it was good all the same. For those that wrote the negative comment, go back and watch it knowing that it's a comedy, how anyone could take the movie serious is insane.  "},{"Title":"A Comedy for Everyone.","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  * My Boyfriend's Back * has good production quality and a great cast of well-known actors. Of course, I'm bias cause I drool over Traci Lind. She's a hottie and a fine actress too. I loved her in *Class of 1999* and *Fright Night 2*. I really liked her in this film, though. This is a very witty, fun film to watch. No, it's not a * Titanic * or a * Gladiator *, but it is one of the best of its kind - campy, lighthearted family fun.It's in the vein of films like * Back to School *, * Just One of the Guys *. . .If you are looking for a film with good humor entertainment then I recommend this one!  "},{"Title":"Take it a Delirium Tremens of the dead","Date":"8 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" That one is a banquet of bad taste but of good flesh. It eats at everything and bites at the rest. Cops are not swift in their authority and uniforms. The jocks are not very intelligent since they only have muscle in their skull. The bullies just get what they deserve, an axe in the head. I don't see how they don't get an Indian in the head of some of the local bigots.But don't think parents are going to be better. They are just infatuated with their dear genial children, sons or daughters, who are the acme of chicken-guano and bull-pie, and these children actually are just that, guano and cow-pie. With whip cream on top and a cherry to crown it off. A la mode and with style.And the doctor is of course a mad scientist who only thinks of one thing to make money from the dead flesh of the zombie. Money money money. Yum yum yummy. Cosmetic surgery without the surgery. Doesn't it sound fine and attractive? The dead have to collaborate and bring some added value to the living after all. The State could even have a Value Added Tax on the dead. Perfect indeed.School teachers and other school personnel are just what they are a school of cold fish that stink high heavens like rotting salmon in a polluted river. And I will not say what happens to the trout in the lake. Dead fish can also be zombies. But then they do not have fish bones in their bodies, rather perambulating decaying radiations, like in nuclear radiations. Don't touch. It burns.So the poor Dingle who is a dongle in life and a zombie in death will be revived by some miracle worked out by Saint Peter himself after his severe mistake and a fit of anger which should be directed onto himself but is mis-directed onto the poor Johnny. It is not easy to dangle between life and death, between the morgue and the grave, between the insanity of the saints and the sanity of Satan.The film is funny, though of course not as funny as Michael Jackson's rewriting of the Night of the Living Dead. It is true here we have the Prom of the Living Dead mixing with the dead living. That sounds more romantic than terrifying. But it is horrifyingly gross at times and Shakespearian at other times; They even have the balcony scene of Romeo and Juliet revisited for young zombies with decaying muscles. I just wonder where the three weird sisters are? Ah! Ah! Ah! Three times of course.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU "},{"Title":"I like this film, It should have been made into a REAL comic book!","Date":"18 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I like this movie. My Boyfriend's Back is one of my guilty pleasures of my early teen years. I thought the comic strip format in the movie was interesting, too bad they didn't make it into a REAL comic book. I have the DVD now and it actually was very hard to find. I had have my local Borders bookstore order the DVD online because they didn't have it in stock.I have a fondness for Missy and Johnny and I think they would have gotten more fans if they were in a real comic book publication. Too bad the movie didn't do too well at the box office, maybe a major motion picture wasn't yet the right format for this story. Oh, well, I liked it anyway and I hope Touchstone Pictures doesn't decide to disown this movie someday. "},{"Title":"Friday Night Fun","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" What an entertaining film for the masses, full of comedy and mystery. While this movie is intended for a younger audience, it contains enough humor for all to enjoy. If you are expecting a serious thriller that will draw you to the edge of your seat, keep away. The humor in this film arises from its complete lack of realism, as the plot in itself is as far fetched as Buffy the Vampire Slayer. However, this movie is far more original and entertaining. If you enjoy finding humor where others may see stupidity, and are in the mood for a laid back scary movie full of gory comedy, then you will find this film a perfect fit for you. "},{"Title":"a success, but not the unassuming classic it probably aspired to be.","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  On the surface, My Boyfriend's Back is simply an assembly line contemporary teen comedy in disguise, particularly in the threatening presence of some stock characters, when actually what they've created is an offbeat, often-funny zombie spoof--A kooky horror-show-without-the-horror you'll want to show to friends. The fact that this is a project from the mind of Sean Cunningham, who fathered Friday the 13th and the House films, does explain a lot. Johnny, the aforementioned boyfriend, harbors an enduring crush on the class beauty--a drop-dead Tracy Lin(no pun intended) and, to her gratitude, thwarts a hold up in true secret service fashion. mortally wounded, Johnny's love life finally takes off in the wacky wake of his return. Of course, bullies, bigotry(a dumb, overstated social comment) and mad doctors' efforts to exploit the phenomenon threaten his strange new existence. Yields many pluses, including the mood which, ironically, echoes that of 1989's Parents(which features Mary Beth Hurt in an only slightly altered role!), if missing its impact. Most often flounders when its points are beaten into the ground and its humor too calculated.These guys have brought us something original and lasting, and probably intended it to attain cult status, but lacks too much in more than one area to ever do so.  "},{"Title":"Fun to watch","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Johnny Dingle is a hapless teen who dreams of taking the school babe to the prom.  Unfortunately for him, he dies before making his move. Miraculously, he rises from the dead in zombie-form.  It looks like he might get his chance after all.  Surprisingly, babe-girl takes an interest in him and agrees to be his prom date.  But Johnny is decaying at an alarming rate. The only way he can survive until the prom is to eat human flesh...This movie is a good example of the simple teen-oriented movies of the past, before they became self-conscious and ironic.  Unlike Scream and other similar teen horror flicks, this is naive, innocent and really dumb - but much more fun to watch.  The plot is obvious, the writing is bad and the actors are way to old to be playing teens, but the movie works if you don't try to take it seriously in any way.  You'll also catch glimpses of actors before they hit it big with other roles - Philip Seymour Hoffman (Magnolia, Red Dragon) and Matthew Fox (Party of Five) are both in this film.  "},{"Title":"Stinky dead yahoo cotcher","Date":"9 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  How does a dumb guy insult a zombie in a PG-13 movie?  Four words, my friends.  Stinky dead yahoo cotcher.  My brother and I had to rewind the video and replay this line several times to be sure we had it right. Clearly our time was well spent. "},{"Title":"brilliant","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  i highly recommend this movie. one of the funniest movies you've never heard of. excellent writing & performances. brilliant satire of the 'forbidden love'(inter-racial dating, poor boy dating rich girl, etc.) genre! only in this movie, instead of the protagonist being a different race or social class, he's dead!  "},{"Title":"how to get your boyfriend back","Date":"14 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I have to give this miraculous testimony, which is so unbelievable until now. I had a problem with my Ex wife 2years ago, which lead to our break up. when she broke up with me, I was not myself again, i felt so empty inside me, my love and financial situation became worst, until a close friend of mine frank told me about a spell caster who helped him in the same problem too his name is Dr ALEX. I email Dr Alex the spell caster and i told him my problem and i did what he asked of me, to cut the long story short. Before i knew what was happening my wife gave me a call and told me that he was coming back to me in just 2days and was so happy to have her back to me. We have two kids together and we are happy with ourselves. Thanks to Dr ALEX for saving my relationship and for also saving others own too. continue your good work, If you are interested to contact him and testify this blessings like me, the great spell caster email address is (solutionhelpcentre@gmail.com) you are the best among all the spell caster online I hope you see my testimonies and also pray for my family too.. "}{"Title":"Ridiculous but I like it!","Date":"12 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I died for you! I came back from the dead for you! I love you!- Johnny This film shows the best example for the famous saying Love conquers all.lol!Originally, I'm supposed to rate it at one star, but after watching it, I can't help but to appreciate the humor in it. I can say that I enjoyed it though the plot is a real crap, but it maybe considerable for it's genre. And even though the story is a real non sense, there is still a magnet factor which will make you stay until the end. I also like the comic strips, I find it so 90's and that mere feeling brings nostalgia thus adds interest on seeing the film, especially if you're an 80's or 90's baby.I really like the lead actors but it's difficult to find any latest news about them, especially with Traci Lind. I hope that someone would do an in-depth report about her.Overall this is a ridiculous film but you'll like it. "},{"Title":"A great movie! )","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay, I first saw this movie when I was around 8 or 9. My mom showed it to me (she kind of has a twisted humor.. Haha...) Anyways, I had always remembered it as being funny. That was about 5 or 6 years ago, so I barely remembered anything about the movie. Recently though, I had been thinking about it. I was DYING to see it, and since they had it like, nowhere, I decided to order it off of Amazon.I watched it again about a few weeks ago when I got the DVD, and it was as great a movie as I remembered it! It's a hilarious movie! (Well to me anyways) A lot of people don't like it because of the towns reaction to Johnny being back from the dead, and how normal it seems to them. But thats whats FUNNY about it. It's the ridiculousness of it all that I love. Plus, it has some of the best one-liners of all time! So, overall, this movie is fantastic! If your looking for an Oscar-worthy performance, don't watch this movie. The director knew he wasn't going to be getting awards for it, so he had a bit of fun with it. That's what I love. So watch it! You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"A great movie! )","Date":"21 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Okay, I first saw this movie when I was around 8 or 9. My mom showed it to me (she kind of has a twisted humor.. Haha...) Anyways, I had always remembered it as being funny. That was about 5 or 6 years ago, so I barely remembered anything about the movie. Recently though, I had been thinking about it. I was DYING to see it, and since they had it like, nowhere, I decided to order it off of Amazon.I watched it again about a few weeks ago when I got the DVD, and it was as great a movie as I remembered it! It's a hilarious movie! (Well to me anyways) A lot of people don't like it because of the towns reaction to Johnny being back from the dead, and how normal it seems to them. But thats whats FUNNY about it. It's the ridiculousness of it all that I love. Plus, it has some of the best one-liners of all time! So, overall, this movie is fantastic! If your looking for an Oscar-worthy performance, don't watch this movie. The director knew he wasn't going to be getting awards for it, so he had a bit of fun with it. That's what I love. So watch it! You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"I Love this movie","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I don't know what it is about this film but I just plain love it! It's so cheesy and so predictable but it's just impossible (or at least very difficult) to hate.I first saw this movie 10 years ago when I was working as a clerk in a video store. I had a goal to watch every comedy video in the store (take advantage of that whole free rentals for staff policy) Most of the movies I watched were pretty average. Then I stumbled across this one. Had it not been for my lack of social life I may not have made it all the way to M's and stumbled across this gold but boy am I glad I did.If you want a stupid laugh a beautiful girl (Traci Lind REOOOWRR) and the impeccable comic timing of Andrew Lowery this is the movie for you! "},{"Title":"A Bomb of a Great Movie!!!!","Date":"28 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I am a person that doesn't look at how good a Movie does at the Box Office before I see a Movie. And, I must say that if your looking for a Movie to watch on a Rainy day, this would be it. The Movie tells the story of a Teenager who will do anything to get the Girl of his dreams, even if it IS coming back from the Dead. You would imagine that this would be an Adventure, well; it is. I originally saw this Movie when I was 13 at my Great Uncle's house. Since then it has been one of my Favorite Movies. I gave this Movie 9 out of 10 because it is a Movie that is both funny and entertaining; even though it was a Box Office Bomb. "},{"Title":"lame, but somewhat funny","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie was pretty lame, but yet it still kept me watching through the end.  It was so cheesy that I laughed.  It's definitely not worth renting, but if it comes on television, it might be worth watching if you've got time to spare.So all in all, My Boyfriend's Back was pretty stupid and cheesy, but worth a watch on television because it might make you laugh at some parts.  It kept me watching through the end.  I think I gave this film a 5.  "},{"Title":"It's A Cute Little film.","Date":"10 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" **1/2 out of ****A boy is in love with a childhood friend and died and comes back just to go to the prom with her. Sure, the film is cheesy and dumb, not to mention pretty gross. But throughout the film, I wanted him to succeed in his goal. So the film works and it won my heart. What I thought was especially worth noting was that this was an early Philip Seymour Hoffman film. He plays Chuck in a performance I can only call bizarre. It's so interesting to see an actor as good as him in a weird little film like this. I could have done without the stupid sex gag early on in the film and the cannibalism, but I used to love this film when I was six or so. It was great to buy it and watch it again. "},{"Title":"Very Funny!","Date":"29 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I give it an 8 out of 10 because even though the plot sucked, the lines were cheesy and the actors couldn't act, it was still a hilarious movie.I guess something about how the people in it believe so readily that he's back from the dead amuses me. I couldn't stop laughing the whole way through. I'm surprised the actors could take the movie so seriously.There are a couple gory parts, but the effects are so fake, that it shouldn't bother you.**definatly at must-see, especially if you're in the mood for some laughs! "},{"Title":"pretty cool, but not really cool","Date":"12 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Well, this movie was good, but not great. Now don't get me wrong there is some top-notch acting between Andrew Lawery and Tracy Lind, but the plot doesn't materialize like some would think. I like the fact that he has to eat flesh, but their isn't enough blood and when he goes to second base I think it would have been better if he had eaten a nipple or something. The rest of the acting is alright, the role of the bully is definitely sub-par (I mean the guy is no, William Zabka), and the role of the best friend is average as well(he is a poor mans, Stiles). But overall the movie has some swell parts and decent laughs. Too-de-Loo "},{"Title":"My Boyfriend Should Have NEVER Come back!","Date":"4 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 1993 was the year. This was long before Phillip Seymour Thomas had won an Oscar. Who knew I would be an extra in a movie with him? I was actually a paid extra in My Boyfriend's Back, which was shot in a suburb of Austin called Georgetown, TX. The original title was Johnny Zombie (thank God the producers had a change of heart!) I was in the theater scene. I rushed out to watch the movie the day it was released in theaters. It is more of a comedy than a horror movie. But... for a good laugh, you might want to check it out. Nothing that is even close to Dawn of the Dead or even Shaun of the Dead quality, but the cheese factor is good enough. ciao "}{"Title":"I was actually in this movie.","Date":"9 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The movie was filmed here in Austin, Texas. I was an extra back in 1993 when it came out. I agree that it was pretty lame, but I was in a lot of scenes, so I had to watch it over and over.  And even THEN I was bored.It was set at an elementary that was supposed to be a high school here in a small suburb called Round Rock. It was very cheap, Andrew Lowery was nice, but he had just finished the movie School Ties with Brendon Frasier, so he was becoming a little more famous. A very young Matthew Fox from Party of Five was in it too. I actually remember him sitting and chatting with me during one of the breaks. Good guy. Party of Five hit about a year or two later... "},{"Title":"instant classic","Date":"4 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This movie is so hilarious it's not funny. I crapped my pants from laughing so hard and was afraid to stand up because everyone would see it. A bumbling fartknocker dies and he still wants to go on a date with this girl so he comes back from the dead to do it!! I know what you're thinking and the answer is yes, it is as funny as it sounds. It was almost as good as Beethoven 3, or even police academy 6!!!!! The only thing that would be sweeter than this movie would be a remake of The Godfather, with the comic genius Rob Schneider as Sonny, and that would be pretty sweet. In conclusion see this sweet movie because it's one of the the sweetest movies about dead guys coming back from the grave to go on a date with girls of all time. "},{"Title":"A fan of comedy, I like to pretend that I know what I'm talking about when it comes to what's funny and what isn't.","Date":"28 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A fan of comedy, I like to pretend that I know what I'm talking about when it comes to what's funny and what isn't.  After viewing My Boyfriend's Back several years ago and having not watched it since, I can still say with all certainty that this movie deserves to rot like its main character. I mean, if I could, I'd rip the right arm off of this film, and beat it to undeath with it!Here is the story (no spoilers, I promise)Johnny Dingle is a loser.  Johnny pines for Missy, the hottest chick in school.  Johnny doesn't have a prayer.  Johnny comes up with a plan to win Missy's heart.  Oops, Johnny's plan back fires.  Now Johnny's dead.  But love won't let Johnny just stay dead (like he should).  No, Johnny has to ask a very special question first.  Blah, Blah, Blah...This movie is a turd and a half, and deserves to be burned.  Every copy of it.  The only redeeming moments in the film are those featuring Missy (because she is hot), and Philip Seymour Hoffman because he is fantastic in everything he does.  However, they are not enough to warrant this film's existence.If you want a funny zombie movie, skip this flick and opt for something truly funny ... like The Return of the Living Dead.I cannot in good conscience recommend this. "},{"Title":"The worst piece of celluloid I ever paid to see.","Date":"26 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I went to see this because my best friend was an extra in it.  The things I do for my friends!It's hard to believe a character's been shot when you can see the hardware under his shirt.  It seemed the production just didn't have the money to do things up right.  But when the money's coming from Disney, it must be that they just don't care.Nice to see that Bob Balaban has moved on to greater things, though. Seems this was his 'starter film'.  He doesn't deserve to have this dog in his filmography. "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I'm easily entertained.  I enjoyed Hot Shots and The Naked Gun and their many sequels, even when most people found them unbearable.  I've even managed to enjoy most Pauly Shore movies.  There is only one movie that I've seen that I can honestly say was bad...and this was it.  It's been a while since I've seen it, but I do remember sitting in the theater thinking, This is a dumb movie.  Why did I see this?  It's honestly the only movie that I cannot recommend. "},{"Title":"Worst movie that I have ever seen.","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have seen over 1000 movies and this one stands out as one of the worst movies that I have ever seen.  It is a shame that they had to associate this garbage to The Angels 1963 song My Boyfriend's Back.  If you have to make a choice between watching this movie and painful dental work, I would suggest the dental work. "},{"Title":"Everything falls apart in this mindless teen film.","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Turn your backs away or you're gonna get in big trouble out of MY BOYFRIEND'S BACK! Only a happy ending can bloom your innocence that is full of gloom and doom at the very moment you're watching this. It's safe to say that the entire movie falls apart, with a sarcastic approach and tribute to zombie shows that defy nonsense to the max. We get a name like Johnny every so often, and this Johnny has nowhere to go. There isn't a specific reason to why our dead corpse crawls out of his grave just to survive until prom night, so that renders the movie totally useless. Without a feeling of sorrow, his mother is convinced to tell the doctor that he's dead. Johnny takes a bite out of Eddie's arm afterwards. The viewer is asked a tough question Why does the movie have to be this cornball? There is an answer. Any resemblance to all persons living or dead is purely coincidental. Living is a coincidence. Dead has nothing in common with the movie. Show this one to your girlfriend and she'll skip the senior prom, turning your life into a deserted ruin. Blah!!!  "},{"Title":"Oh. My. God.","Date":"6 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Please make me forget. Please. Please. This is the worst film I have ever had the misfortune to watch. I consider the film an insult to my brain as well as my backside who both have suffered from me sitting and watching this film. I have yet to see what damage it has caused my sight and my ability to complete sentences. What a load of garbage!! And don't get me started about the acting... Someone please help me forget!! Weird Science -- come back!! Everything is forgiven...I am proud to give this film the first 1 here at IMDb... And I've voted for hundreds of films... Many of them c**p but this is so bad I can't even believe it. Someone actually came up with the idea and thought it was worthy of becoming a film? Someone actually read the script and decided to produce the film? Someone read the script and auditioned for it? Someone saw the film and decided *not* to put it on a shelf to collect dust for eternity? *These* are the questions I want answers to. Not the philosophical question about that tree in the woods and well, you know... "}]