[{"Title":"A wasted life","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"23 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Fearing the worst, but realizing Mike Figgis had directed it, I decided to take a look at this 1993 picture. Never saw it in its commercial release, as it didn't stay in theaters for a long time.This is a film about a man who is mentally unbalanced. Who could ever know what goes on in the mind of a person with a problem such as the one that afflicts Mr. Jones, the strange character that seems to be on a permanent high, as he is introduced in the first scenes of the movie.Individuals such as Mr. Jones, in real life, go from one state of euphoria to periods of great depression. This is a study about a man that is breaking down in front of our eyes and no one has a clue of what to do with him. Eric Roth, the screen writer, seems to be telling us that hospitals such as where Mr. Jones is taken to, can do more harm than good. Evidently medicine given to these patients could well contribute to aggravate their condition.It's only through the encounter of Jones with the psychiatrist, Dr. Bowen, that he is correctly diagnosed. In treating this man, Libby, ends up falling in love with a person who might never be cured and will live forever in a world of his own, where no one else can enter, or no one can shed any light about what will cure his condition.Richard Gere's portrayal of Mr. Jones was quite a departure from the roles he chooses to play, usually. He makes this man compelling, as we feel sorry for what's going on in his mind. Lena Olin, is also good as the shrink that understands what's in Jones' mind. Delroy Lindo, makes another great appearance as Howard, the man who befriends the mysterious man and tries to help him. Anne Bancroft as the director of the institution doesn't have much to do.The film, although a bit long, is never boring. It will keep any viewer interested in what will happen next, as the people suffering this disease go through all the changes caused by what is going on in their minds. "},{"Title":"Jones the Dream","Date":"8 November 2005","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was Mike Figgis' first film after the rather wonderful and haunting Liebestraum and compared to that it's a disappointment.As others have commented, Gere's acting is magnificent. I have a good friend who is manic depressive and Gere nails the condition absolutely. As others have also commented, this performance is straightjacketed into a contrived Hollywood vehicle with a laughably pat romantic ending. I was unsurprised to discover that the film was taken away from Figgis by the studio, redited, rescored and partially reshot.A couple of points of course Lena Olin's character behaves unprofessionally, that's made quite clear in the movie, so pointing it out as a flaw seems a little wide of the mark. What we in fact have is a slightly more subtle than usual rendition of the psychiatrist is as nutty as the patient trope - she is shown earlier in the movie to be extremely vulnerable and perhaps irrational after a failed relationship. Meanwhile Gere is extremely charismatic, as manic personalities can be, she is drawn to him out of her own depressed state and the time-honoured Freudian concept of transference does the rest. In addition the choice she makes addresses the notion introduced by Gere's character in the movie - how much is she prepared to give up? There are also serious questions about madness touched on in the film - where does individual personality end and illness begin? To what extent is insanity a logical response to an intolerable situation? Perhaps these were originally to be explored in a little more depth.I suppose this accountant's cut didn't do well enough at the box office for there to be much chance of a director's cut and that's a shame. It seems there is a much better film somewhere in here screaming to be let out.... "},{"Title":"Good!","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"21 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  As a sufferer myself, I found this film very reassuring that my actions are not totally alien.  It was both entertaining and supportive.  Geres' line that he needs the highs to be able to cope with the lows just shows an understanding into the illness.  This is well acted, well written and well worth watching. "},{"Title":"Something is happening here, but you don't know what it is, do you, Mr. Jones?","Date":"18 August 2005","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know very much about bipolar depression, aside from reading biographies of Robert Lowell, the poet. I have to say though that Richard Gere is outstanding in this movie. It started showing on ITV2 and his performance drew me into the story- I had to watch it to the end.It's a brave premise for a Hollywood film but Mr. Jones is let down by a flawed script. I was offended by the way the doctor was portrayed. Of course she was played by a stunning actress, of course she became attached to her patient- to the point of invading his privacy by looking up his friends from his time at music college twenty years earlier. Oh, and of course (SPOILER- in more ways than one) she slept with him as well. She offers to resign which keeps her from being professionally ruined &#150; sorry, but I can't see a qualified and experienced psychiatrist falling in love with her patient, let along sleeping with him while he's still under treatment. The ending peters out as well- to suggest that they will become a couple, I suppose.The hospital scenes are strong and moving, as is the the subplot about the young student. This could have been an interesting study of people in emotional distress. Too bad they couldn't match Mr. Jones with unsentimental and uncompromising portraits of those trying to help him. "},{"Title":"What A Great Movie!","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"20 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a beautifully written movie of a manic depressive. All the moods and feelings this man experiences is brought to life so expertly by Richard Gere.This is perhaps Richard's best performance. I don't think many actors could have pulled this off and make it seem authentic. How Richard never won an Oscar or was not even nominated for his performance is beyond me.Richard obviously spends a lot of time preparing for a roll, being that he is a perfectionist and it shows in everything he does.I think Richard Gere is the most underrated actor in Hollywood. I have read a lot of the negative comments of his bad choices on the rolls and movies he picks to do (which I don't agree), but on this movie his choice was perfect.If you want to see one of Richard's best performances then this is a MUST SEE.  "},{"Title":"He took her away...on the fly.","Date":"20 March 2005","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In this intense and emotional tale of compassion, rescue and love, director Mike Figgis portrays the antithesis of the Richard Gere he had shown us three years before Mr. Jones' release A needy, fragile, unstable yet creative and fascinating character versus the sinister, cold-blooded and self-confident officer Dennis Peck in Internal Affairs.Gere's ability to absorb the script and bring it to life through his inimitable histrionic demeanor has once again amazed me, bringing me into the scene as if I were observing from behind the camera. Another example of a woman assisting a man throughout his struggle is Figgis' Leavign Las Vegas, where Elizabeth Shue chooses to be by Nicholas Cages' side, with the exception of a very sad ending (In this case we had pills instead of bottles). From Final Analysis, Gear switches into the patient's role, making us hold our breath and, needless to say, get a good use out of our handkerchiefs. "},{"Title":"Gere was right on the money in this one","Date":"27 August 2004","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I caught this movie last night on TMC. It premiered soon after I was diagnosed with clinical depression in 93 and even though I was glad to finally have a name to my own madness, I was not ready to see it at that point. Many told me about it though and finally, I saw it. It was very, very good. Gere did an exceptional job at portraying the classic Bipolar I individual. (My depression is 95% lows and have had only one or two manic episodes in my life and am well controlled and on meds). The highs are fun but it is pure payback with the lows. Of course, with this being a movie, The Dr. falls for Mr Jones and in the real world, that would lead to termination on her part. In the case of movies though, anything goes and Richard Gere would be hard not to fall for, LOL. Everyone did an exceptional job and it was an exceptional movie. Kudos to all!  "},{"Title":"An excellent portrayal of bipolar disorder (warning ending spoiler)","Date":"17 February 2008","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I find it interesting that films are so often chastised for being unrealistic, when realism is usually neither an attainable nor desirable goal in a film (for example, most films don't portray a story that unfolds within two hours or less, so montages or other devices are used). The main purpose of Mr. Jones (the film) is to tell the story of a man with bipolar disorder, and issues of realism, for me, are then based on two questions. Firstly, did the film, and Richard Gere in particular, accurately portray the experiences of a person with bipolar disorder? Secondly, was his experience with mental heath care also fairly portrayed? As someone who has suffered from bipolar disorder for almost ten years, I can unequivocally say that the answer to both questions is yes. This film gives the best portrayal I have yet to see of the experiences of suffering from and being treated for bipolar disorder.From the early scene where Mr. Jones is seen trying desperately to get a job, to the ending sequence where he tries to fly for the nth time over and gives up, Gere gives an outstanding and thoroughly believable performance of a man living with the intensity of bipolar disorder. Most poignant to me were the moments when he was able to realize just how much he was fooling himself about the disease, yet couldn't break away from it. In a lesser movie, the line I'm an addict would be a sarcastic reference to his medication; here, it is used as a perfect description of Jones' need for his manic highs.In addition, I have yet to see as understanding a cinematic portrayal of mental health care in the United States. Even upon viewing it fifteen years later, this film deals so accurately with so many mental health care issues - the revolving door aspect of treating patients in current-day America, the moments of joy and pain one can experience even within a hospital (without the overdone dramatics of most films taking place in mental hospitals), and the efforts and sacrifices that doctors and staff make every day. Indeed, one of the most striking aspects of the film has to be the ease with which Gere walks in and out of treatment, a truly realistic situation, even more realistic because he has apparently been doing so for many years. The reality, despite what films would normally have us believe, is that it is much more likely in America today to be trapped in a revolving door for many years, never getting the treatment one really needs, than to be wrongfully institutionalized for many years. Unfortunately for realism, the latter makes for much better high drama.Speaking of high drama, let me turn to two slightly controversial aspects of the film the love story aspect, and the ending. Personally, I don't find it unrealistic that Jones' doctor could fall in love with him - it certainly happens in real-life patient-doctor relationships, and it makes for an interesting twist. Others have criticized this part of the story as unnecessary, but I see no particular reason for its omission, because the film did give plenty of screen time to the story of Jones' disease and there was room for this extra plot angle. In addition, her responses to the developing relationship and her resignation were handled excellently and accurately - there was no deux ex machina that allowed her to stay at the hospital or keep treating him - and also allowed for a look at some of the ethical issues involved in mental heath care. My only issue with the love story was that it was a bit clichéd, but it didn't detract from the film much at all in my opinion.As for the ending, a lot of people have had trouble with the fact that Jones either seems to be cured too easily, or that there was no climax where he actually fell off the house, or that in general it was too neatly wrapped up. I would have to say that, knowing the bipolar disorder condition so personally, the ending was perfect. For sufferers of bipolar disorder, it can be so easy and quick to move from one mood to another, and the arrival of a loved one can easily snap you out of dangerous situations. The message that I took from the ending was not that he was cured, or that he wasn't (there is no cure for bipolar disorder at this point). It was simply that he had faced another tough day as a sufferer of a disease, and that he now had a lover who was going to help him face more tough days. The end dialogue is particularly telling. His last line So now what? Hers A cup of coffee. Decaf. They are moving on. Our view into their lives is over, but they will be fighting the battle for years to come. The rest of the movie has already told us that. A lesser script would have had some sort of and then life became great montage, which would have ruined this film. Here we are left with the understanding that the fight against the disease goes on, but that he now has someone who will aid in the fight and temper his moods as best she can, starting with sticking to decaf (which is more than just a joke if you have bipolar disorder).If you don't mind a fairly standard Hollywood love story as part of the mix, you will find this an outstanding, moving, and educational film. I give it 9 out of 10 only because the love story goes on just a tad too long, and that time could have been used for more exploration of the illness and its treatment. "},{"Title":"Don't be fooled by comedy early; still high quality","Date":"19 February 2009","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Based on the first few minutes, I was expecting a comedy about a happy-go-lucky construction worker who displays unconventional behavior. Even after his first trip to a mental hospital, I figured this would be a romantic comedy about a fun guy and the pretty female psychiatrist who wants to prove he's wacko.Actually, she is right about him. He is manic-depressive. The man who only refers to himself as Mr. Jones doesn't believe he is manic-depressive because he would have to get depressed. We haven't seen it and surely it's not true, right? Wrong. This is a very troubled man. He will need a lot of care, and we must be prepared to go through some hard times with him.Richard Gere did a very good job. Naturally, I liked him best when he was fun. His character seems normal because this is a movie, but that soon changes. Gere effectively shows a wide range of personality styles, though this is nothing groundbreaking.Delroy Lindo is a standout performer as Howard, the co-worker who apparently saves Mr. Jones' life. Although they work together less than a full day (I assume), they become close friends. Some of my favorite scenes have Gere and Lindo together.Baha Jackson does a good job as Howard's son.Lauren Tom briefly appears as a bubbly, fast-talking, excited patient. Too bubbly. She's going to have to crash--and she does.Whether you like this movie or not depends on whether you want comedy or drama. I found enough scenes enjoyable. "},{"Title":"Why Do Only Children Have Flying Dreams?","Date":"10 April 2012","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Mr. Jones Give me this. This first day, I work for free. I give it to you, its a gift. Second day, you pay me for two days. Third day, I have your job.A little gem of a movie. Yes it's subject matter (Bi-polarism and mental illness, and what not) are a tragic and sad theme. But that is why we watch and we learn sometimes from movies.Richard Gere shines as Mr.Jones. he reminds me of the character 'Jesse Lujack' he played in his movie Breathless(1983). Same hyped up energy.He still looks sexy enough for you as the viewer to believe that a woman doctor or woman bank cashier would risk their jobs and sanity for him. Lena Olin is good also as the doctor treating Gere and falls for his crazy charms. Anne Bancroft did an OK turn as Lena's fellow doctor and superior ,Dr. Catherine Holland . Delroy Lindo had a wonderful turn as Howard, the family man who wants to help Jones by giving him friendship. Lauren Tom does a credible job as the ill-fated and mentally unstable patient Amanda Chang. Ana Maria Horsford( from'Friday' fame) has a basically nice cameo as a judge. Thomas Mikal Ford (Tommy from Martin fame) also has a nice bit as a mentally ill patient who can be violent. And last but not least, comic character actor Taylor Negron(Easy Money's Julio)has a nice bit also as a helpless victim of Jones, when said Jones just steals his motorcycle!Actors that got 'wasted' for me were great character actors Sal Lopez(American me) and Bill Moseley(The Devil's Rejects) and Valente Rodriguez(The George Lopez Show) and last but not least,Lucinda Jenny(Rain Man). What I mean by wasted is that their roles were so minimal and inconsequential that I did not see them though they are listed in the credits. What a shame,good talent put to waste.But on a different note and a nice uncredited cameo bit was done by none other than , Bill Pullman as the Construction Site Foreman who is another victim of Jones who falls for his 'charm' and gives a him job(not a good idea).All in all, one of my favorites. Check it out! "}{"Title":"Thank You Richard!","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" To expose such a stigmatized topic as mental disease. Heart-breaking true story that many of us tasted for real. Humans on planet Earth need more of such movies. just to be able to reach the next metaphysical levels. cause there is no insanity if you ask me, there is HAARP, mind control,... Excellent transformation of pure metaphysical into moving pictures. To remind the rest of the world how wrong can stigmatized people be treated, percept-ed. But i'm glad there is no lobotomy anymore ;)Best regards,Anastazya N.G. "},{"Title":"How high can you go?","Date":"24 June 2007","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The most poignant point in this movie, for me, was not whether doctors should have relationships with patients (of course we know this happens, we know it is wrong, we know it doesn't usually happen, and we should all be horrified at the thought), it was not that people who have bipolar are people, too, and it was not how well Gere portrayed his character.It was the fact that his character was unwilling to take his meds because his euphoric highs were what made his depressive lows tolerable, and even worth it. And those euphoric highs were amazing, a huge bite into life that many of us only wish we were brazen enough to chew. But, of course, his illness prevents the wise knowledge of how high to go.Imagine this yo-yo approach to life - for a lifetime - I can't. Next, imagine someone suffering the lows to the same degree Gere's character suffered the highs. Suicide, anyone? This movie slams home the emotional roller coaster which courts of law and some medical establishments are incapable of approaching correctly.I wonder if locking Mr. Jones up for grand theft would have been a good thing - nah, not really, c'mon think about it. As for the unprofessional behavior of the doctor - well, I guess she fell in love. Shame on her. Of course, she should have withdrawn from his case. I wonder who would have been in charge of his treatment, and what treatment he would have received. D'oh, this was her major concern, for this particular storyline. The doctor who would have taken over was quite undesirable.Although most medical facilities are professionally compassionate regarding the illness, this movie used a plot with an antagonist - necessary for a climactic story, but seldom available in real life. It's just to remind us that sometimes exceptions can be allowed and punishments waived for human errors. I never got the impression that this movie was encouraging unprofessional behavior. "},{"Title":"Mr. Jones I need my highs.","Date":"22 July 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movies traditional 'happy end' happens not in the end but is placed in the middle of the movie Mr. Jones and Libbie fall in love with all what belongs to it. The psychiatrist Libbie Bowen crosses the line, seduced by the 'manic euphoric' (today 'bipolar') Mr Jones. He pushes himself and the others he encounters, wherever he meets them beyond of beyond. The question is where and when is the healing moment for the person and for the others? Is it when kissing euphoric the girls in the street? Is it the 'consuming' wish to direct the orchestra as one likes Beethoven? when is the too much reached. When is the line crossed of the too-much of no return? Mr. Jones I need my highs. At the mental hospital, he is cared for by the psychiatrist Libbie who finds herself being more than interested in him. Falling for him with Eyes wide shut-open. Aware of what happens is wrong. Is the reason for her 'love fall' the disease (as psychiatrist)or as woman for this 'interesting' man? Roger Ebert, October 8, 1993, hinted at the same, IMDb. The similarity The divorced Wallis Simpson was asked if she was in love with the Duke of Windsor or the man Edward? We all experience difficulties. For some it develops to a traumatic situation. Ellen Ryan for him when she could not go on with him. As most of us in such a moment, she had not the unlimited strength She is dead he tells Libbie. She searched, found her and talked to her. Married and two children.To be high up on the roof. At the same time caught by the black nights, haunting him. To say it with J W von Goethe (1749-1832) 'Himmelhoch jauchzend - zu Tode betrübt'. The movie ends 'up there' on the rooftop. Libbie with him on the roof. Against her wish. Called to help. After her mistake she resigned. What is illness You are not sick, you have a sickness. Focused like this medicine can be a help. Mr Jones I am not ill. I am like this. How does it end? Who takes the first step? Absolutely not Mr Jones as he thrives with these kind of games. She. Her responsibility. As staff falling in love with a patient and crossing the line as (they) she did is not only wrong but a case for the police. Libbie knows it, taking the consequences.I want to fly but I can't, he says. Now you know answers Libbie and he What do we now? A cup of coffee, defrag coffee is her answer on top of the roof.What will happen after the coffee and beyond the movie How will it be when Mr. Jones needs now and then to be on top. Can the psychiatrist Libbie be at his side - be and give the support he needs? And of course what they are for each other as man and woman? In 'between' are seen other cases. One free-will-case ends tragic. Against the staffs advice a female patient is released home with her parents. Committed soon at home suicide. "},{"Title":"I liked it!","Date":"15 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I am really surprised to see such low ratings for this film. I think it's a great insight of how people who are affected by manic depression feel and how difficult can be the job of physicians in treating them. Moreover Richard Gere's interpretation is a masterpiece. He shows both the vulnerability of an exhausted and sad man in search of understanding and acceptance, and also of course his celebrated coolness and savoir-faire with women in the character's exuberant spells. I found the picture really pleasant, funny at times and shockingly real and dramatic and full of pathos. Despite the numerous clichés (..) and the frequent fades-away which, in my opinion, manifest a little hastiness by the director, I found the picture full of hope. Sometimes we forget the complexity of the human psyche. A man can endure at times ecstatic bliss and at others dreadful despair. I guess it's the price to pay for being extremely sensitive. Or just a little crazy. "},{"Title":"A story of a man and his journey through life","Date":"26 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" A man bikes to a construction site and tries to land a job. He is accepted on the job and he starts to work. The construction site is on the top of the roof of a wood framed house. This wood frame is like a skeleton. The site is very unique because it seems to be aligned with an airport runway meters ahead. As the aircraft descends, Mr. Jones feels excited and wants to be closer to the noise and the presence of the aircraft. In order to do this he climbs up onto the wood frame and attempts to get a little bit closer to the aircraft. He balances himself onto the top ledge of the house. When one of the other construction workers sees that Mr. Jones is climbing up on the top ledge of the house and walking to the front edge, this gets interpreted by the construction worker as being something that is highly dangerous and unsafe. A construction worker tries to bring Mr. Jones to safety by rescuing him.Mr. Jones does not seem to want to be rescued as he is happy standing on the edge and waiting for the aircraft to pass-by. In the meantime, the construction worker has since tied a rope around himself, followed Mr. Jones onto the unsafe ledge and followed him down the slim wood beam, while the aircraft zoomed overhead. The next scene, Mr. Jones is in restraints at a psychiatric hospital ward. What he experienced has been interpreted by the construction worker, the ambulance staff and psychiatrists as being medical, and is treated as such. The atmosphere in the film, throughout the first couple of scenes, went from total happiness to total despair (as seen through the eyes of Mr.Jones and through the visual storyline telling by Mike Figgis, the director of Mr. Jones).As the film continues, there is a fine line between absolute happiness and complete emotional despair.This film visually follows Mr. Jones. However this film does not seem to have a climax, a plot nor a strong message to the audience. Instead it attempts to portray the point of view on one individual and his unique journey through life, through the backdrop of the psychiatric system in the 1990's.Written by Annuska Victoria BC Canada "},{"Title":"Richard Gere comes to terms with his manic depression with the help of psychiatrist Lena Olin","Date":"24 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Mr. Jones is an original and creative story, brought to life by a first-rate performance by Richard Gere as a manic depressive.At the outset, in his up or manic phase, Gere wants to fly and almost jumps off a building. In his down or depressive phase, he feels great sadness.His shrink seems permanently sad and depressed, both in character and as played by the forlorn Lena Olin. Her performance is much more one note. She is very sympathetic toward Gere's Jones, but she didn't draw me in to her character. Most of the time she seemed puzzled, or distant, or sad herself.My rating is mainly due to the original story idea and to Gere. The story does tend to play out and dissipate in the middle third, however. "},{"Title":"A Portrait of Mental Illness","Date":"30 January 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Richard Gere offers up a rather penetrating performance of manic-depression and the highs and lows of such a condition. Unlike 28 Days (2000) or Girl Interrupted (1999) there seems to be an imbalance in presentation of the movie itself and its highs and lows in a way that unfortunately distorts the presentation of mental illness. Lena Olin's character as Dr. Bowen, a psychiatrist, M.D. doesn't necessarily offer up sufficient character development to justify the movie's ultimate plot and dynamic interplay with Richard Gere's character as Mr. Jones, unlike perhaps a student intern that would have required much less back story and more consistent with the storyline. The climax of the movie is more of an American romantic drama instead of the more genuine drama that most of the movie itself held onto its integrity. The ending unlike the more Helen (2009) which might be considered stronger in its overall tone and theme, nevertheless is weaker in its depiction of the experiences found with such chemical imbalances. "},{"Title":"Was it or was it not a goof?","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I happened to like the movie. Mr. Geere is an amazing actor. I have no personal connection with the disease, but I believe the movie strongly displayed the struggle that certain individuals go through. I did not like the professionalism of the doctor, but hey, he got the girl and she got the guy, right? I guess that's what makes it a good movie. I do have a question about an event in the movie. This happened on one of the times Mr. Jones was apprehended by the staff at the hospital. It looked to me like the actors came too close to the camera and suddenly the camera man just slightly happened to push them away. You are able to see a hand from a non existent character for a second. Was that a goof, or was it an actor that I missed? "},{"Title":"Good movie about a mental illness","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Mr. Jones is about a man who is diagnosed with bipolar disorder. Another term for his diagnosis is manic-depressive disorder. He cycles between being ecstatic about life and going through depressive episodes. Richard Gere does an excellent job of portraying this diagnosis. In the beginning of the film, Mr. Jones is in one of his manic states, where he is high on life and thinks he can do anything. After convincing a contractor to give him a job building a roof, he decides that he is going to make like a plane and fly off of it. Luckily, a fellow construction worker manages to get him down from the roof and save his life.After this, Mr. Jones gets incarcerated at a mental institution for evaluation. He meets the other main character of the film here, Dr. Elizabeth Bowen (Lena Olin). Dr. Bowen believes that Mr. Jones needs professional help and seeks to involuntarily commit him. During a hearing for his commitment, Jones craftily convinces a judge that he is just a happy go lucky guy, and the judge sets Jones free. The trial is a key scene because it not only shows how Jones is a very quick-witted person during his manic state, but, also, Dr. Bowen reviles that people with his condition first go through the manic state, but then fall into a very deep depression.Sure enough, after one more incarceration, Jones goes through his depressive stage. This time he wanders around and doesn't know where he is. It seems like he doesn't care about life and very nearly gets killed when he steps out into traffic on a busy street. The good doctor finds Jones in this state after letting herself into his apartment. After this, Jones apparently voluntarily commits himself to the hospital where Dr. Bowen works and he undergoes counseling and drug treatment. It is reviled that Jones has previously been prescribed drugs for his condition but he cannot live without his highs even though it means going through his lows. Here the movie takes on aspects more like a love story rather than a movie about a mental illness.In the end, Jones gets better and he and the doctor live happily ever after, presumably. Overall it was a good film that accurately portrays Bipolar disorder. One thing that the viewer should be aware of, though, is that it is a very inaccurate depiction of how the therapist-client relationship works. Many psychologists cringe at the thought of a therapist having relations with a client, as it is a violation of trust as well as a violation of the necessary distance between both the people in the relationship. "},{"Title":"An accurate portrayal of a manic depressive","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This film in the short time allowed gives a very real glimpse of what it is like to be a manic depressive and the effect the 'highs and lows' have on the sufferer and those who come into contact with them. You will discover that the 'highs' of a manic are addictive to him and something he can't live with or without. Mr Jones enjoys his 'highs' so much that he is willing to forsake all those that have been close to him. Richard Gere gives an excellent performance of Mr Jones and takes the audience with him in his very convincing portrayal of a bi-polar. The film echoes what happens in real life for many with bi-polar as they drive those that love them most away. The film is entertaining and educational which is a rare combination in a film. The film finishes on a positive note as Mr Jones finds someone who is willing to take him as he is and not someone controlled or deadened by mind altering drugs. Mr Jones is well worth watching. "}{"Title":"SHE took advantage of HIM","Date":"29 January 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was a decent movie. I understood the whole approach behind it etc. but I actually got quite annoyed at the leading lady. I do not care what anyone says, her helping him was not genuine in any way.Here it is, a sick man who needs help. She knows he needs help and yet the entire time she's secretly (though quite honestly it was quite obvious from the start, even the other doctor noticed and this was only the second time she was meeting Mr. Jones) hoping to be pounded out by Mr. Jones to the point where she violates his privacy without just cause tsk tsk tsk. Both leading actors played their roles well, Richard is sexy as always and I think if Mr. Jones was not so relatable to my life I would have enjoyed it a bit more...or a bit less; I'm not sure. "},{"Title":"Good movie!","Date":"31 December 2015","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I think this movie would give a lot for bipolar sufferers like Richard Gere's character. It is quite tough to have a disorder like that taking over your life and feel that you aren't the same as everyone else. It's like 'Rainman' gives people with autism in realising that just because you have a disability, it doesn't mean you are a lunatic, you are a human like everyone else in this world. It is the same with this movie. At least nowadays, people can be able to get jobs or go to college and not go into institutions. Back then was all full of ignorance, now is looking to the future.I honestly like this film and the romance involving a doctor & a 'patient' makes you feel really upbeat by the way it involves love and comfort to regardless of who you are inside. I think that's what people with disabilities or disorders should realise that there will be love right there for ya if you want to. I feel this movie gives a strong message for every human being on this earth! "},{"Title":"This movie in incredibly accurate, in one way at least.","Date":"25 December 2008","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Honestly, this is the best movie of all time that Richard Grere stars in. Not because I dislike his acting or his movies - but purely because he was spot-on perfect.I cant imagine a single other actor who could have portrayed a Bi-polar person perfectly. and he did - I have Bi-polar and I know from experience how hard it can be, especially because it is truly like being on drugs, like he said- I need the highs It was also amazing that they added in the anger along with the depression - not all manic stages are crazy, euphoric highs, sometimes they are also combined with irrational anger, which was definitely portrayed well in Mr. Jones' ping-pong match, and in the end, when he goes to visit his old construction friend.Yes, the romance was very unrealistic, but it added a chance for a happy ending - Mr. Jones isn't by any means 'cured' but there is someone who understands him and his disorder, someone who is willing to help him in his highs and lows and knows how dangerous he can be.I definitely give this movie a 10, I love it. "},{"Title":"Improved Director's Cut","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I had the pleasure and privilege of seeing Mike Figgis' original cut at the Munich Filmfestival, and liked it a lot. To be honest, I had liked the version that came out in 1993, although I had heard rumors of re-shoots and Figgis not having final cut - and although there were some ridiculous scenes in it. Figgis' version is more believable, albeit darker, but that does make sense, since it is about a manic depressive. Richard Gere is pretty impressive, and it is one of the few times that he's still good when he's doing his free-wheeling high-wire act. But the saddest part about Mr. Jones not being recognized for its great moments is the understated performance of Lena Olin, who is almost as good as in The Unbearable Lightness of Being (1988) and in the second season of Alias.There's one thing about Mr. Jones that's better than the movie itself the story behind the film. Figgis has incredible stories to tell about the production of the movie and we can only hope that one day he'll share them with us in detail in a book, because it says a lot about Hollywood and its inability to cope with non-mainstream themes. "},{"Title":"I feel Good!","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  What a great movie! Hollywood and the critic community had no idea that Mike Figgis was a genius until Leaving Las Vegas came out. Oh well just makes Mr. Jones all the better. Probably the best Richard Gere performance ever and why he didn't win the Oscar I will never understand. It's bitterly funny and dramatic at the same time.  "},{"Title":"Done Very Well","Date":"18 May 2007","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The gentleman in the first review uses euphoria and depression as do several movie critics. The disorder is called bi-polar or by the old term manic-depressive.I am bipolar and while I have a great doctor we are not having an affair. I thought that this stretched the ethics question much too far.Richard Gere is on of the finest actors of our time in spite of his personal life. I identify with Officer/Gentleman because I went through the same program. That identity is far more apt from Mr. Jones. I am Mr. Jones and his portrayal of a high-functioning, creative and intellectual bi-polar is spot on. I use this description because all bi-polars are usually wrapped into the crazy, homeless out of control stereotype. There have been many hi-functioning bi-polars and I thank Mr. Gere and the production crew for their very accurate portrayal and Mr. Gere's superior acting and creating a true to life portrayal.Only a bi-polar can really realize how accurate and great the performance truly was.This is an older movie but I highly recommend it to everyone who has experience with any form of mental illness and to enjoy Mr. Gere's performance. "},{"Title":"Mr. Jones and Dr. Elizabetth","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" The movie Mr. Jones depicts what a person with bipolar disorder would act and look like. In the movie, Mr. Jones starts off by convincing a construction manager to hire him for the day, and during that conversation he shows signs of being bipolar. He is very keen on picking up on small signals, and also he talks very rapidly and energetically. Once he started to work, it became clearer that he had a problem. He started to walk tight rope style on top of a building stating that he was going to fly off the top of the house and gently land on the street. After that situation he was admitted to a psychiatric ward and was misdiagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia. He was then medicated with 10 mg. of Haldol, and kept for 72 hours because of the mandatory 5150 hold. For the next couple of scenes he showed what manic episodes look like. Towards the middle of the movie he started to show signs of major depressive disorder, which is part of bipolar. He was lethargic and very agitated with everyone and everything that was going on around him. Like most people with bipolar, he enjoyed and embraced his manic episodes (his highs), and that is why he refused to take his lithium. When Mr. Jones was going through his therapy with Dr. Elizabeth, he told her that he couldn't go on taking his medications, because he missed his highs. It seemed that it put him in a state of depression because he wasn't able to be as sharp as he once was. I believed that Richard Gere played the role of an individual with bipolar to a tee, and this movie also did a great job showing the ethical issues of psychiatry (even if they didn't mean to).Dr. Elizabeth did many unethical things throughout this movie. The first thing that she did wrong was, when she was talking to Mr. Jones she put her hand on his shoulder, and gave him a telephone number to reach her at. This is inappropriate, because there should be no physical contact between a psychiatrist and their patient. Another example of her unethical behavior was when she gave him a ride home, and then took him out for something to eat. I know that Hollywood wanted to make this a love story, but no psychiatrist in their right mind would take a patient out to eat and give them a ride home. That type of interaction is too personal, and is considered very unethical by most psychiatrists. Another situation that stands out in my mind is when she started to investigate the past of Mr. Jones. As a therapist you need consent in order to be able to dig into your patients past records. Toward the end of the movie Dr. Elizabeth kept getting closer and closer to Mr. Jones, until finally they ended up having relations with one another. To me this was the most unethical thing that she did throughout the whole movie.This movie in my opinion did a great job in showing what a person with bipolar deals with everyday, and how their lives are affected by medications, and hospitalization. I think this movie made psychiatrists look really bad and unprofessional, which is a shame because most psychiatrists aren't that way. This movie made female psychiatrists look especially bad, because it gave off the impression that they sleep with their patients and get to emotionally attached to them as well. If this was real life Dr. Elizabeth would have lost her psychiatrist license, and most likely gotten sued by the hospital and possibly the patient. "},{"Title":"Mr. Jones is a downer!","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Mr. Jones is the story of a man diagnosed with Bipolar disorder and his relationship with a mental health physician who becomes involved in his case. The story begins during Mr. Jones manic phase and continues through an entire cycle of depression and then uplifting mania. Mr. Jones' Bipolar disorder completely disrupts his life. His manic impulses put his life at risk and his deep depression drives him to thoughts of suicide and hopelessness. The only reason this movie isn't a ONE of TEN is it's correct portrayal of a psych hospital, the variety of patients that are hospitalized, and the highs and lows of Bipolar Disorder. Otherwise, it is completely unprofessional, stupid, predictable, and mind numbing. Further, both main characters should be locked up- one for grand theft and the other for professional misconduct. "},{"Title":"Gere is up to the task...but the film is a predictable tale of unbalanced love","Date":"23 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" With a burst of pop-rock music and Richard Gere peddling happily away on his bicycle down city streets, Mr. Jones deceptively begins as an upbeat character study (in fact, Flashdance...What a Feelin' would not be out of place here). Too bad then it's just a sunny preamble to the meat and potatoes of the story a bipolar depressive acts recklessly until he is finally institutionalized. There's a lady psychiatrist who is drawn to him (she's emotionally vulnerable due to a recent break-up), a sassy bank teller who is introduced for no other purpose than to give Richard a pretty date, a trip to a piano store where Gere tickles the ivories...but what is Mr. Jones about, at its core? Not even director Mike Figgis appears to know, following manic Gere randomly around town and then to a friend's house for dinner (where all the polite, happy children bow their heads in thankfulness). This is not an exercise in catharsis; Figgis wants to earn points with us through little acts of humility and false emotion--not hard-hitting realism. He doesn't have anything to gain with this picture, not even dramatically once Gere hits the wall and realizes he needs medical help. No one speaks of the financial obligations the central character is under by getting so much hands-on treatment and medication, while father-of-seven Delroy Lindo thinks nothing of slipping Gere some friendly cash (with all those hungry kids at home, one might think Gere should at least refuse the money on principle and not out of pride). Gere (also one of the producers) is up to the challenge of portraying a manic-depressive with euphoric highs and suicidal lows, but the movie tips its hand early on that wild, spontaneous behavior is healthy for the soul. It helps get you jobs, it helps make you friends! It's the same thinking which made A Thousand Clowns into an unbearable hit. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Gere's great, the film's not","Date":"11 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Vow, this could have been a great film.Mr. Jones, a manic depressive, grabs the attention of shrink Lena Olin who desperately wants to help Jones overcome his syndrome. Jones gets extremely high and in between has incredible lows and finally checks into a clinic in order to overcome his illness. But when his shrink starts to fall for him, things get complicated and Mr. Jones, who also loves her, may get suicidal.I don't think many people can deny the fact that Richard Gere is simply sensational in the title role. Equally good at portraying Mr. Jones's highs and lows and in fact; Mr. Jones is an extremely interesting character, who unfortunately, only gets mediocre treatment in a very average script. Instead, we get an implausible love story that grows even sillier as the movie progresses.In the end I felt very cheated. We get a very sappy ending in a movie that I felt took a desperately wrong turn somewhere in the middle. It starts off great but all goes downhill. What a shame, this could have been really special. "}{"Title":"What a waste of time","Date":"24 March 2011","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Stinker alert; this flick sucks big time. I am dumbfounded by the number of favorable reviews. This movie was recommended to me by a trusted source, so I watched. I love Anne B., I crave Lena Olin (I've seen all of her major work) and the director has an excellent track record. Lastly, I believe the original screenplay must have been good, as the bones of a solid film appear to be there.To me the derailment is Gere's performance. He is horrible in the same goofy way that he played the lead character in Breathless, another decent film, torpedoed by an over the top, and unbelievably unrealistic interpretation. To say he 'phoned-it-in would be kind. He didn't even tweet-it-in. To be totally honest, I think Lena must also be called out for several scenes where she is too stiff, even though she may have been directed in that manner.Delroy Lindo, superb as always. Lastly, the young Asian patient and her family were much more interesting than the cliché riddled Mr. Leading Man / Jones. I would have rather seen more development of her character and her relationship with the medical staff.This movie is a total waste. If you value your time do not bother with it, tuning into TV Land for two hours (laden with commercial potty breaks) would be more satisfying. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time watching this!!!","Date":"20 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I was watching this on video rather than in a theater, which was a real blessing, as I was able to liberate myself from watching all of the 110 minutes of this excruciatingly BORING and DISTURBING movie. I knew I probably wasn't going to like it within the first 5 minutes or so, but I was going to give it a chance. I resisted the urge to simply turn it off after about 15 minutes during which absolutely nothing happened, but I forced myself give it another 15 minutes. That was real torture and after that I was done. If you liked The Brave New World, you might like this. If you ever fantasized about what it could feel like to have a mental disorder, this is probably custom made for you. But if you like romantic comedies and uplifting movies that make you feel good, like I do, this isn't the movie for you. My recommendation is to avoid watching this awful stuff in the first place. "},{"Title":"A case of unreality!","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Everything about this movie was a lesson in unreality! The only real thing about it was the location shooting, which happens to be my home town of San Diego. Did Jones have a first name? (I didn't hear him called anything but Mr. Jones.) The doctor's offices (not the hospital) were filmed at the Salk Institute in La Jolla which is a few miles north. Mr. Jones's apartment is located between 4th and 5th Avenue on Market St. I can't think of any film starring Richard Gere that is as bad as this one, perhaps it is a reflection of his state of mind while he was still married to Cindy Crawford. I wonder what Gere's opinion of San Diego is? I hope it's better than his opinion of Henry Kissinger, who he told Charlie Rose, he would love to have a chance to debate face to face on Charlie's show.  "},{"Title":"great film","Date":"18 November 2000","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  this movie was great, but there was one very annoying thing. apart from the great acting and trully good story and script, there was one thing that really bugged me. You seem this movie came out at the same time that COUNTING CROWS released their song MR JONES and I was kinda hoping it would be in the soundtrack, or that the director could tell the composer to do the same thing that the composer of GHOST did when they used UNCHAINED MELODY..that would have made this movie a classic. Anyway great film, sad true and perfect for psychology majors like myself. "}]