[{"Title":"One of the 10 funniest films of all time.","Date":"5 November 2001","Score":"34 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I write this in 2001.  Sadly, at this time, all three of the Grumpy Old Men (Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau, and Burgess Meredith) have now passed on. But this film will show that some of your best work can come in your golden years.I first saw Grumpy Old Men against protest.  Though I'd heard of its legacy at being SO funny!-- I rebelled against the idea of seeing two foul old guys yelling at each other.  One night, my parents rented it-- and I happened to be staying at their house that night-- so I popped it in the VCR and watched it.I went to bed in pain that night because my abdomen was sore from laughing so hard.  It took over 3 hours for me to watch the whole movie because I kept rewinding and watching the funniest parts over and over again.Though the movie stars all VERY-seasoned and excellent actors & actresses-- one tends to forget that... and only sees John and Max going at it again. It's a fifty-year fight between these two mischievous old bags of hot-air. The movie becomes more exciting as it progresses-- because you get to wonder who's going to strike next and humiliate the other... Gustafson or Goldman?Aside from a wonderful story line and script, there are some very memorable one-liners and quotes from both this and Grumpier Old Men (the sequel). The soundtrack is sprinkled with wonderful old songs, along with festive polka songs to set the atmosphere for the town of Wabasha, Minnesota-- a small Swedish-settlement in the North.If you've not seen this movie, and you have a great sense of humor-- do yourself the favor of renting Grumpy Old Men.  It's a heart-warming, happy film that leaves you feeling good after seeing it.  God rest all the souls of the stars of this film that are now no longer with us-- but enjoy one of their last gifts to us before they left.    "},{"Title":"A very fun and sweet film","Date":"9 December 2006","Score":"27 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I don't know why, but I recently had Grumpy Old Men stuck in my head, I saw it when I was 8 years old with my grandparents, but I figured that I should watch it again before I would comment on it, since your opinion changes when you grow up. So, I rented both Grumpy Old Men and Grumpier Old Men and I was excited to see a decent rating on IMDb, and I love Walter Matthau, so this was a film to look forward too. Well, I finished it this morning and I have to say that it had it's good laughs along with a very heart warming story for the holidays.John and Max are two former friends turned enemies and have been feuding for a long time, we don't really know why at the beginning of the film. When they see a new neighbor moving in on the street, a very attractive older woman named Ariel. Now the boys have something new to fight over and are competing for her love. But it almost drives them crazy how much they keep playing tricks on each other and can they realize that it's finally time to grow up and act their ages or will they stay as grumpy old men? This was a very charming and lovely movie that could melt anyone's heart and make them laugh at the same time. I really do miss the comedies like this since a lot of films are more aimed for a younger generation, I may be 21, but I need the grown up comedies just as well as the one's for today, we need a balance, you know? But I would highly recommend Grumpy Old Men for a little laugh and a good film to watch for an afternoon.7/10 "},{"Title":"The Actors are Mortal, The Comedy Eternal","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"30 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The opening credits in this film roll to the tune of Heat Wave, and it was during a recent heat wave that I dusted off my well-worn copy of Grumpy Old Men and settled in to once again watch the first of four movies that made up the second coming of the Jack Lemmon/Walter Matthau team.  To those who have not yet seen the movie, (yes, there may be a few) it was set (and filmed) in snowy Minnesota, which give the film an authentic small town feel that the talented set designers of Hollywood would be hard pressed to duplicate.  From the stars' first lines in the film ('Morning ****head, Hello moron) we know what to expect, and the movie doesn't disappoint us. The verbal sparring between Max and John continues non-stop through 100+ laugh filled minutes.  Both the plot and the ending are not quite believable, but who really cares? For those who want reality, there are many depressing films out there, not to mention the news- papers and CNN. I have never read if all the cast members were the first choices for the parts, but every one of the cast fits their roles perfectly.  Ann-Margret has evolved from her dancing, grinding sexpot image in the 60's to a wonderful, natural actress. Burgess Meredith....what can I say?  He's perfect as John's father, a crusty, lovable old man.  The interplay between Jack and Burgess is so easy, and why not?  Who better to play a 94 year old than the 80+ year old Meredith. While Burgess is lovable, Daryl Hannah is lovely. As John's daughter Melanie, I have never seen her look more beautiful and heart-melting as she does in this picture.  Ozzie Davis, Kevin Pollak, and Buck Henry round out the cast, and bring their many talents to the picture. While much has been written about the comedy, very little is said about the realistic side of  Grumpy Old Men.  There are a few fleeting scenes that reveal the heartache and loneliness of growing old.  And John's dealings with the I.R.S. in the movie, while hilarious, points out what can happen when the machine-like IRS process starts to roll over an individual not caring about the human-real life side of the situation. The only downer for me in again watching this movie is the knowlege that the string is over.  Walter and Jack and Burgess are gone.  I can't watch this movie without feeling just a tinge of sorrow.  When most actors their age pass on, we feel sorrow, and then watch their classics from decades ago.  With Walter and Jack the best was yet to come. I have read elsewhere that scripts were in the works for Grumpy Old Men 3  and Odd Couple 3.  Who knows how many more successful films this brilliant team could have made together.  I doubt if the formula for their success would have grown stale, because both Walter and Jack no longer acted....their roles where just an extension of themselves.Whether it be Grumpy or Grumpier Old Men, Odd Couple II, or Out to Sea we were as much visiting with old friends as we were watching a movie.  Old friends get more endearing with age, and we would have never tired of new visits from them, no matter what the role. Burgess, Jack, and Walter.....wherever you are...thanks for the laughs you've given us over the years.  You made us feel good, which is the best epitaph anyone could wish for.  "},{"Title":"A family reunion","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It is sad to watch this wonderful film and realize that most of the actors in it are dead. Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau, Burgess Meredith, Ozzie Davis...all fine men whose loss to movie goers is felt- at least by this one. Ann-Margret, Darryl Hannah, Kevin Pollak, while still among us, are also perfect for their parts.Every time I watch Grumpy Old Men I sense the camaraderie and fun the cast and crew must have had in making it. It is a family reunion, and the audience is the more fortunate for being invited. Thank you all for braving the Minnesota winter to remind us of snow angels and tea tree oil; of old friends and Thanksgivings shared; of warmth in the deepest cold. "},{"Title":"Review Of Grumpy Old Men","Date":"14 December 2011","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Grumpy Old Men is a 1993 Donald Petrie film about two feuding old men (Lemmon, Matthau) who step up their game to woo their new neighbor (Ann-Margret). Let me start off by saying that I love both Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon and I have heard of how the two of them are often paired together on film. This is the first film I've seen with the both of them in it and I can tell why they were paired together here. The chemistry between Matthau and Lemmon is really noticeable throughout this film - they really love working with each other. Everyone else's performances were also very well done. The movie was also pretty funny overall, but what surprised me the most was that this film featured some very touching and heartwarming scenes within it. Honestly, I can say that this movie surprised me all together. I thought I was only going to get a 90 minute film of two old men swearing at each other. What I got was that, but with very great acting, subplot development, tonal diversity, and more. Grumpy Old Men is a film that I watched with a genuine smile on my face. "},{"Title":"What a great situation, and great acting, in a fast little farce.","Date":"31 August 2010","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Grumpy Old Men (1993)The set-up is so funny, and it's so great to see Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau at it again, you have to laugh even though the jokes are often more silly than funny. It's a feel-good drama despite all the hysterics. Maybe the best moments are Burgess Meredith as Lemmon's father, delivering crude old man lines with enough raw disregard for everything to sink a ship. Did you mounter her? he asks his elderly son. Obviously a hit enough to lead to Grumpier Old Men two years later, also funny but less fresh. And check out the Meredith outtakes on YouTube--just type his name and look for the Grumpier Old Men clip. "},{"Title":"A feel good comedy","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is a good movie because it is a feel good movie.  We see the characters and we don't feel that bad about ourselves.  Another Lemmon and Matthau film, where this time they are two old guys in Minnesota.  Content, until a woman (Ann-Margaret) is the apple of they're eyes.  Great fun, especially from Burgess Meredith, who is hilarious as Lemmon's dirty talking father who is even funnier in the out-takes.  A "},{"Title":"Classic Matthau and Lemmon","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"13 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an instant classic and a very recognizable film of the two, that if you ask someone about them, they will always mention this. A grreat and memorable role of the two, and and very hilarious, you'll want to see it again. They are a bunch of bumbling and feuding neighbors, who are in love with the same woman. Every scene with them in this one is unforgettable and outrageously funny. Especially the scenes with Matthau, with the fishing pole that sinks into the ice, he screams loud. An unforgettable scream and very funny too. He does the same when Ann Margaret drops the big fish before he can get a shot of it, and again when he discovers the dried fish that Jack Lemmon put in his car without him noticing it, and I like his line there, ya shmuck! That was funny. Boy those two are really funny, but at the same time they know how to make dramatic scenes that are almost teary, and sometimes serious and heart-warming ones, but they still become funny at the end and seem to keep it like that. Recommended to all fans of the two. "},{"Title":"Geezers in love","Date":"21 October 2012","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" After a hiatus of over a decade Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau came gloriously back in parts to suit their senior citizen status in Grumpy Old Men. They may move a little slower, but their comic timing hasn't slowed up one bit.The setting is a small town in Minnesota where these two old neighbors and widowers have this rivalry going back for years. Next to the ice fishing which they and apparently everyone else enjoys during the winter, their favorite pastime is cracking wise and playing jokes to one up the other. One thing that has slowed up is their libidos.But that's about to change when Ann-Margret moves across the street. The sight of a pretty woman right on the block is all these two old geezers need to get into action. As for Ann-Margret she's a free spirit of sorts who's flattered with the attention. Matthau has another friend in high places, his son Kevin Pollak is elected mayor of their town. Lemmon has a daughter played by Darryl Hannah and a grandson and she's married to Christopher McDonald, but they're estranged. The kids like each other and both of their fathers.Lemmon also has tax problems, he owes some big bucks to the IRS and the villain in Grumpy Old Men is tax man, a most officious Buck Henry. The IRS is an agency everyone hates because it's the only place where you really are guilty until proved innocent in the USA. What happens to Lemmon is all too true. I myself could tell you stories of the IRS problems I've had through no fault of my own. I never owed as much as Lemmon did however and all due to an accounting error while Lemmon was filing jointly with his wife when she was still alive over a decade earlier. Some eager beaver auditor at IRS caught it and the interest and penalties compounded have him ready to lose his house.I also have to note the presence of another pair of old geezers in the cast, Ossie Davis and Burgess Meredith. Davis owns a convenience store and in the opinion of Lemmon charges outrageously for bait during the ice fishing season. And Meredith is Lemmon's nonagenarian father who is past the age of caring what anyone thinks of him or his opinions.Grumpy Old Men is a wonderful film for the elderly. Now that I'm at the age of Lemmon's and Matthau's character, I can enjoy this now more than ever. For Geezers of all ages. "},{"Title":"Great fun for seniors and juniors","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  John Gustafson (Jack Lemmon) and Max Goldman (Walter Matthau) are neighbors living in snowy Minnesota who have been fighting with each other for several years.Then a lovely widow called Ariel Truax (Ann-Margret) moves to the street.That means competition between John and Max.Grumpy Old Men from 1993 is great fun for seniors and juniors.I'm only 18 but I'm getting older all the time.Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau were great together.Unfortunately Walter died to a heart attack last July at the age of 79.There are also some other great actors in the movie, including Ossie Davis, Daryl Hannah and Kevin Pollak.Burgess Meredith (1909-1997) is brilliant playing Lemmon's father in the movie.Grumpy Old Men is a heart warming comedy with lots of terrific scenes with Lemmon and Matthau.Don't miss the bloopers during credits.And don't miss this movie. "}{"Title":"Short impression","Date":"5 October 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just watched this film again after many years (I think 1994-95) I was charmed. So many titles today can't offer basic principles in comedy, drama and just plain fun. I don't think this is a spoiler but this film doesn't have any blood, psychological pressure or disturbing family secrets. What it does offer is a dosage of wholesome, well rounded goodness that will have anyone longing for purity watching this for their fix years to come. I probably would not have given such a high mark in the 90's (who knows) but today its a crystal clear breath of fresh air.. I loved this film and the actors all seem to be having a great time on the set.. In short this is a movie that can be picked up and put down with a good feeling afterwords. "},{"Title":"The Magic of Jack Lemmon & Walter Matthau!","Date":"26 August 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" 'Grumpy Old Men' is a film that gives us the pleasure to watch, Two Unforgettable Actors like Jack Lemmon & Walter Matthau together! This Aged-Comedy, is really funny & supremely acted!'Grumpy Old Men' Synopsis A lifelong feud between two neighbors since childhood, only gets worse when a new female neighbor moves across the street. 'Grumpy Old Men' is an entertaining watch, that offers some really funny sequences. Also, the hilarious confrontations between Lemmon & Matthau, stand out. Mark Steven Johnson's Screenplay is lively & engaging. Donald Petrie's Direction is decent. Cinematography & Editing, are satisfactory. Performance-Wise Lemmon & Matthau are genuinely lovable as arch enemies. Both of the legendary actors plays their parts, flawlessly & leave you in awe of them. And, Their On-Screen Chemistry, is superb. Ann-Margret does very well. Daryl Hannah, Kevin Pollak, Ossie Davis & Burgess Meredith lend good support. On the whole, Watch it for the sheer magic of Lemmon & Matthau! "},{"Title":"Grumpy Old Men ***1/2 We Need More Grumps Like this","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Wonderful film pairing the great Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon as feuding neighbors who really both have so much in common.The feud intensifies with the coming of widowed neighbor-Ann Margret to the neighborhood. Both our old friends go after her.Daryl Hannah is along for the ride. As Lemmon's separated from her husband's father, she portrays an interesting character. Along for the laughs in Lemmon's father, portrayed with great wit by Burgess Meredith.Naturally, we have the crisis situation that brings the two elderly gentlemen together. If you think you're in for a funeral at the end, guess again. It's a great ending to an endearing film. Matthau and Lemmon had such great on screen chemistry together. This film is no exception. "},{"Title":"A true classic","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was one of the best ever. It had it all - great acting, atmosphere (it felt like winter in Minnesota), a beautiful soundtrack, touching moments and most of all it was very, very funny. The cast was absolutely perfect. I don't know why some of the reviewers complained about watching old men swearing at each other and fighting. I think the title kinda implies that. If you don't like watching grumpy old men then a movie called Grumpy Old Men is probably not for you. Some people just take things too seriously. This is the kind of movie you can watch over and over again and it still makes you laugh or at least smile every time. "},{"Title":"a funny movie","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Grumpy Old Men is a movie about two senior citizens, John Gustafson (Jack Lemmon) and Max Goldman (Walter Matthau) who have known each other their entire lives and love getting the better of one another. They refer to each other as Moron (Goldman) and Putz (Gustafson) and play pranks on the other. John puts a fish in Max's back seat causing an awful stench in his friend's car while Max uses his remote to change channels while John is attempting to watch the lottery. The two men embark on a competition to win the affection of an attractive woman, Ariel Truax (Ann-Margret), who moves into the neighborhood and each does his best to win her heart. This movie is very funny, Lemmon and Matthau are one of the movie's best comedic duo and their story is filled with touches that show how both men retain their vitality though they are getting up in age. So, this film gets a grade of 7 out of 10 and a pretty strong recommendation. "},{"Title":"A gift","Date":"17 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I look upon this movie as a gift from two incredibly gifted actors--Lemmon and Matthau--to the rest of us. Get a big bag of popcorn and your favorite beverage and sit back and let the magic unfold. It's one of the funniest movies I have ever seen. Lemmon and Matthau are at their comedic best in this hilarious tug of war concerning two lifelong friends who treat each other as anything but. Yet underneath all the bickering and pranks, the two men have a genuine love for each other. One of the most important things I learned from this movie is that the only regrets you have are the risks you never take. I highly recommend this movie to all those who appreciate a little wisdom to go along with their humor. Watch it with someone you love. "},{"Title":"Top 10 best ever...","Date":"14 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Absolutely hilarious...One of my personal favorites. If you're looking to laugh, you have to look at this movie. Fabulous movie. Walter Matthau and jack Lemmon are just terrific together, and obviously their histories show it. Odd COuple, odd Couple 2, Both of these movies they're just classics. On a scale of 1-10 its a 10 no doubt. Burgess Meredith is rolling on the floor funny in this movie. He has a personality to die for in this one! Anne Margaret is very good as well. Max is the man, John's the man, Pop's the man. I don't usually like Darryl hannah but after this movie its ahrd not too. A family classic no doubt. "},{"Title":"Simply proof that Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau are the funniest of ALL generations","Date":"7 November 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Grumpy Old Men, and the even more hilarious Grumpier Old Men, are simply proof that the timeless comic team of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau are the funniest ever. I cannot comprehend how such a team gets thru a movie together without needing medical treatment for permanent belly aches from laughing. Audiences of any age will roar as their silly antics and jabs get worse, especially when a woman enters the picture.If you haven't watched it all the way thru just once, do it now, and then get the sequel too.Classic comic team at their absolute best! "},{"Title":"Awesome film, that's very funny and puts a big smile on your face when all is said and done,Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau are brilliant together!","Date":"28 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is an awesome film,that's very funny and puts a big smile on your face when all is said and done, Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau are brilliant together!. All the characters are awesome, and the story is excellent as well, plus Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau are simply amazing in this!. Burgess Meredith is hilarious as Lemmon's father, and this is very well made and written as well, plus I loved the prank Matthau pulled while Lemmon was trying to check the lottery on his T.V!. I'm looking forward to checking out the sequel,and it had a great supporting cast as well, plus the ending cracked me up as Matthau had to get one last prank in for the hell of it!. It also has some great dramatic moments as well, and Ann-Margaret was excellent in her role, plus all the characters are extremely likable for the most part. I was glad this turned out to be a small box office hit, and it's just got great old fashioned pranks as well, plus the whole love triangle between Lemmon,Matthau, and Margaret was very cute. This is an awesome film, that's very funny and puts a big smile on your face when all is said and done, Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau are brilliant together, and I say it's a must see!. The Direction is awesome!. Donald Petrie does an awesome! job here with awesome camera work, a cool setting and keeping the film funny and at a very fast pace. The Acting is tons of fun!. Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau are both amazing here together, as they always were, there just so hilarious and odd together, there just the perfect match, not only that they had the perfect chemistry together, they made this movie for the most part, without them it wouldn't have been nearly as good, as I loved there pranks!. Ann-Margret is cute as the love interest for the two old grumps, I liked her actually, she did her job well. Burgess Meredith is a riot as Lemmon's father, who is always wanting to go at girls, he cracked me up each time he was on screen, he stole a lot of the scenes, I love this guy!. Daryl Hannah is beautiful, and does fine as the daughter, she was charming I quite liked her. Kevin Pollak is good as Matthau's son I liked him as well. Rest of the cast are fine. Overall a must see!. **** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Funny film.","Date":"12 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" At my age, I had not seen most of Walter & Jack's previous films together.It was this film & the sequel were great.Great fun seeing the Max & John characters going after each other.Daryl, who I am NOT a fan of, dull in the character.I did NOT like them killing off Ozzie Davis' character Chuck.Scenes you can replay is always a plus to me in a film.The lottery game on TV and Max tampering with it, fantastic.You felt for Jack's character John when he was his heart attack on Christmas Eve.Like seeing the bloopers at the end of the film.Those were very good. "}{"Title":"What a Movie!!","Date":"12 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You have got Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau two of the best actors ever. They click so well together and put on a wonderful performance!  They fit so perfect for the role and the script.  They also have a nice supporting cast that make this movie one of my favourite movies of all time! Don't get me wrong, if Walter and Jack weren't in this movie...it wouldn't be one of my favourites!   "},{"Title":"Lemmon and Matthau at their comedic best","Date":"9 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Grumpy Old Men is a very funny comedy teaming one of the great acting duos in movie history, Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau. My review of this movie, sadly, comes a week after the sudden death of Matthau who was one of our great actors. This movie, as well as its sequel and the other movies he made with great friend Lemmon, will always remind us of this great comedy team that we won't see anymore. Grumpy Old Men was their best film together. Lemmon plays John Gustafson and Matthau plays Max Goldman, neighbors who have been feuding for over 50 years in the town of Wabasha, Minnesota. Then their hatred for each other starts to intensify when Ann-Margret moves into the neighborhood in the house across the street from them. They both duke it out to see who will win over the charming widow. In the process, they provide lots of laughs throughout. Also adding to the big laughs is the great Burgess Meredith, who's hilarious as Lemmon's sex-obsessed dad, and Ossie Davis has some funny moments as the owner of the bait shop Lemmon and Matthau always stop at. Grumpy Old Men takes place during the winter time, and boy just by looking at this film, they sure do get alot of snow up there in Minnesota. Lemmon and Matthau had said they got grumpy at times making this movie because of all the snow and the very cold, freezing temperatures. But it looked like they had a good time making Grumpy Old Men. And I had a good time seeing it.***1/2 (out of four)  "},{"Title":"Matthau and Lemmon deserve a better script","Date":"20 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Walther Matthau and Jack Lemmon are hilarious as two retired and single, always quarreling neighbors. Unfortunately, much of this comedy is spoiled by the cheap sentimentalism and the predictable plot that undermine the second half of the movie. Be sure to watch it till the end though, because the credits contain a little surprise for patient viewers. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable & humorous","Date":"17 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A truly enjoyable film. Great acting. Subtle humour. The sequel is equally as good. Long may Putz & Moron live.  "},{"Title":"Great fun!","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  One of my favourites. Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau are two neighbours quarreling and fighting for over thirty years. When an attractive woman moves into the neighbourhood, they both are keen on getting close to her . .. but only one can have her. Lemmon and Matthau are hilarious. The older the better. The icing on the cake, however, is Burgess Meredith as Lemmon's dad. "},{"Title":"Good Laughs","Date":"2 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Grumpy Old Men (1993) *** (out of 4) Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau play the grumpy old men, neighbors who have been fighting with one another for over fifty years. Their fights pick up when a red head (Ann-Margret) moves in next to them as both men try for her. I've always enjoyed this film (as well as its sequel) but I understand that some people won't. I think it's true that this material is perhaps below both actors but when the two are on the screen together you really can't help but have a smile on your face. This is certainly just another spin on The Odd Couple but this time they're older and say dirtier words. I've read countless reviews that put the film down and call the screenplay lazy because it just features toilet language and this is true but you still can't get around the fact that Lemmon and Matthau have so much chemistry together that it doesn't really matter what they say. The way the two men play off one another is like a jazz musician just throwing all sorts of magic out there and it sticks no matter how wild and crazy it is. One of the silliest scenes in the film is when Matthau uses his truck to nearly kill Lemmon who is in his shack fishing. Normally this scene would just come off as eye rolling but the actors pull it off. Even though both men are great they don't steal the film because that honor goes to Burgess Meredith as Lemmon's father, a horny old man always coming up with new terms about mounting women. Ann-Margret is charming enough for her role and works well off of the two stars. Darryl Hannah and Kevin Pollak are wasted in their small roles but Ossie Davis has a good turn in the film. This film certainly isn't a classic like The Odd Couple but for me you can never have too much Lemmon and Matthau especially when they're together and not getting along. "},{"Title":"Endless laughter it what this movie provides!","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The works and wonders of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau never cease. First there was the big screen version of The Odd Couple now there's this, Grumpy Old Men. These two codgers have been at each others throats for the past five decades. I'm not talking about Matthau and Lemmon, I'm talking about John(Lemmon) and Max(Matthau). The name-calling, the bickering, the fights, won't these old geezers call it a truce? Until an free-spirited neighbor comes in. Her name is Ariel Truax(Ann-Margret). She helps release the tensions in everyone she meets. Including John and Max's friend Chuck(Ossie Davis) who has heard enough of them two, yet he patient with them all the time. When Chuck died, the two are hurt, and angry. Losing a loved one is one thing, losing a best friend is another. Then John has IRS troubles, and the agent harasses him a lot. And Max puts a fish in his car after he says,Do the world a favor, pull your lip over your head, and swallow! To me, that was cold. And funny at the same time. The outtakes scenes are a real knee-slapper. Enjoy this while you still can. Don't be a grumpy old man for life! 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Our First Visit to Warbisha, Minnesota","Date":"24 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" There is a strange graft regarding the Matthau - Lemmon or Lemmon - Matthau buddy comedies. They start out on high notes with THE FORTUNE COOKIE and THE ODD COUPLE and then make a couple of comedies again with Billy Wilder together (one is Wilder's version of THE FRONT PAGE) which are not well received. They also do a film KOTCH, where Matthau stars in a straight role as a lively octogenarian, and Lemmon directs him (for his only time as a film director). But while they remained close friends Lemmon and Matthau did not seem to consider making any further films together without Billy Wilder. Fans of Crosby and Hope always mourned the failure (before Bing Crosby's death) that plans for a film THE ROAD TO TOMORROW were never completed. Fans of Martin and Lewis always hoped that the supposedly ill feelings between the men would settle and they would do one more film together. This was not the case with Matthau and Lemmon. Both men were such highly capable actors and comedians the public did not need them to resume another joint venture.Then, in the 1990s, they did a large spurt of films together. Two of these, GRUMPY OLD MEN and GRUMPIER OLD MEN, were excellent comedies. Another, THE GRASS HARP, was a straight film in which they shared only one scene together, but was generally well received. Then came OUT TO SEA and THE ODD COUPLE II. The former was a funny film, but lacked the strength of the GRUMPY movies, and the latter was a film with some good moments in it, but it can't stand good comparison with the original THE ODD COUPLE. This is, therefore, the only film comedy partnership which might have faded without any real notice. The revival of it was one that amazed the public in the early 1990s, and helped push the remaining three films into some form of box office success. I think the reason is that, although with Crosby and Hope their individual films in their heyday of the 1930s to 1950s were highly popular, there was a definite different element to their joint ventures two friends not taking plot, characters, or even Dorothy Lamour too seriously, but just trying to top each others zingers and turn a movie upside. With Lemmon and Matthau, their screen chemistry was quite good, and (judging from the outtakes in GRUMPY OLD MEN) they did not take their films that seriously either, but the stories had to make enough sense for their acting skills to carry scenes where they weren't reacting together.In GRUMPY OLD MEN, look at the scenes with Arial (Ann-Margaret), where there is one on one with John (Lemmon) or Max (Matthau). They are all acting very natural and well together. They behave like regular people interacting. The same with the scenes with Darryl Hannah, or with Kevin Pollak, Ossie Davis, Buck Henry, and Burgess Meredith. There is no false notes among them. In one scene, Ossie Davis (Chuck) has heard what a free spirit Arial is from Lemmon and Matthau. He goes, on Thanksgiving, to visit her - suddenly the two grumps have a rival. They confront him the next day. Davis is not a wooden stick but a very lively actor, and he gives as good as he gets from the two stars. He announces that the experience was like an awakening of youth. Suddenly one feels the presence of Davis' Purley Victorious just for a moment, but you see it is a natural reaction. Now compare that with Hope and Crosby confronting anyone else in their Road pictures. Or Martin and Lewis in their films (with Laurel & Hardy one hesitates, as Jimmy Finleyson or Charlie Hall or Mae Busch would react naturally). Hope and Crosby / or Martin and Lewis would confront wooden characters who were stooges or villains. Shortly afterward Davis' character dies. Matthau learns of it from Lemmon, and has an argument with Lemmon about not showing proper respect to the dead. Matthau returns to his home, and picks up a cap from Chuck's bait shop. And he starts crying for his dead friend. Nothing like that ever occurs in Hope and Crosby films, or Martin and Lewis films, or the other pure comedy teams.The film is basically about the long standing hurts that mar what is actually a friendship between Lemmon and Matthau going back to their childhoods. The final blow is basically the arrival of Ann-Margaret, and who will she favor as the future second wife of (or in Matthau's case, third wife of). She has an interesting character too, a California free spirit of artistic interests, who teaches literature. Given the stodgy middle age qualities of the two leads (well mirrored in the winter world of snow around the town of Warbisha), she is like fresh breezes of ozone. The other performers are good too, including Darryl Hannah and Kevin Pollak as the children of Lemmon and Matthau who their fathers (for all their mock-feuding) would like to see together, Davis (the first of two films he did with Matthau - the other is I'M NOT RAPPAPORT), Buck Henry as the obnoxious IRS man Snyder, and best of all, the late Burgess Meredith as a sensible, horny 90 year plus father to Lemmon. Meredith was the first of the leads of this film to die, but (fortunately) he lived long enough to help in the sequel, GRUMPIER OLD MEN). "},{"Title":"Friendly enough sitcom with shock-laughs","Date":"26 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In a chilly Minnesota ice-fishing town, two lifelong enemies (who live next door to each other) compete for Ariel, the free-spirited new redhead on the block (Ann-Margret, doing her best with an underwritten role). Comic vehicle for Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon isn't strenuous, it breezes right along, but this type of farce, an insult-slinging sitcom, has been patented and packaged along a cinema assembly-line reaching back many years. The plot is constructed (and constricted) by its one-liners, like a foul-mouthed Neil Simon; the grouchy leads play up the old coot business for all it's worth, but they are so cantankerous that it isn't too likely life-loving Ariel would want either of these guys (her rapport with shopkeeper Ossie Davis, though seen at a distance, appears to be much warmer). Still, there are some laughs on occasion, the locations are well-captured, and the smartly-picked supporting cast is winning. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A Real Comedy with enough of everything","Date":"8 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Contains Spoiler Grumpy old men passes as a funny, feel good comedy, and the truth is that it really is a feel good comedy. 2 old men John Gustafason (Jack Lemmon), and Max Goldman (Walter Matthau)are neighbors and for the most part get along and love to get each other mad, especially over women. Arguments between them range from fishing to backpain and to most of all women. Battle comes to war for the old men when an attractive widow played by Ann Margret moves into the neighborhood, both seek the womens love but she only chooses one. the movie blends well with romantic and feel good things and also with really funny stuff, i consider this movie a classic. Both old men feud over the women until she chooses john and not max, and when john has a heart attack there is no hard feeling between them at all. If you just want to enjoy a all out fun movie just pick this up.  "}{"Title":"A funny look at two men that have been friends forever.","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a laugh riot. Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau play two neighbors that have known each other their whole lives. They have been arguing about anything and everything for the last thirty years. The still vivacious, Ann-Margret moves into the neighborhood and now the fun really begins. Both old grumps try out doing the other in order to get the possible affection of the new comer. Burgess Meredith plays Grandpa and just about single handedly steals the show. Playing cardboard parts are Ossie Davis, Kevin Pollak and Daryl Hannah. Buck Henry is as always...funny.  You will laugh till your sides hurt. And don't miss the hilarious out takes during the closing credits. "},{"Title":"Pervading dirty atmosphere taints tale of feuding old coots","Date":"18 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Mine may be the sole dissenting voice, but I found this a rather pathetic movie. It is basically the story of old geezers (sometimes foul mouthed ones) who argue, insult each other, and talk a lot about sex. It could have been a really cute, hilarious, touching, and sentimental tale but alas, for the most part, it's not. Frankly, I felt as though this film and its sequel were beneath the dignity of its three talented and now, sadly, deceased stars...Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau, & Burgess Meredith, especially the amazing Lemmon. The story revolves around two neighbours, John & Gus, who have been feuding since childhood. Their quarrels escalate when an attractive widow, Ariel, moves next door and the pair vie for her affections. I couldn't help asking myself...what woman in her right mind would be attracted to either one of these cranky old idiots? Are there no more likely eligible men in the neighbourhood?The quarrelsome duo are played by those two comedic pros, Jack Lemmon (John) and Walter Matthau (Gus). However, this is not another version of their wonderful old comedy, The Odd Couple. Not much here is all that amusing, clever, or touching, and those instances which are have been ruined (at least for me) by a sort of pervading dirty atmosphere. Ariel is portrayed adequately enough by Ann-Margaret, but it's just not a very compelling role. By far the most obnoxious of all is Burgess Meredith as the dirty talking reprobate, Grandpa Gustafson (John's father). I will kindly refrain from getting nasty here about his role (as I would certainly be inclined to do) as unfortunately this actor has since passed away. Suffice it to say, I find foul mouthed old gaffers neither particularly amusing nor endearing.Yes, there's ice fishing, a few funny pranks, and a touching genuine underlying affection & friendship between this pair of coots, but it's basically a great movie only if you like dirty jokes revolving around old gents. If you do, you'll love the movie...simple as that. Obviously, many would agree as it seems relatively popular and I notice has received a reasonable rating here. They even went on to make a sequel (horrors!) called Grumpier Old Men, which I wisely decided to forgo. Pity I hadn't been smart enough to forgo the original as well. Actually, it was presented as viewing entertainment at someone else's home and I wanted to be polite; otherwise I would certainly have turned it off long before the end. We should all remember these three wonderful actors fondly, but at least for myself, best to forget these particular roles. "},{"Title":"Two Old Goats in Minnesota","Date":"15 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Grumpy Old Men is a movie of two long time friends, John Gustafson (Jack Lemon) and Max Goldman (Walter Matthau). They live next door to each other and both take notice when Ariel Truax (Ann Margret) moves in across the street. John and Max enjoy pulling pranks and insulting the other. Ariel does her own research on the two men and enjoys playing one against the other. John receives a visit from IRS agent Snyder (Buck Henry) early on that figures in throughout the movie. The events are centered around the winter holidays in a small, cold, and snowy Minnesota town where everyone has a strong love for ice fishing.The pranks and insults are only a cover up for the deep respect and friendship which the two men have for each other. It is quite evident that John and Max would do anything and everything for each other, or for any other person in the community. Ariel's companionship and friendship with each of them only increases the two men's devotion and competition with each other. Max's friendship is accentuated when he stands up to Agent Snyder, and pulls a few pranks on him in order to save John's house while John is in the hospital. Likewise John shows his friendship for Max when he returns Max's favorite ice fishing pole. Ariel sees the commitment these two men have for each other and their families. She has a hard time not to hurt one man's feelings while showing affection for the other, but handles it with great finesse.Director Donald Petrie does a superb job of showing the friendship of these two men, and of the tight bonds that are in a small community. The director's tongue in cheek approach to this movie is very well displayed and noteworthy. Grumpy Old Men is a movie which needs to be seen several times in order to pick up the little one liners and insults. One should also pay attention to the devotion of friendship, even if it is done by way of insults. Friendship is something that should be continually built on any way it can, and this movie definitely accomplishes this in many ways. "},{"Title":"Not a Grumpy Comedy.","Date":"21 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Grumpy Old Men (1993) Dir Donald Petrie / Cast Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau, Ann-Margret, Ossie Davis, Burgess Meredith Quirky comedy about how age and mentality catches up with oneself. Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau plays bickering neighbors whose rivalry goes back several decades. Lemmon is single and has a grown son but he conceals the reality that his house is about to be repossessed after thirty days. Matthau loves to fish and has a grown daughter where a romance is hinted between the two grown children. Central plot regards the arrival of a new neighbor, played with great spunk and energy by Ann- Margret. She arrives rolling about semi-nude in the snow at the bewilderment of our grumpy old men. Eventually she introduces herself to both but thankfully the screenplay avoids turning into a competition for her affections. Other roles are not so broad. Ossie Davis is featured as a shop owner who observes and provides advice when convenient. Burgess Meredith provides a laugh or two as Lemmon's obviously older than life father. Directed by Donald Petrie who previously made Mystic Pizza. It presents a theme of living life despite one's age but it also plays off the need to arrive at forgiveness and coming to the aid of those in need as oppose to cause further damage. In the end these two realize that under those grumpy expressions is a love and respect anxious to surface. Score 9 ½ / 10 "},{"Title":"Wonderful adult comedy of true friendship, old age and more","Date":"25 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau made 10 films together from 1961 to 1998. All of them were box office hits, and nine of them starred the two consummate actors in comedies. Grumpy Old Men is one of the funniest, and with its release on Christmas day of 1993, it makes a good comedy to play over the holidays.This is an adult comedy, mostly because of much of the innuendo that young family members aren't likely to understand. And most adults probably wouldn't want to explain the cause of their laughter, or stop the film to do so. But most adults should find it very funny. It's a good film about true friendship as well, and how it endures even through discord and falling out.Lemmon and Matthau are great as childhood friends long since living as friendly enemies. They're both retired senior citizens and widowers who live next door to one another. They're opposites in their likes and dislikes, manners and behaviors. But they have one thing in common &#x96; a passion for fishing. Lemmon is John Gustafson, a retired high school history teacher. Matthau is Max Goldman, a retired TV and appliance repairman. Burgess Meredith was 86 years old when this film was made. He plays John's dad, who is 94 years old. John is trying to get him to watch his health, but he says that at 94 he's not too worried. So, he continues to smoke two packs of unfiltered cigarettes a day, eat bacon for breakfast, lunch and supper, and drink his beer. As I said, it's loaded with humor for adultsAll the cast excel in this film. Ann-Margaret is Ariel Truax, a new object of contention between John and Max. Daryl Hannah is Melanie, John's daughter; and Kevin Pollak is Jacob, Max's son. I have a DVD of this film and bring it out to play each year over the Christmas holidays. "},{"Title":"Classic Matthau and Lemmon At Their Best","Date":"6 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tip of the cap to A, whoever idea this idea was. B, whoever green lit the project and C to whoever chose the principal cast. Walter Matthau, Jack Lemmon, Ann Margaret, Burgess Meredith, Ossie Davies, Daryl Hannah, Kevin Pollack and everyone's favourite douche Christopher McDonald are all superb!!Plot In A Paragraph A long standing rivalry between two old neighbours (Matthau and Lemmon) intensifies when a beautiful woman (Margaret) moves across the road. Matthau and Lemmon are a delight. They are called John and Max but it does not matter as they could be playing Felix Unger and Oscar Maddison again. I love watching them on screen together. Ann Margaret still looks fantastic, Christopher McDonald is as unlikeable as ever, and it was good to see Daryl Hannah at her cute best (as the perfect girl next door) again whilst Burgess Meredith steals the entire movie (not easy when the cast is this good) as Lemmon's Dad. "},{"Title":"A all true grumpy tale","Date":"1 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've always known about this movie. When coming around to watch it, as it was on t.v. last Saturday, I was surprised just how good I was, and again, a bit guilty, for not seeing it earlier. The casting couldn't of been more perfect from two legendary greats who work so well off each other, and I must admit the story is cute, and there are some rib tickling moments, but I looked at it as a more serious comedy, where it kind of makes old age, something to look forward to. Jack and Walter, childhood friends, as well as rivals are neighbors, their not so amiable dialogue of greeting each other sets off the laughs. Their grumpy traits, are ones you see in real characters, everyday, where I picked up on this. Their years of competing against each other, is worsened by the arrival of a new hottie, Ann Margaret, who does have a soft spot for Jack, where Walter's wide jealousy is something which can only be described as entertaining for the viewer, where he resorts to childish pranks, even before this hot woman came between em'. And how we miss these two greats, in what was here, one of their last score of films. I really liked Kevin Pollock as Matthau's more adult son. Here is a real lighthearted comedy but one with heart, and a moral too, ever so patent. Though I must say, in one way, Ann Margaret, with her out there love life character, stole the movie. She's a fifty bombshell, who can act too, one of those ultimate scene stealers, in a movie that'll win your heart, especially you oldies. Daryl Hannah again gives a performance that won't win you over, where again, she ruins the film with her presence. "},{"Title":"Good Lemmon & Matthau Comedy!","Date":"20 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau, Ann-Margret, Kevin Pollack, Daryl Hannah, Ozzie Davis and Burgess Meredith star in this 1993 comedy. This takes place in Minnesota during winter where we meet retired men, John Gustafson (Lemmon) and Max Goldman (Matthau). They're both widowers and neighbors who have been feuding with each other for years because they loved the same woman. It's about to escalate when they meet attractive, new neighbor, Ariel Truax (Margret) who is a widow and try to win her heart. Pollack (The Usual Suspects) plays Max's son, Jacob who finds romance with John's daughter, Melanie (Hannah), the late, Davis plays bait shop owner, Chuck and the late, Meredith (Rocky) plays John Sr. I've always enjoyed this film, Lemmon & Matthau were great in it as usual and the rest of the cast is great as well. I recommend this. "},{"Title":"They are grumpy, they are old, and they are men.","Date":"15 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" They are grumpy. Going at each other. Nasty. Neighbors. And it's all because of women. According to this movie, life is about sex. It's sex that keeps you young, or at least thinking young. The grumpiness is wonderful and funny. It's tit-for-tat as two oldies keep on feuding, sounding as ridiculous as they act. Introduce a woman and things get worse. Two guys fussing and fuming like two little kids, and that's because they're not getting what they crave for - tender loving care from the opposite sex. They roar like bears but they're really teddy bears who need a momma bear to keep them comfy. The movie presents an idealized portrayal of women as being naturally soft and nurturing - and it works! Introducing the sexual factor is not a literary contrivance. It's true. The movie is not making it up. The metaphorical imagery suggested by the two principals is unmistakable. John and Max are lonely men who feel so marginalized and so inadequate that they are projecting their rage onto each other. And they do some nasty things that really hurt. Ariel just adds fuel to the fire as she plays off the two men, making them even agitated. Now the sexual juices are flowing for the first time in years and they can't handle it. They are reliving puberty, but this time it has a tinge of desperation because they are old. If not now, then when? Sex is equated with life; who wins the women is the survivor. To find out who wins, watch the movie. "},{"Title":"A Funny Slapstick with Sentimental Value.","Date":"1 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was the first movie I had seem with the two lead actors with each other on the same screen. After watching these dynamic duo I was surely surprised at what they delivered. I plan on watching all their other movies in the near future. At first I thought it was a bit cheesy in the beginning, but as it progressed you can really see the connection the two actors have. They just play off each other perfectly and I love how they kept coming across each other in the movie and they greet each other with the same nicknames. The progression of the story was set at a perfect pace allowing me to laugh at their attempts to make each others lives miserable as well as when things begin to turn in the middle of the film. The writing was elegantly done with plenty of laughs to be had. I will surely be watching more in the future and I hope you do too. "}{"Title":"Holy moly!","Date":"12 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Well you're never going to convince me that someone who looks like Ann-Margret is going to wind up marrying a character like John Gustafson. I know, I know, it happens in real life sometimes; it's just that you're not going to convince me of it.But if you like to see a couple of old codgers go at it hammer and tong, then you'll get a kick out of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau in this flick. Amicable enemies since childhood, they never let an opportunity for a good zinger go by, but underneath it all you know they have a soft spot for each other. It took that hospital scene to bring it out when Max (Matthau) had to break down and call Gustafson 'friend' in order to see him. Good timing there too, as you had to watch him think about it.By the time this picture was made, I guess you could say Ann-Margret was no spring chicken herself, but she can sure carry her age better than most. I like the way she challenged Gus to seek out new things, a bit of a subliminal message in the picture as a takeaway for anyone watching to stay young at heart. Sadly, most of the principals from the film have passed on (Lemmon, Matthau and Burgess Meredith), but with their movies and comedy as a legacy, they'll keep many a generation young at heart for a long time. "},{"Title":"This is (?) CMT","Date":"20 January 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this film on CMT (?) on Martin Luther King Day (2014); seems kind of cynical.No, rednecks are not necessarily racist and the good people of Wabasha, MN are certainly not.......how would I know, I've been to every state but not to Wabesha, MN? I'm from Wiscosnin, where sophisticated people like Spencer Tracy, Pat O'Brien and 'Manny Moore' grew up. I've been to Mayer, outside of Minneapolis, and that's my name. I think I'll buy the town. Now, to the movie The sons and daughters appear to be more sophisticated than the fathers, so they must be living in Milwaukee.As I look out my front windows, in northeast Wisconsin, in January (yes, I have more than one window) it looks just like Wabesha, but I would bet the film was produced in the Sierra Nevada's, outside of L.A.People who live on the east or west coasts might feel that this film is hokey and typical of the Great Lakes (or, as they call it 'midwestern venue'), but, according to a 'Wall Street 24/7' survey, the 2nd brightest people live in Wiscosnin (2nd to Vermont) and Minnesota is in the top ten. West and east coast people are the citizens who say '...the trip was SO FUN,' used out of grammatical context.Walter and Jack are great impersonating the Great Lakes persona, but I don't think they would have given a 'rat's ass.' As for Ann...she is just trying to make a living; an aging film star.Cute movie, but is that what it's all about 'Alfie?' "},{"Title":"Old pros at work","Date":"31 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Back in the '90s, I worked as a radio announcer in a small northern WI town. My wife operated a travel agency. Once a year we would host a bus tour, usually to Branson, Mo. Around '95 or so we were going over what movies we would show on the bus on the ride down. We debated over Grumpy Old Men, wondering how our audience (mostly seniors) would react. We decided to give it a shot.They were laughing so hard I started to fear we would have several cardiac arrests. Years later we would run into some of them and they would bring up that movie. It was a good choice.Even though it's 20 years old now, the film holds up very well. Just goes to show you what veteran actors with great chemistry can do on-screen, especially with a terrific script, deft directing and location photography. "},{"Title":"Misery with company","Date":"18 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Grumpy Old Men focuses on the town of Wabasha, Minnesota, where two bickering elderly residents reside and consistently bicker with one another. They are retired teacher and widower John Gustafson (Jack Lemmon) and retired repairman and fellow widower Max Goldman (Walter Matthau), whose friendship as children ended when John dated and married Max's crush in high school.Now, such a rivalry reaches critical mass when an attractive eccentric named Ariel (Ann-Margret) moves across the street and steals the eye of both men. Both John and Max are smitten with the woman and try to find ways to earn her friendship and maybe even her hand. However, both men are far past their prime in terms of relationships, but John and Max can put many fighting youngsters to shame with the way they try and get back at one another.Such a film would not be half as memorable or fun if the leads weren't the legendary screen actors Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau. The film pulls of its hardest job effortlessly because of them and that job is making both men truly seem like lifelong rivals who have a subtle but present soft-spot for one another. Lemmon and Matthau manage to achieve a shockingly believable relationship in that regard, and their performances mimic the kind that would've been present in early black and white cinema or even the Vaudeville days.Both of their performances require energy that some would assume would be far past their years. But, as usual, Lemmon and Matthau defy the odds and commit to hilarious performances of sweetness, sourness, and true comedic talent. One mustn't forget the talent possessed by Ann-Margret as well, who handles the female character stuck in the middle of lunacy role to strong effect, especially in the more dramatic scenes. Consider when she gets her lengthy monologue with John about how him and Max need to stop fighting each other. It's a scene of surprising emotional honesty thanks to writer Mark Steven Johnson's refusal to make the monologue too sentimental.Johnson, who would later find some success writing and directing films based on lesser-known superheros, keeps the film heavy on humor and relatively minimal on the inclusion of emotionally manipulative sequences in the film. First and foremost, the film remembers it's a comedy and refuses to compromise its title for frequent and contrived dramatic instances. However, when the drama does roll around, it's handled in a pleasantly modest way (especially towards the end, when the film goes for broke in a sequence that shows humanness to the fullest degree).Grumpy Old Men can easily be criticized for having a plot like a sitcom and rather ordinary direction by Donald Petrie, who refuses to do much with the story visually other than capture the snowy landscape of Wabasha, Minnesota. However, like many comedies with high-profile actors, it may be easy to critique the plot's contrivances, but it's hard to fault the actors for being so committed to a project they inherently fit into well. Lemmon and Matthau captures the soulful energy of bickering neighbors wonderfully and that's worth the price of admission alone.Starring Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau, Ann-Margret, and Kevin Pollak. Directed by Donald Petrie. "},{"Title":"Love Never Ages","Date":"17 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It has been twenty years since the original release of Grumpy Old Men and it is still as good now as it was back then. Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau and Burgess Meredith were great.A story about two men who have been friends and neighbors for over fifty years; their trials and tribulations through that time. One is a widow, the other divorced. One day, a younger woman played by Ann-Margret moves in across the street. Both men have their hearts set on her and will fight one another to win her.A very funny and lovable film about friendship, love and family. A few years afterward, a sequel was released, Grumpier Old Men. "},{"Title":"2 greats","Date":"5 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" it's hard to believe that 2 giants of the screen are actually dead,, well 3 if you count Burgess Meredith as well,, first off Ann Margaret was great in this movie, and still looks wonderful for her age.. Walter Mathau and Jack Lemmon were first paired on the big screen in the Odd Couple I believe ,, someone correct me if i'm wrong on this but I don't believe that I am on this one.. this movie is set in an around Minnesotta they do a lot of ice fishing up there, and this is what our main characters do in their spare time.. both men are trying to win over their sexy new neighbor .. played by the lovely Ann Margaret, unfortunately she can only choose one of them,, both of these men just love to play pranks one one another, 2 of my fav are the frozen snow on the roof and he sprays it all down with the water hose.. and the other is the stinky rotten dead fish in the car.. gotta love these two along with Burgess Meredith they will all be missed so much. "},{"Title":"Do me a favour. Put your lip over your head... and swallow.","Date":"12 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Grumpy Old Men is directed by Donald Petrie and written by Mark Steven Johnson. It stars Walter Matthau, Jack Lemmon, Ann-Margret, Kevin Pollack, Burgess Meredith, Ossie Davis, Daryl Hannah and Buck Henry. Music is by Alan Silvestri and cinematography by Johnny E. Jensen.A lifelong feud between two neighbours has been continuing since for ever. Now in the twilight of their lives, things get worse when a new female neighbour moves across the street.A perennially fun viewing experience, one that boasts a wonderfully mature cast having a good time in the process. It would be easy to decry the formula, the trajectory of where it will go, and maybe stand tall and proclaim the writing isn't up to the standard of a Wilder or Simon movie, but that's kind of missing the point. It's a new era of film and the makers of Grumpy Old Men have tailored it to suit impressively the twin talents of Matthau and Lemmon. Both of whom are wonderful, their chemistry set in cement, their timing and reactions to scripting an utter joy. It's not without problems, anyone can see that, especially when the film veers onto the drama path, but the comedy over rides it all to leave a adult friendly holiday movie full of warmth and chuckles. 7/10 "},{"Title":"The actors may be dead but this movie forever lives","Date":"25 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is very cheerful and delivers a subtle family comedy for all to see, many fun pairing of both Lemmon and Matthau are available, my favorite has always been Odd Couple, this 1993 pairing will fall under my top 3 pairing of both actors.This is the sixth film to star both Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau and one of the coolest as both actors were at their best, and they delivered the laughs. The thing that got to me in this movie is the way men in their 70s behaved like children, playing tricks on one another and even coming up with some that I have never thought off. This romantic comedy also stared Ann Margret, and her acting was fun to see as I have no recollection of seeing her in any other movie and seeing her here was a nice introduction for me.Grumpy Old Men is directed by Donald Petrie who is the man behind the 1994 movie Ritchie Rich and my worse movie ever in 2003 How To Lose A Guy In 10 Days.The movie plot is about two old friends/rivals Max (Walter Matthau) and John (Jack Lemmon), both retired and spend majority of their adult life playing tricks on one another.Things changed in their small town when college professor Ariel Truax (Ann Margret) moved into a house opposite theirs, her happy demeanor and joyful outlook, made her the talk of the town and soon Max and John took a liken into her and their old time feud continued as both tried to get the girl.The movie is fun and funny and was recognized by the American Film Institute, as it got a nomination in the AFI's 100 Years... 100 Laughs. The next movie that both were in after this series (i.e. after 1995 Grumpier Old Men) was Out to Sea, which was not well received by critics, but I have seen the movie and I can tell you it is not as bad as critics make it to be, it was funny and delightful.Grumpy Old Men was followed by Grumpier Old Men two years after in 1995, another old female icon Sophia Loren was introduced into the mix of Lemmon and Matthau, whose acting was not as grand as that of Ann Margret if I may say so. This movie had a mere positive reception from critics and it also was a mild box office success.www.lagsreviews.com "},{"Title":"Ice Work If You Can Get It","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" You'd have to be hard-hearted in the extreme not to respond to this autumnal flowering of two mega talents. You're not so much watching Grumpy Old Men as watching The Fortune Cookie, The Odd Couple, The Front Page and remembering a great screen partnership and a great off-screen friendship. The story is really nothing at all but there's a great warmth radiating from the heart of this film set in a Minnesota winter and revolving around a lifelong love-hate relationship between two widowers who clearly have been through everything - childhood, dating, marriage, child-raising and loss of wives together. It may be unrealistic that love interest Ann Margaret, a good two decades younger than either, would not have a beau or even several beaux in her own age group or even if not would choose either one of these over-the-hill suitors but such is the charm and warmth we don't really care. "},{"Title":"Both Grumpy and Grumpier","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" These must be my among my favorite movies-I have watched them enough. I can't add any new views on the performance of the cast. They're all time greats. The things that particularly resonate with me are the facts that I have reached the grumpy old man stage and live in the north. Maybe they wouldn't be so funny to someone below 60, particularly if they couldn't identify with the actors. While not all time great movies, they hit the average grumpy old men's view of the world right on the head with just the right amount of humor (most) and pathos. As far as I am concerned they aren't prequel and sequel but two chapters in a very funny book. Although I watched them both before several of the leading cast went to their reward I think that those that are no longer with us gave a superb final bow. I give them both a 9. "}{"Title":"Very Funny Old Men","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Since 1938 neighbors Max Goldman (Matthau) & John Gustafson (Lemmon) have been fighting plus arguing nonstop pulling one harmless prank on each other after another. It's been almost 60 years and they are still going at it their constant bickering is about to get even worse when a beautiful new neighbor Ariel Truax (Margret) has just moved into their hometown of Wabasha, she lives across the street from both of them now they are both competing to win her affections, there are some other things happening Max's son Jacob(Pollak) is running for mayor and John's daughter Melanie (Hannah) is separated from her husband. When John gets sick during the Christmas holiday Max puts his personal feelings aside to help his once best friend from losing his house. Grumpy Old Men is the funniest comedy of 1993 Walter Matthau & Jack Lemmon are hilarious as two grouchy old seniors who although are grumpy can still pull off nonstop laughs 9/10 Stars "},{"Title":"A lovely little comedy.","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" ---Mild Spoiler Alert---Two old widowers who have known each other their entire lives are next-door neighbors in a small town. They spend much of their free time (free time? what else are they doing?) either watching TV, ice fishing, or forever trying to get each other's goat thru an endless series of childish pranks (they address each other as Moron and Putz). This has apparently been going on for many years, much to the chagrin of their adult-aged children.Now enter Ariel, a sexy and alluring artist that buys the house across from them. She's worldly, precocious, entirely sexually uninhibited, and not at all repulsed by the two old coots that watch her with fascination thru their livingroom windows.Suddenly these old geezers feel long-dormant surges of desire, and do their best to woo her in their hopelessly outdated small-town ways (which, much to their amazement, seem to be working), only to come in direct conflict with each other. Their pranks escalate to open warfare, and you learn that this is not the first time they've crossed swords over a woman. Who will win?Another superb performance by cinema's quintessential odd couple. The love-hate relationship between Lemmon and Matthau is just sincere enough to be touching, and just mean-spirited enough to be hilarious. Of special note is Burgess Meredith, Lemmon's chain smoking, dirty minded 94-year-old father who seems to have an unlimited supply of raunchy one-liners. Tragically, all the leading men in this movie have since passed on. A true classic that will stand the test of time.My favorite quote Lemmon A woman moved into the old Jefferson house. Meredith Did you mount her? Lemmon Dad!! "},{"Title":"solid comedy","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The great Jack Lemmon is John Gustafson, an ice fishing Minnesota native who has been feuding with his neighbor and former best friend Max Goldman (Walter Matthau) for years and years. The battle of wills between John and Max is characterized by crude name calling and harmless practical jokes. Max is unaware that John is having serious problems, chiefly that his daughter Melanie (Daryl Hannah) is experiencing marital woes and that his house is about to be confiscated by an IRS agent (Buck Henry). When it seems that John and Max may finally put aside their childish rivalry, however, sexy new neighbor Ariel (Ann-Margret) arrives and dates both men, pitting them against each other even more fiercely than before. Despite their mutual loathing, the death of a friend, John's problems, and a budding romance between Max's son Jacob (Kevin Pollak) and Melanie may force the two old friends to reconcile. Lemmon and Matthau really made Grumpy Old Men great, I hope I am not like Max and John when I get old. "},{"Title":"What make us laugh","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is truly a realistic story played by Walter Mathau and Jack Lemmon who are such close friends after 50 years, that they end up arguing and having a ball with eachother until one day a beautiful woman moves in across the street, and the boys try to outdo eachother for her charms.  The lady in question is Ann-Margaret.  Acting is superb, music and photography is great! I rate it 7/l0 "},{"Title":"Filled With Laughs","Date":"18 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I don't think that Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthua get the credit they deserve as a comedy team, but anyone who watches this movie will understand just how perfectly suited they are to each other in this kind of movie. They are two veteran actors who never lost their touch, and Matthau's death a while back is a real loss.Here, they play - what else - two grumpy old men who also happen to be neighbours (Lemmon as John Gustafson and Matthau as Max Goldman) who have been carrying on a feud all their adult lives which heats up when a beautiful woman (Ann Margaret as Ariel Truax) they're both interested in moves in across the street. You don't really need any more details than that, except to know that this is wonderfully funny stuff.There are a couple of things to note though. Burgess Meredith has a hilarious part (more than a cameo but less than a starring role) as John's sex-obsessed 91 year old father. (Hearing that Ariel has moved in he asks with wide eyes Have you mounted her yet?) And, in all honesty, I have to confess that the only thing I didn't like about this movie was the performances by Darryl Hannah and Kevin Pollak as the children of John and Max respectively. I didn't think either one of them added anything to the movie with their performances, nor did I think their characters were necessary.Still, it's a funny, funny movie. 8/10  "},{"Title":"We're Having A Heatwave. A Tropical Heatwave.","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS         Our story opens in the little town of Wabashaw, Minnesota in early winter. On one street lives John Gustafson and Max Goldman. They've been the best of enemies for 50 years. Always greeting each other with insults and in competition in pretty much everything. But there's one thing John and Max have in common they love fishing. They have their ice shanties set up on the frozen lake. But little did these men know that something would come along that would change their lives for the better, for someone new was moving into the neighborhood.It was a beautiful, red-headd middle aged woman named Ariel Truax. She paid John a visit in the dead of night and rode her snow mobile up and down the street every other night.                    From then on, John and Max tried to win Ariel over. Even their friend Chuck who ran the bait shop took a liking to her, as John's geriatric father pointed out hilariously. Though John and Max didn't like each other, their kids, John's daugter Melanie and Max's son Jacob, were taking a liking to each other.                   The hijinx between John and Max continue when Max towes John's shanty onto thin ice, or when Max changed John's TV channel right when they announced lottery numbers. Soon came Christmas and John fell ill. Their relationship was in the balance. Max visited him in the hospital as a friend and helped ward off IRS agents come to reposess John's house. And before long, a wedding day arrived. The wedding of John and Ariel. Max hid a little surprise in their limo as they drove off a fish. John had pulled that same trick on Max earlier. So our story has a happy ending and we can see a small friendship between John and Max. A very small one.        Well, what can I say? Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon are priceless together. And Burgess Meredith adds a hilarious touch as Grandpa Gustafson. Other familiar faces include Kevin Pollak as Jacob Goldman, Daryl Hannah as Melanie Gustafson, and Ann-Margeret as Ariel. Ariel was a real pile, I think. But John and Max were crazy about her. So if you're a fan of any of these people, I recommend Grumpy Old Men!- "},{"Title":"A movie made for Lemmon and Matthau","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Matthau and Lemmon star as constantly bickering neighbors and best friends for 50 years whose town and friendship is rocked by the arrival of the new babe in town Ann Margaret. Her arrival causes a stir in both Matthau and Lemmon. Burgess Meredith as Lemmon's father is genius casting..overall a charming movie with Matthau and Lemmon combining forces for the seventh time.. on a scale of one to ten..6 "},{"Title":"You've got to see this","Date":"28 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love Grumpy Old Men. Lemmon and Matthau are masters of comedy, Ann-Margret still lookin' good. Daryl Hannah, Kevin Pollack & Burgess Meredith, it's all good, but it's Lemmon and Matthau that make this movie. You'd think their kind of humor would be too old for the 90s? nuh-uh.You've got to see this movie if you already haven't. And don't stop the tape too early, there's some krazy credits.8/10  "},{"Title":"Grumpy Old Men","Date":"23 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A constant laugh ride propelled by the cinema's finest odd couple. Their timing is still razor sharp. The story is fun. Lemmon and Matthau chase after beautiful Ann Margaret like two high schoolers. Burgess Meredith is wonderful as Lemmon's sharp tongued father.  "},{"Title":"Very little umph","Date":"12 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One joke film has little umph as a comedy for most of its ninety-nine minutes. Only an hilarious Burgess Meredith and a funny bloopers trailer make us laugh.Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau work together well, with beautiful Ann Margaret as the love interest. Daryl Hannah and Kevin Pollak provide a sub-plot that fills in time.Director Donald Petrie was unable to inject life and variety into this narrow idea which is a slight variation on The Odd Couple, in which Lemmon and Matthau originally starred. Writer Mark Steven Johnson provides a feel good finale that helps lift the film a little.Sunday, June 8, 1997 - Video "}{"Title":"Definitely funnier than The Odd Couple","Date":"4 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Grumpy Old Men focuses on the daily lives of two neighbors, single old men, who have not stopped bickering with each other ever since they were born. Although it is not necessarily a movie you can watch again and again, it is a pleasant and light-hearted movie, a modern-day version of good old comedy (think three stooges). Shot in the winter, the snow and cold weather and especially the ice-fishing scenes add to the comfortable and relaxed objective of the film. Walter Matthau and Jack Lemon and the rest of the cast do an awesome job to put you into a jovial mood, all in all a very decent comedy. Prepare yourself a cup of hot chocolate and settle in for a laugh. My overall rating 3 out of 6. "},{"Title":"A great Lemmon and Matthau movie... but not a good movie.","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" At first glance, this would seem to be a very enjoyable movie with many funny parts... unless you stop and think about it, and then you realize the ONLY reason it's enjoyable and funny is because Lemmon and Matthau are in it. It's the entire selling point of the movie Lemmon and Matthau, together again. If you were to replace those two with different actors, it would not be a very good movie. It has a weak script, and all the supporting characters (except for Burgess Meredith) are either underwritten, or just there for filler. This is not good. A well-written movie should be good no matter WHO is acting in it--but this one would probably crash and burn if it wasn't for Lemmon and Matthau.Also, I think Lemmon gives a better overall performance. He makes some actual effort to get into character, whereas Matthau just glides through the movie with his trademark bumbly-grumbly Matthauisms. It's almost as if he knows he doesn't have to try that hard; you're just guaranteed to like him because he's Walter Matthau.That said, it is still funny to watch them playing off each other. It's an enjoyable movie, but only because those two excellent actors are in it. If you took them out... well, you'd have nothing.6.5/10 stars "},{"Title":"Classic comedy film","Date":"10 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Grumpy old men has got to be a class comedy film, i think it is a brilliant comedy movie. This was made in 1993, and this had the main stars with Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau, and Ann Margaret. Overall i give this movie 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Not Funny At All","Date":"13 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is clearly not for anyone with an ounce of self-respect. Grumpy Old Men is funny to the types of people who know nothing about the world, yet think they know everything about the world. Also, people who think that it's funny for old men to call each other names involving bad words will think that this movie is hilarious. Since I fit in none of these categories I absolutely hated this film. Grumpy Old Men made me laugh a total of zero times, when I was seriously trying to find something funny about the film. There was nothing memorable about this piece of cow sh*t. The setting was boring, and the jokes were 10 times worse. "},{"Title":"Great cast but over rated","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Average drama comedy about 2 particular independent retired old men and their adventures in small town life.Suffers from bad screenplay.The movie is promoted as very funny but actually is very light in comedy and focuses a lot on the dramatic aspects of senior citizen life.This unexpected flavor may surprise a viewer a bit.Also has some naughty humor as well which borders on the dirty side so watch out!Great cast though and the actors seemed like having fun.Good vehicle movie for Ann-Margaret also and big fans of hers will like her role here.Only for big drama comedy fans, fans of the ODD COUPLE Mathau/Lemmon shows and senior citizens who could really appreciate having the lead roles going to the elderly....... "},{"Title":"Good Comedy Overall.","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The chemistry between Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau carries this good little comedy that works mainly because of the two leads more than anything else. Their somewhat normal lives in Minnesota are turned upside down when the vibrant Ann-Margret moves into their otherwise sleepy neighborhood. The two then start to play a game of I'm going to get her first with each other. The film does truly entertain but somewhat loses its way late with a dramatic final act. 3.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Not one of my favorites","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I really don't like this movie because it's just not all that funny for a Matthau/Lemmon flick.  We've got John (played by Lemmon) who lives alone with his cat and is truly in debt. His neighbor Max (played by Matthau) is always bickering with him.  There was a scene near the end where Lemmon faints and almost dies (luckily we've got Matthau to take him to the hospital).  This is a very rare Matthau/Lemmon movie that's more serious than funny. "},{"Title":"Corny, enjoyable comedy","Date":"13 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I wasn't expecting much of this movie -- another rip off of The Odd Couple -- but my kid insisted on watching it and I was pleasantly surprised.Matthau and Lemon have hated each other since one stole the other one's girl away. (Both wives are gone now.) They play nasty pranks on one another, relishing the other's frustration and anger. Meanwhile Matthau's son and Lemon's daughter are getting to know one another in a subplot. Also meanwhile a ravishing redhead from liberated California (Anne-Margaret) moves in across the street in this small, snow-bound, Minnesota town, and she falls for Lemon. At Lemon's insistence though she has a brief fling with Matthau before the inevitable ending.They're not really the odd couple here. They're new characters who happen to suffer adimadversions to each other. The gags are quick, fast, and sometimes pretty funny. Burgess Meredith, Lemon's Pop, declaims, The first ninety years go by real fast! Then one day you wake up and realize you're not eighty-one anymore! Mount the woman! At one point during an argument, Matthau attacks Lemon with a frozen fish and the two old men (68 and 73, I think) go through all the motions of a carefully choreographed action-movie combat scene -- Matthau pinning down Lemon, Lemon holding the threatening fish at bay as Matthau forces it down slowly towards Lemon's chest, both men puffing and grunting.It shoulda stayed a comedy. But it's tough to make a movie about old age that's consistently funny. Death is always around the corner, and impotence and failing health and financial crises are already here. It's easy enough to make a heart-wrenching movie about it, even with an uplifting ending. (Umberto D.) This one tempers the comedy by putting all of the deficits of old age on ready display. A friend dies in his sleep. (Lucky bastard.) Anne-Margaret -- Tell me, Gustaffson, when did you last make love? Lemon -- October 19th -- 1978. (First used in Harry and Tonto.) Thanksgiving and Christmas are captured on screen in all their sentimentality and anguish. Lemon has a heart attack while Nat King Cole is singing Walkin' in a Winter Wonderland on the soundtrack. Speaking of the soundtrack, the soapy score belongs in a Walt Disney fairy tale from the 1940s. Yes, folks, there are heart-wrenching scenes galore. Uplifting ones too. Lemon and Anne-Margaret making snow angels. All of them done is a cornball manner.Old age isn't for sissies, as Bette Davis is supposed to have said, but this movie is. The funny parts redeem the expectable misfortunes. Here is Burgess Meredith watching Ossie Davis visit Anne-Margaret's house on Thanksgiving -- Looks like he's going to play pat the pony or something like that. Stick around for the out-takes under the end credits. Looks like they had a good time making this film. It's worth watching too. Thank you, Chopsticks. "},{"Title":"snow excuse","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sort of reprising their roles from The Odd Couple, Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau play a pair of elderly rivals in a small Minnesota town whose mutual hostility gets agitated by the arrival of a younger woman (Ann-Margaret). OK, so this story seems to get used a lot, but Grumpy Old Men shows - if nothing else - that Lemmon and Matthau still had it, and that Ann-Margaret's pretty hot. Much of the humor comes in Lemmon's and Matthau's pranks against each other.Overall, this movie isn't really anything special, but how can you not like a Lemmon-Matthau comedy? Also starring are Burgess Meredith, Daryl Hannah, Kevin Pollak, Ossie Davis and Buck Henry. Worth seeing, if only once. The sequel was cute, if absurd.It's weird when you think about it Lemmon and Matthau co-starred in so many silly comedies, but they also appeared in the dead serious JFK (although they didn't share any scenes). "},{"Title":"Old, Horny and Frustrated in Minnesota","Date":"1 March 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  `Grumpy Old Men' is a film starring Jack Lemmon as John Gustafson and Walter Matthau as Max Goldman.  They are next door neighbors who are engaged in a forty year old feud.  The feud started when John Gustafson married Max Goldman's `girl.'  Max never forgave John for taking her away from him. Max married someone else, and both marriages produced offspring.  These two neighbors make a daily ritual out of trying to outdo the other.The setting for this film is winter in Minnesota.  The sport there is ice fishing which John and Max engage in on an almost daily basis.  They frequent a bait shop located by the frozen lake run by actor Ossie Davis. They then proceed out onto the frozen lake where shanties have been placed in order to accommodate the ice fishermen.  Each one has their own shanty. John's dad, played by Burgess Meredith, spends the majority of his time in his shanty on the lake partaking of libation, which seems to be his sport of choice.Back on the home front, a new neighbor moves in across the street from John and Max.  The neighbor, Ariel, is played by Ann Margaret.  She is a widow from California and appears to be more than the two feuding neighbors can handle.  Both are secretly attracted to her, but refuse to admit same. Ariel gets to know both men, and vies for John's attention.  When Max becomes apprised of Ariel's choice, he becomes infuriated with John which adds more fuel to the long time feud.  After a brief scuffle at the lake, Max lets John know that it was his turn to get the girl since John got the last one.  John decides to step aside and let nature take its course.Nature does take its course in more than one way.  Through a set of emotional set backs, everyone comes to the realization that life is too short to hold grudges and not live life to its fullest.  Nothing is forever. Things do not always turn out the way we expect or plan.  We should follow our hearts and go for happiness.  We also find capabilities within ourselves that we did not know about or may have forgotten about. "}{"Title":"Grumpy Old Men (1993) **1/2","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm basically a fan of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau as a team, but only now have I finally caught up with their two Grumpy Men movies. This one started a pattern in the '90s of new comedies starring these two respected actors, such as OUT TO SEA and THE ODD COUPLE II. In GRUMPY OLD MEN, the two stars play crotchety neighbors who basically can't stand one another and haven't been able to get along for the many decades in which they've been acquainted. At first I was worried because the first 50 minute half of this movie seemed to offer nothing but showcase the comical pair insulting each other and presenting little else of any substance. But just when it looks like that's the whole story, things luckily came alive and a narrative of sorts takes shape with widow Ann-Margret as a new neighbor who moves next door, giving the two seniors something new to argue over. But at least the day is saved as we come to learn a little more about everyone, and thus the film ultimately becomes somewhat endearing. **1/2 out of **** "},{"Title":" A solid and worthwhile comedy.","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Fairly amusing movie where two aging neighbors (Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau) in a small Minnesota town whose on-going feud goes to another level when a widow (Ann-Margret) moves into a house across the street.  The cast is good especially Burgess Meredith as Lemmon's dad who says some things that I wouldn't expect to hear from my grandpa and the humor here has plenty of zip to it.  The lone weak spot that Grumpy Old Men (like the title) has is the story which drags at times and alive and upbeat in other moments. Besides that, it's a solid and worthwhile comedy. "},{"Title":"Jack & Walter's Excellent Adventures","Date":"31 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  GRUMPY OLD MEN (1993)  **1/2 Jack Lemmon, Walter Matthau, Ann-Margret, Ossie Davis, Daryl Hannah, Kevin Pollak, Burgess Meredith, Buck Henry, Christopher McDonald.  Slapstack outweighs sentimentality, barely, between long-feuding next-door neighbors Lemmon and Matthau who find a new subject to bicker over comely new neighbor Margret.  Often funny yet silly look at old age and all its foibles particularly in an argument sequence that result in the duo trying to figure out what was the point.  Exactly. "},{"Title":"A conflict that started in childhood, lasted through adult years, and continued to senior years over ???","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Grumpy Old Men featured the pairing of Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau for the umteenth time, and the result was a delicious blend of practical jokes, one-line zingers, and even romance for two of Snowy Minnesota's oldest enemies who were childhood friends.Matthau and Lemmon are next door neighbors who share a feud that has been going on longer than any of them can remember.  One day, a new, sexy neighbor played by Ann-Margret moves in the house across from them, and they each seem to take interest in her.  She takes interest in both of them, at first, and then decides on one, leaving the other in a bit of a lurch. However, true friendship from their childhood days finally revives itself, and the movie does end with the two grumps being a bit happier towards each other and life.  A good supporting cast features Burgess Meredith, Ossie Davis, Daryl Hannah, and Kevin Pollak.  Viewers are urged to let the cassette run through the closing credits in order to pick up some raunchy one-liners that were clipped from the film.  A sequel was produced two years later with many of the cast members from this film, its title, what else but Grumpier Old Men.   "},{"Title":"from grumpy old reviewer","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I read most of the reviews and, boy, am I in the minority. I found the movie semi-amusing and, for the most part, predictable. You know, two old guys duking it out verbally. There were a couple of hours of insults, back and forth, forth and back. Well delivered, of course, by wonderful vets Matthau, Lemon and Meredith.The major difference between this and similar endeavors is that the script herein was not written by Neil Simon. The individual who penned the lines in this flick would need a 10-foot pole to touch Simon's prose.As a little theater actor of many years, I can say that one of my favorite roles was Oscar in The Odd Couple. (My second fave was Einstein in Arsenic and Old Lace.)Grumpy Old Men was all right, but it was the same old, same old. As for Grumpier Old Men, I'll pass. "},{"Title":"On a lazy Sunday afternoon who does not love this movie??","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is why it works - Lemmon, Matthau, Meredith, Margaret. (period)! 4 of the greatest actors in our time filling the screen with pure enjoyment, I cant imagine any other two actors that played off each other so well - and individually were so outstanding. So many Screwball Comedies come out that fail because they have screwball actors. The Grumpy Old Men franchise works because underneath its a Screwball Comedy but with actors that know how to act; and give the whole thing a heart at the end of it all. Yes, its kind of like watching the Odd couple on ice, but it works, and works well. I will miss Lemmon and Matthau - you are the best. "},{"Title":"Grumpy Old Men has the right material for a great comedy, but it doesn't pull it off well enough. It seems that the film had no confidence in anything other than its leading men arguing constantl","Date":"15 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A film like Grumpy Old Men makes you wonder what went wrong. Here we have one of the best couples in history, the odd couple themselves, Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon. We have a director who has brought us some silly, funny stuff. But Grumpy Old Men seems only to have silly stuff, and nothing really funny. As amusing as it might be to see old pals Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau mumbling, grumbling and bumbling around 24/7, it gets a bit tiring. Perhaps with a stronger script the film could have sustained the feeling of warmth and humor that it set up in the beginning, but it seems that the story sets up the laughs, only to have them dissipate away before we can even smile. Seeing the men grumble constantly soon becomes irritable and boring due to the script by Mark Steven Johnson, of which seems to think that grumbling fills in for laughs.Walter Matthau (1920-2000) and Jack Lemmon (1925-2001) play two old men who constantly argue with each other, and who love to hate each other (or is it the other way around?). They fish together, yet at the same time seperately, every year. They live next to each other yet bicker continually. They like each other but pretend to despise each other. But things get really grumpy when both of the men fall in love with the exact same woman--a woman who just moved into their neighborhood and has immediately started to display interest in each of them. She rides her snowmobile around drawing attention to herself, and tries to lure the men into her web of love. Now the two old men will have another thing to be grumpy about until the whole thing is resolved, while, in the meantime, Lemmon's daughter, Daryl Hannah, starts to fall in love with Matthau's son, Kevin Pollack (these things will be sorted out in the sequel, Grumpier Old Men.).There are a few things I find hard to believe in this film. I find it hard to believe that Matthau and Lemmon's love interest in this film sees anything in these two old men, when they are about twice her age. With everyone in the neighborhood, she picks the two oldest men? I'm not a woman, so I have no idea about being attracted to other males--but if I were, I doubt I'd pick the oldest guys around. I can say that if I were to move into a neighborhood, I would not immediately look for the oldest women around.Another thing I find hard to believe is that Daryl Hannah would be attracted to Pollack's character after she sees him staring at her from across the street, from a window. In normal life that would be pretty freaky, and would end in the woman closing the curtains and calling the cops, but in Grumpy Old Men Land, it seems that odd, balding men staring at women through windows is attractive and sweet. Aw, how nice. In fact, if they had ever made another sequel to this film (Grumpiest Old Men), I see a possibilty in making Pollack's character a homicidal maniac who murders Hannah and then shoots himself. Call it a dream.Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon are one of the best comedy pairings I've ever seen; after the success of The Odd Couple, it seems that filmmakers think that the charm of the film was a shouting match between the actors. But that isn't what made The Odd Couple. What made the film were likable, deep, intelligent characters with personalities, saying witty remarks and insults.But what the filmmakers see is a film where two men argue constantly. And ever since The Odd Couple, Lemmon and Matthau seem to appear in films together where their lines consist of adlibs (did I spell that right?) and a bunch of shouting, when the film their roles nowadays are based on was so much more than just a bunch of shouting and arguing.Grumpy Old Men has the right material for a great comedy, but it doesn't pull it off well enough. It seems that the film had no confidence in anything other than its leading men arguing constantly; and without witty lines, this makes for a dull movie.2/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"This Made Me Grumpy","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"10 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Old men swearing and acting like stupid teenagers for two hours is funny and good entertainment? I didn't think so, but I guess I was in the minority as a lot of people liked this movie.Personally, I thought it was disgusting and certainly revealed that older classic-era actors like Walter Matthau, Jack Lemmon and Burgess Meredith are just as profane and weak as modern-day stars, Meredith in particular as he was the worst offender in here.One thing I can't blame these guys for making fools of themselves over Ann- Margaret. Even in her older age, she's still a very attractive woman. "},{"Title":"Cringe-inducing","Date":"15 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Walter Matthau, Jack Lemmon, Burgess Meredith, and Ann-Margret. This movie could be called Four Hams... and I'm sure to infuriate their fans with this review, but really, only the most rabid ones are going to enjoy this dim-witted, hackneyed, foul-mouthed embarrassment.The endless schtick from these four stars could almost be bearable if only they were given a decent script to work with. No such luck here. A bunch of tired stereotypes on parade, chiefly having to do with adolescent geriatrics. If that's your cup of tea, enjoy! Clearly, many do and I've no objection to each his own! Meanwhile, on the plus side, Ann-Margret still looks great ;) "},{"Title":"not all it's cracked up to be","Date":"16 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Being an indefatigable admirer of these two actors I looked forward to this movie, but have to report that both my wife and I were greatly disappointed. This is one of these movies that can't seem to decide what it wants to be - a comedy about two old farts who can't stand each other, or a sentimental story about two estranged childhood chums finally making up with each other. As usual in such cases, it fails at both. There are not enough funny moments to make it a real comedy, and what humor there was was weak and forced, while as a sentimental story it's unconvincing. Particularly grating to me was the personality of the widow (Ann-Margret), who we are supposed to see as ebullient and zany; I found her nosy, shallow, inconsiderate and phony, and couldn't see what the two old guys saw in her. Burgess Meredith provides most of the scant humor in his bit role as Lemmon's 94 year old reprobate father, particularly in the credit outtakes (which, for that matter, are funnier than anything in the movie itself).Has some interest as a documentary on ice-fishing in northern Minnesota, but if it's laughs you want, watch The Odd Couple again.  "}{"Title":"Grumpy Old Men","Date":"21 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" From director Donald Petrie (Ri¢hie Ri¢h, Miss Congeniality) this isn't one of the funniest films I've seen, and to be honest I think only the two leading actors make it worth watching. Basically John Gustafson (Jack Lemmon) and Max Goldman (Walter Matthau) are two old guys that are neighbours, and continuously argue and insult each other, and have done so far over 50 years. And when new neighbour Ariel Truax (Ann-Margret) moves in, both men are attracted to her and their bickering only gets worse as they try and get her attention or affection. Also starring Batman's Burgess Meredith as Grandpa Gustafson, Daryl Hannah as Melanie, Kevin Pollak as Jacob Goldman, Ossie Davis as Chuck, Buck Henry as Elliot Snyder and Mike as Christopher McDonald. There are some quite amusing slapstick moments, quite a good happy ending, and some outtakes in the end credits, but I don't think I would watch this a second time. A sequel, Grumpier Old Men, followed in 1995. Okay! "}]