[{"Title":"funny and wonderful movie!","Date":"30 November 2004","Score":"64 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Many people say that Mrs.Doubtfire is one of the funniest movies ever made in the U.S. I agree with the above idea for the following two reasons. First,performance of the voice of Robin Williams is very wonderful.For example, he uses a lot of funny ad lib in the stand-in of animation in the first scene. Second, Robin Williams and Sally Field as well as the three children act very delightfully though the movie deals with a rather serious theme---warmth and importance of family. Some people say Sally Field doesn't act well in this movie. But, I think that she acts a role of a wife whom is worried about her husband excelentlly. We feel big love of both father and mother toward children. It is not only a real funny comedy but also a real wonderful family movie. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams Dressed Up As A 60 Year Old Women? HILARIOUS!","Date":"18 August 2001","Score":"60 out of 71 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I saw this movie at the cinema in 1993 and thought it was fantastic! It has everything you could ever really want in a comedy. Daniel Hillard (Robin Williams) will do ANYTHING to see his children! This movie has plenty of gags, but it all comes together in a nice, friendly framework that centres around one man's family and that man's love for his children that'll make him dress up as a 60 year old granny to get back into their lives! Plenty of laughs throughout and all-round great performances. 9/10  "},{"Title":"A TRULY TOUCHING, COMICAL MASTERPIECE","Date":"6 February 1999","Score":"43 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  MRS. DOUBTFIRE is easily one of the best movies ever made. Robin Williams makes audiences laugh and cry at his portrayal of a loving father who wants nothing more than to be with his children. After a painful divorce, he tries to gain custody of his children. This is the premise of the film. Along the way, of course, there are plenty of laughs, especially some great moments with Harvey Fierstein as Williams' brother and hair stylist. This film is so moving that it deserves to be seen by everyone. "},{"Title":"Emotional and funny, one of the most vivid character studies ever. ***1/2 out of ****.","Date":"7 February 2000","Score":"41 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  MRS. DOUBTFIRE (1993) ***1/2Starring Robin Williams, Sally Field, Mara Wilson, and Pierce BrosnanDirected by Chris Columbus. Written by Leslie Dixon and Randi Mayem Singer. Running time 125 minutes. Rated PG-13 (for sexual references and some language) By Blake French	Mrs. Doubtfire is one of the most invigorating, vivid character studies to be produced on the big screen this decade. Most of the characters are strongly executed with decisive dialogue. They are also beautifully written with tainted personalities and uncompromising wit. Chris Columbus has assembled a stellar dramatic comedy with excellent screen writing, giving audiences one of the most punctually artful films I have ever witnessed.	The opening scene is as brilliantly structured as screen writing otherwise comes. It has a middle-aged man named Daniel, whom we learn about as he quits his job as a vocal performer for a children's cartoon after he realizes his employers are immoral. This sequence provides us with a development of the character's inner personality, strong morals and consciences. The audience also leans that he is a silly, easy going person. We soon find out it is these characteristics that propel the movie into the first plot point.	Daniel's wife, Miranda, wishes to divorce him because he is too goofy and immature. We are propelled quickly into the firm second act after the divorce. Before this point, we have witnessed both actions and dialogue reallocating Daniel's love and compassion for his family, especially his children. The film sets up the for following events using Robin Williams character as the plot advancer.	Daniel lusts for time with his children so much, he confidentially disguises himself as a sixty year old woman then applies for a day-care job for his ex-wife--this would allow him to be around his children more often. Miranda falls for it, and the master of disguise gets his opportunity. The film then takes us through a hilarious and emotional journey into the lives of a typical American divorced family.	The internal problem becomes more complex when Daniel's ex wife shows romantic interest in a new boyfriend, underplayed by Pierce Brosnan. The filmmakers could have done more with the Brosnan character. Here, he seems developed with repetition and dialogue. Although his purpose is to accommodate romantic competition, we don't know enough about him to care that much.	Mrs. Doubtfire contains some material that fairs as overly blunt and outwardly apprehensive. Although the overall presentation is understandable and relative, I still think the picture could have been better with more careful script writing. Even such, we are able to witness a powerful, touching film with a conclusion that is so settling, you will cry with joy.Brought to you by 20th Century Fox.  "},{"Title":"funny comedy!!","Date":"13 November 2004","Score":"34 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Many people say that Mrs Doubtfire is one of the funniest movies ever made in the U.S. I agree with the above idea. I think Robin Williams is one of the best comedians in the world. His performance in this movie is perfect and gives us a lot of laugh. There are also some impressive scenes in which performance of the three kid actors really shine.In addition, the storyline is easy to understand and is for everybody. It is a heart-warming movie which gives us a lot of laugh and tear. Through this movie, we can learn the divorce situation in the U.S. We can also recognize the importance of family bonds.Persdonally, it is a little regrettable that the story does not have a happy ending. I wish they could together happily again.This is a very funny comedy but it also help us grow. I want to see Mrs. Doubtfire repeatedly in my life. "},{"Title":"Funny And Heartfelt","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Mrs. Doubtfire is an extremely funny and heartfelt film. It has tons of laughs as well as tears, this is definitly Robin Williams' best film. Watching williams do voices as well as play Mrs. Doubtfire is a real treat. Also the supporting cast of actors do an excellent job, I highly reccomend it. "},{"Title":"Finally a Film to Fully Display Williams' Comedic Talents.","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"25 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Robin Williams stars as a divorcee who decides to see his children a lot more by posing as an elderly British woman in this smart and innovative comedy that works because of Williams' performance more than anything else. Sally Field is solid as the ex-wife and Pierce Brosnan is excellent as her new love interest. Great comedy that could be best described as a poor man's Tootsie. 4 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Wonderful buxom British nanny hilariously captures your heart","Date":"11 March 2006","Score":"22 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" For me, this was the funniest movie I ever saw. Not normally a huge fan of comedy, I was just about rolling in the theatre aisles during this gem. Robin Williams is brilliant in his 'dual role' as the rejected husband, Daniel, and the buxom British nanny, Mrs. Doubtfire.This movie tells the story of a bitter separation, when Miranda insists on a divorce from her immature, goofy husband. Daniel, denied custody and given only limited visitation, concocts a female nanny character for himself in order to gain daily access to his three children. The kids grow to love and depend on their unusual but very concerned and efficient new nanny, Mrs. Doubtfire, who really gets the household running extremely smoothly. Of course meanwhile Miranda has a new love interest named Stu.Williams' portrayal of Mrs. Doubtfire is hilarious in every way, shape, and form. The wig, stockings, dress, make up...it's all too amusing, watching Daniel transform for the part. Wait till you see Mrs. Doubtfire cooking! The most insanely funny scene is at a restaurant where Daniel / Mrs. Doubtfire must quickly be in two places at the same time, so he / she is forced to alternate between personae at lightning speed, sometimes forgetting which one he / she is at any given moment. I won't give away the plot, but I nigh expired from laughing.Sally Field charmingly plays Daniel's now separated wife, Miranda, and Pierce Brosnan is suitably unsympathetic as her new love interest, Stu. We cheer for Daniel through his assorted antics as he tries to shoo away this romantic competitor for his ex wife's affections and especially, this new male threatening to usurp his role as father to his kids.Desite being a comedy, this film does on the serious side reveal the devastating effects of divorce on children's lives and also particularly on the noncustodial parent. Daniel is distraught as he misses seeing his kids every day. Furthermore, the entrance of a new love interest naturally adds to the general strife.Where did Mrs. Doubtfire get her unusual name? Does she live on or fizzle out at movie's end? Will Daniel and Miranda get back together, or will Stu prevail? I won't divulge any spoilers, but I guarantee you'll fall in love with this lovable large nanny and wish you could have her babysit your own kids. Mrs. Doubtfire will certainly live on in your heart. "},{"Title":"I LOVE this movie....","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is by far my all time favorite film. It really hits the spot with tremendous performances by ALL cast members. The score by composer Howard Shore gives a real warm feel to the whole duration of the movie. With the DVD release, you get to see all the deleted scenes. In particular is a scene where Lydia (Lisa Jakub) is distracted during her turn in the spelling bee by her mother and father (Sally Field, Robin Williams) who are arguing quietly because Daniel (Williams) arrived late, and could not sit with the family. The scene concludes with Lydia talking with her father about being a real family again. Lydia tells Daniel It's your job to be our father. Daniel replies with No, it's a joy being your father. Scenes like these give Mrs. Doubtfire a real sense of reality when it comes to families that are separated by differences between the parents. It tells children that it's okay if your parents don't get along, and are separated. It's not your fault. Don't blame yourself. There are all sorts of different families out there.What really gives this movie it's unique touch is the brilliant performances of EVERYONE in this film. I definitely recommend this film to anyone who loves a good family film. My suggestion, get the DVD release. It has a lot of extra features you won't get on the VHS. "},{"Title":"A eccentric life!!","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"20 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Many people say that &#129;gMrs. Doubtfire&#129;h is one of the funniest movies. I agree with the above idea. First, one of the funniest scene for me is when Mrs. Sellner comes to Daniel&#129;fs apartment and he transforms between himself and Mrs. Doubtfire so quickly. This busy scene brings constant laughing to us. The second funniest scene for me is when Mrs. Doubtfire cooks the dinner for the first time and she burns her clothes. The scene not only funny but also thrilling and my heart fluttered with worry, too.I know that some people claim that the storyline is too unrealistic, but I think there are few fathers who love their children as deeply as Daniel.This movie is not only funny but also impressive. I rate this movie at 8/10. "}{"Title":"Haha Robin Williams dressed up as a woman, that's so funny let's make a whole 90-minute movie out of it!","Date":"7 January 2006","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs. Doubtfire is the result of some lame writer thinking up an amusing idea - Robin Williams as a woman - and stretching it past its potential into an exhaustingly unfunny 90 minute + disaster.Wanna see this done in thirty seconds? Go rent that Andy Kaufman performance from the '80s when Williams dressed up as a woman in the audience and pretended to be Kaufman's mother, then took off his wig at the end.Hire some English person to sit next to your TV and make funny English accents while you pause the tape on Williams. I guarantee it will be funnier than this film. "},{"Title":"Another Great Robin WIlliams Comedy","Date":"11 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Great family movie! Robin Williams excels again! Haven't laughed so much since the Birdcage when Williams outdid himself once again! Don't just rent this one, buy it! It's worth watching over and over again. Sally Field brings a wonderful touch to the movie too. My family really enjoyed the tea scene with the social worker. And let's not forget the cooking scene that goes haywire! This movie will have you laughing hysterically over and over again at the many comedic scenes. Can't wait to see what 2007 will bring with the new release of Mrs. Doubtfire II. All I can say is What took so long? Make this a family night & enjoy! Add this to your collection, you won't regret it! "},{"Title":"Hilarious Robin Williams","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I would have never thought that I would see Robin Williams dress up as a sixty-something year old Nanny.  Never in my entire life.  I first thought that this movie would be a waste of my time.  I was dead wrong.  This movie is hilarious.  Robin Williams is excellent as a divorced man, in order to get closer to his kids, dresses up as a nanny of his ex-wife.  Sally Field is very good as Robin's ex-wife.  The entire movie is very good.Overall the whole movie is excellent with good direction and acting. Rating 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"There are many reasons this is a great comedy....","Date":"5 December 1999","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Mrs. Doubtfire is a great comedy for many reasons. 1.) Robin Williams is brilliant in almost any movie he makes, including this movie. 2.) It's great for the whole family which is kind of rare. 3.) It shows that a man can absolutely love his children and want to be a part of their lives. 4.) The music fits the movie and is great. 5.) It's heart-warming as well as funny.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious and touching- a must see!","Date":"13 April 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" What a thoroughly enjoyable movie. I really like Robin Williams, an actor that is I personally don't care for him that much as a comedian, and the roles of Daniel Hillard and Mrs Doubtfire were perfect for him. While he was fine as Daniel, it is his tour-de-force performance of Mrs Doubtfire that drives the film. Plus the make up used on him was fantastic. Also worthy of credit is director Chris Columbus, who nails the use of Williams's exuberance and quick-fire personality, and because of this every gag hits the right buttons. There are cracking set pieces such as the make up experiments and the series of table hopping quick changes. And I for one liked the routine with the dinosaur, it wasn't one of the better gags but it was funny. Pierce Brosnan also does surprisingly well as the bachelor looking for a ready-made family, and Mara Wilson gives one of her better performances as Natalie, very delightful and charming her performance was. The script is also funny and touching, the score is warm and sweet and the film is very nice to look at. Some people didn't like the ending, but I had no real problem with it personally. My only complaints are that the film is a little too long and Sally Field overdoes the exasperation slightly as the mother, but overall this is a delightful film, no matter how many times you see it, you are likely to love it every time, whether it is Williams, the gags or Wilson. 9/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"perfect movie!!","Date":"15 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is one of the best movies of Fall-Dawn funny, comical, and impressive.Daniel Hirard, played by Robin Willams, who is losing his job are declared divorce by his wife. And he has to separate from his wife and 3 children.One day, he decide he will be housekeeper to meet his family. He makes up and become MRS.DOUATFIRE....I really like this movie because this is a family comedy movie and it is warming movie. The plot teach us about importance of family. The performance are amazing and powerful all around. "},{"Title":"Not overdone at all","Date":"28 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Some might think that this film isn't funny. But I dare you to watch it (even though it isn't dangerous). This is one of Robin Williams's best acted films to date and he will probably never be any funnier than here (except in a couple of other films and his stand-up). He plays a free-spirited man who's wife is divorcing him. Since he can't stand being apart from his kids, he devises a plan to become a housekeeper in the house, at any cost (even at Oscar winning makeup to turn him into a English maid with wicked humor). Funny in parts, and those parts are the best. but also with a very deep yet almost hidden message about families. Possibly the funniest film by WIlliams and of 1993. "},{"Title":"Good and bad for children, a lot of fun with liquor","Date":"30 September 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie requires the most outlandish suspension of disbelief, one that usually lends itself to children's movies, but there are two reasons why I could not recommend it for children first, because such sloppy storytelling is insulting to their intelligence and cons them into believing that it is acceptable to write that kind of tripe, and second, because it portrays two apparently (and I stress *apparently*) solid people getting a divorce as though it were an acceptable solution with three-half grown children in the mix.And when I talk about suspension of disbelief, I do not mean Daniel's elaborate disguise, which is only slightly out-of-whack.No, what I mean is that we are expected to believe that Daniel and Miranda both genuinely love their children and want the best for them. Yet Daniel does not earnestly strive to force them to do better for themselves until he suits up as Mrs. Doubtfire. Clearly he is capable of being a positive influence, and in some way he must have been even before, since his children seem to love him so much--so what gives? Miranda's behavior toward her husband mirrors that of a woman on tranquilizers, yet she somehow holds a successful career and truly cares for their three children. Was she cheating on her husband? The swiftness with which she warms to the advances of her wily English client suggest so, but the plot and the dialogue--especially her confession to Mrs. Doubtfire--ask us to believe otherwise.Daniel's irresponsibility does not seem to breach that line of shirking his duties to his family. Or perhaps, unconsciously, this movie is a commentary on the refusal of modern fathers to act like men and the unworkability of two-breadwinner houses. Maybe they would have been much better off if he had remained a homemaker. But Miranda wanted it all a solid, independent, successful career, a beautiful family, AND a powerful, manly husband who could protect and watch over her.But it doesn't really matter, because this movie does not concern itself with the dynamics of their EXTREMELY PETTY divorce. Nor does the conclusion, in spite of its pretensions to the contrary, nourish a belief in forgiveness and redemption. Nobody in this movie behaves honorably--and granted, nobody in real life ever completely does, but it is really sad to think that life necessarily becomes so miserable just because of a few petty flaws. "},{"Title":"Laugh? I nearly did?","Date":"15 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Willams plays Daniel Hillard, an actor who has moral problems voicing over an old cartoon in which one of the characters smokes, while he has no problems letting lots and lots of animals from a petting zoo running round his house were they could defecate and urinate all over the place increasing the risk of disease to his children (Anyone else spot an issue with his supposed moral stance). After this has wife has enough of him and decides to divorce him and, as he is too much of a loser for any conventional job, he dons the woman suit and becomes Mrs Doubtfire and high jinx and hilarious moments fail to materialise.This film attempts to cover the same ground as Tootsie, but whilst Tootsie went for touching humour and avoided many of the more obvious gag this revels in them. All of the leads are wasted here with Sally Field and Pierce Brosnan given standard roles with no enema or drive as Robin Williams is the wacky star and he should get all the good stuff in the film, however, the problem when you do this and the star fails to deliver is that you have a disaster on your hands and because Robin Willams character is so initially unlikable it instantly took the film away from me and put me on the back foot. The jokes here are lame and so predictable that it was really quite painful to watch. The film limps along with a predictable inevitability and when the last scene roles onto the screen I was squirming with the same kind of embarrassment one has when you here your parents having sex, you just don't want to be there or wish it would stop.Thankfully it did, but not till I had wasted an afternoon I could have spent out in the sun.Okay to watch if your no older than 12. "},{"Title":"Not exactly my thing.","Date":"26 June 2008","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Even though this movie contains a lot of comedy gold, courtesy of Robin Williams, I have to give it several strikes. Now, bear with me, folks, because I make these observations not only as an avid movie-lover, but as someone who's survived a divorce and been through a lot of Hell after.Firstly, the very presence of Sally Field, who plays The Perpetual Victim, annoys me. She's been in pretty much every over-hyped drama ever made, whether it was 'Not Without My Daughter', or just the newest movie-of-the-week on Lifetime. She just never got over the network canning The Flying Nun, and has been weeping on screen ever since.Secondly, Robin Williams' character resorting to the deception of cross-dressing and acting out the role of an old woman just to be with his children. In any kind of an amenable divorce, a compromise short of that extreme should be made available, either by cooperation between the parents or suggestions from a third party. Perhaps a counselor of some kind.Thirdly, as a man who's been through a divorce and sees nothing of his own daughter thanks to her mother, I really resent the implication the movie makes, that the only suitable father figure for children is a woman. Men have our roles in society and life, too, and as more than just comic relief. But like so many other movies, in this one Dad's the goofball screw-up who causes all kinds of chaos, and only Mom can fix everything with just a few well-barked orders and two phone calls. Give me a break. Women are just as flawed and human as men, but the way the movies keeps presenting the gender roles is just wildly unfair.In short, I've seen better, and I wouldn't rush to see this again. "}{"Title":"Funny Stuff","Date":"8 November 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Funny man Robin Williams morphs into an old nanny with a British accent, named Euphegenia Doubtfire. The film's premise is as clever as it is silly. And only Robin Williams could have made the film work. After an effective opening, the plot zips right along, unfolding a deft story that includes various site gags, en route to an ending that is believable, given the film's genre and character setup. A serious message, pertinent to marriage and children, frames and supports the comedic plot, which gives the film depth and substance.The entire production hangs on the talents of Robin Williams versatile, energetic, improvisational, and hugely entertaining. It's the kind of talent that seems natural, not studied or forced. The rest of the cast orbits Williams, but does so effectively. There's not a weak casting link in the bunch. And makeup artists must have had a field day with Mrs. Doubtfire, who, though rather imposing for a female, comes across quite believable, again given that the film is a comedy.My only serious complaint is the cinematography. That widescreen projection is too severe. I would have preferred more of a full screen projection.Mrs. Doubtfire will not be everyone's cup of tea. You have to give the film wide latitude. But I liked it. I laughed, not only at Robin Williams, but also at the dialogue and the plot's improbable situations. A sense of the absurd is what comedy is all about. "},{"Title":"About a family.  A true family film.  Children and parents alike will love this film.","Date":"6 February 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" You know when you read something like, Fun for the whole family, and you're like, Yeah right&#x85; well, this film actually is. The kids will love the talented Williams playing a divorced father who disguises himself brilliantly, convincingly and humorously as an old English nanny; while the grown ups will be shocked at how crude the film actually gets, but can't resist laughing and continuing to watch. The film disguises R-rated-like humor by mixing in family fun&#x85; which could be criticized, but shouldn't because it's actually fun and harmless. Brosnan and Field are wonderful as supporting characters, and the two actually are memorable in their performance despite being upstaged by Williams at his best. The three children are strikingly convincing in their roles and cease to fall into the category of painfully cutesy brats that Hollywood typically casts. The story is long but solid; the climatic sequence is saddening but genius and true. Despite Williams having to be so theatrical in the title role, the film itself seems a bit modest. This should be at the top of every critic's list of greatest family films.**** (out of four) "},{"Title":"An unforgettable dramedy in which Robin Williams really shows his talent","Date":"31 January 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I was only seven years old when this PG-13 rated dramedy came into theatres, and I think its existence went unnoticed by me until very early in 2007, when I saw it on TV. Just before watching it, I knew it starred talented comedian/actor Robin Williams, whom I was a big fan of, and knew it was about his character disguised as a woman, which certainly sounded promising for a comedy. My first viewing of Mrs. Doubtfire was definitely not one to forget, and I got more than just laughs out of it. After that, my second viewing three years later didn't disappoint me at all. My opinion on Williams as a performer hasn't changed since 2007, and watching this movie again turned out to be a lot like the first time.Daniel Hillard is a voice-over actor who quits his job after an argument with his boss. He is also the loving but irresponsible father of Lydia, Chris, and Natalie. Just after quitting his job, he throws a chaotic, disruptive, out-of-control birthday party for Chris. After his wife, Miranda finds out about this, she is fed up and decides it's time for a divorce after fourteen years of marriage. Daniel goes to live in an apartment, and gets to see his kids once a week, every Saturday evening, but this is not often enough for him. When he learns that Miranda is looking for someone to hire as a housekeeper, he decides to take advantage of his voice and acting skills, and creates himself a new alter ego, a sixty year old woman named Mrs. Iphegenia Doubtfire. In his disguise, he applies for the housekeeping job and gets it, so he now gets to see his offspring every day again. This goes well, and being Mrs. Doubtfire turns out to be an educational experience for him, but how long will he be able to hide the fact that Mrs. Doubtfire is actually Daniel Hillard? With the opening sequence, showing Daniel Hillard (Robin Williams) in the studio recording his voice-overs and then getting into an argument with his boss and quitting, the movie is off to a good and comical start. It stays fairly consistent throughout, with many memorably funny scenes, such as the birthday party, Daniel doing numerous voice impressions in front of social worker Mrs. Sellner, the divorced father having to change back and forth from Mrs. Doubtfire to himself while Mrs. Sellner is in his apartment, Stu Dunmeyer (Miranda's new love interest) calling Daniel a loser in front of Mrs. Doubtfire (not realizing it's him) and getting fruit thrown at him, and many other things that happen on the main character's little adventure, as well as some funny lines coming from his alter ego. Most of the drama in this film was also well done, with decent dialogue, and there certainly are some poignant scenes. Both the humour and the serious parts help keep it interesting. Williams shows not only his comedic talent here, but also his acting abilities. Most of the other cast performances are decent enough here. There was something I didn't like about the two older Hillard kids, Lydia and Chris (not sure how to describe it), but they certainly could have had worse family characters in this movie.This was directed by Chris Columbus, and I haven't seen every film he has ever directed, but have seen Home Alone 1 & 2 (written by John Hughes), Stepmom, and the first two Harry Potter movies. I haven't seen those Harry Potter flicks in years and don't know how they compare, but I would definitely say that Mrs. Doubtfire is superior to the other three films I've seen from Columbus. Of course, these movies all had different writers, so it wasn't entirely Columbus who made them what they are, but it's interesting to compare this film with Stepmom. Both films involve family trouble, and are apparently supposed to be a mix of comedy and drama, but the 1998 release fails in both genres, with a fairly poor script and generally unlikable characters, and I really don't think either of those can describe this 1993 dramedy! This one may have its flaws, but there's still so much to make it satisfying, even at just over two hours long. "},{"Title":"The one fatal flaw in Mrs. Doubtfire","Date":"27 December 2009","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Question Since all the working wife (Sally F.) asks of her unemployed husband (Robin W.) is to behave like a responsible parent and help raise and discipline their three children, why doesn't he just do it? Instead, he accepts a divorce first, and THEN he does it, but not as himself, not as the kids' father so that he could spare them the suffering endured by children of divorced parents. No, theatrical buffoon that he is, he'll only be a responsible adult if he gets to do it as the elaborately costumed Mrs. Doubtfire. In drag, bizarrely yet predictably, he instantly becomes an exceptionally responsible caretaker, housekeeper, playmate to the kids and psychologist to the mother.The answer, of course, is no movie. But this movie is dishonest from the get-go, and insulting. It's a stage for Williams to do his lip-chewing sweat act, with Sally Field and Pierce Brosnan there to allow him to chomp his way through broad burlesque with adults as well as children. "},{"Title":"A foodie","Date":"7 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" MRS. DOUBTFIRE really showcases Robin Williams talents. I was never a big fan of his, but in this one he's tops. Kind of a silly premise that works, again thanks to Williams performance and a very able supporting cast. San Francisco locations help as does a nice music score. Synopsis can be supplied by anyone reading most of these reviews. Despite some plot holes and improbabilities, this movie works on just about all levels. It's kind of a 'dreamy' as opposed to an all out in out comedy. Divorce and unhappy people are never a comic narrative, and the bittersweet ending works just fine. For those of you who are Polly Holliday fans (Flo in the TV sitcom ALICE) she has nothing to do here. She has fourth billing on a card by herself but only has one line of dialogue in one scene. In looking at the cutting room floor clips, she had a much larger part. Here scenes were kind of a sub-plot that was very funny, but entirely eliminated from the final edit. In a way I an see why as the movie runs over two hours at it is, and for comedies, that's along time. SOME LIKE IT HOT, the best comedy ever made ended right at the two hour mark. Perfect. Wonder what Ms. Hollidays fans and Holliday herself thought of this. Do see the extras if you're going to watch this movie on DVD. By the way, Sally Field, as always, is quite wonderful. "},{"Title":"Charming Robin Williams comedy","Date":"15 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams is really a hit and miss guy. Sometimes he's in excellent movies, (Mrs. Doubtfire, Good Will Hunting, Aladdin, Good Morning Vietnam) and sometimes he's in mediocre and bad movies. (Flubber, Patch Adams, Jack, Bicentennial Man) This is one of his excellent movies.Robin plays a man named Daniel whose life falls apart after getting a divorce with his wife named Miranda and quitting his job as a cartoon voice actor. Having wanting to see his kids, he disguises as the family's new housemaid, and hilarity ensues when he reveals himself to the kids and tries to work with discussing a business meeting and his former wife's birthday at the same place and same time.This movie was quite the crack-upper. It was funny, sweet, and charming. How could I forget the dramatic moments? Daniel and Miranda never get back together, but Daniel gets to visit the kids whenever he wants because of a negotiation with a court judge. Meanwhile as his Mrs. Doubtfire persona, she hosts a television show that's basically the female version of Mr. Rogers, and answers a letter from a kid that's going through the same emotional problems as Daniel's kids. It was a really good movie, and I highly recommend it. "},{"Title":"A nostalgic favorite of mine.","Date":"17 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I've seen this film so many times it's unreal. It's an addicting gem of a comedy that's not to be forgotten when looking back on the late Robin William's filmography. One of his most well known characters of all time and one of the biggest family fun comedies of the 90's.Daniel Hillard, (Robin Williams) copes with his divorce from his wife, (Sally Field) by disguising himself as a nanny who works for her so he can be near his kids. He not only betters himself, but learns to be a more responsible parent that he lacked when he was married.I love this film, plain and simple. Robin Williams brings out all his comedic talent in almost every scene, including voice acting, mugging, shockingly insulting, etc. His makeup job is fantastic, and he is the perfect person for it.My nostalgia out of the way, it's a clever comedy that builds on the awkwardness of each scene to which he meets his wife's new partner, almost getting caught, not being cut out as a nanny at the beginning, etc. The music by Howard Shore is simple but pleasant. The film never really drags, it's long, but appropriately. The film doesn't really go too in depth, it just simply lets Robin Williams be a goof everywhere he goes, which is what we came to see.It's a pleasant film overall. I will love it until death departs it from me, and Robin Williams will forever be remembered for it. "},{"Title":"One Of Willliams Best","Date":"14 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" In one of his most famous roles Robin Williams is at his eccentric best!! Plot In A Paragraph Daniel Hillard (Robin Williams) is a between jobs actor who specializes in dubbing voices for cartoon characters. Daniel is a loving father to his three kids Lydia, Chris, and Natalie, but Daniel's wife Miranda (Sally Field) sees him as a bad role model. After Daniel throws an elaborate and disastrous birthday party for Chris, Miranda files for a divorce. Daniel is heartbroken when Miranda is given sole custody of the kids and he's only allowed to visit them once a week. Determined to stay in contact with his kids, Daniel discovers that Miranda is looking for a housekeeper, so he becomes Mrs. Doubtfire, a Scottish nanny.Williams is at his brilliant best, and it's always a joy to see Sally Field (who still looked great in her late 40's) Pierce Brosnan looks fantastic as Miranda's new love interest, Lisa Jakub, Matthew Lawrence and Mara Wilson are all great as the kids. Mrs Doubtfire is hilariously funny and brilliantly touching. And it doesn't have your usual Tyical Hollywood endingAlong with Good Morning Vietnam this is one my favourite Robin Williams movies. "},{"Title":"Mrs. Doubtfire","Date":"27 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs. Doubtfire is a movie published in 1993 and the director is the famous Home Alone movie director, Chris Columbus. The talented actor, Robin Williams, acts as Daniel Hillard who works doing voices, and who quits his job. On that day, Daniel had a party for his son which made his wife, Miranda Hillard mad. Miranda couldn't handle Daniel anymore, so they got divorced. That set off Daniel to do something, so I found him very clever and a risk-taker. One day, a house keeper, whose name is Mrs. Doubtfire, came to Miranda's house. Their children thought it's better to ask their father to look after them. Miranda thought it was nice to have Mrs. Doubtfire as their house keeper so she decided to hire her. On another day, the son accidentally saw Mrs. Doubtfire in the bathroom. This accident made the elder sister and brother know that Mrs. Doubtfire was actually their father, Daniel! But they kept the secret so that their mother wouldn't know. On Miranda's birthday, they went to a restaurant. On that day, all of the family would know that Mrs. Doubtfire was Daniel. Of course Miranda stopped having Mrs. Doubtfire as a house keeper. The children missed Mrs. Doubtfire. But not only the children, Miranda also thought it was nice when Mrs. Doubtfire was around, The house was so warm and cosy, the beds were always made, and the dinner was.... As Daniel pretended to be the house keeper, Mrs. Doubtfire, s/he was able to discipline himself. That made Miranda change her mind. This movie was very touching and make us think about family. It also includes comedy so it's best to see whenever you want to laugh and be touched. All of you should watch this movie! "},{"Title":"Ooooh you wicked, wicked monkey!","Date":"22 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs. Doubtfire is directed by Chris Columbus and adapted to screenplay by Randi Mayem Singer and Leslie Dixon from the novel Alias Madame Doubtfire written by Anne Fine. It stars Robin Williams, Sally Field, Lisa Jakub, Matthew Lawrence, Mara Wilson, Pierce Brosnan and Harvey Fierstein. Music is by Howard Shore and cinematography by Donald McAlpine.Robin Williams plays Daniel Hillard, a struggling out of work actor who when faced with divorce from Miranda (Field) and separation from his three children, disguises himself as an old female housekeeper in order to see them daily.Centrally as a film it is what it is, a chance for Williams (excellent) to dress up in drag and act the goof, but boy does he do it well. In the mix is the serious aspects involving the pain of imminent divorce and separation from one's children. The script is sharp and ready made for Williams' brand of cynical witticisms, while not painting Brosnan's Stuart Dunmire (the new man in Miranda's life) as an oily snake shows good sense in the writing. The child actors are engaging and never sickly, while Fierstein as Daniel's artistic eccentric brother is gloriously colourful.A real family crowd pleaser that turned a profit of over $400 million at the worldwide box office, it's not a film that pushes boundaries of drag comedy, and you don't have to dig too far for flaws. But this is often very funny and it hits the right emotional beats for the topic at hand. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Still fun","Date":"19 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs. Doubtfire made a huge splash when it was released, but faded quickly. Robin Williams' star, which was shining bright in the late 80's and early 90's (Good Morning Vietnam, Dead Poets Society, The Fisher King, Hook and of course Aladdin) gave the film a huge boost, but he followed it with a string of one disappointment after another (Toys, Nine Months, Jumanji, Jack, Father's Day, Flubber) and by the time he finally made his Oscar winning performance in Good Will Hunting (1997) he was considered an actor well past his prime; worse, he was really getting on people's nerves.None of which helped Mrs. Doubtfire, which aged badly as it is. On the surface, it's just Williams doing one shtick for 90 minutes. The jokes that were daring and almost raunchy in 1993 seem very tame now, and what's worse, the way the film deals with the subject of parents divorcing - which was surprisingly straightforward for a family movie at the time - seems naive today.It's easy to criticize this film - everybody's been doing it constantly over the last two decades. But it's difficult to not enjoy it. Cynicism aside, Mrs. Doubtfire is, undeniably, a very funny and yes, very touching movie. Robin Williams and Sally Field both play characters who are very real and very likable; their relationship feels real too, and they have strong on-screen chemistry. The whole film, in fact, far-fetched and absurd though it may be, hits very close to home, and it's sincerely touching - because the viewer really cares about the characters and their relationship. It demands that you set aside your cynicism and criticism, but it's a lot of fun to watch even now. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams finest hour","Date":"26 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" There is something about Mrs Doubtfire that makes me smile every time I see it. There is so much to enjoy about it. It's a family movie thats full of physical comedy, verbal gags and also the odd reference that adults will love that will go right over kids heads and much of this is down to the sheer strength of the performance of Robin Williams.He is totally convincing as both Daniel and Doubtfire and truly captures all the heart of this story effortlessly. The performances of the children are also compelling while Pierce Brosnan is also good in his small role. Everybody loves this film so much and it will live on forever. Why they would want to make a sequel I don't know because this film is truly a one off and concludes so beautifully with the closing lines from Mrs Doubtfire. Just watch this film - you won't regret it. "},{"Title":"Warm and beautiful","Date":"17 March 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Funny how movie ratings can seriously induce someone to think it is an average, dull, flat, seen-it-before, when in fact, there is no person in the world that would stay indifferent about it, and won't watch it again in a distant future at some point. This movie is absolutely under-rated here at IMDb.com.I remember watching it back in my teenage days and it was completely hilarious! Now, almost full decade or maybe more, not quite sure, it still captures me entirely. Strange how as a grown-up I focused on different things and noticed something I did not back then, up to a point it could be twisted far from what authors intended, but still, it is a very decent movie you won't easily find in Hollywood production these days.Mrs. Doubtfire (what a witty title I did not captured before, I come from non-English region) teaches about moral as something that looks damaged or lost in the modern days of our world. It teaches about true values that deflated over the course of speed progress and development. It teaches about relationship between a parent and a child in a most sincere and gentle way imaginable. It could be a true story. In fact, it IS a true story.My stomach couldn't be more 'tortured' with laugh last evening. Creators fully revealed their master skills, carefully exploring all the aspects of drama and molded them perfectly into this theatric play.As elusive the film's title can be, this movie is an absolute gem for many, without which film-making magic would not be the same. It gets deep into many levels of human relationships that you can see from a funny and radically new perspective that praise joy and life to it's highest.Robin Williams played one of his lifetime roles, he is among the most talented actors ever encountered, always consistently radiating no matter where appears. To quote a line, the God broke a mold after created him, and the rest of the crew/characters are seamlessly absorbed inside his limitless charm.Oh, dear, I believe already made myself clear - absolutely praise the joy of it's magic. "},{"Title":"An analysis of gender roles in late twentieth-century society, But first and foremost a comedy.","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs. Doubtfire has a lot in common with Tootsie, another cross-dressing comedy from around a decade earlier. Like Michael Dorsey, the character played by Dustin Hoffman in that film, the hero Daniel Hillard is an out-of-work actor who spends much of the movie pretending to be a woman. Their motives for female impersonation, however, are different. Michael, unable to find work as an actor, thinks that he will have more success if he becomes an actress. Daniel has recently been though a harrowing divorce from his wife Miranda, who has been awarded custody of their three children. Although Daniel loves his children deeply, he only has limited visitation rights, so in order to spend more time with them he uses his acting skills to disguise himself as a 60-year-old British nanny, whom he names Euphegenia Doubtfire. In his new persona he applies for, and obtains, a job as Miranda's housekeeper.(Mrs Doubtfire is referred to in the script as English, but her accent is definitely Scottish. Her surname, in the context of the film, was taken from a newspaper headline reading Police doubt fire was accidental, but it does appear to be a genuine one. The name Euphegenia, probably a portmanteau of Euphemia and Iphigenia, seems to be Daniel's own invention).Tootsie was (among other things) a satire on sexist attitudes in the workplace. Mrs Doubtfire is (among other things) an analysis of gender roles in late twentieth-century society and a critique of American divorce law. Most contested child-custody cases end with custody being given to the mother, largely because of the assumption that women are the caring, nurturing sex and that the father's role is to act as the family breadwinner, a role which, it is assumed, can be performed just as well by an absent father as by a present one. Feminists have been strangely reluctant to criticise this assumption, even though it rests upon woman's place is in the home stereotypes which, in other contexts, they would be the first to denounce as outdated.There is a good deal of satire in the film at the expense of the American court system and the way in which it handles matrimonial cases. The social worker appointed by the Court to report on the child custody issue is a particular figure of fun. In Britain, social workers are often caricatured as right-on politically correct liberals. In America, to judge from the film, it would seem that they are ultra-conservative old ladies who still think that they are living in the 1950s.Mrs Doubtfire also questions some of our basic assumptions about the sexes. Daniel is not very successful in his career, although he clearly has talent as an actor. It is Miranda, a successful businesswoman, who is the family's main breadwinner. Yet it is Daniel who comes across as the more caring and empathetic in his relationship with the children. Although Miranda means well she is too distant and preoccupied with her business to have much time for them. After her divorce much she is forced to delegate much of their care to the supposed Mrs Doubtfire- care which before the divorce would have been undertaken by their father. Daniel's main fault as a father was that he has been too indulgent with his children and has failed to discipline them. Paradoxically, it is only when he adopts a feminine personality that he is able to become a firm father-figure.The obvious temptation would have been to have turned the film into a sentimental comedy of remarriage by making Miranda's new boyfriend Stuart (played by a pre-Bond Pierce Brosnan) an obvious villain and by having Daniel and Miranda living together again by the end of the film, much to the delight of their children. This temptation was, however, resisted, and I think that was the right decision. The film bravely acknowledges that love does not always conquer all and that not all marriages are made in heaven; it ends, however, with a plea to parents to put the interests of their children first, even when their won relationship is breaking down.It would, however, be wrong to analyse this film solely in terms of social issues. It is, first and foremost, a comedy, and a very successful one. Daniel and his alter ego Mrs Doubtfire are both played by Robin Williams, probably the ideal actor for the role because of his talent as a mimic and his ability to do all sorts of comic voices. Largely because of Williams's talents, the film is one of the funniest American movies of the nineties, with some brilliantly conceived and acted scenes, including his voice-overs for the Pudgy the Parrot cartoons, the anarchic birthday party he throws for his son and just about everything he does in his Doubtfire persona. Along with Good Morning, Vietnam, Dead Poets Society and One Hour Photo this is one of Williams's greatest films. It is certainly his funniest performance. 9/10 "},{"Title":"My Favorite Robbin Williams Film.","Date":"2 December 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams gives us his best in this film. It seems that the role was meant for him. He has a granny-type face and with a wig over his head - et voil the transformation is complete!This is an emotional film as well as a comedy. We feel deeply moved as Robin's character in the film is forced to take steps to be united with his children and at the same time look for a new job as well. He balances these tasks with incredible finesse and this should be seen to be believed. The love he feels from is children is warm and heartfelt. It seen that the happiness of his children is all that he wants in life and we see it during the court scene near the end of the film.The film has its phases a comedic opening and a sacking, fight with the wife and eventual separation, beginnings of a transformation, the complete transformation and moving in with his kids plus dramatic change in lifestyle(!), fight with his wife's new playboy boyfriend (played by the handsome Pierce Brosnan) and eventual discovery of his identity. Then we have a court scene at the end..... and well..... all's well that ends well ???Now the ending of the film disappointed me. Is there no compromise and can't a couple rediscover themselves again and restart their married life again? NO! But is is the fashion in an American society - if you don't like your spouse divorce and get another and another and another till either of you DIE OF AIDS (or something like that). Marriage is NOT A JOKE but a pairing of two souls that is sacred (remember the saying till death do we part?). Breaking that bond is an INSULT TO GOD.Even in the most extreme of situations divorce can be prevent by marriage counseling.Those of you that are married for many years can appreciate what I am trying to say. God created the first man, Adam. Then God created Eve from Adam, and he named her Woman as she came from Man. Then he gave her to Adam to be his companion, friend and lover (his wife), and they were the first couple on Earth.MAY GOD BLESS YOU ALL. "},{"Title":"A Classic....","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Chris Columbus adapted the popular Novel 'Madame Doubtfire' into a film called 'Mrs.Doubtfire, which has become a Cult film right from it's release way back in 1993.'Mrs.Doubtfire' is funny, emotional, inspiring, a film that even leaves a great moral. I've seen this film 1,000 times & I never get bored of it. In my opinion, 'Mrs.Doubtfire' will always remain a cult/classic. Robin Williams delivers an Incredible performance. He's fantastic as Doubtfire, and fabulous as himself. Sally Field is excellent, while Pierce Borsman is bland. The kids are delightful. Late Actor Robert Prosky is memorable, as always.What else do I need to say.... watch this film right now! "},{"Title":"A Divorce with a Twist","Date":"2 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs. Doubtfire (1993) is a comical and yet heartfelt movie about a married couple who get divorced. Daniel Hilliard (Robin Williams) and Miranda Hilliard (Sally Field) get a divorce after many years of marriage and three great children. Daniel wants to stay together and work it out, to be with his kids, but Miranda disagrees. During the divorce, Daniel can only see his children once a week and that is not enough for him. Daniel decides to take matters into his own hands, with his unique characteristics as an actor in the film he disguises himself as British nanny named Mrs. Doubtfire to watch over the children while Miranda works so he can spend time with his children. Over time he spends more time with his children and helps them cope with the divorce and also betters himself along the way.I believe Mrs. Doubtfire is one of the best family films of its time and still today. It has a great story line and many emotional parts in the film that can bring families together. I have seen this film numerous times from when I was a young kid to an adult and every time it is still funny and heartwarming to me. I believe everyone should see this film and enjoy Robin Williams at his best as a British nanny.Mrs. Doubtfire was directed by Chris Columbus. I feel that Columbus does an excellent job directing the film. The unique story is portrayed as if the audience was right in film living the story. The audience can sense the emotion and closeness of the actors in the film and how great a job each scene is. I believe Columbus was trying to tell viewers that even when parents get divorced the children are always loved so much by both and will do anything to be with them. The director really portrays the feelings and emotions of families during hard times. This film is definitely one of my favorite films of all time and I love watching it with my family. "},{"Title":"A movie that should be on every shelf","Date":"5 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Each time this movie is shown, I absolutely MUST watch it! This movie can appeal to all generations.I'm convinced Robin Williams may not be understandable on stage, but he does his best work on screen.Not only does this movie make me laugh after a good decade, but it also makes you think too. The only real letdown was the fact that this could never be applied in real life... other than that, this movie works.As the subject says this should be in every collection! 9/10 "},{"Title":"Bicentennial Woman","Date":"10 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is your only spoiler warning...After Tootsie, this doesn't have anymore charm.  Both involve the same kinds of people, the same kinds of plots, the same everything.  Even the same endings.Columbus made this on the heels of his second 'Home Alone' film.  This is part of his 10 year drought until Harry Potter.  This is the time when he relied on Julia Roberts.Somehow it seems Columbus lost all the youthful energy he possessed in writing Gremlins and Goonies.Stick with a smarter director like Zemeckis for your humor.Final Analysis = = Cinematic Dud "},{"Title":"'Mrs.Doubtfire' coming to save the day!","Date":"4 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  *** 1/2Starring Robin Williams, Sally Field, and Pierce Brosnan.A divorcee only gets custody of his three children once (or twice?) a week.  He wants to see them more.  He has to dress up like an old woman to act as a maid and keep his identity secret so his ex-wife does not notice.The movie is a funny cross-dressing movie.  Williams does an excellent job and he really made his presence felt. "}{"Title":"Comic Genius","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Okay, I'm a little biast, I am a huge Robin Williams fan. None the less, I have a few things to say about this film. Robin delivers a hilarious performance that set a standard for true comedic talent. This movie proves once again what happens when you have a great script and Robin Williams together. Robin has a way of making a film his own in a way, not unlike Jim Carrey, but Robin has been around longer and has a more unique style. But Jim Carrey is great, too. "},{"Title":" I wish Dad were here...","Date":"17 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is an almost flawless hilarious comedy with magnificent performances from Robin Williams, Sally Field, and Pierce Brosnan. The scenes where Mrs. Doubtfire did those things to Stu make the viewer laugh so hard they cry. The only senseless things in the movie are where his brothers fix him up. They seem gay or something and they're not really as comical as they try to be. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Loved this movie","Date":"15 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Robin Williams at his finest!  I thought this movie was a wonderful mix of comedy and drama.  Who cares if the children don't recognize their own father in drag. This would only mean his (Robin's)brother did a bang-up job with the costume and Robin does an equally bang-up job supplying the voice, mannerisms and dialect of a 60 year old Scottish woman.  Every time I see it again I find it as funny as the first time, although it has some extremely serious moments, especially during the court proceedings.  I would recommend this movie to anyone (above 13 for language and possibly adult situations) who really enjoy a treat with Robin Williams as the icing on the cake.  "},{"Title":"One of Robin Williams' Finest!","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  One of Robin Williams' greatest movies! He plays Daniel Hillard, an actor with three children that he loves oh so very much. He's also got a wife, Miranda. Miranda is a real pain in the ass. She's always expecting people to do her bidding and bosses people around.         Hillard son Chris is having a birthday, so Daniel throws him a party a party that includes wild animals. Real ones ponies, hens, goats, you name it! Miranda is very upset and wants a divorce.          They go to court and naturally, the judge rules in favor of Miranda. Judges are such feminists! It's terrible! So Daniel has to move out and it's just unbareable. He loves his kids so much anddoesn't want to be away from them.           He becomes a shipping clerk at a TV studio and learns that Miranda needs a housekeeper and the job pays $300 a week! Daniel uses his voice talents and calls Miranda to apply for the job. His last voice is of an English woman who sounds marvelous! Daniel is hired. Only one thing to do he has to be made a woman. He goes to his brotherFrank, who's a make-up artist and he and Jack make Daniel into many women, and finally one that completes the description. Danile has become Mrs. Doubtfire. She goes over to meet the kids and they like her except for eldest Lydia. Mrs. Doubtfire cooks a great dinner, but then it's wrecked, so she orders from a restaurant.          The kids and Miranda all fall in love with Mrs. Doubtfire and everything goes great. They go great for Daniel too. Miranda has a new beau, Stu. And Daniel/Mrs. Doubtfire is jealous.         The owner of the TV studio wants to have a meeting with Daniel at Bridges Restaurant Friday 7PM. But Miranda is having a birthday dinner at Bridges Restaurant Friday 7PM. Which to go to? Both.Daniel goes as himself and Mrs. Doubtfire. His cover is soon blown and Miranda knows the truth.           They go back to court and the judge really hits Daniel where it hurts. But all hope is not lost. Mrs. Doubtfire is not gone for good. She's now hosting a children's TV show and Daniel can now see the kids after school without court laisons and that kind of stuff, so it turns out okay.           I like this movie. I don't like the judge, though.If you like Robin Williams, this is your movie. When Williams used to make funny movies, before he became a drama star.  - "},{"Title":"a wonderful movie","Date":"11 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I went to it with a friend in 6th grade.  When I saw the scene with the cartoon coming on in the opening credits, I thought there was going to be a cartoon before the move like they used to do.  It turned out that this was the movie and that Daniel Hillard (Mrs. Doubtfire)was doing voices for the characters.  After he and the neighborhood kids throw a birthday party for his son, he and his wife get a divorce.  After finding out that his wife is placing an add for a housekeeper, he goes to his brother's and he designs a costume of an old lady who would become Mrs. Doubtfire.  One part that was funny was when Mr. Hillard (dressed as Mrs. Doubtfire)was using the bathroom.  His son walks in and says Oh my God! There is this autistic guy who goes to my school who just loves this movie.  He enjoys doing Mrs. Doubtfire impersonations.  Oh, it was a run by fruiting! (a scene where he throws a lime at Stu, his wife's business partner).  I recommend this movie to all you Robin Williams fans out there. And to you kids whose parents just got a divorce, I think you'll find your troubles float away by watching this movie.  "},{"Title":"Williams is outrageous","Date":"27 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Robin Williams in Drag. Separated from his kids by a court order, Williams has himself done up as an elderly British woman and becomes the housekeeper at his former house. Of course between hiding from his wife and the social worker sent to check up on him(that is, him out of the dress) things are just bound to go wrong and this sets off a hilarious set of scenes where his costume is run over and set on fire, among other things. Soon he is applying for a job on a show at the PBS station that he is now working for and ends up at the restaurant with both his kids and his wife and her new beau, plus the manager of the station, setting off an outrageous dash in between the two tables with costume changes each time. All in All a very good movie with a ton of laugh out loud funny moments. "},{"Title":"A Family Delight","Date":"23 March 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" What an absolutely delightful film. Let's just start with the Performances. Robin Williams gives an energetic, wonderful and talented performance. He should have won an Academy Award. The rest of the cast, containing are truly brilliant with their supporting jobs. Neither one tries to outdo their role, making sure that the limelight stayed on Robin Williams. It is a film that as incredibly funny in so many ways, yet at the some time saddening. It addresses an issue that confronts many children, the issue of divorce. The film confronts this issue without making a joke of it or making the film depressing. The portrayal of a family is so superb in this film that it will live for generations to come. It is an outstanding motion picture that leaves the audience with laughs and tears, a rare combination making in one of Hollywood's finest. "},{"Title":"One Of The Funniest Movies I've Ever Seen","Date":"26 March 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams outdoes himself in Mrs. Doubtfire, and that's saying something considering how much I admire Robin Williams'talent.He combines his dramatic and comedic talents in other movies such as Good Morning Vietnam and Dead Poets Society and does the same in Mrs. Doubtfire.I can't help thinking that we see the real Robin Williams in this movie, as well as others that I mentioned.It's hard to imagine someone pulling off playing the character diversity needed in Mrs. Doubtfire better than Williams.Mrs. Doubtfire can't be fully appreciated unless it's seen. "},{"Title":"I like this movie!","Date":"15 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Many people say that &#129;gMrs.Doubtfire&#129;h is one of the funniest movies. I totally agree with the above idea because. The cast is perfection. Robin Williams is one of the greatest actors I've ever seen. He acts a nanny very ingeniously. His acting is so perfect that we can't tell Daniel and Mrs. Doubtfire is actually the same person. I don't think this part can be played by any other actors. The theme of this movie is &#129;gFamily love&#129;h but Daniel's love toward his family makes us laugh especially when Mrs.Doubtfire talks with Stu jealously. I know some people say that they don't like the ending of this movie. But I think this ending can make us imagine this family's future, 1 year later, 10 years later. I hope Daniel and Miranda keep good relationship. I think this movie is full of laugh and love. After watching this movie, you absolutely feel good. I give this movie 10/10. "},{"Title":"Great, really!","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie is a story for those who think that justice can never win. It can win, that's the message. As you follow the attempt of the father to win the favor of his kids and his self-centered wife, you will be shaken. The attempt on the end pays for itself and you can enjoy the victory of real-life humanity over carrier-centered woman. Robin Williams is a rare actor with a certain message in his roles; he is really sympathetic and humanity centered. There is a lot of funny things going on, so prepare to laugh. I just don't know one thing - how it can be in real life that such an average looking man like Robin Williams (just like me), can marry such a gorgeous looking lady, like in this movie! I guess there are a lot of family problems in this life. If you got some, this movie can bring you hope that they can be overcome, by God's grace.  "}{"Title":"Robin Williams, Sally Field, and Pierce Bronsnan are a great trio of comedy","Date":"28 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Mrs. Doubtfire is a great comedy for the family. Robin brings in his great talents of various voices.*********************SPOILERS********************Daniel is a man who just went through a tough divorce with Miranda. For the most part, the only thing Daniel wants more in the world is his children. And he'll do anything to be with them for more then a couple days a week. So, when his ex-wife decides to get a new house maid. Daniel dresses up as a 60 year old woman called Mrs. Doubtfire, and is hired. The family falls in love with her/him. And Daniel slowly watches his kids falling for Miranda's new boyfriend Stu. Finally, they do find out that Daniel is Mrs. Doubtfire. But Miranda realizes how much the kids love him, and he gets to spend more time with them in the end.9/10  "},{"Title":"This is so good","Date":"23 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  My 12-yr-old daughter put in this classic ... yes, classic ... to watch again. We've seen it many times and it never misses on making us laugh.Robin Williams is one of my favorite actors. His energy is a joy to watch. It's a wonderful funny, heartwarming, poignant film. Definitely rated 10/10. "},{"Title":"Dysfunctional family fun","Date":"11 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  MRS. DOUBTFIRE (1993) *** Robin Williams, Sally Field, Pierce Brosnan, Harvey Fierstein, Robert Prosky.  Wildly successful comedy about a carefree family man who resorts to masquerading as a matronly English housekeeper to keep in contact with his children when his career-obsessed wife divorces him.  Williams delivers the goods a la Tootsie and managed to avoid cloying despite a surprisingly effective parable about the effects the dissolution of a marriage has on kids.  Oscar winning Best Make-Up for Greg Cannom, Ve Neill and Yolanda Toussieng. "},{"Title":"A man in drag comedy that really drags","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Men in drag is not exactly a new thing when it comes to comedies. Some Like It Hot and Tootsie both did the theme as well as its possible to get. Films that were witty, snappy and almost impossible to dislike. And then along comes Mrs Doubtfire. A film that wanted to be Tootsie for the 90s and didn't even come close.Certainly casting Robin Williams was a wise move. His talent for rapid-fire impressions and lightning-quick transformations makes him ideally cast. And the makeup work is pretty impressive. But I think the problem I have with the film is I just couldn't buy his reasons for wanting to disguise himself as a woman.In Some Like It Hot and Tootsie, the men in those films were forced to don drag through desperation, and it made their situations that much more believable. Mrs Doubtfire is aimed squarely at the level of simplistic melodrama. Robin Williams gets divorced from his wife, Sally Field, and poses as a housekeeper so he can keep seeing his kids. That's not desperation. That's insanely contrived plot mechanics. The type of thing that only happens in films. Not real life.I think another problem is director Chris Columbus. Columbus, for all his success as an A-list director, is not a particularly great filmmaker. At best his films are amiable fare, but I have yet to see one film on his resume that is remarkable. Certainly Mrs Doubtfire is nicely made and very polished, but its also overlong, and it doesn't really know what to do with itself. The film would have benefited from some tighter editing. The scene when the kids realise who Mrs Doubtfire really is could have been left out altogether as it has no bearing at all on the rest of the film.Mrs Doubtfire is a rather predictable film too. You can see where Williams' character, Daniel Hillard is going in terms of growth. He starts out as an inattentive husband, and as Mrs Doubtfire he realises his shortcomings and changes his ways. Columbus is known for portraying characters in clear colours of black and white. You hardly ever find a shade of grey in his films. Well, except maybe for one.There is one thing Mrs Doubtfire gets right, and that's Pierce Brosnan's character, Stu. Stu is the new boyfriend going out with Daniel's ex-wife, Miranda. Daniel can't stand him, and has to suffer in silence as he watches this rich and successful man romance his family right out from under his prosthetic nose.It could have been a lot easier for Stu to have played as a one-dimensional villain. Like a smarmy, silver tongued devil who hates the kids making it that much easier for us to sympathise with Daniel. But Brosnan is a good enough actor to invest a real sense of likability and depth into the character, and seems a decent fella who might just be good for the family after all.The downside to this is it makes it that much harder to like Daniel. We're supposed to be sympathetic with Daniel's plight, and having him make snide comments to someone who is really a nice fella just makes him seem petty and selfish. And its an approach that sits at odds with Daniel's supposed emotional growth.Another question to consider is the comedy. Is it all that funny? Well Robin Williams gives another of his energetic performances, and you still can't help but marvel at the way he improvises comic routines out of thin air. But Mrs Doubtfire doesn't quite match up to some of Williams' finest performances in Good Morning Vietnam, or Dead Poets Society. And he overdoes some of the shtick to irritation. Case in point being what should have been the film's ultimate comic set-piece. A scene in a restaurant, where he must be in two places at once as Daniel and Mrs Doubtfire.Like I said earlier, this film is overlong, and that is exactly the problem with this scene. It goes on for far too long, and having him dash back and forth between dinner tables soon gets tedious. What it needed was a more energetic pace to help things zip along. But Columbus is stuck on autopilot.Mrs Doubtfire doesn't quite plumb the depths of Williams' later forays into sentimental schmaltz. At least the ending is partly realistic about divorced couples. But still, if I were Miranda I would have had Daniel carted off to the loony bin after his bizarre antics. Not giving him full visitation rights to their children. Mrs Doubtfire is OK for a chuckle, but if you'll excuse the pun, its not that hard to drag yourself away from it. "},{"Title":"WIlliams overkill","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" There is bound to be an over-the-top element in any film where cross-dressing is a featured element. Therein lies a problem with casting Robin Williams in the lead role in a film where a man impersonating a woman is a key element. Williams already plays every role in an over-the-top, Im cool and you're not but you wish you were as cool as me manner. Williams's presence detracts from the story rather than adding to it. His insistence on making the characters he plays larger than life totally undermines the credibility of what might have been a cute little story. Williams's inability to portray subtlety is the undoing of this film and turns what might have been an entertaining farce into a monotonous, predictable bore. Sally Field, Pierce Brosnan and Joseph Prosky turn in credible performances in their roles, though there is really nothing extraordinary about any of them. An actor less pre-occupied with his own mark on the character might have made this the entertaining light comedy it was meant to be. This is not a bad movie for younger kids, though, if you don't mind explaining what Mrs. Doubtfire means by cunning linguistics. "},{"Title":"By-the-numbers mechanical comedy","Date":"8 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Sally Field is totally wasted in this by-the-numbers comedy.  Williams has fun in drag, but he thinks out loud, painstakingly, and much slower that the audience.  Everybody in the movie is immature, and everyone but the children are stereotypes.  Pierce Brosnan is perfectly at home, and perfect in this environment.  Harvey Fierstein has a nice supporting bit, but overall, I was disappointed in this one. "},{"Title":"Blah","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" If Dustin Hoffman can carry off a gender swap in Tootsie, I suppose Robin Williams can do the same thing. The problem Robin Williams is no Dustin Hoffman. Sally Field (Miranda Hilliard) and the children pull off fine, understated performances, as does Robert Prosky as the TV station owner who gives Daniel Hilliard the opportunity to carry his cross-dressing act to children's daytime television. Pierce Brosnan (Stu Dunmeyer) is appropriately charming and stuffy as Miranda's new love interest with whom Daniel wants desperately to compete.The film, though, is all about Robin Williams. Some of the lines come off as improvised in the Williams staccato style of delivery, particularly when Mrs. Doubtfire is grilling Stu about what he expects to receive in return for the expensive birthday gift that he, Stu, purchased for Miranda.The difference between Tootsie and this film is that despite all the makeup, Robin Williams smug self-righteousness and penchant for being too hip for the planet (in his own mind) permeates every scene in which he appears. There is nothing in this film that wasn't done funnier in Tootsie, or even in Some Like It Hot. This is a mediocre imitation of those two superior films, which is not surprising given its mediocre leading man/woman. "},{"Title":"The bonds of family","Date":"27 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Many people say that &#129;gMrs.Doutfire&#129;h is one of the funniest movies. I agree with, he above idea. First, every character in this movie has a great and funny personality. They are all cute. Second, this movie is funny for everyone because it deals with common family problems. Though the story looks simple, actually it is rich in content. The funniest scene for me is when Daniel has to play two roles in the Bridges restaurant. Daniel is a very affectionate father to his children. He is my ideal father. This movie has made me think a lot about what family should be. "},{"Title":"Sorry, But I Wasn't A Fan Of  'Mrs. Doubtfire'","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" There are some very funny moments in here, but some very uncomfortable ones, too. I did not enjoy this movie as much as most people. I know we live in a negative age where the put-down is king but when it crosses into mean- spiritedness, as Robin Williams does in here, sorry but I don't think it's funny. I don't think all the language in a comedy is necessary, either. Crime film okay, but a comedy that features a little kid? No, especially when the kid mimicking her dad uses the Lord's name in vain. That's disgusting.The only worthwhile aspect of this film - outside of Williams' slapstick antics dressed as a woman - was his touching speech at the end of the movie where he's pleading his case for seeing his kids. That's a wonderful speech. "},{"Title":"It's best comedy!","Date":"16 December 2004","Score":"23 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie is very funny.The funniest scenes for me are when Daniel transforms into Mrs.Doubtfire.They are very wonderful !I think that R.Williams is one of the greatest comedians.Because,He has not only brilliant performance skills but also many kinds of voices.He is really a delightful actor.If Mrs.Doubtfire were performed by with a different actor,this movie would be a failure.Thanks to Robin's extraordinary performance,this movie has been a complete success.But it is true that R.Williams is so impressive that other characters are outshone by him.Overally, I can guarantee enjoy this movie. 8 out of 10. "}{"Title":"A charming family comedy with both laughs and a heart-filling message","Date":"3 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" There is no doubt that Robin Williams was a crowd favorite in the 1980s and 1990s. Spending most of his career bringing smiles to many faces in America, Williams was an actor who made fans laugh hysterically, and at other times left fans shedding tears. This comedy directed by Chris Columbus stars Robin Williams in one of his most memorable roles, that brings both laughter and a few fears to the eyes of fans everywhere; a comedy sparked with an important message about family. Robin Williams plays Daniel Hillard, an eccentric San Francisco actor who performs voice of cartoon characters on television shows. On his home from a stressful day at work, Daniel picks up his children Lydia (played by Lisa Jakub), Christopher (played by Matthew Lawrence) and his youngest Natalie (played by Mara Wilson). Daniel has very loving relationship with the children, but a marriage with his wife Miranda (played by Sally Field) that is dangling at the edge. Arriving home, Daniel throws a birthday party for Christopher, much to the disagreement with their mother due to his poor grades. When the party ends in disaster, Miranda comes to conclusion that their marriage is not working out and files for divorce. Miranda is granted custody of the children with Daniel only allowed to see them on the weekends which is proved to be hard for both him and the kids as they've grown so close to him. When Miranda calls and seeks out a babysitting service, Daniel with the help of a make-up artist, disguises himself as an elder lady and poses as a babysitter for the children.Robin Williams brings such significant charm to the titular character, and his performance and wittiness may it quite difficult to help but enjoy his portrayal as his character. From the minute he poses as Mrs. Doubtfire, he delivers such pleasant laughter and charm to the film, and thanks to the incredible hair and make-up design, he is truly convincing as the old lady with a man who just wants to spend quality time with his children behind the mask. While this film brings on some great family-friendly laughs along with a few edgier gags, it is also very touching and conveys plenty of themes that contribute to serious discussions about family and relationships. With the main character and his wife's divorce playing a key role in the story, the film sends a strong, heart- filling message about being there for your family when they need you, and this spawns some emotional and occasionally tear-jerking moments. The story tackles on strong issues that many viewers can easily relate to, but at the same time, brings a cherishable chemistry between the characters and laughter that is hard to resist. The characters are nicely written and very likable to where viewers hope for the best in them. Mrs. Doubtfire is a heartwarming movie that you cannot help but love, thanks to the blissful writing, director Chris Columbus's creative mind, and an impressive comedic chemistry by Robin Williams. This movie is strongly recommend to children, teens, and adults alike; it is filled with just about everything Robin Williams is remembered for. "},{"Title":"Fun for the entire family","Date":"10 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" If you're a 90's kid, there is no way that you can continue to go on without seeing this movie. Mrs Doubtfire is a classic, lighthearted fun-filled comedy that will produce laughs for all ages (parental discretion is advised - there are some subtle sexual references and mild coarse language). Daniel Hillard is a recently divorced man, who cannot bear to go a single day without seeing his children. Out of desperation, he disguises himself as a 60 year old British nanny in order to see his children everyday. What follows is cross-dressing, multiple identities mishaps and good old Robin Williams (bless his soul) humour. Mrs Doubtfire will make you laugh and bring you almost to tears at the same time, because underneath all the fun and games there is a powerful message about family and love that transcends separation or divorce. It is also a movie about second chances, about how sometimes people are better for each other when they're apart, and about learning from mistakes. It's a simple plot that is not too complicated to follow and shouldn't be interpreted for more than its face value a simple, light-hearted comedy that tugs just enough at the heart strings. "},{"Title":"The fun of Tootsie with the poignancy of Kramer vs. Kramer... and Robin Williams in his most defining role, laughs-wise and tears-wise...","Date":"15 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Looking at the American Film Institute's list of Top 100 funniest movies, you'll notice that the first one is Some Like it Hot and the second is Tootsie. No need to be a movie expert to know what the two classics have in common. Men dressed as women is probably one of the oldest, and curiously underused, comedic gimmicks, it's an awkward intrusion into the forbidden world, carrying a strange mixture of voyeurism and self-questioning, something capturing both the privilege and the curse of being a woman, which also teaches one lesson or two about being a man. You can make it with laughs, with tenderness, and sometimes with poignant drama.Chris Columbus' 1993 comedy hit, Mrs. Doubtfire belongs to this cross- gender movie traditions, and is rightfully listed at the 67th position in AFI's list. And while it didn't reinvent the wheel on the comedic field, the film bears a strong resemblance with dramas such as Kramer vs. Kramer. It seems obvious since it deals with divorce, but there's more into it Roger Ebert criticized the film for being another showcase of Williams' imitation talent, and while it worked for Aladdin, it failed flat in this film. His mistake, in my opinion, was to misjudge the audience's expectations, it wasn't to see a man dressed in drag, but to see Robin Williams be that man, not because Williams would give another dimension to the film (kids and their parents didn't know he went through divorce) but because Williams was a popular family-appealing actor and his role as Daniel Hillard embodied his personality a man raunchy enough to appeal to dads, tender enough to have this awe-factor with mothers, and any mimics, or voice bits would appeal to the kids. Hillard is probably the closest character to Williams.Indeed, Williams can overplay his eccentric facets like Lemmon in 1959 but he can also break your heart when he mentions his kids, or when he whispers something to his youngest daughter. And as Tootsie dealt with unemployment and gender battle, Mrs. Doubtfire is a movie about divorce that shows to which desperate extremes a father can be pushed to, in order to keep seeing his kids. I don't understand how Ebert could overlook this aspect. That's to say, the film has both the laughs and the heart, and while it would be a stretch to say that all the gags work (on that level, some bits are more predictable than others), Doubtfire is something more than a movie about a disguised Williams. And it's a good reminder of a time where a good old- fashioned comedy could win at the box-office.So, the story is about a family that goes through the harsh experience of divorce, a time where enough is enough and a husband a wife realize they're going through different directions. The set-up is a bit awkward as it leaves us wondering why this successful businesswoman, Miranda, played by Sally Field married this goof-ball voice-actor with the energy and the temper of a teen. When a man celebrates his son's thirteenth birthday by organizing a whole zoo party and dance on a table, you gotta wonder why he didn't expect it would upset his wife, they were really totally different. What follows is a poignant argument where Miranda finally asks for divorce and it doesn't come as a surprise that she gets the custody. I don't even think the kids were surprised. Hillard can only see his children on weekends, which is not enough obviously, he's got three months to prove the judge he's capable to take care of himself, hence the kids, and one way leading to another, he works in a TV station, as a janitor (it seems a bit contrived that all of a sudden, he couldn't find something on the entertainment field) and when he learns that the mother is about to hire a nurse, well, he goes to his makeup expert brother (Harvey Fiernstein) and asks if he can turn him into a woman. I guess the next scene probably upset Ebert as it was another montage of Williams' imitation talent (that and the first interview) but while it was out of place in a movie like Dead Poets Society, it seemed natural that Williams' character would do such things. (If there's one point this review is trying to make by the way is that, once you get that Hillard is Robin Williams' alter-ego, you start watching the movie with different eyes.)So, Hillard becomes Mrs. Doubtfire and if things don't go quite well at start, he quickly impresses Miranda, and he surprisingly turns into a better father model than as he was a man, which echoes the Tootsie situation sometimes, it takes to be like the mother to know the father's job. The movie escalates from comedic situations to another, I have a soft spot for the flirtatious bus driver, and the little roasting poor rival Lou (Pierce Brosnan in his dashing pre- Bond years) has to take from a jealous old hag. And the hilarity pinnacles with two simultaneous restaurant dates, including one that has Hillard's professional future at stakes. Well, it's easy to figure where it goes, but we follow Hillard's troubles with excitement and fun.The resolution the film offers is sweet and balanced, like in Kramer vs. Kramer, it's something that appease the minds and allows us to understand both parts. The emotional outcome of the film is to remind us that Robin Williams went through divorce and didn't have to act, while it was to do these voices number that irritated Ebert or when he talked about the divorce. And looking at the film after William's untimely passing, makes it impossible to watch, without shedding a nostalgic tear. God I miss the 90's, and I miss Robin Williams&#x85; "},{"Title":"Nostalgic and Amazing, you'll never forget it!","Date":"18 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" When adults go to see a children's movie, most of 'em are poor suckers who get dragged along to sappy Disney flicks as babysitters. But Mrs. Doubtfire has something for both adults and kids. There are one or two swear words but not enough to wreck the story or make it inappropriate, very little crude humor, excellent acting (one of Robin Williams' best roles) and beautiful (and at times funny) soundtrack.Daniel (Robin Williams) is a loving, caring father, absolutely adored by his three children. The problem is, his wife Miranda is all business, whereas he's a fun-loving, imaginative and at times childish voice actor. When he throws a huge party in his expensive home for his son, featuring a petting zoo, cake and ice cream and the latest hip-hop hits, with his excuse to Miranda being, it's not a toxic waste dump, it was just a party! she becomes fed up with his antics and files for divorce, tearing the kids apart from their father except on Saturdays.Daniel is heartbroken, and misses his children. Meanwhile Miranda gets straight to work turning them against him by going on about his dirty apartment and teaching his youngest daughter the phrase damned. She tells Daniel that she's going to hire a housekeeper for the kids, and Daniel seizes the opportunity, deciding to sign up for the job himself. With the help of his gay brother and his incredible voice acting, Daniel disguises himself as an elderly Scottish lady - Mrs. Doubtfire - but keeping his double-life a secret proves to be more difficult than he thought it would be, especially when Miranda gets a sleazy boyfriend named Stu.What else can I say? My dad downloaded this for me when I was a kid and it was right up there in my favorites along with Uncle Buck and Gremlins. Not only was Robin Williams an amazing actor but the acting was great from all roles, and I've got to say, my favorite scene was where Daniel, while dressing in his Mrs. Doubtfire costume, is seen by two boys from the other apartment. They giggle at him, thinking he's a woman, but then he turns around and scares them so they call for their mom. In panic, he drops his old lady mask and screams, oh sh!t, making the two boys laugh even more. Ten a truck runs over the mask! It's only one of the many hilarious scenes in this movie.I highly recommend this movie (if you're worried about its content you may want to watch it yourself first, though). I wish movies like this existed today, there was talk of a Mrs. Doubtfire 2 coming out but sadly Robin Williams committed suicide so I guess it's been canceled. At least this one exists so other children (and adults) can enjoy it for many more years to come. "},{"Title":"Perfect ending with traditional Williams comedy applied generously throughout.","Date":"13 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" The main role in this movie was practically tailor made for the late Robin Williams. Daniel Hillard basically *is* Robin Williams in literary form. Daniel's personality has all of the eccentricity that Williams has become known for. His performance in this movie is easily in the top three that I have seen. The storyline is very good for a comedy. For those of you who are considering viewing, the plot consists of Robin Williams' character being separated by his three kids by a divorce and disguising himself as their new nanny to be with his kids. The villain that comes in partway through adds well to the plot. Stu, played by Pierce Bronson, is a rich guy who starts dating Miranda, Daniel's wife played by Sally Field, after the divorce. I honestly don't think they could have cast Pierce Bronson for the part if it had been made after he became James Bond because there would have been such a gigantic amount of potential for Danel to make Bond references that it would have taken up too much of the movie. He is introduced more for humorous purposes than emotional ones, since most of his screen time involves Daniel, disguised as Mrs. Doubtfire, trying to inconvenience him. As it is, Stu is a fairly small character in the whole scheme of things since Daniel is just trying to be with his kids again and not his wife, The kids are the main roles apart from the parents. Each one's personality is well developed and it is clear that they have a strong averseness to the divorce and go through all of the struggles that come with it. That said, the fake nanny that Daniel disguises himself with the help of his brother helps all five of them deal with the divorce better. The whole family's quality of life improves after he begins watching his kids incognito after school. Of course, as this is a comedy, everything that happens is mixed with humorous situations. There are several scenes where Daniel forgets that he is dressed as a seventy-five year old English lady and even a couple where he has to switch egos in rapid succession to save his secret. There is also a pretty good showing of Williams vocal versatility. The opening scene where he is acting for the cartoon is the first of these, followed by his job interview with the social worker, and later when he impersonates the many different prospective nanny's responding to his wife's advertisement (this by the way is one of many scenes in older comedies that would not work after caller ID had been invented). The social worker becomes a minor character introduced for humorous purposes as she checks on Daniel's state of living for the divorce court case. The only other minor character of note is Mr. Lundy the TV producer, who comes in late. In the climatic scene at a restaurant where Daneil is supposed to be at dinner with his family as Mrs. Doubtfire and with Mr. Lundy as his real self at the same time, Daniel accidentally forgets to switch costumes and quickly explains that Mrs. Doubtfire can be the host for Mr. Lundy's new TV show. There isn't much more to address apart from the ending. I don't think anyone would deny that it is the perfect ending for the movie, which is an incredibly rare thing to find in a film. It doesn't work to have the parents get back together because it is clearly shown that they want what's best for their kids and the two have too many discrepancies for this wish to be fulfilled. It also is not aesthetically appealing to have Mrs. Doubtfire continue to watch the Hillard family after her identity is revealed. All sort of seems lost at one of the most emotional scenes of the movie when the court decrees that Daniel can only see his kids under supervision, which is obviously unfair and not how you want to end a movie. So when we discover that Daniel will now take care of his kids after school without a disguise, it pleases everyone who wants a happy ending along with those who don't want the ending to be completely implausible and corny. This is rounded perfectly with the clip from Mrs. Doubtfire's TV show as the final shot fades out. As usual, I will end with recommendations. If you have liked any other popular Robin Williams movies, you shouldn't be disappointed. If you don't mind a good plot accompanied by continuous humor, it's a good watch. The story should please most speculators, so the only reason any given viewer might not like this movie is if the style of comedy doesn't appeal to them, which is a blameless crime. Overall Rating 8.6/10 "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"5 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I enjoy a good joke as much as anyone but this simply isn't funny. What's more though, it isn't particularly clever, either. As far as I'm concerned, the worst bit is that it's American! I have always thought American humour was pretty unsubtle and in-your-face, but this is nothing short of pathetically insulting. However, let's try to be a little bit objective here. IMDb ratings are worldwide and this gets 6.8. Therefore, I'm seriously considering hiring a private detective to see if he can find my sense of humour because it was certainly absent when I subjected myself to this garbage. This is the kind of low-budget film that truly proves that a small story can be much more meaningful than a larger one. "},{"Title":"The most meaningful story in the most unlikely screenplay","Date":"26 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I wouldn't have wanted to be the executive or the ambitious screenwriter to stand before a table of men, whose combined salary probably totals more than I'd make in my life times five, to pitch the idea for Mrs. Doubtfire, illustrating its thematic significance and the wonderful opportunities that could flourish inside such a preposterous screenplay. Just describing the film in a coherent sense is difficult, but imagine convincing the ignorant that this film winds up being incredibly moving, even tearjerking, as it persists on, dealing with real characters in a realistic situation in a totally unrealistic way.To put it simply, this is the best film I have seen about a serious topic like divorce taken in a family-friendly manner that is great for all ages, but doesn't compromise its ideas or themes in order to be safe and digestible for the youngest viewer. The youngest viewer, think four, who belongs to two parents, or one at a time, with visitations from the other on the weekends, would likely have no trouble connecting to this film and its concept. Not to mention, the film is actually hilarious in addition to being contemplative, heartbreaking, and genuinely moving. This balancing act screenwriters Randi Mayem Singer and Leslie Dixon pull off is nothing shy of extraordinary and, dare I say, should've come in serious consideration for a nomination during Oscar season in 1993.The film concerns Daniel Hillard (Robin Williams), a man of high-energy and great charm, who works as a voice actor in San Francisco, however, recently unemployed. He is married to the lovely, but short-fused Miranda (Sally Field), and lives with their three children, two girls and a boy, and his marriage is already on rocky waters without the threat of job loss coming into play. The back-breaking straw comes when Daniel throws his son a birthday party, complete with a petting zoo and camaraderie from neighborhood kids, after Miranda prevented their son from throwing a party after getting in trouble. Miranda wants a divorce, but Daniel is far too attached to his children, and his children far too attached to him.Daniel is now living with his brother, a professional makeup artist, prohibited from seeing his children unless on a Saturday for a three-month period where employment and domestic stability must be reached in order for a custody extension. Upon finding out his wife is searching for a babysitter for the kids, with numerous applications already filled out, Daniel tampers with the applications so he can phone-in for the ambitious clients and ruin their chances at an interview. He, himself, makes a call to his wife, posing as Mrs. Doubtfire, a loving English nanny, who has ample amount of experience working with the youngest kids and wants to provide fun but discipline for the Hillard kids. Daniel gets into costume, thanks to his brother, which involves a full-body suit, a massive brazier, and loads of makeup, and becomes the nanny he profiled over the phone, much to the delight of Miranda. With his newfound disguise, he manages to still see his children on a daily basis - obviously, though, in a different form - and still tries to be a part of their life.However, the film isn't solely about a man's desperation to see his kids and the fact that he loves them dearly and they love him. While that's certainly a part of this film, the film's about a man's transformation into adulthood in a childish and hugely questionable way. That's the irony of the story; a man is growing up by doing the most immature thing imaginable. Yet, while Daniel is draped in loads of makeup and elderly woman garb, he becomes more of a disciplinary figure, a more organized and grounded man of his word, changing his philosophy and tightening his own leash, while still remaining fun-loving and shapeless to some degree.On top of that, Singer and Dixon wisely make all the kids generally happy characters, never attaching pessimistic or needlessly dramatic stigma to one, ruining the father-children relationship or corrupting the idea that this is a wholesome family burdened by a sad state of affairs. With this, there is infinitely more relatability for audiences, seeing that it's not the fact that the father isn't involved, or the mother isn't capable, or the kids are too much to handle, but the circumstances bestowed upon the family are just a tough slice of life, where the love and romance has soured, and one can't deal with the others traits and vice-versa. With that in mind, there's no wonder why I hear this film being so relatable and helpful for those undergoing divorce or being children of divorce.The idea of a father, devoted and caring, being prevented to see his kids other than one day a week is a tough circumstance and this film doesn't sugarcoat it in the slightest. It shows one man's commitment to raising healthy kids in the most unlikely way ever. As sad as this film can be, however, make no mistake, for it is hilarious all the more. Williams' quick-witted brand of comedy delivers in every possible way, and just when you think Williams' manic energy is going to prevent for deeper emotions to come through, he blindsides by delivering a powerful monologue or showcasing complex emotions in a way that is crowdpleasing and simply wonderful in every sense.Mrs. Doubtfire is a wonderful family film, uproariously funny, heartbreaking, but honesty and consistently wholesome even in its most manic or mildly crude state. It'd be blatantly wrong to say the film isn't a tad messy or all-over-the place, but such is life, and with this great of a screenplay and such strong performances from everyone involved, I hardly minded. The film is a glorious gem that touches the spirit of what it means to be human, imperfectly so. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams Makes Mrs.Doubtfire A Great Movie","Date":"24 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs. Doubtfire is a comedy film that features the late Robin Williams and Sally Field.It was based on Alias Madame Doubtfire,a novel written by Anne Fine.In it,we get to see a father who learns to keep in touch with his children in disguise of a sixty-year-old woman.Daniel Hillard is a voice actor Daniel and a loving father.Unfortunately,he isn't a great disciplinarian and somewhat a polarizing role model for his children.This leads to her wife,Miranda to divorce her after losing her patience with him when he threw an elaborate birthday party that created a lot of mess.The courts provided Miranda sole custody of the children and Daniel is allowed to only visit them once a week.Upon learning that her ex-wife is looking for a housekeeper,Daniel uses his gift as an actor and disguised himself as Mrs.Doubtfire,an old English woman.The fun begins when Miranda hired her to take care of the children.As a film,the Mrs.Doubtfire is definitely fun and entertaining.The late Robin Williams was definitely able to elicit a lot laughter for most part as Daniel and when disguised Mrs.Doubtfire.Give credit to his comedic abilities whether physically and his delivery of funny lines.Added to that,it was genuinely humorous as well as it happens to be a family-oriented film as the viewer also gets to deeply care for the situations that Daniel,Miranda and the children are into.The screenplay was definitely realistic as far as a divorcing couple is concerned and the emotions that the children who loves their father deeply are into except of course when Robin Williams moves in and out of drag and his ability to fool the people around him as a sixty-year old nanny.But still,one will surely appreciate the story and the movie as a whole as Mr.Williams was able to elevate the movie at a higher level.Credit should also be given to Sally Field for being a great complement to him as the wife who is fed up with her husband's immaturity.Overall,it was a great movie!!! "},{"Title":"Hits the spot","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is by far one of my favorite movies of all time. It really hits the spot with tremendous performances by ALL of the cast members. Mrs. Doubtfire has a real sense of reality when it comes to families that are separated by differences between the parents. It tells children that it's okay if your parents don't get along, and are separated. It's not your fault. Don't blame yourself. There are all sorts of different families out there.What really gives this movie it's unique touch is the brilliant performances of each and every cast member. I definitely recommend it to anyone who loves a good laugh and a heart warming family film. My suggestion, get the DVD release. RIP Robin Williams "},{"Title":"Robin Williams tour de force, with a few issues","Date":"12 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Daniel Hillard (the late Robin Williams) is a wacky and unreliable actor. His wife (Sally Fields) gets sick of it after 14 years and decides to divorce him. He's a great father though. To see his kids every day, he cooks up a crazy plan to pose as a female nanny. His gay brother (Harvey Fierstein) helps him with the disguise.His plan works. He immerses into his increasingly elaborate British nanny persona, becoming a more stable and responsible person in the process. He is also able to spy on his ex-wife and her loathsome boyfriend Stu (Pierce Brosnan)and gets to be with his children (who learn the secret). Then, one night, he has to go to a job interview as himself and attend a family dinner as Mrs Doubtfire -- at the same restaurant. Will he be able to pull it off? This was a funny, enjoyable enough family movie, despite the cross dressing theme and often ribald humour. Williams is talented and hilarious, as usual.My partner enjoyed the film; I had a few problems with it. The movie almost didn't work for me. It was too contrived how crappy everything got for Daniel after the divorce. Also, I was simply unable to suspend my disbelief that his wife and kids wouldn't immediately see through the disguise. (I don't know why this didn't bother everyone else.) And after a while, the shtick of him having to change back and forth under pressure became tedious and unrealistic. The costume was too much for this to happen. The movie became too slapsticky. Nice sweet ending though. "}{"Title":"In Memory of Robin Williams","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams died today. In his memoryMrs. Doubtfire. How do you say that name without a smile. This film inspired cross dressers everywhere.! The film stars Robin Williams (1951-TODAY!!!!  ) who, after a bitter divorce, dresses up as a maid that his ex-wife hires in an attempt to see his children. The kids find out, and Williams character finds out the douche that his ex is marrying, and much more drama happens. The film is cute and funny and just so good I can't describe it. Just watch it for yourself and you'll see.In memory of Robin Williams. WHYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY! THERE'S NO. REASON TO LIVE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Perfect Family Movie","Date":"10 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" One Of The Best Movie without a doubt And Very Witty.Robin Williams Is A Very Talented Actor And he gave a perfect performance.He is really a brilliant actor,i'm sure everybody else has quite seen it in his other movies e.g. Good Morning,Vietnam,Hook,Dead Poets Society And Good Will Hunting for which he won An Academy Award.He should've been at least nominated An Academy Award For his performance in this movie..no one else can really play the part of Mr. doubtfire as beautifully as he did.He can Do wonderful voices.I loved this movie.Sometimes you can not tell how a movie will turn out without watching it.I am so happy because i took the right decision to watch this movie and i can watch it anytime if am at my sense of humour.I will recommend this anyone who doesn't mind to watch comedy family movie full of fun and love.Father's love for his children and theirs love for him. 5 out of 5 "},{"Title":"Funny family get-together movie.","Date":"4 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a comedy drama that is great for the entire family, starring Robin Williams as a divorced husband Daniel Hillard who disguises himself as female housekeeper Mrs. Doubtfire to help tend the household for his ex-wife, who has custody over their children, so he could spend time with this three kids.The pace, acting, and character development fits the movie's script very well, and the movie is as funny as it sounds. Who wouldn't be charmed to see a divorced man dunning a wig, old lady clothes and a semi-high pitched voice to hide from his ex-wife so he could be with the people he loves the most - his children. Though comedy filled with some corny moments and slapstick humor, this film sends an important message of what it means to be a family.My favorites parts are seeing the children's expression when they first meet Mrs. Doubtfire; Daniel playing soccer dressed as as Mrs. Doubtfire; and Daniel pushing away a would-be mugger dressed as Mrs. Doubtfire.Overall, it is a pretty good film for some laughs and family time.Grade B "},{"Title":"Loved it","Date":"17 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This comedy is so funny it can be watched over and over to get the same laughs each time, the scene were Mrs Doubtfire was caught urinating in the toilet like a man was hilarious and the part were someone tries to mug her in the street was so funny. I also found the part were he kept changing between himself and Mrs Doubtfire pretending it was his sister rather funny, and then the part were them two boys sore Daniel getting dressed as Mrs Doubtfire was hysterical. I got it on DVD as it was something you can watch over and over again. It is definitely a comedy movie for the whole family to experience and I recommend you all to see it as it is another one of the great comedies out there. "},{"Title":"Hilarious on many levels","Date":"16 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Not the least of which is the chance to see Robin Williams let loose with his marvelous impersonations. From cutting the cartoon voice and singing Rosinni, all the way to his improv playing with with the dinosaurs.You just know that the scene was totally improv on his part. Whenever I think of that scene, beginning with the 'Raptors rapt', and ending with 'but I'm coming as oil'. That always makes me think 'wow, that was a great line' If it was scripted, I'd be surprised. Sounds like it came from Robin's fertile imagination! Cannot imagine anyone trying to write a scene for him that he has to stick to. An inventive and comic genius if ever there was one!The rest of the movie is also inventive and funny. No many how many times I see it, I always enjoy it all over again. Largely thanks to Robin Williams.And OK, he may never win a lot of awards, but someday, he'll get his his just appreciation. "},{"Title":"Not as funny as I thought","Date":"12 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Daniel Hillard (Robin Williams) is an immature voice actor. He throws a wild party for his kids Lydia (Lisa Jakub), Chris (Matthew Lawrence), and Natalie (Mara Wilson). It's the last straw, and his wife Miranda (Sally Field) files for divorce. Daniel is given only one day a week with the kids, but he can get more time as the new housekeeper Mrs. Doubtfire.Robin Williams is throwing all of his multiple personalities into this performance. Sometimes his manic gyrations actually hit the comedy mark. But it's a tough subject to really laugh at. Director Christopher Columbus injects some heart to compensate for all the divorce talk. As a concept, this is over the top hilarious. But the comedy isn't all there. It is much more compelling as a heart warming divorced family drama than I expected. "},{"Title":"Hilarious!! Robin Williams at his best!","Date":"19 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I am not the biggest fan of Robin Williams, but I love these family kinds of movies that he makes! I have loved watching this movie since I was a kid. It has great comedy, and both Robin Williams and Sally Fields are excellent in their roles. ****SPOILERS AHEAD***** In San Francisco, a married couple have problems. The fun actor and comedian father (Robin Williams) has no sense of discipline when it comes to his three kids, and is not able to keep a job. His career-oriented wife (Sally Fields) is left bitter and upset since she has to continually pick up the pieces (literally) from what her childish husband does, and no longer sees anything comical about her husband's behaviors. After yet another episode of her husband's irresponsibility (in which she comes home to find a petting zoo in their yard and their house in shambles), she informs him that she wants a divorce. The movie then goes on to show the struggle that this father goes through in order to put his life in order while struggling to find and keep a job that he enjoys, while also trying to keep partial custody of his children. He finds this balance by using his acting ability, along with a disguise(with the help of his brother), to be hired by his ex-wife as the nanny of his own children under the guise of Mrs. Doubtfire, an older, British woman.The hilarity continues throughout the entire movie as Mrs. Doubtfire has to deal with the jealousy of his ex-wife's new love interest (played by Pierce Brosnan) and trying to reconnect with his children as both Mrs. Doubtfire and as their father, all while trying to maintain his disguise.This movie is very fun, though there is some language and scenarios that are not meant for young children. Overall, a very fun movie that is also heartwarming! "},{"Title":"Toot-toot-Fired","Date":"2 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I used to have a huge grudge against Mrs. Doubtfire. Yes. I did. And all because of a Mrs. Tootsie.Granted they're not entirely the same movie&#x85;Out of work straight actor, dresses as a woman to get a new career and to impress the girl he likes. Both are comedies, have heart, are both hilarious and touching and had to do with the lead actor working on television. Wait&#x85; Damn. They pretty much are the same movie.The reason I had a thing against Mrs. D is that I was so in love with the movie Tootsie &#x96; and still am, and more people forgot all about that movie in lieu of this one.But&#x85;after purchasing this on BluRay and rewatching for the (probably) 13th time, I really, REALLY enjoyed this feature. Perhaps one day we can all live in a world where we can appreciate both? Well, maybe just this one since &#x96; ah-HEM &#x96; Tootsie is yet to be available on BluRay. Great, now I am back to hating on this movie.Joke. And speaking of which, this movie, though extremely formulaic, is a riot. Thanks to the perfect timing and lines from Robin Williams. When he's wacky he's hilarious. When he had low humor, it's deep and still uproarious. And when he's serious, he shows a ton of heart. Secondary characters, Sally Fields, Pierce Brosnan, Polly Holliday and Harvey Fierstein also played their roles great and often funny. Even they kids played their roles fairly well.Man both loses his job and wife fairly quickly and must learn to deal with the time away from his kids, a new life including rent and job and the fact that the only way to see his kids is to dress as an English maid, a la the title character.Really, overall, the movie's extremely harmless and an enormous amount of fun and heart, but there was that nagging feeling I got about how, even in 1993, un-accepting everyone was, including the children, of a man dressing up as a woman in&#x85;&#x85;..SAN FRANCISCO?If you can suspend your disbelief for that, you'll have a great time. Well, at least, until Tootsie is finally available on BluRay. Tick-tock, tick-tock&#x85; "},{"Title":"Well written piece of combined slapstick and Williams classic improv","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Improv master that Robin Williams is,put him in a dress pretending to be a woman and you open up a lot of doors.His improv abilities alone make for an entertaining hour or more,but you put him in a dress and you also open up the ole slapstick door.Take a well written story and add it to all of that and you have a very decent comedy picture.Tender dramatic moments are also added in just the right places to make it even better.Man dressed a female comedy films are a dime a dozen,but this film is among the best executions of the idea,if not the best period.Great support given by Sally Field who has proved more than once that she can be funny in her own right. "},{"Title":"Hilarious comedy starring the brilliant Mr Robin Williams but a bit stupid in a way","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I haven't seen this movie since I was a child and let me tell ya it had to be one of the most hilarious movies of the 1990s. Robin Williams plays Daniel Hillard a voice over actor who got fired from his job and is set for a bitter divorce from his wife Miranda played by The Amazing Spiderman star Sally Field who has had it with him and she wants full custody of their children,so Daniel comes up with a great plan to see his kids more often by you guess it disguise himself as an old Scottish woman called Mrs Doubtfire thanks to his best friend who is a Special Effects Make Up Artist. The disguise is so good no one knows that its him behind the prosthetic mask that he wears along with the white wig and the body suit and frock. But problems arise when he finds out that his ex wife has met someone else who goes by the name Stu played by former James Bond star Pierce Brosnan. So what do I like and not like about this movie,well first what I liked about it was the acting and the humor which was brilliant,no matter what film Robin Williams is in he always makes me laugh,another thing I liked was the story because Robin's charcther was desperate to see his kids again and his wife was such a bitch to him he demanded to see them more. Also what I like about this film is the Special Make Up Effects that is done by Greg Gammon who also did the Special Make Up Effects for the 1994 film The Mask,I swear when Robin Williams was dressed up as that Scottish nanny I was shocked at it I was like saying to myself who plays that old lady that looks like Robin William's grandmother or whatever and then when he rips off the mask from his face I was like WHAT that's a dude in drag hilarious.And now to the bad I absolutely hated seeing the part where Robin Williams would switch from Daniel to Mrs Doubtfire every now and again and seeing him rip off the mask off his face,I got kinda disgusted cause that sorta creeps me out as its so real looking and you think he was ripping the skin off his face,but in saying that I really enjoyed this film and if you haven't seen it then check it out. "}{"Title":"Great Family Movie","Date":"29 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" It was my first movie that I ever watched with my dad. First English movie I guess. I was so little then. couldn't even understood everything. but there are some movies you can watch and still enjoy it. I watched it like hundred of times now. Still it doesn't get boring at all. I will never forget the memory of it. Specially the memory of watching this movie with my dad. Also it gives the children a lesson that no matter what happens, parents stays together or not, they will always loves us. Excellent family movie to watch. People can come closer seeing the movie. Its sad that people think that it isn't worth of rate ten. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and heartwarming","Date":"27 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Dear children of the world, Why hello! My name is Euphegenia Doubtfire, dears, and I am very happy to be here today and to tell you about my movie. It all starts with a man by the name of Daniel Hillard. He and his wife, Miranda, were blessed with three wonderful children, like all of you. But their parents didn't get along, dears, and they had to separate It was a very sad day for everyone. Daniel could not be without his children and soon after he was transformed into a housekeeper, me, Mrs. Doubtfire. I tried my best to be the most loving housekeeper in the whole city of San Francisco! In this way, Daniel got to see his children every day. I hope you watch this glorious film that is hilarious and heartwarming at the very same time, dears. It goes to show a fathers devotion to his children and also that divorce can be a painful thing. Sincerely, Mrs. Doubtfire "},{"Title":"brilliantly superb on every level and character","Date":"24 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a great film, and overlooked from the standpoint of being about a man's struggle to avoid living their rat race lifestyle that so many of them live in, while measuring up enough to get to see his kids! The acting is brilliantly superb on every level and character Robin Williams, of course, but also Sally Fields is the character of his career oriented wife, Pierce Bronsan as the character of the career guy who wants to take her away from her family. The kids are just darling also. This film is sweet natured, charming and warm as is Williams' portrayal of the portly Mrs. Doubtfire. When I very first saw this outside of the movie theatre and on DVD, I watched it three times straight, and saw something a little different about the struggles that contemporary modern men have to go through to balance their male macho and soft sensitive sides that is part of their natures. "},{"Title":"Very Enjoyable Movie For The Whole Family,","Date":"4 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs Doubtfire is a great movie with a heartwarming and hilarious story line,a great cast and some very funny scenes that will have the whole family laughing,mostly because Robin Williams is hilarious,and brilliant at impressions,and gives a terrific and believable performance as the pretend nanny Mrs Doubtfire.Robin Williams does an outstanding job as both of the characters he plays in this movie,it says in the trivia that he was given the right to improvise many of his scenes,and it definitely shows and is what makes it so funny.He also has some very emotional scenes that show that he is also such a great serious actor,particularly the scenes where he is giving out about how he wants to spend more time with his children,he is so dramatic and believable,Williams is certainly one of the best actors there is,his range is terrific.Mrs Doubtfire is laugh out loud and heartwarming from start to finish and I would recommend it to anyone looking for a good movie for the while family to enjoy. Daniel Hillard (Robin Williams) is recently divorced from Miranda (Sally Field),who wont allow him see his children,so he disguises as a nanny,Mrs Doubtfire,using his brothers impressive make up skills,in order to spend time with them while Mirandas working.Best Performance Robin Williams "},{"Title":"wonder by west film makers...","Date":"23 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" its boring initially but lately it catch us....very funny ,very natural,i wonder west film makers making such an family drama...did very well... robbin rocks in both roles...!! brosnan's loss..!! robins re gain...!!>>>when it comes to relationships-hate-love its almost same feeling al over world....worth watch and it has been made in Hindi Tamil Telugu by kamal hasaan. thats too too good.. ' go watch n have fun....10/8 "},{"Title":"A family movie for all to watch","Date":"6 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is one of my favourite movies of all time. It does not have any of my favourite actors in it but every time it comes on television, I watch it. I also own the movie as well. I think the relationship with Daniel and Miranda was played quite well. Being a divorced woman, I totally understood the situation the characters were going through. I also enjoyed the dynamics of the children aspect. You could see how much the kids loved their dad. Pierce Brosnan is simply too yummy in this movie. He is not only the best James Bond but the perfect eye candy in any movie. There were so many elements of humour in this movie that I appreciate. Of course, what could I expect from Robin Williams? He can switch his humour on and off. He made this movie for me. His ability to make me cry from just a look in his eyes, to laugh without saying a word, and to feel the hurt he was feeling by his body language.I recommend this movie to anyone. Not just people going through family issues. "},{"Title":"He's A Lady","Date":"20 September 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams(Popeye)and Sally Field(Eye For An Eye) are uniquely talented individuals;Here,they portray father and mother to Chris,Natalie and Lydia. Somehow,Daniel Hillard (Williams) is out of work and he gets hit with a hard blow.His wife Miranda (Field),is suddenly angry and fed up with his behavior and actions.On the birthday of Chris, she comes home early to find Daniel and the kids dancing and having a ruckus.Miranda furiously screams that she wants a Divorce.When Miranda is given custody of the children,Daniel does not take it too easily.With brother Jack (Fierstein),Daniel disguises himself as a homely maid.He reads the newspaper,to come up with the moniker Mrs. Doubtfire and suddenly joy and life springs throughout the home.Unfortunately,things do not go as planned.On the eve of Miranda's birthday,Daniel finds himself in a bind,between the dinner date and a job interview.The gig is up,when Daniel is clothed as Mrs Doubfire and saves choking Stu (Miranda's boyfriend played by suave actor Pierce Brosnan).At the end,Daniel repairs the relationship with Miranda and is allowed to see the three kids after school.This film is wonderful, and I say Bravo to Field,Williams and Brosnan on their outstanding performance! "},{"Title":"Mixed Feelings","Date":"28 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs. Doubtfire is one of those films I used to watch quite often on television growing up. I always enjoyed it as a kid.I'm 22 now, and watched this film again recently, and my feelings have changed slightly. It could be that I've seen a few Robin Williams movies, and he seems to repeat himself a bit too much, maybe not.The main problem I have with the film, is it doesn't really fit well into any category in terms of suitable age viewing. I said I watched this on TV quite a bit, where 1.) It was edited and 2.) my mother was never happy about.The movie is a great family film in a lot of ways. There are plenty of things kids would find pretty funny, has some good messages, etc. However, there's also a lot that really shouldn't be in a kid's movie. Language, sex jokes, etc. none of which are very subtle.If you've ever seen The Cat in the Hat film with Mike Myers, you know what I'm talking about. It's got some stuff that shouldn't have been in there. So Mrs. Doubfire falls in kind of an area that suits really 13 year olds, and that's it. It could have been a better film if they'd worked on that a bit. "},{"Title":"The best comedy. Ever","Date":"20 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Right from those opening musical moments of Peeegaro! A smile immediately transcends upon my face. I must've seen Mrs.Doubtfire at least 30 times in my lifetime (I'm 17 now) and it still manages to make me howl with laughter every time. That's what I call replay-value and durability. It does not get boring! The great thing about Mrs.Doubtfire is the fine balance between comedy and story. There's a great human story which is what makes the comedy work so tremendously well. The characters are fleshed out so that we're all rooting for Daniel Hillard and desperately hoping that he doesn't ever get found out. It's the story about the rise of a man, who only wants to see his children, but goes about it in a very extreme and hilarious way.The screenplay is absolute genius. It's one hilarious gaga after another and on top of that you've got Robin Williams looking like a 60 year old woman delivering the lines! You only have to look at him and burst into laughter (I do). Robin Williams is absolutely perfect in the role and the moment where he gives the hard-faced Mrs.Selner a preview of all his talented voices perfectly demonstrates why he's the best man for the role.There are countless classic, funny moments throughout Mrs.Doubtfire that makes it two hour running time go in a breeze. The finale is also a comedy tour-de-force with Daniel having to battle his two identities whilst getting very drunk. The introduction of Pierce Brosnon's character, Stu is also genius. It's hilarious to see Mrs.Doubtfire getting jealous of his, especially at the pool. I'm laughing now just thinking about it.Mrs.Doubtfire also has some incredible lines such as, Stu, more of a thick soup than a name and Robin Williams makes the preposterous idea somehow believable! If you haven't seen Mrs.Doubtfire then shame on you because your missing out on my favourite comedy ever! It's pure comic genius that will have you howling with laughter. I can guarantee that. Unless your a miserable git. "},{"Title":"One Of Robin's Best!","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams, Sally Field and Pierce Brosnan star in Chris Columbus' 1993 comedy based on the book. Daniel Hillard (Williams) is a comedic husband and father. He and his wife, Miranda (Field) start having problems and get divorced. Daniel loses custody of their 3 kids and decides to spend more time with them by pretending to be a 60-year old woman housekeeper, Euphegenia Doubtfire thanks to his make-up artist brother, Frank (Harvey Fierstein). Daniel fools Miranda, but the kids eventually find out his secret and he notices Miranda is seeing an old friend, Stuart Dunmire (Brosnan) who gets to know the kids. This is definitely one of Robin's best with a great cast, good score and terrific make-up effects. I recommend this. "}{"Title":"Funny but not for all ages","Date":"28 May 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" While I did enjoy most of this movie and enjoy Robin Williams' talents, the fact that this movie is labeled a Family Movie is a little disturbing to me. 1) as another reviewer had pointed out, deliberately putting pepper onto Stu's food, knowing full well he was allergic, wasn't funny. Food allergies can be deadly. 2) The use of God's name in vain that Daniel uses, especially in front on the youngest Hillard was totally out of line. How is that family friendly? Especially in another scene when she repeats that line to her mom is more than disturbing. Even if she was encouraged to use a slightly different word, how can they let a child even pretend to say it? Kids are impressionable, especially if they see another kid doing or saying something. It's amazing what movies are labeled for the family. But that aside, I did like watching this movie and even have it on tape, but I don't recommend it for young kids. If they had left out the bad language, food poisoning and sexual innuendo, then it would've been perfect for all ages. Sorry, Robin, but I knew it was you under that mask. Besides, Tootsie, the only other male that could be 100% convincing as a old woman would be Jim Varney's 'Auntie Nelda', who BTW only wore a wig, glasses and make-up but didn't have on a new 'face'. 'Mrs. Doubtfire' was a costume worn just to see Daniel's kids. 'Auntie Nelda' was a part of the 'Worrell' family. But in seeing 'Mrs. Doubtfire', I wondered if 'she' was inspired by 'Auntie Nelda' since Jim and Robin were friends. No disrespect to Robin-who I think is funny-but I think Jim Varney's 'Auntie Nelda' was funnier. And without the use of bad language and sexual content. "},{"Title":"Sometimes the perfect woman for the job... is a man","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" In order to see his kids more often single parent Daniel Hillard with the help of a few other people create a new identity Mrs Doubtfire and applies for his ex-wife's housekeeper job and to ensure he gets it he changes the original ad in it... well just the number then the only one applying is Robin Williams and his 30 voices all of them I don't think anyone would say Yes you've got the job for that... unless the person is crazy, well the applications Robin Williams made with the voices in my opinion is the best part and also the fights between Mrs Doubtfire and Pieerce Brosnan's character was funny.My Overall Opinion Oh My God - near ending of this movie "},{"Title":"Cosy and funny","Date":"2 October 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" There aren't many good cross-dress comedies out there, that' why when a movie like this comes along, you have to appreciate it, despite whatever level of doubt may apply. Mrs Doubtfire is not the best comedy, and most certainly not the best movie, but it is a very heart-warming story about a father who is crazy about his kids, and when he gets a divorce he is willing to do anything to spend the time he needs with his children, including dressing up as a 60 year old woman.There are two major things that make this film an exception. There's Robin William's excellent display of his renowned voicing acting, and the heart-melting theme of the warmth and importance of family. There are so many occasions in this film where in one scene you want to break out in tears, and then in another, crack yourself with laughter. Mrs Doubtfire is one of those movies that you can cuddle up with at any time. The equal complexion of heart and comedy is a wonderfully touching and hilarious experience. It's something for the whole family, definitely worth the watch. "},{"Title":"If there is love, dear, those are the ties that bind, and you'll have a family in your heart forever.","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I recently re-visited this movie at home...I'm not necessarily a fan of either of these cross-dressing films, but if I just had to watch one, I'd choose Mrs. Doubtfire. The movie sports a few genuinely funny moments, Robin Williams being Robin Williams in one of his better roles (and at his peak), and the movie represents your typical 1990s comedy flair perfectly, blending laughs with timely messages about the realities of family life, not necessarily winding up the way the audience expects (Doubtfire's feel good ending not really so happy as we might expect, but then again, that's life).Daniel Hillard is a talented voice over actor with a moral compass and a loving father to his three children. When he throws a birthday party for his son without his wife Miranda's knowledge, she takes it as the last straw and divorces her husband. At the custody hearing, the judge only allows Daniel to see his three children every Saturday, definitely not enough time in Daniel's mind. When he discovers that his wife is looking for a housekeeper, he employs the help of his brother Frank to transform him through body suits, a wig, false teeth, make-up, and glasses into an aging English housekeeper dubbed Mrs. Doubtfire. His uncanny acting skills put to the ultimate test, Daniel manages to get the job and fool his wife and children completely. He must deal with his court liaison, find a job, learn to accept (or choose to harass) his ex-wife's new boyfriend Stu and learn how to keep house, all the while maintaining his secret identity.It had been so long since I last watched Mrs. Doubtfire that I had forgotten the film was directed by Chris Columbus. As soon as the movie started, I could feel the Columbus touch even before his credit popped up on the screen. The only thing that seems to be missing is Macaulay Culkin as one of the kids. The movie screams 1990s through and through, though it is not my favorite comedy of the decade (not even my favorite Columbus movie of the decade, that title going to Only the Lonely). Still, Mrs. Doubtfire has its moments, mainly any time the Doubtfire character appears on-screen. Williams has definitely nailed the performance (and his make-up artists received a well-deserved Oscar for their work), his character rightfully a show-stopper. Despite the fact that almost every scene seemed important and added to the story, after the first hour or so I had to resist the urge to fast forward to the next scene featuring Mrs. Doubtfire. Still, Mrs. Doubtfire is charming enough to warrant a watch, and even if parts seem dull, it moves fast enough to be entertaining. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams looks good wearing women dress !","Date":"18 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams is a lucky chap, he's one of the few guys who can also look good in a woman's dress ! Robin Williams plays a husband who went through a divorce, and because he does not have his own place to stay and a permanent job, he didn't win child custody, and he was only allowed a once-a-week visitation to see his kids.So he comes up with a brilliant solution, why don't he, dresses up as a woman, and work as a nanny for his own kids? Plus, he can make different voices, so sounding like a British nanny wouldn't be a problem ! Without wanting to give any spoilers away, I do not intent to further elaborate on the storyline.Suffice to say, that this is a great film, with humors and warmhearted moments. It's a good watch for the whole family, because it contains no vulgarities, no profanities and it does instill good morals.Robin Williams is a great actor, and he tops his performance in this film ! And for Pierce Brosnan, it's always nice to see him in a different role than his usual James Bond acting.A good watch, recommended . "},{"Title":"Great Comedy!","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs. Doubtfire was the motion picture that finally exposed and released Robin Williams vocal and comedic talent that we all know and love. Mrs. Doubtfire is surely one of my favourite comedies, there is an excellent performance from Robin Williams, he had to dress up as a women - so it was always a challenge, but he made it look easy. He had to play two very different, completely opposite characters in the one movie and he did that to perfection as well, his performance was great and provided most of the laughter to the film. The supporting crew went along with it nicely, and we also get to see a feel-good ending that makes Mrs. Doubtfire one hell of a movie. A true American comedy classic. "},{"Title":"Good Robin Williams in reasonable comedy-drama","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" 'Mrs. Doubtfire' is a reasonable comedy-drama with Robin Williams disguising himself as an elderly female housekeeper so that he can spend some time with his children who are currently living with estranged wife Sally Field. The film belongs completely to Williams who is very believable as an old lady. He is quite restrained in the film and we rarely see his manic persona. There are some laughs but the film also has many dramatic moments. The climax (MINOR SPOILERS) is rather poignant. The children act well and Pierce Brosnan has a brief role. The film is good family entertainment.Overall 7/10 "},{"Title":"MRs. Doubtfire","Date":"11 December 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" The song Dude (look like a lady) will never be forgotten. This song is played in a memorable movie with stars, Robin Williams and Sally Fields, winning an Oscar along with a Golden Globe. Robin Williams plays one of his best roles as Mrs. Doubtfire, even though this movie was made in 1993 it is still a sensational hit today. Filled with comedy and still showing real life by telling the truth of how bad parents only get to see their kids when someone else is watching, and only for a limited of time, this movie was truly made before its time! Robin Williams acting as Daniel Hillard is in a testing relationship and becomes a divorced father who is at stake of only being able to see his kids for a limited time on certain days. Williams then turns in to Mrs. Doubtfire, a cross-dressing old English nanny, in an attempt to see his children and to be with them everyday. This clever plan turns in to a tremendous disaster and Daniel may never see his children again. The cameras are brilliantly used by zooming in on peoples faces at the right moment and making the audience feel as if they are in the movie. One example is when Mrs. Hillard yells it's over in one of the fights with her husband. Daniel says it can not be over because they love each other. After that point the camera zooms in slowly on Mrs. Hillard's face to show that she is not even sure that she loves her husband anymore. Although throughout the whole movie eye-level camera action was used. This makes you feel like you are actually involved in the movie and at times like that character was talking to you. Increasing the emotion that you feel for the characters. During the court room scene, going over the divorce, a rear lighting was used, which may have been indicating that Daniel is truly not that bad of a father. The music also adds to the effect that Mrs. Doubtfire is actually a man. Including the songs of Dude (Looks Like a Lady) and Walk like a Man which will make you want to get up and dance.Characters in this movie do not only consist of humans. The body suit and mask that are worn by Daniel become a person of its own, a beloved English nanny who any person would love to have help around the house. Robin Williams does a great job making the mask come to life working it from every direction possible from walking like a women to giving womanly advice. Anyone who would skip the scene of the making of the mask and going directly to when the kids are introduced to their new nanny would think that Mrs. Doubtfire is a first class, life saving nanny.This movie is definitely one you could watch over and over again and not get sick of it, so show a smile, have a few laughs and shed some tears. For Mrs. Doubtfire (1993) is one that will settle in your heart after you have only watched it once. It has just enough comedy in the right ways. As well as the serious side of showing how a divorced father holds on to the only thing in life that matters to him, which are his children. So if your ever looking for a good movie to watch, Mrs. Doubtfire (1993) is a great one to pick up! I give this movie a rating of four stars out of five meaning this movie is fantastic, but not jaw dropping. "},{"Title":"Movie From A Critical Point of View","Date":"16 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Now there are some serious fans of Robin Williams that will give some biased answers but I will look at the good and the bad both. First this film was not to seem extremely realistic but funny with good morales being taught. The plot is about divorce and how children cope through an event. Now as a film for entertainment it is very good because of the comedic side (that's if you like comedy). As a film just to waste time on and do nothing it's not the film for you because there is lots of morale taught here and role modeling. As a film to help children I would say it is very good for Child psychology because Divorce for children is very difficult for them to understand and this film is good role modeling about the feelings children have. Let's look at the Pro's and Con's Pro's (Goods) 1. It is a movie with lots of good morales taught. 2. Is movie that raises hope for children 3. Comedy is done very well with much satire on the old idea of cross dressing. 4. The Actors are very good and experienced so their skill is brought into the film Con's (Bad) 1. There are a few slip ups on the camera but if you haven't watched it time and time again you won't notice it. 2. Somewhat demonizes the female or single mother. But this depends on point of view. Single mothers are just as good as single fathers Now this depends on your own personal point of view. Overall if you want a good comedy with some emotions and morals thrown in then this is a very fulfilling movie. If you want only comedy and no meaning and no lessons to be learned then this may not satisfy you. Personally this is a very good comedy and would be considered a family movie. I give it 5 stars but again this depends on what you want. "},{"Title":"Funny movie","Date":"12 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams dressing up as a woman and playing nanny for his kids is the perfect idea to make a very funny comedy. Williams plays Mrs. Doubtfire (wearing an Oscar-winning makeup job, one of many roles before Good Will Hunting that could have won him an Oscar). Williams' smooth comic delivery and brilliant portrayal of a 60-year-old woman is hysterical here, making a very enjoyable film. This is similar to Tootsie, with some scenes, such as Williams putting on his female disguise, that look like they came right out of that film. This movie, however, does not have quite the same laugh-a-minute feel that Tootsie had, for several reasons. First, though it is very funny, this movie has the heavy topic of divorce looming over it, with the parents (Williams and Sally Field) arguing in just about every scene together. Also, one disappointing thing about the movie is the fact that it had the perfect plot and potential of being a great family film. However, the sexual humor, profanity, and the PG-13 rating would make this inappropriate for a number of family audiences. Nevertheless, even with its flaws, it is a very funny film, particularly the scenes with Williams changing back and forth to himself and Mrs. Doubtfire and the restaurant scene toward the end. Worthwhile for just about any lover of good comedy. By the way, some TV stations edit this film to remove the profanity and make it more suitable for families, if you think your family would be interested.*** out of **** "}{"Title":"Funny, but sometimes overly sentimental. And wrong accent Robin...","Date":"29 August 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I wanted to see Mrs Doubtfire after seeing the hilarious call of nature clip on a list of 100 Greatest Family Movies. Nothing in the movie quite lived up to that scene but there are a fair amount of scenes that will raise a laugh. However I can't give this top marks because the attmepts to be moving often made me wince in embarrassment. The biggest gripe though is that Mrs Doubtfire claims to be from England yet speaks with a Scottish accent. It would be similar if an American nanny came to England and claimed to be from New York yet spoke with a Texas accent. Even a Brit would know the difference. Are Americans really unable to differentiate such different accents? Whether this is an oversight or intended for comedic effect isn't too clear. As a movie with a moral or message I can appreciate that it may ty, but often fails. As a comedy though I give it a casual thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Williams is brilliant","Date":"4 July 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams (Good morning, Vietnam) stars as Daniel Hillard, a man who loves his kids and a man getting divorced. Now the only way he can see his kids regularly is if he pretends to be a qualified nanny.15 years on from its release, it's still a great watch, with fun characters and a bizarre yet extraordinary story about a lovable man who will literally do anything to see his kids.One thing that I have noticed on watching this film many times over the last decade, is that the humour is never lost, particularly not on Williams part. His acting in timing and tones of voices are exquisite and precise, one of only a few comedy Oscar winning actors who can do such a thing. And though the writing and sheer idea of the plot is brilliant, a sensational lead was required to do justice and make the film one of the best family flicks ever created.This 1993 Oscar winning comedy drama fills the genre brilliantly, and is a tremendous sit back and enjoyable family film with something for everyone. The children are likable, though the acting is off key.Sally Field (Forrest Gump) and Pierce Brosnan (Goldeneye) have their moments in a pretty conventional love story, though with a few good twists and Mrs Doubtfire the bit in-between.The direction and lighting are good, as are the settings. But it's the dialogue and the sheer idea of the film that makes it great. There were rumours last year there was to be a sequel, or a spin off. I personally hope there is nothing added, as this felt so much like a one off and the classics should never be meddled with. "},{"Title":"Mrs. Doubtfire One of Mr. Williams's Best","Date":"9 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" When Robin Williams is that much of an actor, he gave us all many good deeds including doing the voice of the Genie in the Disney cartoon Aladdin and such. Recently, he was playing the lead in the movie Mrs. Doubtfire, which was released in 1993. You see, Mrs. Doubtfire is about an actor who lived in San Francisco, California, and can disguise himself as a female nanny named Mrs. Doubtfire throughout the film.The movie opens with a four minute cartoon directed by Chuck Jones (of the Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies cartoons, and not to mention How the Grinch Stole Christmas!) called Pudgy Parakeet featuring the Chuck Jones versions of the Looney Tunes characters Sylvester, Tweety, and Granny known as Grunge the Cat, Pudgy the Parakeet, and an old lady doing the knitting, all voiced by Robin Williams.Somewhere in the movie, William's character goes to a TV Studio, where one of the sets featuring Prehistoric Life, and at that, he plays with some toy dinosaurs. Toward the end of the movie, William's character as Mrs. Doubtfire talks to a monkey Muppet named Kovacs (voiced by Chris Pray).The catchy songs they used in this movie soundtrack are interesting, including the song Stormy Monday Blues performed by B. B. King (of Yakety Yak, Take it Back) and Albert Collins.Overall, I gave this movie two, or 2, thumbs up to this movie, and a hats off to Mr. Williams himself. Let's hear it for Robin Williams! "},{"Title":"Columbus hits it but good","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I had heard from several people that this was worth watching, so when it aired on television, I did that very thing. Williams is marvelous, the references, the voices, the whole thing, and he delivers on the pathos, as well. The plot is great, and develops nicely. There are pretty predictable parts, but this did surprise me at times. The humor is very good, some childish material, and a part or two are gross-out comedy, but the majority is hilarious, especially if you're into Robin(the actor, not the bird nor the mercilessly slain, if he was hardly the only thing, character of the two Schumacher Batman movies). There are several jokes that are sexual(one certain part seems to have about every alluding phrase that they could get away with in a family film in it), and not all kids should watch it. The drama of this is well-done as well, and the ending was a heckuva lot better than it could have been(in particular with Chris in the director's chair). The music is magnificent. The acting varies, the young 'uns aren't all credible, but that only serves a minor distraction. I recommend this to any fan of the Robin Williams and/or Chris Columbus. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Robin Williams is Great!","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" A funny film with substance. There is a serious message here that is not lost in the humour. My ex-wife did everything that she could to make sure I did not see this film when it was first released but she failed. She was a carbon copy of the Sally Field character in the film. Suffice to say that this is a good film with great lines and delivery by Williams. The three kids are perfect and Pierce Brosnan is also well cast as the suave good looking stud that gets Sally Field all discombobulated and disconcerted at every turn. A good soundtrack by Aerosmith makes for an interesting twist. A savvy message that relates to the truth of divorce in the legal system regarding fathers. Well done! "},{"Title":"A touching comedy full of laughs and fun for the whole family to enjoy","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" One of the best family comedies of all time,Robin Williams delivers humour that can make the whole family laugh or even cry.Robin Williams plays a struggling actor by the name of Daniel Hillard who is having marriage problems with his wife,Miranda(Sally Field).After their problems get worse,Daniel can only see his children once a week.Enter Mrs.Euphegenia Doubtfire who Daniel dresses up as in order to see his children.Pierce Brosnan also co-stars as Stuart Stu Dunmeyer who is a co-worker and a good friend to Miranda.I would have to say that this is one of Robin Williams' best movie's,if not,his best.He delivers comedy in this film like no one else could have done by using his trademark off the wall mimicry as well as dressing up in drag.Great job to the cast of this film,particularly Robin Williams.He had also won a Golden Globe-Best Actor-Musical or Comedy and the film won Best Motion Picture-Musical or Comedy at the Golden Globes.Well done! "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"5 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams brings a great spirit to this film that really is what makes it such an excellent movie. The film is also quite emotional and has a great soundtrack composed of music by Howard Shore. Sally Field and others also play a huge part in the great film that really shows how far comedy can go. Even though I heard there was to be a sequel to the movie I am glad there wasn't because I feel that it could have killed a real classic that will be remembered. I think this was truly one of Robin's most famous and greatest performances and I am so glad that it turned out to be such a success. With such great writers and directors you can't go wrong and I really think that Mrs Doubtfire was the Hit of 1993. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs. Doubtfire is an incredibly wonderful movie that I love so much! It's the type of movie that touches your heart and makes you laugh good. My main objective to discuss here was that Robin Williams had done such an amazing job; every time I watch this movie and get to the part where Mrs. Doubtfire enters through the door of Miranda Hillard, I always forget that it is Miranda's husband Daniel Hillard underneath that disguise but maybe in fact a real Mrs. Doubtfire. I always look at the old woman as though if she were a real Mrs. Doubtfire, because the acting is just so convincing and so real. I love the old lady, Mrs. Doubtfire! It only shows how desperate a father can be to see his own children, and most importantly shows that he loves his children that much and cannot live without them. I thought it was incredibly sweet in the end for Miranda to talk to the judge and have all those legal conditions for Daniel taken off his shoulders in order to see his children. I love Daniel and Mrs. Doubtfire's characters, because those are the kind of great people children need for emotional and inspirational guidance. Mrs. Doubtfire brought out the best in that whole family when really it was Daniel Hillard who had done that! That was to prove that Daniel was way much a better man and a better husband and father, and he had greatly proved that to Miranda and his three children. I also wanted to add that when Daniel calls his ex-wife, using all those fake voices pretending to be those fake, non-existent, make-believe people, his voices all sounded too very much the same, and Miranda could have easily recognized that all those voices sounded too similar and that in fact it could have really been her ex-husband. Also, Miranda's reaction frightened me a bit when she found out that it was her ex-husband pretending to be Mrs. Doubtfire the whole time. This movie is emotional, funny, outstanding, and an excellent job well done! Robin Williams has great, funny talent! "},{"Title":"Papa's got a Brand New Handbag.","Date":"20 August 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I know it sounds strange to say about a male stand-up comic disguised as a middle-aged woman, but this part plays better when it's more restrained. Underneath all the trademark Williams mimicry there's a rather touching story of a family finding some stability again, but this is often on the verge of being lost amidst segments that feel like hollow promotional stunts. Personally, if I never have to see that clip of Robin Williams dancing to Aerosmith with a vacuum cleaner again, then I won't be sorry. Ignore the advertising, though, and there's still enough worthwhile moments in the film to send most people away happy.Williams is convincing and poignant when he's being low-key. Both Field and Brosnan help to keep proceedings moderately realistic, too. Some of the most genuine laughs in fact come from Daniel as the ex-husband struggling to conceal his dislike of the new fella in the house.If you can cope with a lack of subtlety every now and again, then this is an excellent film to enjoy with the whole family. "},{"Title":"setup is a bit unusual but it delivers in more ways than one","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Sweet, family-oriented, broadly funny comedy about a struggling actor and talented vocalist whose once idyllic marriage ends in a bitter divorce. The one thing he can't live without are his three children, but when the court awards custody to his ex-wife he resorts to drastic measures by dressing up as a sixty-year-old British nanny so he can spend time with them. Sounds far-fetched, but at its heart is a touching story about love, family, and forgiveness, with an engaging performance from Williams, believable characters, big time laughs, and first-rate make-up effects that are utterly convincing. The supporting cast must have had a difficult time acting alongside Williams who's an absolute riot. *** "}{"Title":"Could you make me a woman?","Date":"26 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs. Doubtfire is a funny, touching movie starring one of the most popular comedians in the world today Robin Williams. His character, voice actor Daniel Hillard, is devastated to learn that his wife Miranda (Sally Field), a professional interior designer, wants a divorce. He becomes even more devastated when Miranda obtains full custody of their three children, with Daniel only receiving visitation rights on Saturdays. But Daniel is such a loving and devoted father that one day a week is not enough for him to spend quality time with his children. When he learns that Miranda is seeking the services of a housekeeper, he decides he must make his move, no matter how unorthodox.My favorite highlights from Mrs. Doubtfire include the following (DO NOT read any further if you have not yet seen this movie). The wild birthday party scene near the beginning is quite fun to watch. Daniel performs a wide range of vocal imitations in order to try to impress his court liaison Mrs. Sellner (Anne Haney). On his first day posing as British nanny Euphegenia Doubtfire, Daniel's rubber body suit catches fire when he realizes he is not as good of a cook as he thought. Daniel goes about his daily routine of posing as Mrs. Doubtfire to the montage accompaniment of Aerosmith's Dude (Looks Like a Lady); Mrs. Doubtfire becomes rather unladylike when fighting a thug (played by Robin Williams' costume supervisor Jim Cullen) who tries to snatch her purse. At the posh restaurant, Daniel nervously goes back and forth between being himself and being Mrs. Doubtfire, which is how he ultimately earns his gig of hosting a TV show for children. And finally, Miranda is nearly brought to tears as she watches the closing of one of Mrs. Doubtfire's shows, during which Mrs. Doubtfire delivers a deeply moving monologue about children who are forced to live with broken families.Mrs. Doubtfire is a fine comedy with so much charm. Nobody but Robin Williams could have played the role of Daniel Hillard, a terrifically funny guy and devoted father willing to do anything in order to spend more time with his children; boasting an English accent and expertly crafted makeup, Daniel becomes quite convincing as Mrs. Doubtfire. Sally Field was a wonderful choice for the role of Miranda, a very loving mother and expert interior designer. Not to mention Pierce Brosnan as Miranda's new beau Stuart Dunmire, Harvey Fierstein as Daniel's homosexual brother Frank (who supplies Daniel with his Mrs. Doubtfire makeup and wardrobe), and Lisa Jakub, Matthew Lawrence, & Mara Wilson as the three Hillard children. To top it off, the cartoon animation at the beginning of this film (for which Daniel provides the voices) was supervised by Chuck Jones, one of the most well-known animation directors for the classic Warner Bros. cartoons. "},{"Title":"Brilliant performance by Williams makes this a must","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams is Mrs. Doubtfire, a father and voice-over specialist who, in drag, becomes a nanny to his own children because he's so desperate to be with them after he and his wife divorce.The premise is very funny - we saw it before 11 years earlier in Tootsie, and we saw it 20+ years before that in Some Like It Hot. There's something hilarious about seeing men in drag, and Hollywood certainly has had some gifted men in a dress and heels. This time it's Robin Williams' turn, and he's fantastic. Sporting a high-pitched British-Irish accent, a wig, body suit, and a latex face made for him by his gay brother (Harvey Fierstein), Danny, as Mrs. Doubtfire, applies for a job as his kids' nanny. As the treasure Mrs. Doubtfire, Danny accomplishes the one thing he couldn't while he was married - his wife's friendship. He becomes so much more than a nanny. He's a confidant to his wife Miranda (Sally Field) and when she starts dating an old beau (Pierce Brosnan), Mrs. D tries to thwart the relationship. When Miranda holds up two cocktail dresses and asks Mrs. D's advice about which dress to wear on her date, Mrs. Doubtfire replies, straight-faced Neither. Both of them scream harlot. As usual with Williams, the one-liners come fast and his delivery is perfect.Sally Field is always excellent, as is the rest of the cast, but it's Williams' show. He's so much more than funny - he's warm, he's sad, he gives a perfect picture of an at-loose-ends divorced man who suddenly has no house, no wife, and children he sees once a week. The script gives him ample opportunities to do quick gender changes, and there are some real laugh out loud moments, particularly the scene in the restaurant toward the end.This is a wonderful and touching movie. If you try to ground it in reality, you'll be disappointed not only in this, but in many comedies. To me, Mrs. Doubtfire looked like a fat, bewigged Robin Williams. In real life, Miranda would have been suspicious that it was Danny making all those ridiculous phone calls to apply for the job of nanny - she knows he's a voice specialist. Let this film be what it is and love it. You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Don't doubt it.","Date":"7 February 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Daniel gets a divorce from his wife and his no longer able to spend time that he wants with his kids. So he finds out that his wife is going to hire a nanny and he dresses up as an old woman just so he can spend time with them. He gets into all sorts of messes and it's pretty funny. It's rather touching too how far he goes just to spend time with the kids that he loves.I liked when he was staring at that super model but he forgot that he was dressed as a woman! He was checking her out and she was wondering what on earth was wrong with that woman.It's a funny family movie so watch out for flying fruit! "},{"Title":"Simply hilarious!","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" A true comedy classic, Mrs. Dooubtfire has never failed to raise a smile! Robin Williams is simply a legend, and provides many laughs and gaffes, but also showing his serious and emotional style. The storyline is very unlikely, but it's pulled off with extreme poise and conviction, and in a way can make us think of the consequences of a marriage in crisis, especially when children are involved.The young child actors are a pleasure to watch, and all three have proved successful in other movies and TV dramas. You can certainly see why when viewing Mrs. Doubtfire, while Sally Field and Pierce Brosnan also put in credible performances.An emotional ending left me a little disappointed, where you wish that they were all a happy family once again. However, Mrs. Doubtfire will definitely make you smile and make you laugh non-stop! A great comedy film! "},{"Title":"Arguably, Robin Williams is the funniest actor on the planet","Date":"11 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams is relentlessly funny, unbelievably diverse and his range of voices is countless.Mrs. Doubtfire is a delightful comedy of a father that goes to any lengths to get in touch with his children. Even if it means to dress as an old woman. Robin Williams displays his comedic talents in what is one of the greatest family movies of all time.Oh, hello my dears...Williams on top form. You 'll laugh till it hurts A very funny film**** Robin Williams' vocal skills are unbelievable7.2/10 "},{"Title":"Funny and touching.","Date":"23 July 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I had always know why I saw this last Friday on the cable after I came back from my classes. I had heard of the movie before and heard it's funny.It's actually more than that, as I was watching.What would a divorced man do to get his wife and family back? It seems more ways than one. Daniel (Robin Williams) does voice-overs for cartoon and he quit when he and the production team cannot agree on the direction the cartoon is going. His wife Miranda (Sally Field) is a successful career woman, but always very strict in her three children's upbringing. When Miranda returned from work and found out that how the house had turned into given her husband had threw a birthday party for their son, she knew it's the last straw.Soon Daniel found out that his estranged wife needed a housekeeper to take care of their children and Daniel decided to do a female voice over the telephone, trying his luck and saying 'she' is Mrs. Doubtfire. It worked and he asked his friends to help him to look like a real woman. But the wife never realised it though at first.One can expect how the wife felt she realised she was being taken in all along that the female housekeeper...is actually a he. And her estranged husband even. Also at that time, Daniel is on the verge of hosting a children's TV show and when one day she saw her estranged husband (dressing up as Mrs Doubtfire) on the television, she knew what she had to do.Humour aside, it is also touching as well. "},{"Title":"Robin's Most User Friendly Comedy....","Date":"13 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams is a gutsy daring performer who likes to take chances as a performer but every now and then he goes strictly main stream, trying to reach the broadest audience base possible and he accomplished this in spades with MRS. DOUBTFIRE, a delightful Disneyesque comedy about an out of work actor who disguises himself as a woman (thanks to an Oscar winning makeup job) in order to be hired by his ex-wife (Sally Field)to be housekeeper to his kids. Williams delivers one of his most on-target comedic performances,much of which I'm sure was improvised. The scene with Anne Haney in the employment office where he does all the different voices I'm sure came right off the top of Robin's head as did his private kids' show in the empty TV studio with the toy dinosaurs, but even on script, Williams makes this work and has you routing for Daniel to be reunited with his children (and how adorable was Mara Wilson in this movie?). Sally Field plays the thankless role of the somewhat callous ex with sincerity and Pierce Brosnan is charming as the new man in Field's life. Harvey Fierstein also provides chuckles as Daniel's gay brother who provides him with Mrs. Doubtfire's look. A charming and funny comedy the whole family can enjoy together. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"12 July 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams does it again in this here movie. Hilarious though it sounds it also shows us what some parents have to go through with divorce. The problems with finding a place to live and how to cope without having your children near you. That is all that Daniel Hilard has to go through. But he decides to put a twist to it by making himself Mrs. DoubtFire. A old timely 60 year old woman. I recommend this for anyone. There's only a few minor language. Nothing that can't be censored. So open your home to Robin Williams and this here classic film. I'd also recommend Good Morning Vietnam, Clubber, Hook and a lot of others. Almost every movie he's in is a classic. "},{"Title":"Divorce need not end mutual parenthood","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" With a strong will to suspend our disbelief, we can get past Robin Williams not fooling ANYBODY when he does granny drag to get hired as housekeeper by his unsuspecting ex-wife. This is the only way he gets to spend some time with his children. There are many funny moments in this movie, but just as many times where we get to think about what divorce means to all those involved.In Mrs. Doubtfires words ...sometimes mommies and daddies still love each other, but they just can't live together anymore. It's OK to have divorced parents; still better than to live with married parents who can't get along. My favorite scene is the walk-by fruiting of the Pierce Brosnan character. Sally Field is lovable as always as the mom who can't take another day of her husband's childish antics. A family pleaser, and an excellent platform addressing an important issue. "},{"Title":"brilliant family movie and comedy","Date":"11 March 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" probably the best family movie ever.Robin Williams played an excellent Mrs Doubtfire and Daniel Hillard, especially at the bridges restaurant. It is both sad and touching at times. Can be plenty funny when 'she' burns herself and when the kids find out.Though their father Daniel is never serious, i think there are precious few fathers in this world who love their kids more than he does. The film is set in San Francisco (an awesome place)and all the characters played their roles well.The 'little speech' Mrs Doubtfire gave at the end should be a lesson to all families. I've watched this movie dozens of times and i have never gotten tired of it.top notch family film "}{"Title":"A hilarious and relevant film at the same time","Date":"21 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams is one of the funniest comedians of all time, and Mrs. Doubtfire is no exception. Williams is able to be funny and serious without going overboard. Sally Field and his co-stars carry the film quite well in their own unique way also, which is why I believe so many people enjoy it.Daniel Hillard (Williams) is a loving and devoted father but is always moving between acting jobs. One irresponsible incident proves one too many for wife Miranda (Field), and she files for divorce. She wins sole custody of the children Lydia, Chris, and Natalie. But Daniel is given visitation rights only on Saturdays. Then, Miranda reveals she is placing a newspaper ad for a housekeeper. In order to have a chance for the job, Daniel must transform himself into Mrs. Doubtfire, a British nanny, and don a wig, glasses, lots of makeup, padding, high heels, and a British accent. Mirands hires Doubtfire on the spot, and the kids grow to love her. But how long will it be before the cat gets out of the bag? Also, how will Miranda's relationship with Stu (Pierce Brosnan), her new beau, progress? You have to see it to believe it. I thought it was funny when it came out back in 1993, and I still do! This is a great film with a message about the pains of divorce, and working through it to become better people and parents. A reminder that no one is perfect, but that love somehow prevails! "},{"Title":"liked it","Date":"26 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I have divorced parents, this movie was the first I saw where the parents didn't get back together. It really helped me cope with my parents divorce.When I was growing up, I saw so many movies like the Parent Trap, where the parents got back together and the whole family lived happily ever after. This isn't real life. Kids need to see a movie where the parents stay apart, but things do turn out OK. You can be happy even though your parents divorce. I needed this movie and it really helped me cope with a hard time. I loved Robin Williams, he was able to approach a hard topic with a light hand and make us laugh, but still keep it serious. "},{"Title":"Unique Comedy Movie","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" You know, we've seen it all before. Man meets woman, man and woman marry, man and woman have three cutesy kids, man and woman divorce, man dresses up as woman to be with his kids... Oops, hang on a minute.Daniel Hillard (Robin Williams) is an actor, the type who perpetually seems to be losing one gig then searching for another - not least of all as he has a certain tendency to be difficult, deciding to rewrite scripts to suit his own beliefs. He's married to Miranda (Sally Field), pretty much his antithesis as the smart-dressed business-headed interior designer. They have three kids ranging from five to thirteen, and a pretty home in San Francisco (well it must be, as it has hills and cable cars).But all is not peachy. On returning home from work early to find a veritable menagerie of farm animals and children running roughshod over her house courtesy of a Daniel-driven birthday party for their son, an argument ensues until Miranda has finally had enough, and citing the usual clichs (we've grown apart, we have nothing in common) asks Daniel for the dreaded 'D' word. Bye bye fourteen years of marriage.The three kids absolutely dote on their father, as he does on them, so his departure (in his wood-paneled station wagon, the type of car that only people in movies seem to drive) is devastating. Daniel seeks refuge with his brother, Frank, a stereotypical gay guy (played with great gusto by Harvey Fierstein, who tends to get a lot of these roles) and his partner Jack (he's Aunt Jack to the kids, but seems to have foregone the bright blue dress and boxing glove here). It's here that we discover that the couple are movie makeup artists - hmm, now this could be a handy plot device...Custody proceedings ensue, and Daniel is given 90 days to land a secure job and set up a decent home. If he manages to do so then joint custody will be granted, if not it's the one-day a week shuffle for he and the kids. He's appointed a po-faced court liaison who he completely fails to charm, finds a dump of a flat and lands a job in television - boxing and shipping film cans. Hardly auspicious, but it's a start.As Miranda starts a 'flirtin' with an old acquaintance, Stu (Pierce Brosnan), and Daniel sees the slick Englishman finagling his way into his kids' affections, he becomes increasingly desperate, and when hearing that Miranda is employing a housekeeper the old light bulb above his head tinks to life - hmm, now why can't he do it? Well, let's see. You're a forty something, remarkably craggy and hirsute man whose absence from the house is the reason for the job coming up in the first place. The odds aren't too good, but with a dowdy skirt, a generous amount of padding and a lot of help from your brother and his skills, who knows? And so Mrs Doubtfire is 'born' - a sixty-five year old nanny with an accent that veers all over the place between English and Scottish, and a face that could sink a thousand ships. Even with a head covered in prosthetics and three feet of makeup 'she' is definitely a sight.Overall 7.5/10 "},{"Title":"A funny, genial, delightful comedic hit","Date":"17 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Mrs. Doubtfire is one of the most intelligent, eloquent and sincerely funny pieces of entertainment I have ever seen, succeeding on multiple levels with many delights which appeal to many audiences. So it is hardly a wonder this good-hearted comedy became one of the biggest and greatest comedic hits of all time. First of all, Robin Williams is ingeniously clever and right on the mark in his role as a desperate father legally estranged from his children posing as a domestic nanny. His voice articulation is brilliant one would never perceive he is anything BUT an old, genial, eloquent Englishwoman, and nobody would think to question, behind the infallible makeup, that this woman is actually a man! The screenplay is excellent, providing charm, eloquence, and jocularity to an already wonderful and amusing premise. As previously noted of Williams, the acting is superb and totally convincing (Sally Field hits the mark as a confused, stressed, recently divorced mother trying to stay sane). Mrs. Doubtfire hardly never fails to deliver with its many moments of comedy (not too raunchy, not too fresh), messages of family appreciation (everybody needs a parent who cares), and whim (who doesn't enjoy a macho man portray a sweet old lady?). A delightful, sensational comedy that hits all the right marks. **** out of ****  "},{"Title":"In drag and dragged out (but good)","Date":"23 August 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  *** SPOILERS ***I went to see this movie upon it's release with a (female) friend. It was her turn to pick the movie and I wasn't particularly happy with her choice. Don't get me wrong, I love (good) comedies, but I had doubts(fire) about this one. The movie started with that cartoon scene, where the bird is singing Figaro (dubbed by Daniel Hillard/Robin Williams). For some reason my friend thought this was the funniest thing she had ever seen and started to laugh uncontrollably and soon the whole theatre joined in. The mood was set and everybody (even me) was ready to be entertained and most off all to keep an open mind. The years went by and DVD players and DVD's were becoming popular, so I started buying movies I liked or just wanted to have. One of those purchases was the 'Mrs. Doubtfire' DVD and I'm still glad I bought it. I watched it a zillion times already and it never bores me. The only thing that bothered me was the fact that some great scenes were deleted from the end cut. They showed some less sugar sweet scenes which would have made the movie more 'real'. These outtakes also included some 'magic' between Mrs. Doubtfire and the neighbour. They should have left that stuff in and trimmed the horribly slow beginning. I like this movie and that's why I forgive it it's many flaws. It's not great art here, not the best comedy ever made, not the greatest acting, not the best story ever told... Some scenes really bug me, like- The Mrs. Doubtfire cleaning dance (I hate those video clip style interludes).- The youngest one, Nathalie Hillard, who's been cute as hell one too many times. Alright, small sweet children are cute, enough already!- From the opening of the movie to the point were Mrs. Doubtfire finally appears on full screen is dragged out!- Although Robin Williams is brilliant in improvising (lot's of scenes were not scripted, until R.W. improvised them), I hate that part were he goes to the social worker and has to explain what he does for a living (Daniel Hillard 'I do voices'). Good improvising, but not all that funny, too long a scene and somewhat breaks the flow of the movie.- The dramatic court scenes, again unbelievable and dragged out Hollywood style.- Sometimes it seems they ignored the great scenes by making them as short as possible and stretching the bad and annoying one's out.- The 'family movie' (family values, feelings, morality...) approach is annoying, to sickening. They hit you in the face with it.- The story is stretched beyond believe and incoherent. Many scenes make you go 'Yeah right!' SO! Why is it, that despite all those (and I named just a few) flaws, the movie still works? It's just pure entertainment and fun. There are enough enjoyable and classic parts that will last you a lifetime. You tend to forget or forgive the bad, just because the great moments are so much fun. This is the proof that a movie, potentially a disaster, made it after all. I would like to see a re-edit, were the delete scenes are put in back and the corny scenes are trimmed to a minimum.I give it 7/10.  "},{"Title":"A Feel Good Movie","Date":"18 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Robin Williams is cast perfectly as is everyone else. The choice of music Dude Looks Like a Lady while showing scenes of Daniel living the life of Euphegenia Doubtfire is hilarious! Robin man is a wonderful actor and comedian....No Doubt - he brings quality to the movies I have seen him in.A timeless movie...regardless of the continuity problems. It is a movie with very few goofs.Additionally, Sally Field is awesome in this. I did not think, at first, casting her a Miranda Hillard was a good choice. After seeing the movie the second time through, my opinion changed.  "},{"Title":"Tears and laughter","Date":"30 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Mrs. Doubtfire is not the greatest comedy ever made, but it contains some absolutely hilarious scenes. And it is undoubtedly one of the best films featuring Robin Williams.However, to me, the greatest thing about this film is the way in which it mixes comedy and serious matter. I'm a father, and I think no parent can watch this film without recognising the infinite, unconditional love that Daniel Hillard has towards his children. (And what a lovely bunch of children they are!)I don't know how many times I've watched this film by now - it must be at least 8-10 times. But that final scene where Daniel picks up his children (as himself, not as Mrs. Doubtfire), while at the same time, in the background, Mrs. Doubtfire, on children's TV, reads and comments on a letter from a girl whose parents have split up, is one scene which I've never yet been able to watch without the tears flowing down my cheeks. So beautiful and touching! "},{"Title":"One Very Funny And Entertaining Movie","Date":"12 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Here, we go again with a very funny and entertaining movie with one of the best actors around Robin Williams.  This movie makes me laugh and laugh every time I watch it which is quite often.  He was excellent in this movie, not only for the humor but just overall playing one part in the movie Daniel Hillard and then playing the other part, a woman.  That takes a lot of work and energy.  I don't see anybody else doing this movie like that except for him because of the way he is and everything.  I mean, Jim Carrey is also funny but I don't see him doing it, they picked the right person for this part.  I hope that he continues making funny and entertaining movies like this as well as drama movies that are touching and heart warming. "},{"Title":"Terrific!","Date":"23 February 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I think that Robin Williams is today's funniest movie actor. He is *always* funny, but in my opinion he puts on his finest performance in Mrs. Doubtfire. Sally Field, as Williams' wife, and the three young actors who portray his children also deserve strong accolades for their performances in this movie. It was unusual to see Pierce Brosnan looking so unkempt! Even though I have watched it twice already, this is one movie I could watch over and over again.  "},{"Title":"It's Sally, Stupid!","Date":"21 January 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie takes a hopeless premise,and mixes in two actors - Robin Williams and Sally Fields - who are so dissimilar in their talents that their pairing should be D.O.A., and pulls out a surprisingly funny and effective movie.  I am stunned at the quality.Understand that Robin Williams has very limited range to his acting.  See the opening scenes of Mrs. Doubtfire where he quits his job -dubbing voices into cartoons - over a trivial moral issue. Is the scene convincing? Does he appear to have the right level of passion to truly walk out on his job?  No. As an actor, he is merely Robin Williams in his films.  But his manic side really distinguishes him from any other actor alive.Sally Field, however, is a great actress (and greatly unappreciated, too.)  She has the range to do almost anything - but cracking jokes is not her forte, and manic is not within her range at all.So what happens?  Robin is enormously funny when he is getting his makeup applied by Harvey Fierstein, gigging the court-appointed monitor, and tormenting Pierce Brosnan.  But in the Robin-only scenes, the film stands still -as if he is doing a stand-up routine.But when Sally is on-camera, the story moves.... and there is emotional power in the scenes.  She is dead-on convincing in almost every scene, in almost every emotional state.  She tells no jokes and creates a realness and a context that brings the best out of Robin's  emoting.  There would be no movie without Robin, but it is Sally that makes the movie something much more than Three Men and A Baby.Even Pierce Brosnan works - in an unusual twist he plays a male version of the type of role that many gorgeous actresses are accustomed to play - his role is simply to be good-looking and charming so that other characters can be jealous or lust-filled.  And yet, even he shows 3-dimensionality to his character, with the help of some sensitive script-writing.So its a triumph - a genuinely interesting and fun film. Bravo!  "}{"Title":"Sound of Comedy.","Date":"21 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Robin Williams a gifted satirist,actor teams with an marvel of an actress Sally field the result is a great comedy. The story is most heartfelt tale of a desperate father that will do anything to be with his children. This is a tearjerker of a movie laced with comedy only a Robin Williams can portray. He is chameleon of an actor like Ben Kingsley. This is probably one of the best movies ever, a great family movie that teaches more lessons than you get in a class room. A marvellous movie from Hollywood. "},{"Title":"A heart-warming and wholly satisfying comedy","Date":"14 November 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  MRS. DOUBTFIRE ***1/2A suburban family has been going through a bad time, and although everything looks set to continue with constant grudges and niggles, the parents three children eventually split up.  The mother keeps the house and the three children, because of the fathers incapacity to live a &#145;normal' life.  Williams plays a kind of eccentric comic time- bomb, who seems to have so much to give, but often misplaces his creative ideas.  The image we get is that he tries desperately hard, but somehow things just don't go to plan. His wife on the other hand seems organised, focused and disciplined.  The court's verdict is that Daniel (Williams) must hold down a steady job, live a steady life and show signs of progress.  Daniel is heartbroken that he cannot see his children unless these demands are met and in a desperate bid to keep in touch with his children, he turns himself into an ageing nanny, Mrs. Doubtfire, who hails from Britain.  She can &#145;hip hop, bee bop and dance till you drop' as one line sums it up.  At the start the children are sad about their father not being there for them, but eventually Mrs. Doubtfire brings out a happiness in the entire family that had long been forgotten in the house.  A tale of happiness as they gallop off into the sunset.  But no, there is more to this excellent film than just this.  Williams is sensational as the nanny giving him a licence to do what he does best, act in his own style with comic genius.  The whole movie is a joy which I found heart-warming, heart-breaking and ultimately satisfying.  It doesn't patronise the viewer with perfect answers, just the best of what's on offer.  In their own way, the many pieces come together to create an excellent movie.  The children act superbly with a distinct air of believability, something not always seem in movies.  Miranda (Daniels Wife) shows the full range of emotions throughout, and of course the object of hate played by Pierce Brosnan as Miranda's new boyfriend does a fine job for between jokes. Undoubtedly though Williams shines through.  Displaying a passion to see his children, emotion at what he has to go through, balancing daily life, and hiding his identity from those closest to him.  Mostly funny, sometimes sad, the movie does more than just give Williams a vehicle to be silly, it promotes a lot of sound issues and basis itself on a reality that no easy answers can be obtained because of the fighting, but sound solutions can be offered in an amicable way.  A very good movie. "},{"Title":"A delightful film","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I've seen this movie over a hundred of times,and what can I say? It's one of Robin Williams best films... he may be better at stand up,but he's so talented and he showed it in this film. 'Mrs Doubtfire' is a delightful film,good for family but that dosen't mean it's content is for five year olds only. The movie has a beautiful blend of drama as well,when Miranda (Sally Filed) tells Daniel (Robin Williams) she wants a divorce,and the actual hearing in court,when Miranda gets awarded full custody. 'Mrs Doubtfire' was a well directed film,and the whole cast was brillant (yes even Pirece Bronsan) I recommend this film to any family who wants to laugh together,or any one who has a broad sense of humor. ;)~CWM~ "},{"Title":"a true inspiration","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Not being with your children on a daily basis is hard, take it from someone who knows. This movie illustrates how much the love of ones children will inspire a non custodial parent to do whatever it takes to be involved in the daily lives of his kids and grow as a human being because of it.  This movie should serve as an inspiration to all, that no matter what, seemingly impossible odds can be overcome and that if we think about the good of the children and not ourselves, that things will turn out much better. "},{"Title":"A Very Funny, and Truthful, Film","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  In the years since it's release, 'Mrs. Doubtfire' is now not known for being a very good film, but instead the Robin Williams in Drag Movie. Yes, Williams is in drag and dons lots of funny voices but the film is actually a heartbreaking and sometimes painful look at divorce but is still laugh out loud funny at many points and a highly entertaining film.Daniel Hillard (Robin Williams) is an eccentric dad who does voices for cartoons. After being fired and throwing his son a huge over the top birthday, his wife Miranda (Sally Field, in an excellent performance) decides it's time to do what she's been putting off for a long time... Divorce. Heartbroken at not being able to spend time with his children, Daniel uses his voice impersanation skills and a little make-up from his brother to become Mrs. Doubtfire, an eccentric English maid. But can he keep his guise for long enough?What really is great about 'Doubtfire' is the performances. Robin Williams and Sally Field are on top form and play very well as both Daniel and Miranda, and Mrs. Doubtfire and Miranda. It's also a good sign when even supporting actors deliver excellent performances. Not only do we have three amazingly talented child actors, but Pierce Brosnan, Harvey Fierstein and others all impress in their small but memorable roles.The remarkable thing is that the film doesn't dumb down divorce. It is divorce as it really happens, not a softened up version, but a warts and all version. This quality alone makes the film an even stronger picture. The directing is carried out by Chris Columbus (Only the Lonely, Home Alone, Harry Potter) who shows a real care for the characters. It's once in a blue moon when you can actually say that a children's film has excellent camerawork and dialogue. The writing is based on the children's book 'Alias Madame Doubtfire' by Anne Fine. It is expertly adapted by Leslie Dixon and Randi Singer. They also show a love of the characters and write great dialogue.Overall, 'Mrs. Doubtfire' isn't just a Robin Williams vehicle, but a hilarious and touching look at the real pains of divorce... "},{"Title":"WOO!","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a terrific comedy that goes by very, very well. RobinWilliams is SO funny, but at the end and the beginning of the filmhis emotion is heartfelt and it can be very hard not to cry. I loved thescenes with Pierce Brosnan! This movie is great for kids andadults. 10/10! "},{"Title":"One of Mr. Williams' better films","Date":"27 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  When this movie was released around the holidays in 1993, it was a beautiful gift. This gem is one of Robin Williams' better films. one can really feel his strong desire to remain with his kids. The scenes where he portrays various interested applicants is a riot. Whoever did the casting accomplished a brilliant job. Robin Williams was made for this part, Sally Field is perfect as the wife & the kids were wonderful (especially the 2 older ones- it's quite rare for non-relatives to portray brother and sister and actually resemble each other). My favorite scene however is when Sally Field is at the restaurant and realizes that Mrs. Doubtfire is actually her ex-husband. Her reactions are point-on (Daniel!--the whole time, THE WHOLE TIME!!--don't touch me!!--we gotta go!). Definitely recommended, Robin Williams does drag just as well as Dustin Hoffman (Tootsie). "},{"Title":"an english accent????","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Well tell me what you people in imdb land think.  Does Robin Williams do an english or a scottish accent on Mrs. Doubtfire.  I think it's scottish.  I'm enlish and I should know an english accent when I hear one.  William's acting talents are really magnified here.  I think he's brilliant as Mrs. Doubtfire.  Every bit as much as Dustin Hoffman was in Tootsie, maybe more so. "},{"Title":"Williams puts some heart into it.","Date":"3 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  MRS. DOUBTFIRE would not be possible without Robin Williams. He sells the movie with all the flair he musters. He sells every other actor as if they can hold a candle and yet, he also makes sure the movie is real enough to apply in the real world. With as much kinetic energy produced in ALADDIN, Williams rode the right tidal wave to create this bonafide smash, which only he could make himself.Struggling actor Daniel ticks off his wife for the last time and she files from divorce. Impatient and wanting to see his kids more, he dons the guise of an old nanny to be with them while the government sees if he is fit to have custody of them.The first half of MRS. DOUBTFIRE is funny. But once the shock value of Williams dressed as a 60 yr old woman dies down, so does the movie as we tone down to a ho-hum, acceptable happy ending. But that does not stop our star actor from deserving his paycheck, and as an audience, that's exactly why we put our money where our mouth is. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams at one of his bests","Date":"22 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  this was an unforgettable movie for all, it was hilarious, seeing Robin Williams dressed up as a 60 year old woman was to die for i swear. I think everyone has seen this movie but if you are reading this to get the public's reviews, heres one and i say go watch it!!! "}{"Title":"Robin Williams is a master of comedy...even as a woman!","Date":"11 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Just for the record...I will always give a Robin Williams movie at least an 8!  Just the fact that Williams is in the movie makes it a great flick!  At any rate, Mrs. Doubtfire is one of those 'feel good' movies that will make you laugh and cry all at the same time.  Sally Field and Williams are a great pair on screen and I wouldn't be surprised to see them together in the future (on screen, that is). "},{"Title":"IT WAS GREAT I LOVE IT!","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I Saw Mrs. Doubtfire In 1993 And I Couldn't Stop Laughing Its A Funny Movie.I Saw It Again Last Night On PBS Its A Great Movie I Give It 10 Stars Robin Willams Does A Wonderful Job On It.From Kirsten "},{"Title":"One Of My Favorite Films","Date":"31 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Mrs. Doubtfire is probably one of the best comedies I've ever seen. And the greatest thing about it is that it appeals to all audiences. I remember seeing it when I was about 7 years old and I laughed a lot. If not for the witty humor, than for the fact that a man dressed up as a woman. I watched it several times every year and as I grew, I began to understand more and more of the adult humor. Finally I watched it again a few weeks ago and laughed harder than I did anytime I saw it. The story follows a father who after a divorce, is desperate to see his children. The only way to do this without getting in trouble from the courts is to dress up as the after school housekeeper. In doing this he finds himself in many tight situations with his ex-wife, a woman from the courts, and his new employer. On top of all of this, he is stuck dealing with his ex-wife's new boyfriend. Everytime I watch this movie I don't want it to end because I have so much fun watching it. The ending is pretty sad, but everything seems to be worked out as well as it could be by the end of the movie.  "},{"Title":"Robin Williams deserved an Oscar nomination at least for this one!","Date":"27 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams is a comedic genius. While I am not entertained by most family comedies, Mrs. Doubtfire is a winner. It can make you laugh easily. Robin's role as a divorced father who wants to spend more time with his children is actually truly believable. Even his role as Mrs. Doubtfire is performed superbly. Too bad, there is no sequel to this film. And the fact that San Francisco plays a big role in the movie is another reason to see it. Like New York City, San Francisco plays a character in this film. It is America's most beautiful city to be compared with the likes of Paris and London. Don't miss this movie! It really is a family oriented film. There are great performances by a superb cast including Sally Field, Pierce Brosnan, Harvey Fierstein, and Anne Haney. Robin was sure robbed of an Academy Award nomination. It could not have been easy to put on so much makeup and transform himself into Mrs. Doubtfire. My favorite scene is the transformation with Harvey Fierstein where Robin uses his great voice to experiment with a Cuban Doubtfire, a Yiddish Doubtfire, and singing Matchmaker with Fierstein is the best part of the film. "},{"Title":"Pretty funny stuff!","Date":"25 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  So many people have mentioned the plot that I won't bother with it. Needless to say, it is hilarious in places. I want to mention the fine acting throughout this film. The three children are played superbly by Lisa Jakub, Matthew Lawrence and Mara Wilson. Their performances are all top-notch! The adults don't do too badly either, with Robin Williams as the Father and Mrs. Doubtfire, Sally Field as the mother and Pierce Brosnan as the new love interest for mom. Anne Haney is also worthy of note as Mrs. Sellner. This one is definitely a keeper! "},{"Title":"A great comedy with a powerful message.","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"   Most comedies are underrated, and this one is truly underrated. Robin Williams is a great comedian, as good as Steve Martin, and in this one he really pulls it off. I hate to admit this, but if I were in Robin Williams position I would of done the same thing. Though this is a comedy, it does have drama in it. It has extremely good character development. Robin Williams and Sally Fields steal the show. The kids all that great except for Mara Wilson. Really the only thing the other two did was smile or frown, and say why can't dad be here? But besides that it is a real good movie and it's a surprisingly long movie, which comedies are usually about an 145. This one was over two hours, but it's certainly one the best comedies made, and I forgot by how much I enjoyed this movie. It's worth more than a 6.4, more like 7.0-7.5/10 maybe on the top 250 even, but not the top 100. Anyway, this a great comedy and I give a 10/10. The final showdown in the restaurant is worth to watch the movie alone. It's hilarious and extremely well done. I applaud you Chris Columbus!P.S. I know I rated, this movie 10/10, and I said it should have a 7.0-7.5?10, I meant for the average rating. Probably most of you figured that out, but some people were probably curious why I gave it too different ratings. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and touching movie.","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Robin Williams impersonate an elderly Englishwoman to see his children when his wife played by Sally Field places an ad for nanny. He misses his children since the divorce, as Mrs. Doubtfire he sees the children more and try to spoils the wife new romance. The performances are excellent in the movie especially Pierce Brosnan who plays Field's beau and Mara Wilson who plays the younger daughter of Williams and Field. Enjoyable to watch over and over again.  "},{"Title":"Robin Willaims+ Being Dressed In A Nanny CostumeHilarious!!!","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I have to say, this is one of the funniest movies Robin Williams has done in his career. Mrs. Doubtfire has a great and funny plot, and the movie themes tie in with the matters of divorce and humor. The whole cast is great and make the movie believable and fun. Mrs. Doubtfire is a hilarious movie that keeps you laughing . . . . forever!!! I give Mrs. Doubtfire a 10 out of 10!!!!  ) "},{"Title":"Magnificent","Date":"25 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Mrs Doubtfire is a very rare case of a film . It is not exactly a comedy although it has hilarious scenes like the scene where Danny (Robin Williams) impersonates various baby sitters over the phone . This film is mostly a drama and one of the most successful ones in movie history. The script is very inventive  it uses the drag appearance of Danny and the comic talents of Willams in order to make the situation more funny and digestible . But the main focus of this excellent story is the family history of a recently broken apart house and the consequences of the divorce on children . The combination of comedy and drama is perfect here (and I have seen the movie many times) . You will laugh and you will cry guaranteed !!!           Ignore the stupid comments made by stupid people  Can 't his own family recognise him ??  . The make up is very successful and even if it wasn 't the viewer will always have to forgive some minor faults in order to accept the story of any film . Robin Willams is perfectboth as a comic and as a dramatic role . Sally Field is also very good. Pierce Brosnan and the children give solid performances . Enough time has been wasted . If you like dramatic comedies with characters and laughs , stop reading and see it now .                                                                 9 / 10  "},{"Title":"Unique Family Movie","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Mrs. Doubtfire has more going for it than simply Robin Williams' comedic genius.  This is a rarity in family films--a movie in which no one is perfect.  Everyone in this movie makes mistakes, and everyone learns from them.  (For example, the rivalry between Williams and Brosnan develops because each has prejudged the other, leading to humiliating and ultimately devastating consequences for everyone.)  Sure there is some silliness, but, as with everything in life, none of it is without consequence.  For those who have already seen this movie and considered it a simple comedy, I ask you to view it again with fresh eyes.  Mrs. Doubtfire makes subtle yet profound statements about how we can hurt others and ourselves when we act without thinking.  Watch this with your kids.  Watch it to teach them about life; watch it and learn. "}{"Title":"I never get tired of Robin Williams","Date":"28 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Robin Williams is one of my favorite comedian. Again in this movie, he's very funny. He plays a divorced father who disguise as a nanny to see his children. This movie gives you something to laugh. It's a very good comedy that's cool to watch again. Williams shows us again that he can play a multitude of roles. It's good for a 8/10. "},{"Title":"Fixes a sour mood any day.","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie never fails to make me laugh...I mean serious belly laughs. I always come to the end of the movie feeling great. I love the reactions of the others to the Mrs Doubtfire character. Sally Field makes those faces, Harvey Fierstein has that look. It's all good. Robin Williams is so much fun. Those kids must have had great fun with him. "},{"Title":"An entertaining comedy.","Date":"22 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  An entertaining comedy, Mrs. Doubtfire is an amusing tale of talented actor trying to win back his kids.  Robin Williams once again displays his talent and humor in this movie.  By pretending to be persons of different genders, Williams is forced into a variety of hilarious, and often embarrassing situations.  The plot is believable and the laughs are light-hearted, unlike the lame jokes cracked in many of today's movies.Check it out. "},{"Title":"I loved this movie.","Date":"19 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Mrs Doubtfire is simply brilliant. It's got to be one of Robin Williams best roles in his career.There's plenty of comedy in it which Robin Williams supplies. Apart from Williams there's also a stunning cast of Sally Field and Pierce Brosnan who also act out their roles really well.This film has been very cleverly written and some parts in the movie will have you in laughing fits. The one thing I like about Mrs Doubtfire it that it doesn't really have a single boring part in it. It's laughter and action all the way from start to finish.9/10. "},{"Title":"OK","Date":"28 February 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is not one of Robin Williams' best movies, though he plays his dual role as Daniel/Mrs. Doubtfire very well. (He makes a great older lady, too!) The best parts were his voice-overs, his brother Frank (Harvey Fierstein) and his ruse in the resturant. Daniel is a father who loves his kids so much he'll do anything for them, as you'll see in the movie.I couldn't stand the ex-wife Miranda. She comes off as too snobby, and she is STUPID! When Daniel kept prank-calling her, she couldn't even tell it was him, who she'd been living with for 15 years??? Come on!All in all, it's an average film, but it does have some extremely funny moments. "},{"Title":"Built for scale, but&#133;","Date":"6 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Your Phaithphul Phroggy, not one for family entertainment, sawthis on a dubbed video, so I could only guess the way they dealtwith accents. Though this is obviously designed to be apress-button (I love my family, please pet me and go see mymovie) crowd-pleasure, some unexpected twists kept me hookeduntil the end  I wasn't expecting the drag theme to bediscovered that soon and the ending dinner scene featured sometwists which really surprised my very own self(Like whenWilliams forgets the table he's supposed to co to  sheer geniusin a movie that lacks thereof). And some dialogues were quiteaccurate. Anyway, everything was in place for a nicey-niceymovie rthat can be feel-good stuff for those who only relieson a designer movie in order to pretend they feel good. and whyis Williams always so much more enjoyable in real life (as faras interviews go) than in his recent movies ?  "},{"Title":"RIP Robin Williams","Date":"14 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" That's was my favorite childhood movie, I really liked Robin Williams's act. He was so funny! I will miss him so much, RIP And I want to watch it again, hope it show up on Netflix some day as soon as possible! It was so shame that didn't make a movie like second part likeMrs. Doubtfire 2! I think Night at the museum 3 movie, Robin played that movie for last time! (I'm not sure). I live in LA, sometimes I go to Hollywood, sine then I couldn't fine his star in ground! He did something wrong in her life! He shouldn't have killed himself! why would he do? nobody does not know why! Now days, I don't know why most actors and singer are trying to kill or use more drug! WHY???? "},{"Title":"All married couples need a Mrs Doubtfire.","Date":"6 July 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs Doubtfire is not so much a comedy. It is relate for married couple's on the verge of divorce.Mrs Doubtfire could be anybody connected to a married couple who are in their own corners sticking up for their own rights and seeking divorce.It is only when this fictional character with no seemingly blood relation to either couple, gets verbally involved and is listened to by one person in this couple that thinking begins to change.Although there are many light moments in this film, I saw no comedy, no offence to either actors.I observe that the very last people who should be talking during a divorce is the couple themselves, because each will always seek their own corner, and therefore get nowhere.Mrs Doubtfire is primarily a councillor for the wife, a friend, a house keeper, who observes what the wife does not want to see.There is a lesson here methinks. "},{"Title":"Very Funny Comedy with Two Great Sequences","Date":"15 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs. Doubtfire (1993) *** (out of 4) When his wife (Sally Field) divorces him and the courts take his children away except for one day a week, an actor/father (Robin Williams) decides to dress us as the elderly Mrs. Doubtfire so that he can be the family maid and spend more time with the children. I remember seeing this hit a couple times when it was originally released in theaters but it's been quite a while between viewings but I was pleasantly surprised to see how well the film held up. There are still many, many problems in the film but the main goal here was to be a showcase for Williams and it's certainly that. The highlights are certainly Williams going all out and delivering a marvelous performance not only as Mrs. Doubtfire but also as the father. I thought Williams did a very good job at handling the role of the struggling father even if the screenplay lets the film down with a few of these dramatic moments that I'll talk about later. Williams handles every situation wonderfully well but there's no doubt the real genius comes in the role of Doubtfire. The way he plays this character isn't simply him in a fat suit and make up but instead he really delivers a true performance and makes this character feel real and not just some put on. I think Williams perfectly nails this character so well that one could pass it off as a real English woman. He perfectly handles all the comedy scenes and that includes two sequences that rank as some of the best screwball moments of the decade. There are two sequences where he must go back and forth between the father role and that of Doubtfire and these scenes get the biggest laughs of the movie. This is especially true towards the end of the film when he has to spend time with the family as Doubtfire as well as impress a hopeful boss as the father. Field and Pierce Brosnan turn in fine supporting work but there's no question that the film belongs to Williams. I think there are a few major flaws with the film, which includes the biggest and that's the final twenty-minutes of the film when we enter some rather very dark moments including a very distasteful courtroom scene where Williams' character's mental issues are questioned. This was just way too dark for all the laughs that preceded it. The actual ending is one you'd expect but even it doesn't work out overly well. With that said, this is still one of the better, mainstream comedies of the 90s and Williams performance makes it a must see. "},{"Title":"Fun For The Kids, But As A Film This Is Way Overrated","Date":"27 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams has starred in some good films Good Morning Vietnam, Insominia; he also starred in a few unforgettable ones too. Mrs Doubtfire was a film I used to love as a kid- I first remembered that as soon as it came out on video, I snapped it up quick. I used to watch it over and over because I couldn't get enough of it, but as I got older, I watched Mrs Doubtfire for the first time in my 20s a few years back, and afterwards, I could never get my head around the hype of this movie, as I realised how unrealistic this portrayal of divorce parents was. Miranda- played by a somewhat mis casted Sally Field- decides to divorce husband Daniel (Robin Williams), after enduring years of his mis haps and childish shenanigans, especially when she arrives home to a group of screaming kids messing up the house and discovering that Daniel has thrown a birthday party for his son, which descends into chaos.Daniel is devastated-, although he is just as devastated when he is told by the court that he can only have the kids once a week, which prompts him to turn to his gay brother and boyfriend for support. With latex, a cheap wig, a dress and a pair of stockings, he later becomes Mrs Doubtfire- a Scottish nanny, of whom Miranda hires to look after the children, whilst she goes off to work. Miranda gets a new boyfriend named Stuart, played by Pierce Brosnan and here he comes across as a somewhat slimy, two-faced piece of work. But he only gets a few lines and as Stuart, character-wise he was so pedestrian and almost one-dimensional.Mrs Doubtfire is a comical farce- but whilst Robin Williams efforts as Mrs Doubtfire are at times funny, I thought the circumstances that led to the couple's break up was, for a comedy, just ridiculous. Plus, the conclusion was rather out of sync and so far removed from reality. I understand that with divorce cases especially when kids are involved, there is hardly a happy ending. And whilst the last scenes did imply that there was some hope for Miranda and Daniel, the truth is they are no longer together as a couple and are no longer in love with one another. The ending was neither here or there-although it was realistic enough to be believed. In fact, the ending was much more believable than the other aspects of the film itself.The cast were at best okay I've seen Robin Williams act better and do better than in this movie, I thought Sally as Miranda was too stuck-up and as I said earlier, she was mis-casted as that character.And by the way, Mrs Doubtfire was indeed Scottish, not English as the writers of the film have pointed out.Having said that, the gag's and jokes, whilst they were enjoyable for a few times, eventually became tedious and tiresome. The sentimentality of it became nauseating and the cutesy factor was short-lived. The younger ones will love it more, i'm sure but for a so-called family film dealing with the complicated issue of divorce, Mrs Doubtfire was at most sappy and saccharine sweet.Mrs Doubtfire is not Tootsie- it is nowhere as good as Tootsie; yes this film can be funny on occasions but in all, it just doesn't cut it. It is just a tad too long, too predictable and with some scenes, you often have to wait for some time for something really interesting to happen within the film.In all though, this is a rather bog-standard affair, with nothing remotely new to offer to the audience. It is a film about a guy who dresses up as a woman, in order for him to see his children. With Tootsie, it's about a guy- who like Daniel is an actor- who dresses up as a woman in order for him to secure a part in a daytime soap opera. That movie is far more substantial and interesting; some would say it is also funnier than Mrs Doubtfire, which is in truth more of a melodrama, rather than a comedy-based film.Mrs Doubtfire is at best very average, but it is way overrated and compared to Some Like It Hot and Tootsie, it trails behind by a couple of metres. It is a rehash of the cross-dressing elements of those films juxtaposed onto a family friendly context, but it is done in a not so successful and efficient way.This is really a poor man's Tootsie, and whilst it can be funny at times, it does come across as being banal and predictable for a movie that Mrs Doubtfire is. "}{"Title":"Dude Looks Like A....Lady!?  Totally Funny!","Date":"9 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs. Doubtfire is truly one of the funniest movies ever made. Both my parents like it; my sister and I absolutely love it!!!!! Here, Robin Williams is dressed as a 60-year-old lady as a way to see his kids, since his ex-wife, Miranda (Sally Field) has custody of them, at least, most of the time. There are a lot of scenes I practically laugh at. One part is where Daniel (or Mrs. Doubtfire-played by Williams) is at his apartment, trying to dress as the old woman, and two Oriental boys see him and are laughing at him. Another part is where all five of the main characters, plus Stu (Miranda's smoking hot boyfriend) are at the pool. Stu calls Daniel a loser, not knowing that the person whom he called a loser was right there. Daniel/Mrs. Doubtfire throws a fruit at him, and says some angry member of the kitchen staff threw it. Stu walks away, then Daniel makes a remark about a good waste of juice and someone *else* calls him a loser. I would totally recommend Mrs. Doubtfire to everybody, because it is all-around hilarious!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Robin Williams at his best","Date":"11 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Probably one of his best known films in the 90s, Robin Williams is at his comedic peak here as he protrays a divorced, out of work actor desperate to see his kids. So he disguises himself as a nanny for the kids, when his ex-wife (Sally Field) is at work. And how he is able to maintain this as well as his own life and career is the rest of the story. This brings full of laughter when Mrs. Doubtfire is trying to cook for the first, or when the housekeeper is with him and he has to alternate between the two. However, this is pretty much a heartfelt story about a man who can't bear being separated from his kids and doing everything in his power to see them. Sometimes the film overdoes itself, but Chris Columbus is able to maintain the film between its over-the-top comedy and its deep message to families.Robin Williams is at his acting best, both comedic and dramatic wise. What can said that has already been said by others? He is a genius. Sally Field does well in a role tailor-made for her as a frustrated wife who can't stand her husband, but falls for the charms of Mrs. Doubtfire and begins to trust her as a friend. Everybody else gives great support. Good family film to watch when you're bored and need some light hearted humor. Williams in full form. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"ABSOLUTELY hilarious!","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is such a great film! It is one of the funniest films I have ever seen. The main reason for this can be summed in 2 words ROBIN WILLIAMS! This actor is a hoot. Unlike many actors in my opinion, he can be very versatile - great at both the dramatic and comedic. In this case, he takes on the double roles of Daniel Hillard/Mrs. Euphegenia Doubtfire in equal and realistic strides. Even when he is in the makeup as Mrs. Doubtfire, whom the audience all know is really Daniel Hillard, I was able to suspend disbelief because of Williams. Kudos also to Sally Field and director Chris Columbus, whom I both love in their respective films. Without giving much of the plot away, I hope I convinced you to see this! HIGHLY recommended! "},{"Title":"One of Robin Williams' best to date","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This film is one of Robin Williams' best to date. One of the best things about it is when he does impressions of people. It's hard for me to say which one I think is the funniest. After Miranda (Sally Field) told Daniel (Robin Williams) that she wanted a divorce, I wanted to cry. This was because he cried, too. At that moment, when the kids (Matthew Lawrence, Lisa Jakub, Mara Wilson) were seen, I could feel their pain. Still, this is an excellent comedy with a humanistic message for all Robin Williams and Sally Field fans. If you ask me, Stu (Pierce Brosnan) was a really nice guy. Before I wrap this up, I must say that the performances were top grade. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Robin Williams or Sally Field, you're in for a good time and lots of laughs, so see this movie today. "},{"Title":"Mrs Doubtfire is about a man who can not live without his children so he pretends hes a Nanny.","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I think the film is wicked and Robin Williams was even better than ever. Sally Field was fabulous and so was rest of the crew e.g. Sally Field, Pierce Brosnon,Harvey Fierston, Polly Halliday,Lisa Jakub,Matthew Lawrence, Mara Wilson shone the most but everyone else was good too.Mrs Doubtfire is the story about a divorced man who can not stop living without his children and pretends to be a nanny because he wants to spend more time with his children.Mrs Doubtfire is a great comedy and if you have not seen it, your missing out of the fun and this movie is one of the best movie that Robin Williams has made and he shone the most. "},{"Title":"Very funny at times","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" IMDb user Blake French writes, in regards to Mrs. Doubtfire 'Mrs. Doubtfire' is one of the most invigorating, vivid character studies to be produced on the big screen this decade. Most of the characters are strongly executed with decisive dialogue. They are also beautifully written with tainted personalities and uncompromising wit. Chris Columbus has assembled a stellar dramatic comedy with excellent screen writing, giving audiences one of the most punctually artful films I have ever witnessed. I don't really agree with this. I wouldn't quite call it a punctually artful film. There's nothing artful about a hairy guy stuffing a cake onto his face to make it look like an exfoliating cream. Or running around swapping clothes in a restaurant like a frantic ape.But this movie is funny... and for as slapstick as its humor is, it's also surprisingly human in nature, which is something Blake touched upon in his review.Robin Williams stars as Daniel, a guy whose wife (Sally Field) leaves him with their three kids after he misses his kid's birthday party. (Ooh, talk about grounds for divorce!) Daniel loves his kids, though, so he dresses up as a woman with prosthetic effects and becomes their nanny under the false identity of an Irish (?) housekeeper named Mrs. Doubtfire.Meanwhile Daniel's ex-wife begins dating a rich and suave English businessman (Pierce Brosnan pre-James Bond) and he becomes jealous, trying to ruin their relationship under the guise of Doubtfire.This movies is quite similar to the Dustin Hoff classic comedy Tootsie in terms of plotting. They're both quite funny and some of the only guy-in-drag films that are actually good.Williams is funny (one of his last truly humorous performances) and totally steals the spotlight from everyone else - including Brosnan.Chris Columbus (Home Alone) has a way of making over-the-top films while managing to restrain them to the elements of humanity, and that's the clearest thing about this film - what makes it funny and, ultimately, so likable, even when it's not cracking us up consistently. "},{"Title":"Classic Comedy!","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs. Doubtfire is a very good film that has a good cast which includes Robin Williams, Sally Field, Pierce Brosnan, Harvey Fierstein, Polly Holliday, Lisa Jakub, Matthew Lawrence, Mara Wilson, Robert Prosky, Rick Overton, Martin Mull, Ralph Peduto, Scott Beach, Molly McClure, Andrew L. Prosky, and Dr. Toad! The acting by all of these actors is very good. Robins is really excellent in this film. I thought that he performed good. The comedy is really good and some of it is surprising. The movie is filmed very good. The music is good. The film is quite interesting and the movie really keeps you going until the end. This is a very good and hilarious film. If you like Robin Williams, Sally Field, Pierce Brosnan, Harvey Fierstein, Polly Holliday, Lisa Jakub, Matthew Lawrence, Mara Wilson, Robert Prosky, Rick Overton, the rest of the cast in the film, Comedies, Dramas, and interesting films then I strongly recommend you to see this film today! "},{"Title":"Success of this comedy never in doubt!","Date":"24 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Divorce is usually no laughing matter but in this case family tragedy is laced with laugh-out-loud comedy as an elderly housekeeper comes to the rescue. The character of Mrs Doubtfire is created by Daniel Hillard, the peeved husband, so that he can see his children regularly.The irony is that Mrs Doubtfire is everything that Daniel is not. Time after time we see Mrs Doubtfire succeed where Daniel himself has failed -- particularly in terms of providing some sort of firm guidance for the children. And in terms of being a trusted companion for wife Miranda.On the lighter side, one of my favourite scenes is where Mrs Doubtfire is doing the housework to music enthusiastically dancing and playing the vacuum-cleaner like a guitar. Another is where she is sprung going to the toilet standing up.Everything builds up to an amazing climax, with the scene at Bridges restaurant, where Daniel and Mrs Doubtfire must both appear at the same time. The action shifts from one side of the restaurant to the other and back again, as Daniel becomes the somewhat intoxicated quick-change artist and elusive dinner guest. In the end Daniel's cover is well and truly blown and Mrs Doubtfire is exposed as a fake. Miranda becomes hysterical and I will never forget the look on her face! Mrs Doubtfire is one of my favourite movies and Robin Williams and Sally Field play a great roles. And I like the San Francisco setting too. "},{"Title":"Mrs. Doubtfire","Date":"16 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" A very funny and sometimes emotional comedy drama starring the very talented Robin Williams. He plays an once-impressionist Daniel Hillard who has had to divorce his wife Miranda (Sally Field). He cannot see his kids, Lydia 'Lydie' Hillard (Lisa Jakub), Christopher 'Chris' Hillard (Matthew Lawrence) and Natalie 'Nattie' Hillard (Matilda's Mara Wilson), that often which is breaking his heart. When he hears that Miranda is placing an advert for a house-keeper, he thinks this is a way of secretly seeing his kids. With the help of the same makeup used for Jack Nicholson in Batman, Williams plays a very convincing woman in front of his ex-wife and children called Mrs. Euphegenia Doubtfire. Unfortunately a friend of Miranda's Stu (Pierce Brosnan) is inter-fearing with the time he has (secretly) with his kids. Also starring Harvey Fierstein as Uncle Frank Hillard, Robert Prosky as Jonathan Lundy, Liar Liar's Anne Haney as Mrs. Sellner, The Social Worker and Scott Capurro as Aunt Jack Hillard. It won the deserved Oscar for Best Makeup. Robin Williams was number 19 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, the film was number 67 on 100 Years, 100 Laughs, and it was number 26 on The 100 Greatest Family Films. Very good! "},{"Title":"A Fine Robin Williams Comedy","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" When Daniel and Miranda Hillard split up and Daniel (Robin Williams) is told he can't see his three kids everyday, it drives him to extreme measures.With the help of Auntie Jack, Daniel lands the job of Nanny to his three children and re-enters the lives of his family as Mrs Doubtfire. Completely unaware, Miranda (Sally Field) renews her zest for life and begins to depend on Mrs. Doubtfire as both a Nanny and a shoulder to cry on.With hilarious consequences Daniel has to keep up appearances for the Social Worker, His Boss, His kids and of Course Miranda.Brilliant Make-up and the comic genius of Robin Williams, bring Mrs Doubtfire to life, in this tale of Compassion, Trust and Comedy.A really entertaining movie, to be enjoyed by the entire family.8/10 "}{"Title":"A Hysterical Movie","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  *Spoilers*Mrs.Doubtfire is one of the funniest movies ever made. It tells the story of a man, named Daniel(Robin Williams), who can't see his children due to a court order. He dresses up as an old woman and becomes a nanny, named Mrs. Doubtfire, for his children. I never get tired of watching this movie, in fact I just finished watching it on HBO.The best part of this movie is when the family goes to the swim club with Stu. Mrs. Doubtfire, who is jealous of Stu because he thinks Stu is trying to steal his family, throws a piece of fruit at Stu while he isn't looking. When Stu turns around Mrs. Doubtfire blames it on an Angry Chef. That part really made me laugh.Another really funny part happens in the restaurant right before Mrs. Doubtfire is revealed. Mrs. Doubtfire and Daniel are both supposed to be in the same restaurant at the same time for different occasions. Robin Williams is constantly running back and forth to the woman's bathroom changing his clothes to be both people. That gave me some good laughs.Overall I love this movie and I suggest everyone to see it because you will get good laughs. I give this movie 10/10 stars.    "},{"Title":"AWESOME<HILARIOUS<CAN BE WATCHED OVER AND OVER< A+!","Date":"29 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  i have seen this movie for about the th time now and i still cannot be fulfilled. this movie has many laughter/sad scene which relates to some real life experiences, which is one of the reasons why i am attached to this movie. Robin Williams is portray's as a very affectionate father who's children are put on the line by this wife Miranda backed by various reasons. To be able to hang out with his children more often, he decides to crossdress to become an elder woman soon to become the nanny for the children while Miranda is out to work (which Miranda was seeking for). In this movie Robin William was at it best. He really showed what a golden Dad should be.... The last minutes of the movie literally put me to tears. the message in the last scene is very powerful, and convincing. The movie ending was superb as well just about everything else. The kids did a very good job of showing their unique personalities as well as be potent. The only drawback to this movie was the beginning of the movie where Robin Williams was just going overboard as well as the other actors. I just did not connect to the whole movie.  "},{"Title":"That wasn't so bad u cynics...","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Like i said above, sure the plot was simple, nothing legendary or earth shaking happened. The film was a good-hearted piece of work which tells, with some exaggeration, the universal theme of household strife. It also entails underlining messages mocking the American justice system (rather the workers of) as well as silly madness that is the trappings of a functional normal life. Sure there was some disturbing Freudian crap in there but overall it is all good fun. There was some pretty lewd (or wicked he/she did say) little things there too. Funny that the father-who takes the most risks, makes the wisest cracks (no doubt even kind of funny at times), and certainly the most interesting- it's just rather strange that one who enjoys and knows to enjoy life so much gets branded insane or unstable. The movie, taken at a deeper level, can be seen as parody of how impossible it is to live normal life and maintain a level of creativity and liveliness. William is pretty natural in his acts, most of the supporting actors r pretty good too. If u let go of whatever grudge u have against the world and just follow along, it's not so bad. Due to the perturbing nature of some of the more embarrassing scenes, i rate the movie a well deserved 8/10.  "},{"Title":"Mrs. Dubious Legal Advice","Date":"18 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Why is it that a man desperate to see his children, who dresses up like an old woman and invades his ex wife's home under the pretence that he/she's Irish is treated as a hero? When conversely I attempt to smuggle a Koala out of Australia, by dressing it up as an old woman, get a criminal record?What kind of society do we live in where the good-natured costuming of a marsupial is considered a crime and the evil machinations of Robin Williams twisted mind goes unpunished? Okay. So the koala went berserk and the plane had to make an emergency landing, but does that really make me a criminal? And the Koala was carrying 7kg of cocaine. It was these inaccurate parallels between real life and the sugarcoated world of Hollywood that spoiled this movie for me. Sure, everyday hundreds of fathers get separated from their children for no-good reason, but do they resort to transvestism? Well maybe some do and I'm sure they still love their children, but is that reason enough to make a film about it? Well maybe it is, but how can Hollywood endorse such blatant abuse of a man's right to dress up like a woman? Well it's probably because they'd make a lot of money in the process. I've forgotten what my point is.Anyway, evil Robin Williams does a good job of convincing us that he's a sweet natured Scottish woman, who's like a kind of modern day, old, ugly, non-magical version of Marry Poppins. But don't forget, he's an actor. He's acting like that, concealing his real evil plan of getting access to his children so that he can be with them and watch them grow up. Well Robin Williams, you don't fool me! If I had a Welsh nanny and her breasts caught fire in a hilarious cooking incident I'd be straight onto the police, requesting a SWAT team or an ARV!So here we are. With Robin Williams getting access to his children and me getting taken to court by the RSPCA for feeding cocaine to a koala (as if? Do you know how much that stuff costs? The stupid thing must have thought it was sherbet or something). It seems to me that the law has proven yet again that Hollywood has no idea about the real world, leaving un-trained writers and directors to feed the general public false legal advice.In summary, I'd like to see a film where a female judge (played by Rosie O'Donnell) gets separated from her kids for sending an innocent animal loving man with a yet unproven medical need for cocaine to prison. She'd then see how biased the court system is when she's forced to dress up as a battleship to get access to her kids. And then a crack-addicted koala attacks her, with a machete.  "},{"Title":"Are you people crazy? PAY ATTENTION TO WHAT YOU ARE WATCHING!!!","Date":"20 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Where is the story?? What is the point?? And where is Robin William's talent? If you like this movie -- go see the pitiful Flubber, but if you have even the littlest brain in your head -- or not a sense of humor like me -- you will hate it!!! 0 out of 10, like that matters, because I give it a zero with whatever. "},{"Title":"Mrs. Doubtfire with the vacuum cleaner","Date":"18 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  We recently purchased this video to watch with our children.  It had been a few years since I'd seen an unedited copy and I had completely forgotten how hilarious the scene where Mrs. Doubtfire dances with the vacuum cleaner and does air guitar with a broom were!I laughed so hard that my kids wondered what my problem was!  "},{"Title":"Cute, Subtle and hilarious!","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  They love. They marry. They have kids. Then there are differences, moral or immoral,leading inevitably to a divorce. Such is the fabric of modern American society where the 'happily ever after' theme is slowly but surely giving way to the grim world of courtrooms, settlements and the fight for custody of kids. This is what Mrs. Doubtfire is NOT about. It is also not so much about people as it is about their characters. For its slightly unrealistic but ultimately noble take on a father's love for his kids, Mrs. Doubtfire is justifiably an urban fairy tale. And an american one at that.Daniel Hillard (Robin Williams) is a struggling artist who is yet to make it big. His mammoth ego, self-respect & a ubiquitous search for the perfect creative expression often renders him jobless. His wife Miranda(Sally Fields) is more ambitious and successful. But she's unable to deal with her frivolous and obstinate husband, and on a day that was bound to come, calls it quits & Daniel is forced to leave the house. But for all his shortcomings, Daniel simply adores his three kids and they simply cannot do without each other. Miranda soon advertises for a nanny to take care of the children. With his job out of hand & his kids away from his sight Daniel yields to desperation and decides that the only way to be with his kids is to act as a nanny and seize the job. With some Oscar winning help from his cousin Frank (Harvey Fierstein), Daniel Hillard becomes Mrs. Doubtfire, a robust English woman with a funny accent and a love for football. Mrs. Doubtfire becomes and instant hit with Miranda and the kids gradually start liking her. The kids soon discover who Mrs. Doubtfire actually is and to avoid Mama dearest's ire keep it to themselves. Soon 'her' opinion of everything, right from the choice of the T.V. show to the vehement reproach towards Stuart's (Pierce Brosnan) blooming affair with Miranda, is taken heed of. Meanwhile Daniel manages to walk right into a lucrative deal of hosting a sagging T.V. show produced by a hotshot, Jonathan Lundy (Robert Prosky). Just when everything seems to be going Daniel's way, Miranda comes to know of the truth following a hilarious restaurant act.Robin Williams is indescribably good as the father who takes on the garb of an loveable nanny almost overnight. His performance as Mrs. Doubtfire fails words and in fact overshadows the character of the real Daniel Hillard. It would be unfair to ascribe the brilliance of the character to the lards of make-up for it genuinely has a restricted role. Watch 'Big Momma's House' and you'll realise what i mean. It is how Williams performs under the unusual garb that deserves accolades. Not only does he play the role with a convincing element of feminity (that in fact is more genuine than that of the real feminine characters in the film!) but at the same time keeps reminding us that it is Daniel beneath it all and not Robin Williams. His performance hovers on the verge of perfection and he manages to draw sympathy to a father's plight. Few films (and fewer actors) have been able to exhibit such sensitivity of character in a male protagonist. And when the credits roll you know that more than Robin Williams' victory or Daniel's victory it is a father's victory that makes the movie memorable.All said and done Mrs. Doubtfire is a film that is likely to make you laugh and cry both. And if that is not true you simply have to admit that there are few actors (and fewer nannies) as good as Robin Williams.Ten on Ten  "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"4 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  The PlotDaniel Hillard is divorced and wants to see his children more often and so devises a plan to disguise himself as a woman and become Mrs. Doubtfire, an English housekeeper who is better than Daniel himself.The ReviewThe film is long and is not meant for young or sensitive children, but for those who are able to take in the movie will find it enjoyable, funny and an old message that isn't put through well but it gets through. Robin Williams is a delight and his antics as a housekeeper are even more a thrill. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Hopefully you will be able to concentrate on the funny parts of the movie more than I did.","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie had a great cast, great casting directors, and won several awards. I thought that the movie was fine, but found that behind the comedy Mrs. Doubtfire is a sad movie. Golden Globe Winner for the part, Robin Williams (Dead Poets Society, Good Will Hunting) himself  is a very nice person indeed. The Julliard graduate, actor is extremely talented and funny. But with all its funny parts I think that a father having to disguise himself as a woman to see his children is a very sad situation. I recommend the movie, and hopefully you will be able to concentrate on the funny parts of the movie more than I did. My favorite quote Mrs. Doubtfire My first day as a woman and I am already having hot flashes.  My favorite Scene When Daniel Hillard is finally allowed to see his children by Miranda Hillard  Sally Field (Norma Rae).                       "},{"Title":"A Delight...except for one minor detail...","Date":"17 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed this movie thoroughly.  There's nary a film that can actually get me to laugh outwardly...but this one did, hands down.There was one thing that bothered me in Mrs. Doubtfire, although (and this very well might be the way one is supposed to think of her).  That thing was Daniel's eldest daughter, Lydia.Am I the only one who thought that her part was utterly obnoxious?  The only word that would come to mind when I saw Lisa Jakob perform her part was brat.  One of those kind of children who like to drive you absolutely mad at certain points of the day, and then later, put on these good kid acts that really make me want to vomit.Overall, I give this movie an 8 and a half...go rent it!  "}{"Title":"6.5?! What?! NO!!!","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Mrs Doubtfire is truly one of the best family films I have ever seen and it honestly deserves a much higher rating than what it has. I have watched this probably over 50 times and each time I love it even more. I refuse to accept the low rating for this film! It is a much-loved classic for everyone! Mrs Doubtfire is about Daniel Hillard (Robin Williams) and his struggle in life just so he can see his children. After Daniel and his wife, Miranda (Sally Field) call their relationship quits and get divorced, Daniel finds life a little hard to cope. Especially as he is not permitted by the court to see his three children Lydia, Chris, and Natalie anymore (limited visitation rights), until he gets a good stable job with a steady income, shows he can look after a house, cook, and all the other things men find it difficult to do by themselves. Daniel is desperate and his heart breaks when he cannot see his children whenever he wants. When Miranda places an ad in the newspaper searching for a nanny/housekeeper, Daniel takes action. With a little help from his makeup artist brother, Frank, Daniel becomes Mrs Euphegenia Doubtfire, an elderly Scottish nanny. This is Daniel's struggle to fit in and make it work as a nanny, and sort out his own messy life in the process.I truly love this film. As well as showcasing Robin Williams' finest acting talent it gives out a powerful message about divorce which is important today (check the divorce rates, people!)...AND this movie was made in '93! Go figure.Robin Williams is amazing as Daniel Hillard. This role was made for him and he could not have done it better. The voices, the look, the smile, the whole character in general, screams Robin Williams. His performance is outstanding and there isn't much that I can't say that hasn't been said before. Sally Field is a decent Miranda. She does not match Williams' excellent performance (not that she needs to), but does dish out a good end result. The three children, Chris, Lydia, and Nattie (Matthew Lawrence, Lisa Jakub, and Mara Wilson from 'Matilda' fame) surprise you by playing their characters very well. My favourite was Nattie, the little one, her big eyes and cute little lisp had me Aww-ing my brains out. And yes, Pierce Brosnan does make a cameo as Miranda's new man. He looks very charming and gets away with being the baddie, well he's the baddie in Daniel's eyes! This is a film which is very entertaining and dishes out a very strong message at the same time. If you haven't watched this yet you have to immediately! "},{"Title":"Great comedy, nothing else","Date":"9 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" The comedy in this movie deserves an 8/10 as it is marvelous and often hilarious. Director Chris Columbus (Home Alone) once again shows his particular expertise at handling such riotous goings on as he keeps the humour rolling thick and fast while sensibly keeping all other aspects of the film in the background. For sadly the drama in the movie only deserves a 3/10 as it is clumsily handled for the most part, and relatively disappointing. Although the narrative does avoid the painfully obvious, it does become weighed down with unnecessary emotional baggage and is too mushy at the end.Still in all it is a very funny feature, benefiting much from the manic Robin Williams (infinitely better in drag than out of it) who creates a real side splitting character out of Mrs. Doubtfire.One can forgive the obvious connection with Tootsie (the two movies would make a great double feature by the way - with the superior Tootsie screening first of course) as even that film was not the first of its kind. Loads of fun if you're willing to sit back, relax and let your sense of humour have a field day.Thursday, December 16, 1993 - Hoyts Cinema Centre Melbourne "},{"Title":"Totally bad! And immature in more ways than one.","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"     The movie Mrs. Doubtfire has the mental capacity of a 5 year old.  Heck, the script and the plot looks like it had been written by a bunch of grade school children!  Robin Williams plays a man who got divorced by his conservative wife (Sally Field) whom only wants her kids to study rather than have fun.  Then he's loses custody of his children and does the next best thing and disguises himself as a nanny to get to see them.  Hardy, har, har, funny!  Excuse the sarcasm there.    Robin Williams and Sally Field have wasted their time and acting talents with this pathetically unfunny excuse for a comedy!  Hasn't that 'Man disguises himself as a woman' plot been used long enough?  And the kids in the movie couldn't even aim their acting at a broad side of a barn!  Even the movie Glen or Glenda has had it's moments of hilarity, and far more funny than this stupid overrated flick!        I didn't even like this movie after I had seen it in the theaters!  RUN! Don't walk away from Mrs. Doubtfire!  Avoid at all costs!  Rent Tootsie instead! "},{"Title":"Possibly Robin Williams' best movie","Date":"10 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is a great movie for any time.  Robin Williams is incredibly good and funny.  The premise is very original and the movie has many great scenes. Some of the best Hiding his face from the apartment inspector, using all his voices in one sitting, putting on his different faces, throwing the lime at his wife's boyfriend (Pierce Brosnan), and calling his ex-wife so many times in different character.  Definitely worth seeing. "},{"Title":"Syrup and cynicism...","Date":"7 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Bright, if derivative, farce with Something to Say. What might have been a robust, old-fashioned, star-driven slapstick comedy quickly becomes a picture filtered through the newfound Hollywood sensibilities--meaning it attempts to mix pathos with the laughs. Mrs. Doubtfire is swathed in feel-goodness. It has a message deep down, and that's a disappointment. Robin Williams plays a divorced dad trying to earn a living as a voice-over actor but finding his ex-wife (Sally Field) pushing him away. Williams' solution in the 1990s seems to be the same as Dustin Hoffman's in the 1980s win everyone back while disguised as a woman, a big whirligig of sass and smarts to put everything back on track. As amusing as this is, the plot doesn't have any place to go in the second-half; Mom is dating again, and Dad, incognito as the family's housekeeper, attempts to thwart the romance. It's never made clear if the ex-couple still have feelings for one another. Williams argues with Field with wet eyes and a simpering tone (to tell us he's serious), but she is unmovable with him. It's an automatic downer to see a friendly, appealing actress like Sally Field turned into such a harpy--and not even to advance the plot, she just seems in a perpetual bad mood. The kids aren't annoying, and there are some sweet moments and laughs, but much of Mrs. Doubtfire is a combination of syrup and cynicism--not a good match. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A Disaster (Spoilers)","Date":"11 February 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This film is boring.  It ends on a question (will Robin William's children be healed now, as well as he?)  The idea of most men dressing in drag on the silver screen in funny; Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis did it in Some Like It Hot.  What makes this film unfunny is the snails pace plot, not Robin William's delivery.  This film should be skipped over, even by Williams' fans. "},{"Title":"Hardly Tootsie","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Decent enough comedy. Robin Williams is hysterical as always. Howver, this movie can't come close to Tootsie, I think Dustin Hoffman was so unforgettable in his role that he may have spoiled it for others. Although Williams is certainly funny, the man as woman premise will always be associated with Tootsie. That said, this is certainly a funny movie-I'd give it a 7.  "},{"Title":"Ecch","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie was torture to sit through, and remains one of the most depressing films I've ever seen. I tried not to compare it to Tootsie, which was truly funny and moving on a lot of levels, but this film had no real or believable story to it. It is as bad as any movie that's ever been hand crafted for a star; you can almost hear the suits sitting around in a board room saying Let's make a movie where we can get Robin Williams to dress up like an old lady, it will be hilarious!But Mrs. Doubtfire just made me sad. It was a real bummer when, for seemingly little reason, Sally Field decided to divorce Robin Williams and turned on him so severely that she didn't even want to let him see his own children for more than one day a week. Why would she do this? She wouldn't, of course, except the script requires her to, because otherwise there'd be no reason for Robin Williams to disguise himself. I know many custody arrangements can be unfair, but why would the judge order this kind of separation based on the details of this divorce? I do understand without these plot contrivances there would be no movie, so it must be that way. But it just made me really upset and made Robin Williams' character seem really pathetic and hopeless. I also hated the Sally Field character so much that I couldn't enjoy the rest of the movie. Overall, it was really sappy when it tried to be sentimental, and really obvious when it tried to be funny (like Robin Williams dancing around with a vacuum cleaner to Aerosmith's Dude Looks Like A Lady--get it? You know, cause he's a man dressed like a woman? Ha ha. Zzzzz.). The one thing I did enjoy about the movie was the final scene in the restaurant, which got a few laughs. It was too little too late though for me. Fans of Robin Williams will think it's really funny, and apparently this movie has its admirers since it has a remarkably high rating here on IMDb. I love comedies when they are truly funny, but this was just sad and cringeworthy, like a cancelled sitcom. "},{"Title":"Robin Williams follows the drag routine well; Doubtfire a fine feel-good flick.","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"15 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I'd just like to point out before I say anything about Mrs. Doubtfire that it does not even come close to surpassing Tootsie as the best comedy using this man-in-drag routine. At the same time, it definitely picked up its concept from the Dustin Hoffman classic, but I sincerely believe it does not attempt to pattern itself on that previous film either. This new entry with a man in a dress has its own story, its own heart tenderly in place, and has a lot of fun in the process. Even though it may not be brilliant like Tootsie, Doubtfire has wonderfully comic moments wrapped up into a heartwarming tale.Robin Williams stars as Daniel Hillard, a gifted voiceover actor who has a unique fondness for his three children, but is unable to hold down a steady job. When his wife Miranda (Sally Field) asks him for a divorce, Daniel is left in an unfortunate situation. Miranda gets sole custody of the children, and Daniel is able to see them every weekend, but he is not satisfied. He therefore asks his brother (Harvey Fierstein), a expert makeup artist, to turn him into a woman. Enter Mrs. Doubtfire, a 60-year old Brit who quickly becomes a housekeeper for the family. Daniel is able to return to his kids' lives full-time, in some form or another.This premise may seem a bit contrived, and may get you wondering how he could fool his ex-wife and kids into the whole scheme. The costuming and makeup looks good on Williams, but is it good enough? This is where Williams adds those comic touches and sugary substance to make Mrs. Doubtfire seem genuine. I truly liked both characters Robin plays, even though I didn't get a total sensation that the two were totally different entities. The film makers ask you to go along with it without too much argument, and as a matter of fact, I did.The movie's real triumph, I believe, is in its realism of divorce and its effect on parents and especially their children. Some may think the film's second act as ludicrous, when Robin Williams tries to chase off Field's new boyfriend, Pierce Brosnan. I don't think it was as much his jealousy over his wife that came into play, but rather being unable to accept another man entering into what was his place in their family structure. Here, you see a quiet nobility in his character, not that we totally dislike Brosnan or consider him a villain, but that we assimilate with Robin's cause. This gives the excessive slapstick and tomfoolery a deeper edge.I think film critics should have a heart when it comes to Mrs. Doubtfire. It does have a certain magic to it that is so hard to find in movies nowadays. I was moved by it, I laughed quite a bit, and overall had a good time. When it comes to entertainment, nothing else really matters. Rating Three stars. "},{"Title":"Hilarious Tootsie reworking","Date":"22 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" An entertaining comedy taking a lead from the cross-dressing favourite Tootsie. Where employment was hard to come by for Dustin Hoffman's performer Mike Dorsey, so in situ parenting is being denied Robin Williams' divorced Daniel Hillard, largely by his own willfulness. As a ruse to circumvent the visiting restrictions, Daniel dresses as the eponymous Doubtfire to nanny/father the children.This is a consciously sillier film than Tootsie - put Williams in prosthetics and a dress and you've got it coming, frankly. That said, the story is substantial and the performances perfectly good Sally Field as Daniel's wife and Pierce Brosnan as the luckless love-rival are game as a straight-guy double act. A well-handled feelgood. 6/10 "}{"Title":"The funniest film ever made!!","Date":"17 November 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This has to be the funniest film ever made! I love the film & the man himself. Robin played this part amazingly! )Every time I watch this it makes me giggle, it has some brilliant quotes like I'm a hip old granny who can beep bop, deep bop, dance til you drop & yo yo make a wicked cup of coco!! lolMy favourite part of the movie has to be the part at the poolside when Mrs Doubtfire throws a Lime at Stu's head! hehe.For those of you who like impressions, check out my impression of the woman herself to the man himself...Mr Robin Williams on the show SO Graham Norton )http//uk.youtube.com/watch?v=MlrXCizIZ58 "},{"Title":"Tootsie of the 90's!","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Another movie in drag? Only the elderly type. Here we have an actor named Daniel Hillard(Robin Williams) who left a cartoon job when he didn't like the part where his bird character smokes, and he leaves the studio Porky Pig style. So what did he do, throw a party in his house which would lead to his wife's (Sally Field) dismay. When the divorced, the children totally resent the mother. So what does Daniel do? he gets a job as a babysitter to see his kids in secret. Not as Daniel Hillard, but as Mrs. Doubtfire. The disguise is so perfect, not even the ex-wife could tell it was him. I liked the part where they played Papa's Got a Brand New Bag when he/she was vacuuming, then did the leap before you sweep. Robin got that scene down hard. It was even better when the character got herself a new show, Mrs. Doubtfire would live on in that show if not in real life. After all the babysitter hirers they were even put on hold, or rejected. Especially that one lazy wannabe sitter. It was very funny, and very heart-warming, it teaches a lesson on how to deal with divorce. 4 out of 5 stars! "},{"Title":"Story has flaws, but it's pretty funny","Date":"6 February 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" 'Mrs. Doubtfire' is a pretty funny film, but it really does not have anything else to offer other than Robin Williams dressed up as a female Mary-Poppins-style maid to try to get his wife and children back, while he cracks a few jokes. One of the biggest problems of this film was the lack of understanding as to why the wife's new love interest was so unworthy. Come on, he seems like the perfect man, if there is such a thing. Why would anyone want to feel sorry for Robin Williams for throwing it all away with his wife and children for being irresponsible? Okay, okay, he really cares about his children, but that other poor man... Anyway, as you can see, this film is more about the comedy than it is about a developed story. If you cannot stand Mr. Williams, then do not bother. Otherwise, it has a few laughs in it. "},{"Title":"James Brown-tosaurus!","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Just imagine Good Morning Vietnam transposed to San Francisco and you've basically got Mrs. Doubtfire. Out of work and now divorced, Daniel Hillard (Robin Williams) comes up with the most whacked-out plan he dresses up as the elderly British nanny Mrs. Euphegenia Doubtfire. From there, he's basically free to be as crazy as possible.Obviously, this movie may be overall about the importance of family, but it is a great excuse for Robin Williams to have a series of great lines (I really liked the scene where he was playing with the dinosaurs). With great support from Sally Field as ex-wife Miranda, Pierce Brosnan as her new hubby Stuart Dunmeyer, and Harvey Fierstein as Daniel's hairdresser brother Frank (I'm assuming that his character was gay), this is one movie that you can't afford to miss. "},{"Title":"A fine feel-good movie","Date":"11 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I can't compare Mrs. Doubtfire to Tootsie, Dustin Hoffman's classic, because I haven't seen that one yet. But what I can say is that overall I liked this one, even though it sometimes had its lesser moments. The story may not be very original, but thanks to Robin Williams it certainly is more than just worth a watch. I love to see him play and certainly in this movie where he has a double role. His facial expressions, his different little voices and his improvising skills, it all adds to the fun.In this movie he is Daniel Hillard an actor who is about to lose everything. He already lost his job and now his wife is going to leave him and take his kids away from him as well. Because he loves his kids so much and because he knows that his wife is looking for a housekeeper, he decides to fill in that vacancy. He disguises himself as Mrs. Doubtfire and is able to be with his kids every day, despite a court order.From time to time the story is a bit too sweet and corny, but overall this movie is very good and very enjoyable. This is really a feel-good movie that can and will be loved by the entire family. I give it a 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"How can you be negative about this movie?","Date":"5 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie is so well done...so entertaining...so funny and warm all at the same time, I can't understand any negative reviews about this film. I guess I have to understand that even the best films, sometimes people are going to criticize. But I will say this is one of the best comedies ever put to screen. Every time I watch it, I can't help but laugh histerically, and yet get sad at certain points all at the same time. It brings out a lot and a lot of children can relate and it may even help them when their parents are having the same type of problems. A must see for anyone. I couldn't want to add this to my collection. Go Chris!!!! I think the restaurant scene is one of the funniest scenes in the movie, but there are so many funny funny scenes that I give this movie a 10. "},{"Title":"Not a big Robin Williams fan, but...","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  It's fine to see Mork from Ork fans gushing about how perfect everything is that Robin Williams has even touched or ever will touch. In reality, however, he's just a decent TV actor who can also do cartoon voice dubs. That's why I feel that when someone like me praises a movie of his, it should mean a lot more. Watching Mrs. Doubtfire, I was forced to admire his sheer guts in tackling this Tootsie role (sans roll) despite the huge success Dustin Hoffman already had with it.Most of Robin's film parts amount to a large junkpile of bad remakes, half-written plots and other at least it's a fat paycheck duds. It is also mind boggling how he got an Oscar for his minor foul-mouthed cameo in Good Will Hunting. However, every once in a long while he incredibly rises far above his journeyman talents and rightfully dons the mantle of a true master of the art.He's done five other actually proper acting jobs, which round out an even half dozen when added to Doubtfire. And these few other fine movies are, not surprisingly, parts where he really doesn't play himself Good Morning Vietnam, Hook, Jumangi, Dead Poets Society and Cadillac Man.Well,most actors when their careers are over should consider themselves lucky to even end up with a trilogy of film classics in the can, after doing the usual 25 to 50 major works. Right now Robin's got those six gems, and he still has time to complete a crown of an even dozen. Of course he'd already have that now, if he had just said no when his agent called to ask him if he wanted to do flop-bound flicks like Shlubber, Jerk or Bicentennial Bum.  "},{"Title":"Robin Williams best movie!","Date":"24 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  Robin Williams plays a dad who loves his children but all goes wrong when he throws a surprise party for his son and then his wife (Sally Field) gets to clean it up so she wants to divorce him and she gets full custody...So Robin decides to dress up as a 60 yr old woman and goes by the name of Mrs. Doubtfire....I loved the scene where Robin was calling about the ad in the paper for the housekeeping job for sally field and her kids....Lelia get back in your cell dont make me grab the hose! His voices were a riot! Lisa Jakub, Matthew Lawrence and Mara Wilson play the three kids who love their dad..Good appearance from Pierce Bronson 007 as the guy who like Sally Field alot...The scenes at the restaurant towrads the end were really funny... I give this movie 3 and a half stars ***1/2 "},{"Title":"A bit over-rated","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This film was okay, it passed a couple of hours and its certainly one of Robin Williams better films...but... could someone explain to me why he went through the whole film pretending to be a Scottish nanny a decent accent and everything and right at the end, during the television studio scene...He/She says that he/she comes from a place far away called england ???  eh?? That should surely be added to the Goof section. 4 out of 10..one mark taken off for the end Goof ! "},{"Title":"best comedy of the 90's","Date":"26 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie is without a doubt one of the greatest comedies of the 1990's if not all time. I could watch this movie over and over again and laugh just as equally as the first time I saw it. Robin Williams is at his best when he becomes the nanny of his own children after he and his wife ( Sally Field ) split up. Nobody could play Stu better then Pierce Brosnan either. The only person you could see being a first class cocky designer snob. The funniest scene in the entire movie has to be when Williams dips his face in the cake and by the time the night cream was dripping into Mrs. Sellner's tea I was dying. Original and fun, this movie gets **** stars from me.  "}{"Title":"Good but no great.","Date":"30 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I was very excited to see Mrs. Doubtfire but I thought it was going to be better.  It has its funny scenes so all and all its a good movie which makes you laugh.  I give it a 6/10 "},{"Title":"After nearly 20 years, I have to wonder...","Date":"31 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I don't think that this film has aged well. Did we realize how unsympathetic,short-sighted, and selfish Amanda Hillard (Sally Field)was? Did SHE realize it? Life was all about how it affected her. And the kids--how long had they lived in San Francisco and NOT seen a cross-dresser?Second, between the close-ups on the kids and the ham-fisted socially progressive dialogue, particularly Mrs. Doubtfire's monologue at the end, the producers of this film must have become tired swinging those double headed hammers at our heads hoping we'd get their message. The script--and by extension the movie--is kind of like an ABC After-School Special and Lifetime Channel movie rolled into one.Now notice CAREFULLY that I have not mentioned Robin Williams' performance. His exchange with the social worker at his apartment, ending with a cake facial is nothing short of miraculous. It makes my wife laugh hysterically every time she sees it. "},{"Title":"England is not an island.","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Out of curiosity, Robin Williams character has a Scottish accent (according to trivia notes) but why does he mention at the end of the movie that he is from the island of England? If England is an island, where does that put Scotland and Wales? I've noticed this a lot from the North American culture.....especially on TV. I was taught that Britain is an island consisting of three nations...England, Scotland and Wales......therefore all three nations are British not just the English. I know it sounds pedantic, but would people from the US like to be called Canadian or vice versa. Please don't get me wrong......I am not complaining, just wondering why this is so. "},{"Title":"Funny and wonderful movie","Date":"13 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  This movie is great.  If you haven't seen it, rent it and view it.  Very, very good!!  Robin Williams is as great as ever, in fact he out did himself in this one.  A must see!!!  Kinda like the movie Tootsie with Dustin Hoffman only much, much better.   "},{"Title":"An uncomfortable mix of broad comedy and pathos....","Date":"26 May 2012","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" A woman (Sally Field) wants 'to find herself' and decides to divorce a seemingly nice husband (Robin Williams). Not content with only this, she tries her darnedest to separate her kids from their loving father. So, in order to be with them, the dad decides to go in drag--dressing up like an old British nanny. Hilarity ensues.I know I am in the distinct minority on this one, but when I saw Mrs. Doubtfire I disliked it--and so did my wife. As we both sat in the theater, we heard folks laughing and they seemed to like it. We just felt it was incredibly depressing and not particularly enjoyable. The problem is that for us, combining very broad cross-dressing comedy with a Kramer Versus Kramer plot did not work in the least. Instead of laughing at Williams' exploits, we found ourselves stuck--focusing on the selfishness of the wife and wondering if any SANE person would do what Williams did in order to see his kids (the answer, by the way, is clearly NO). It also came off as a bit creepy. So, you have a selfish wife, a goofy husband and a plot that is utterly ridiculous--and a recipe for a film that we found very hard to like.By the way, I am no Robin Williams fan but he did a good job with the material he was given. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"7 March 2010","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Before I begin, let me say that I am very much a Robin Williams fan...but even every film he makes can't be a total knockout. The last film he made that I loved was Patch Adams. I may be somewhat behind the curve since I no longer follow current movies closely, and hardly watch TV at all. Mrs Doubtfire is sort of Tootsie 'light'...Dustin Hoffman's predicament was a tad more believable than that of Robin Williams. And, sad to say, I think Hoffman really had the last word when it comes to comedic farce such as this attempted to be. I found it to be quite boring, and the story line was exceptionally weak...and contradictory. Why should Sally Field break up the marriage because she came home form work and her son was having a birthday party? That's ridiculous...and I have to wonder what kind of Mom would respond in that way to her son's 12th birthday? So what if there was a petting zoo outside and a people zoo inside. It's the kid's birthday, for crying out loud. I just wasn't buying it. Then, for Robin Williams to take the 'Sir Galahad' stance he took when, as a voice over artist, one of the characters puffs away on a stogie...an implausible situation...I cannot think of an animated cartoon...old or current...where a character smokes anything--other than say a pipe for an older character, or a cigar for a gangland type. It may happen with cigarettes, but it certainly is the exception rather than the rule . And this position loses credibility at the end of the film when, at a dinner engagement, Doubtfire insists upon a smoking rather than non-smoking booth in which to dine. The humor is so forced--because the situations are beyond absurd and not likely to occur in the fashion presented--that the wind is taken out of the comedic sails of his passion, and it is so predictable that one can very easily become distracted or indifferent as I did when trying to watch this very difficult to watch film. The lackluster direction of Chris Columbus contributed, no doubt, to the boredom of this celluloid catastrophe. He has no pacing, no comic timing, and it seems that any an opportunity to make this film a true vehicle for the screwball comedy of Robin Williams is wasted because the director did not seize upon opportunities and situations. This Christopher Columbus needs to discover something different...he needs to discover comedy, in all of its variant forms. Williams and Fields are much heralded performers, but their skills and talents are wasted in this feeble attempt. I watched the film once, and I would not want to sit through it again. Nuts to Mrs Doubtfire. "},{"Title":"Doesn't deserve it's popularity","Date":"6 March 2005","Score":"10 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Sorry, everybody, but I think its time for this movie to be debunked. There are just too many things wrong with it. Its only redeeming feature is the fact that it gave Robin Williams a chance to clown around for a while in his standard fashion, but that's it. Sally Fields once again demonstrates that she has, ever since The Flying Nun, displayed all the acting skill of a piece of cardboard. She's great at giving the distressed kitten grimace, and her ability to do this is just now being surpassed by the actress who plays the preacher's wife on the Monday evening sit-com Seventh Heaven.To begin with, the title of the film, and how they arrived at it, is silly.The sight gags (falsies catching on fire, etc., etc.) are amateurish, as are the accompanying lines (  . . . hot flashes . . .  ).What was the point of the air guitar interlude? That was annoying and totally out of place.The costume-changing double-character back-and-forth routine in the restaurant falls completely flat. It has been used many times before, and it never has worked previously, so why did the screenwriter try to get away with it this time? Interspersing that scene with tasteless references to group sex just made it worse. Plus, they could have eliminated most of the alcohol without sacrificing content.The ending is awkward, contrived, and phony. It seems the writer just didn't know how to bring it all to a conclusion, and so he just kind of tied a few loose ends together and went home.Finally, there was in my opinion an incident of totally irresponsible content in the screenplay, that of one of the characters intentionally poisoning a rivals food with an ingredient to which the man is allergic. This should never have been included in the script. This is a personal crusade of mine. To suggest that this act is funny, and suitable material for comic effect, is reprehensible. Food allergies can be killers, and this scene was no better than cinematic inclusions of such slovenly, amoral maneuvers as cruelty to animals or child abuse. It should have been deleted from the script by the review board. "},{"Title":"My kids liked it... I thought it was kinda stupid...","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I really never saw the 'enormous' talent of Mr Williams... I remember watching him as Mork and just ended up turning the TV off and went outside to play baseball with my friends...I guess he strikes me as an 'intellectual' comedian when all I wanted was W.C.Fields slapstick... Mr Williams best work was 'Good Will Hunting', he was actually quite good in drama, in most of his comedy work he is portrayed as the person everyone (except the villain) just loves and cannot get enough of, 'Good Morning Vietnam' comes to mind, he was a disc jockey in a war and everyone LOVED him... Am I missing something here, his rants in that film are almost embarrassing...OK, the guy is dead, but, Mrs. Doubtfire was awful IMO... He won't take a paying voice-over role for some lame reason, most people would be happy to just work... He throws a party for his kid that is soooo over the top, animals walking around the house, dancing on the table etc, I almost felt like calling Sally Field and telling her to get home quick! When she told him to take a hike I cheered for her, he was obviously in need of therapy for that episode... Then he turns into a desperate stalker/cross dresser so he can be close to his kids, he should have thought about that before he turned down jobs and exposed his children to his manic and sorrowful behavior....That is when I stopped watching this dreadful film and went outside to play baseball again... Like I mentioned in the summary, my kids liked it and laughed a lot, but then again they were young and laughed at almost anyone who acted stupid... "},{"Title":"Like an own-brand Tootsie","Date":"2 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Everyone knows films that the rest of the world thinks are wonderful but you think are pap. This is one of mine. I need a name for this. Think I'm going for Beschissenegeliebtenfilm. You know I don't like schmaltz, and of course this film is full of it. It's just that kind of film- you know what you're going to get, and for people who like that sort of thing, it's great. My big problem with it, though, is that the central premise is Robin Williams being an actor who can do voices. Unfortunately - as great an improviser as he was, and for all his talent and humanity - Robin Williams was not a very good actor. And on top of this, the Scottish accent he does is absolutely appalling. And THEN, we discover that it's not even supposed to be Scottish, as Mrs Doubtfire is English, from England. Marvellous example of 90s Hollywood being wonderfully ignorant of the rest of the universe. Speaking of 90s Hollywood, it must be said that I derived a great deal of pleasure from the wardrobe and set design. I also thought it was a wise choice to make Brosnan's character a decent guy who obviously cared about Sally Field and her kids- would have been far too obvious to make him a greasy villain. Anyway, I really didn't like this film at all. Not just because it was the sort of film I don't like anyway; mainly because of Robin Williams' acting. Also the fact Sally Field mentions furnishing a property with a 17th Century piano, when they didn't have pianos in the 17th Century. A disgusting oversight, about which I'll write to my MP. Yetanotherfilmreviewblog.tumblr.com "},{"Title":"Good Robin Williams Film","Date":"2 April 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" The opening scene is as brilliantly structured as screen writing otherwise comes. It has a middle-aged man named Daniel, whom we learn about as he quits his job as a vocal performer for a children's cartoon after he realizes his employers are immoral. This sequence provides us with a development of the character's inner personality, strong morals and consciences. The audience also leans that he is a silly, easy going person. We soon find out it is these characteristics that propel the movie into the first plot point.Daniel's wife, Miranda, wishes to divorce him because he is too goofy and immature. We are propelled quickly into the firm second act after the divorce. Before this point, we have witnessed both actions and dialogue reallocating Daniel's love and compassion for his family, especially his children. The film sets up the for following events using Robin Williams character as the plot advancer.Daniel lusts for time with his children so much, he confidentially disguises himself as a sixty year old woman then applies for a day-care job for his ex-wife--this would allow him to be around his children more often. Miranda falls for it, and the master of disguise gets his opportunity. The film then takes us through a hilarious and emotional journey into the lives of a typical American divorced family.The internal problem becomes more complex when Daniel's ex wife shows romantic interest in a new boyfriend, underplayed by Pierce Brosnan. The filmmakers could have done more with the Brosnan character. Here, he seems developed with repetition and dialogue. Although his purpose is to accommodate romantic competition, we don't know enough about him to care that much. "}{"Title":"Truly awful","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Beggars belief that anyone could think this piece of nonsense is the slightest bit amusing. Robin Williams is nothing more than annoying and not once in this so called comedy could he raise the slightest of smiles. Truly dreadful piece of garbageNever been a fan of Robin Williams, his attempt to deliver zany humour is nothing more than cringeworthy and this his worst example. I actually felt sorry for his fellow cast members in this as he attempts to pull face after face and deliver corny attempts at humour in this thin, pointless piece of rubbish. For me this belongs on the shelf along with National Lampoon's Men in White, Re-possessed and anything in the Scary Movie genre as the biggest load of trash ever put on film. "},{"Title":"Mrs. Doubtfire, a movie with many sick innuendos.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I always viewed this movie as a nice family movie until recently when my friend and I were discussing it.  We realized that in fact it really is messed up and twisted. The plot is about a guy that loses his family and dresses up as a woman to be with his kids.  You know how messed up that is?  The guy can't get a normal job so he goes to his gay brother Uncle Frank, and his assistant Aunt Jack, to make him a woman.  Just hearing that line makes me sick. Another gay innuendo in this movie is when they are in the swimming pool complex and Pierce Brosnan is on the diving board and Robin Williams comments What a fine piece of work he is.  Purely revolting.  Also, when he is at the bar in the swimming area and that lady walks up and he says in his male voice Can I buy you a drink?.  That makes me think of an old lady lesbian trying to pick up a young girl.  That messed me up inside. Something else I just remembered is when he is calling his ex-wife pretending to be women and he does the one voice saying he doesn't work with the males 'cause he used to be one.  Implying that somehow and for some reason he thought about sex changes, disgusting. At the end, in the courtroom when he actually tries to get his kids back even after the fact that everyone discovers he is a drag queen.  Thank God the judge said he had a sick behavior and should seek counseling. In closing, I would like to say that people should not watch this movie. It is very distorted and trying to get across that people should do ANYTHING to get something they want. "},{"Title":"I see that grass is growing again.","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"10 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  How has Robin Williams been so successful in his career?  Sorry, I should to change that to 'How has Robin Williams (Good Will Hunting excepted) been so successful in his career?' This is not my usual response to actors who have been in the movie business for as long as he has, (and I can't resist saying it) too long in his case. I don't know if it is him who makes the movie so pointless, or it is the movie who makes him look pointless, and this is about all I can say, pointless, not a glowing recommendation is it.  Cynics would argue that all movies are pointless, in the grand scheme of things.  And that me commenting on one such pointless movie is nothing more than hypocrisy.But movies generally do have a point.  I definitely am the better for watching The Big Lebowski, The Great Escape or Clerks, as it gives people like me (the sort of person who wants to impose his opinions on other people) something to fill the quiet parts of my day with, to laugh about, to enjoy discussing. As Barry would ask in High Fidelity, what are your top 5 movies of all time? I bet there's not many of you reading this (thanks by the way) who have not compiled such a list in your head, or written one down, or laminated it afterwards (I jest of course), but it is an interesting topic of conversation. My top five isn't important enough to list (well it is, but I'd need to know yours as well), but it was easy to think about, which ones would I leave out? (big decisions)  My worst 5 movies of all time list was much harder, try it yourself, you'll know what I'm getting at.  I mean, even I can see good in Dirty Dancing. So we get back to Mrs Doubtfire.  Along with Alive, this movie was the first to pop into my head for my worst 5 list. How has Robin Williams been so successful in his career?  I know not.  But at least it gives me something to bitch about. "},{"Title":"Proof that Americans are insane","Date":"18 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I remember this being quite popular when it came out. Hard to believe as it's probably the single worst movie concept of all time. Robin Williams loses custody of his children in a divorce, and decides to continue seeing them by disguising himself as a 60-year-old nanny, thereby proving that he should not be allowed to raise children. This might work as a ten minute SNL sketch where he keeps coming to the house dressed in various disguises (ala Inspector Clouseau), or as a psychological horror, but here we're supposed to just go with it and pretend his family won't recognize him in a wig. Lots of comedy ensues as Williams struggles at doing typical housekeeping tasks (remember, we're supposed to believe he'd make a good parent). The climax in the restaurant is more terrifying than it is funny. Stick with the far superior Tootsie if you insist on watching movies with A-list actors in drag. "},{"Title":"Terrible film","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is a dreadful film. Although the script is reasonable, and the story deals with valid, real issues, it is extremely removed from reality. Forget suspending your disbelief, you have to switch your brain off entirely! I made the mistake of going to the cinema to see this film with a girlfriend. I felt embarrassed for the great Robin Williams and just cringed at the ridiculous nature of the plot. We were both were in two minds whether to walk out of the cinema or not. In the end we stayed but it was definitely a waste of 2 hours of my life... Maybe I'm just not suited to films of this genre - I also didn't like Big or Vice Versa. "},{"Title":"Put it out of our misery","Date":"29 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  I loathe this film because its immense popular success has persuaded Robin Williams to turn away from genuine humor to bathetic love me feelgood claptrap.As a film itself, Mrs. Doubtfire is an insulting piffle. Williams' kids wouldn't recognize their own father in theatrical makeup? That itself is the saddest thought in the film.If you want a truly engaging film for the family, rent The Iron Giant instead. "},{"Title":"Suspension of Belief","Date":"9 September 2005","Score":"8 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" I like Robin Williams . I like comedies . What I find impossible to believe is that Mrs. Doubtfire looks like a female human . Instead Robin Williams looks like someone in a mask . A bad Halloween mask . Couldn't they find someone who knows the least little bit about makeup ? If the makeup doesn't work nothing works . The comedy doesn't work . The sentiment falls flat . Everything hinges on believing the characters . Maybe if Mrs. Doubtfire caused everyone to laugh uproariously at the bad makeup job I'd be interested . Perhaps .The makeup job done on Dustin Hoffman in Tootsie was first rate . Sure , she was plug - ugly . But at least he - she had a human face .You want to talk about good makeup . How about Max von Sydow in The Exorcist ? He looked so realistic that he actually had a hard time finding work after the movie because everyone thought he was eighty years old . I didn't bother looking at the name of the  artist  who did the makeup on this movie . But could it be the same person who did the makeup on the Wayans brothers on the movie White Chicks ? I wouldn't be surprised . "},{"Title":"A horrible transphobic movie","Date":"4 June 2012","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" This is one of my all time HATED movies. I watched this when I was 7 and found it okay but now re-watching it, I find it is transphobic. When Mrs. Doubtfire urinates standing up and the boy sees, he immediately runs to his sister to say call the police. This is implying cross-dressing or being a transsexual is against the law. It isn't! Implying that is discriminating amongst people that are transgendered. Many parents probably will not see this but this movie is the exact opposite of what you want your children to see. It promotes prejudice against the transgender community. They will think it is okay to be transphobic in the future. Why? Because of this movie. "},{"Title":"Just awful","Date":"29 April 2005","Score":"6 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Not one funny seen. Site gags that had all been performed before.Redeeming message Kids, its not your fault when your parents get divorced? Did we really need this movie to deliver this message? The plot has conflict, but the villain is a caring, responsible, parent. The protagonist is a loving, but irresponsible adult. There is someone to hold up on a pedestal. Being simultaneously compassionate yet reckless is such a tough feat. We really need to celebrate more unstable role models so that our future generations don't feel compelled to participate in society in a productive manner that is respectful of others. "},{"Title":"Probably the worst film I have ever seen...","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"8 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":"  When I wrote Probably the worst film I have ever seen, I lied.The film was so bad that I walked out of the cinema before the film finished.  It wasn't funny, had no story, and the vision of Robin Williams in a dress plus full make-up made me feel physically sick. "}{"Title":"Bad acting and bad story","Date":"25 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Family","Review":" Robin Williams continues acting in awful movies. The story is far away from funny. His acting also.The whole story is gruesomely, and can make bad influence on children, in my opinion.Maybe it is funny for newborns because the faces Mrs. Doubtfire makes..But not amusing for grownups, and children at age 3+ !The movie isn't based on funny characters and funny situations, as it should be. On the contrary, the main idea of comedy that the movie presents, are distorted faces, and too blown-up situations. It's a classical example how a movie can insult humans intelligence. "}]