[{"Title":"At least it keeps you guessing....","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"33 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sliver was not nearly as bad as most reviewers have suggested, in my opinion. It may be true that Joe Eszterhas rehashes his basic formula one more time here - Is the person with whom the hero/heroine gets sexually involved a murdered or an innocent victim, framed by someone else? - but it's a formula that works, that grabs your attention instinctively. The plot is flimsy, yet inherently interesting. Maybe this thriller would've been tighter if the gratuitously protracted (and not very erotic) sex scenes had been trimmed down in length, but Baldwin is magnetic in his role and Sharon Stone, great to look at as always, also gives a decent performance; they both overshadow Tom Berenger who doesn't make even the slightest impression.   (**) "},{"Title":"Going against the consensus, but I like this film!","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"32 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Whether it's Sharon Stone, or the obvious truth about my voyeuristic tendencies, I like this movie. Sharon has seldom been more alluring and Baldwin's character, with his eerily magnificent toys, lives his life observing others. A movie for the CNN generation I'd contend.  "},{"Title":"Sharon Stone is convincingly vulnerable in otherwise silly film","Date":"13 September 2003","Score":"22 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A New York City apartment complex is beset with strange deaths and cameras everywhere; new tenant Sharon Stone is dating the mysterious owner, but could he be the killer? Based on a flimsy novel by Ira Levin (who was slumming, but that's a different story), this unappealing film wants to be both sexy crime-thriller and murder-mystery, but it is such a mess from a writer's standpoint that, in the end, all you have left are the performances, which aren't dynamic enough to carry the thing. Sharon Stone is low-keyed, perhaps a bit self-conscious, yet this works for her tentative character. Too bad the filmmakers were so concerned with exposing the killer that they lost track of this woman and her plight. Drop all the mystery, and you might have a decent character study. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A sexy thriller in more ways the one","Date":"7 July 2006","Score":"16 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Out of 1993 comes Sliver the sexy top-notch thriller that is very well done, but slightly misses the mark towards the end. Sharon Stone's character Carly Norris is a respected book editor with pretty much no social life, until she moves to a new apartment building called Sliver Heights, where she meets William Baldwin's character Zeke Hawkins and the two form a very passionate relationship. Of course being a thriller, something isn't quite right, and so Carly searches to find out what is going on.Stone and Baldwin are both excellent in their leading roles. She's attractive, he's handsome and both are charismatic. There's some steamy scenes between the two of them, Stone's character is one that you can really care for. The supporting characters in Sliver actually do what supporting characters are supposed to - support. Tom Berenger's character the dodgy Jack Lansford is the is he or isn't he red-hearing, and is played well. Polly Walker plays the vampy Vid Warren, Carly's apartment neighbor, and is a good parallel to the reserved Carly. Colleen Camp is Judy Marks, Carly's incorrigible assistant and she is terrific. Finally, CCH Pounder plays the detective, Lt. Victoria Hendrix, though she is rather under-used here, this not being one of her best performances, probably because of the fact that she is under-used.Sliver provokes some interesting topics of conversation for your next cocktail party, namely the notions of privacy and what would you do if you had the power to watch almost whoever you wanted, as Baldwin's character did. With the increasing notion of Big Brother is watching you in today's society, Sliver seems even more relevant to our lives. Sliver is presented in a glossy manner with a cool soundtrack and is relatively fast-paced. However, while the ending is effective, more could have been done to raise the notions of privacy that I previously talked about. Other than that, Sliver is a very sexy thriller. "},{"Title":"Shallow pulpy romance/suspense/mystery","Date":"3 November 2006","Score":"16 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Decent acting doesn't salvage this poorly scripted, over-sexed, story of a 30-something woman (Stone) who seems to make all of the worse possible choices in places to live and boyfriends. Sliver is the beautiful but apparently haunted (or at least dangerous) apartment building she moves into on the rebound from a lengthy failed relationship. Vulnerable, Stone is almost immediately courted by her new neighbors - Berenger and Baldwin. Inexplicably, she doesn't even consider moving when she learns that several unresolved murders, suicides or accidental deaths have occurred in the building, including the former occupant of her own room who looked just like her. Both of her suitors are creepy and seem about as trustworthy as politicians, and it appears likely that at least one of them has committed some terrible crimes.This film must have made a better grade b mystery/suspense novel than a movie. Not having read the book, I can only guess based on my experience with the pulp mystery genre that the film follows its plot closely. All of the main characters seem to be either sex addicts, perverts or impotent men, and this provides an opening for too many boring and unnecessary sex scenes. I suppose these were meant to fill in the gaps left by the vacuous plot and the uninspired script.In terms of mystery, Sliver's central plot succeeds, as it does (somewhat but not completely) keep you guessing right up to the end. However, the plot would have made a much better 30 minute or hour-long episode of a TV detective show (minus the sex). Sliver is overloaded with baggage and filler - too many sex scenes, a little too much character development (especially considering how shallow, irrational and absurd most of the characters are) and not enough psychological realism.Overall, I found the film slightly entertaining, but a little difficult to get all the way through. "},{"Title":"Lousy Plot, Not Quite Porn","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"15 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Finally saw the uncut version of this on a premium channel. First, the movie was based on a novel by Ira Levin, who wrote Rosemary's Baby years ago, about a bunch of weird witches in a kinky New York apartment building and several unexpected deaths in the building. This is about a bunch of perverts in a kinky New York apartment building and several unexpected deaths in the building. So there's an odd feeling of familiarity.Next, the script, by Joe Ezterhaus, is Basic Instinct meets Jagged Edge. The film starts out like a classic woman in peril film, except the woman is Sharon Stone and the camera lingers on her obsessively. It's soft porn in some shots and hard core in the shower scenes where we get to imagine her masturbating. The scenes with her in them just go on and on. (Yes, she is/was beautiful, but a fabulous face can't carry this sorry mess.)Its a mish-mash of a bad plot, bad dialogue, uneven acting and we've seen it all before. Twice. Nothing new is added to the film to make it interesting except the concept of voyeurism and it's not enough. "},{"Title":"Gives invasion of privacy a whole new meaning!","Date":"11 July 2006","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I don't why many people put this movie down so bad. Anything with Sharon Stone is good. This movie is just as kinky as Basic Instinct, only more high tech. Working for a publishing company is a hard job to take, even if you went through a rough marriage and trying to start over, finding yourself shouldn't be so hard. Not with Carly Norris(Sharon Stone). She moves into a new high in New York called Sliver Heights, she gets a room which the deceased lived. and their she meets the owner Zeke Hawkins(William Baldwin) owns Sliver Heights, and he thinks he God. This man is not only the owner, he's the biggest voyeur of that complex. A voyeur(Peeping Tom) like him make others look like amateurs. I liked ever scene of this movie, the love scenes, the shower scenes, the conversation scenes, and he actually records them which I think is downright obscene. Sharon never looked any hotter in that movie, and he character is really hard core all the way. The author Jack Landford(Tom Berenger) seemed to be a decent character, however his shady past makes him the target for police. When he was killed, the murders stopped, but the voyeurism was way more sinister than the crimes earlier. So Zeke was given a major attitude adjustment there, and I think it's time for a new owner. This movie was really hardcore, imagine for what the unrated version would be like! Rating 3 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Had potential","Date":"27 January 2006","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Stone moves into an apartment building, has weird neighbors, spooky things start happening left and right, perv Baldwin watches her through surveillance cameras etc.Sliver had potential. While it's not a total time waster it is very disappointing. Director Noyce doesn't seem to know exactly what kind of film he's making here, always promising something that never comes. Rumour has it that the film was drastically cut and re shot and the end result here is not satisfying, though I don't know what was originally planned, but it must have been better. It has it's moments, certain scenes work very well and suspense is easily built but not sustained. As said, the ending is ridiculous and really hurts the film. Stone is simply a goddess and delivers a good performance but William Baldwin is utterly intolerable, why this man was given leading roles in big budget Hollywood films I will never know. The always reliable Tom Berenger isn't given much to do and his role is a rather thankless one, underwritten and somewhat degrading. Sadly his career went downhill from here on. "},{"Title":"What couldn't happen in real life doesn't stop Philip Noyce from making this useless piece of film","Date":"18 March 2004","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Total spoiler ahead. How did Tom Berenger know the model would take the stairway and have a knife ready to kill her with(ESP?) during those unexplained convenient power failures? And why are all those rich people living in a place with that kind of problem? Why are the cops so stupid that they accept that the other women committed suicide with no reason to believe that and how did Tom get out of jail(other than plot expediency) when it would be obvious due to blood splatter evidence that he did kill the model and didn't just happen upon her? When you use garbage psychology and phony untrue to life situations to make a  crime thriller, you cheat the audience and show your contempt for them(Same as in Basic Instinct). Anything that Noyce,Esterhaus and who ever else was responsible for this ever make again should be boycotted. The real crime was this movie. "},{"Title":"Pretty good, often chilling","Date":"5 May 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" 35-year-old book editor Carly Norris, who was married for 7 years but is now having trouble starting a new relationship, wants to move into the posh high-rise Sliver Building on New York's East Side. She is surprised by how quickly her application is approved, but college professor Gus, who also lives in the building, says Carly looks just like the previous resident of 20-B. A number of the building's residents seem friendly, especially Zeke.Someone is able to see what is going on in the apartments, and this person even has videotapes of some of the action. In addition to whoever this person is, Carly is also spying on people after someone gave her a telescope. Specifically, the couple having sex in a nearby building.Carly's boss Alex won't give her a raise. He does take her to lunch, where they meet Jack Lansford, author of 'Flesh and Blood', which Carly has never read.Strange things start happening in the Sliver building. And Carly knows something happened to the woman who had her apartment. The movie has a chilling quality that increases as time passes.I thought Sharon Stone did a good job here, but her best moment was a funny scene where Carly's date wants to see her panties. And Carly did have a surprising reaction to ... well, I won't give it away. Stone was quite good in the scene, though.There was plenty of good acting, but I think CCH Pounder stood out as one of the detectives.Overall, I was happy with the movie. It was a little violent, which is to be expected, but just tense enough to be interesting. "}{"Title":"Sliver  One of actress Sharon Stone's most successful films !!!!","Date":"27 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" At the time of its initial release Sliver was billed as an erotic thriller. Its Hungarian-American writer Joe Estzerhas was highly popular due to his successful scripts which were huge box office hits in Hollywood. This influenced Australian director Philip Noyce to such a large extent that he decided to helm a film project based on his script. This film was made in early nineties, a highly productive phase for actress Sharon Stone who starred in two successful erotic thrillers. Sliver features a very risky romantic relationship between a heterosexual couple in which the 'true identity' of the male lover is not known. It is the excessive use of surveillance cameras as a tool to spy upon people which propels the film's central premise. Actor William Baldwin plays the role of the character who takes immense pleasure in pursuing this activity. Apart from its excessive focus on mystery as a narrative device to mesmerize viewers, director Phil Noyce and Screen writer Joe Eszterhas are able to move their film forward with extreme caution as the answer to the vital question about who is the killer is neither revealed nor understood by audiences until the very end. This substantial quality enables Sliver to be hailed as an intelligent thriller. "},{"Title":"A surprisingly good movie...","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I waited 18 years to see this movie because I had always heard how terrible it is. When it first came out, I seem to recall thinking it highly implausible that someone could have the kind of video and audio equipment you see in this movie. But the equipment and its use in the film is entirely plausible, even in 1993.I found no problems with the plot. It's an interesting thriller with something that's hard to find--a unique story that hasn't been told a thousand times already. The acting is good. The characters and their actions are completely believable. I was never left thinking that a real person might not have done the things that the people in the movie did.Having seen the movie, I really don't understand why so many people criticize it so harshly. In terms of telling a compelling, entertaining story, I would say it is far better than movies like Hereafter and on par with a movie like the Adjustment Bureau (just two recent movies I could think to compare it to).If you haven't seen it, give it a chance. "},{"Title":"Great direction, cinematography, and sound design, but only a so-so script.","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Stylistically this is one of the best films from the early-mid nineties. But style isn't substance.  The script was less than perfect going into production, and several endings were filmed for lack of a clear resolution. But don't let that stop you from seeing this film.  Stone and director Noyce polish a bad script into a fine music video.  It's like watching VH1 merge with the Playboy channel.  A fine soundtrack with an even better unreleased score from Howard Shore play well against the dramatic, color-rich backdrops and voyeuristic black and white camera shots.  It's very easy on the eyes, and perfect for a $14 dvd (if they ever release it). "},{"Title":"Ever get that feeling you were being watched?","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Not many movies can do what Sliver has accomplished. The fear and joy of voyeurism. Is it moral to watch your neighbors without them knowing, we all do it right? But one person has gone to far.You will feel scared and aroused!!! And the next time you walk around naked in your living room or hit your spouse in a heated argument, you may want to shut the blinds and turn off all the lights first.  "},{"Title":"an erotic thriller without any thrills or eroticism","Date":"5 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (i've only seen the unrated version which runs a full 4 minutes longer than the R-rated version so these comments are based on that version)apparently, the filmmakers were trying to rival Basic Instinct by hiring Sharon Stone, and cramming as much explicit (though unerotic) sex in as the plot would allow. the reason why basic instinct worked is that you could tell the actors were playing their roles with just a hint of parody sprinkled throughout. plus, the explicit sex was actually integral to the ludicrous plot. well, in sliver, everyone seems to be taking this movie WAY too seriously and the plot is even more ridiculous.the only reasons i can recommend renting this is to see how fabulous sharon stone looks with a short hair cut and the well filmed but uninvolving sex scenes.rating4 "},{"Title":"You Like To Watch...Don't You!","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sliver is a sly, cunning piece of sex and eroticism based on the novel by Ira Levin and adapted by Joe Ezsterhas' seedy pen. Sharon Stone plays Carly Norris, a lonely Manhattan book editor who moves into a luxurious toothpick-thin  (the sliver of the title)  building.  Two men, Zeke Hawkins, a computer game designer, and Jack Landsford, a burnt out author, compete for Carly's affections, but Zeke wins her.  Very quickly residents of the building are being killed off, including Gus Hale, a man Carly briefly met, and Vida Warren, who appears to have had a secret relationship with Jack.  Then Zeke reveals his most secret, private, intimate obsession to Carly  he is a compulsive voyeur and has every unit of the building wired with video cameras, and he watches everybody! Sliver is a very good mystery/suspense film that contains some graphic scenes of sexuality and true thrills.Sliver is Unrated for strong sexuality and nudity, mild violence and some gore, strong language and drug use.Note  The Unrated version of Sliver contains two minutes of additional sexual material cut from the film's theatrical release.  "},{"Title":"Awful, boring, and plotless","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Justifiably reviewed as one of the worst films ever made, this film of Ira Levin's book has a plot that is nearly non-existent. The usuably superb Stone and Berenger can't even do much to upgrade this lemon.  A would be mystery, the only mysterious element here is how the scriptwriters expect us to believe that Sharon would prefer the goofy looking Baldwin over the handsome Berenger. "},{"Title":"Underdeveloped","Date":"30 November 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sexually inactive book editor Carly Norris (Sharon Stone) gets a new apartment in a Manhattan high rise before learning that the previous tenant went over the railing to her death. She does a little microfiche sleuthing and finds that other tenants have met untimely ends. Seems that evil is aloft. Meanwhile she meets two guys intent on releasing her from the sexual doldrums, one a best selling macho writer (Tom Berenger), the other a pretty boy with charm (William Baldwin). Somebody mysteriously gives her a telescope so she can check the action through the windows of the high rises around town. Meanwhile we are flashed shots of the tenants as though on video tape. Stone opts for Baldwin who seduces her. This is interesting Stone crying tears of joyful release as she climaxes. Afterward it is revealed that he owns the apartment and has set up surveillance cameras in the walls to spy on the inhabitants.I forget what this is ripped off from-maybe Crawlspace (1986)-but believe it or not, there was a man in Alaska a few years back who actually did this sort of spying on a modest scale. He had a four-plex or the like with peep holes in the bathroom, etc. It was on the news. Here we have high tech spying from a war room with monitors along the wall and an easy chair. Charming boy truly likes to watch.The main problem with this film is the source material. Ira Levin, who penned the novel, never presumed to literature while managing a very successful career shocking the book club set with such made-into-movie hits as Rosemary's Baby and The Stepford Wives. His first success, and perhaps the only thing genuine book he ever published, was No Time for Sergeants from the fifties. The other novels suffer from flashy fake premises that lead to psychological waters never fully navigated. In Sliver what is not engaged is the character of a man who would choose to spy on his neighbors as a way of life. It is like throwing him in a grab bag to make him into your standard issue psycho killer. As such he is left unexplored.A secondary problem is Phillip Noyce's uninspired and underdeveloped direction. We can see, even without reading the novel, that heroine Carly Norris was a somewhat frumpy, sexually fallow woman headed straight for matronhood. If only they had the guts to play her full out like that. But Stone seemed ill at ease in such an unfamiliar role and Noyce couldn't be bothered with nuances. A tertiary problem is the casting of Stone in the first place. It might be said that Miss Stone, with her on-screen rapacious sexual appetite and her success at any cost cinematic persona, is truly a woman for the 'nineties. (If so, it makes me long for the woman of the 'oughts.) At her best Stone is a professional without charm, but unless she is cast as a slutty, evil, predatory female, she just doesn't cut it at all. In the war room she reverts partially to her usual persona as she goes along with Baldwin's sick program, and she comes to life. Here we glimpse what might have been done with the premise the surveillance cameras strip away all privacy and for a moment the man who welds them is exposed as a nazi-like monster, while she is confronted with her own compromised nature.A final problem is the ending. It's an inappropriate joke told by someone insensitive to any context. Yet I can see how Noyce thought it might work Carly Norris not only looks like his mother, but now she punishes him as a mother would, by destroying his toys and telling him to grow up. She actually says, Get a life. Maybe she should have given him a spanking as well.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"27 December 2005","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sliver feels like one of those movies, not uncommon in the early to mid 90's, where the film-makers tried to add as much sexual-tension as they possibly could. Of course much of this is because of the success of Basic Instinct.The main problem with this approach is that i feel it warrants a sure hand. Otherwise you'll end up with a movie that lacks drive and in worst case just becomes silly. Unfortunately Sliver both lacks drive AND becomes silly. While i feel that Basic Instinct is a good thriller i don't know if trying to copy it is such a good idea. Basic Instinct worked mainly because of the chemistry between Sharon Stone and Michael Douglas in the two leads. Paul Verhoevens directing was mostly intent on creating appropriate moods and settings for their encounters. Here on the other hand we have a (seemingly much less dedicated) Sharon Stone having no chemistry whatsoever with William Baldwin. The fact that Baldwin is not even close to Michael Douglas acting-wise doesn't help either. But the failed sexy approach is not the only thing wrong with this movie. There is also the insanely crappy story of murders happening in a house full of cameras, and still no-one knows who the killer is.In the end Sliver fails where Basic Instinct succeeds. The era of sexy thrillers has passed now fortunately, and this is one of it's biggest disappointments (considering actors, budget and ambition). I rate this 3/10. "},{"Title":"Ugh","Date":"13 July 2000","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Bad, bad, bad movie, carried only by the alleged star-power of Sharon Stone and featuring another Baldwin reject and about as much eroticism as an obscene phone call. The film also boasts one of the worst endings ever committed to celluloid. Avoid at all costs. "}{"Title":"Strictly for fans of Sharon Stone. Everyone else should stay away from this stinker.","Date":"13 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  (my comments are based on the unrated version)It's pretty clear that the filmmakers of Sliver were hoping to cash in on Sharon Stone's breakthrough role in Basic Instinct. Unfortunately they didn't get anything right.  First of all, the plot meanders along to a conclusion that is painfully obvious was tacked on at the last minute. The numerous sex scenes, while fairly explicit, are decidedly unerotic. Sharon Stone doesn't even show hardly any skin as well (even though she could make a trash bag look ravishing.) And the film falls under the curse of the Baldwin Brothers factor. If you want to see Sharon Stone completely unihibited (and undressed) check out Basic Instinct (it's a fun film.) If you rent Sliver expecting more of the same, you're going to be sorely disappointed.rating3 "},{"Title":"A lonely book editor moves into a Manhattan high rise and later discovers that the place is the scene of several bizarre, unsolved murders.","Date":"17 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"     Stone is only passable in her role in this disappointing follow-up to the 1992 mega-hit BASIC INSTINCT. However, she's better than co-star Baldwin who's so annoyingly smug one waits earnestly for someone to knock him off. Unfortunately, that never happens. The talented supporting cast is thoroughly wasted, but the biggest weakness of all is the script by Joe Eszterhas who, incidentally, did the script for BASIC INSTINCT. The novel on which the film is based, by Ira Levin(ROSEMARY'S BABY, THE STEPFORD WIVES), was a good, solid suspense story. Eszterhas, more concerned with attracting the sex-crazed audience of BASIC INSTINCT, unfortunately concentrates more on the kinky and frankly boring subplot involving voyeurism. And yes, there are a few moderately steamy love-making scenes, but it's hardly worth the trouble. Those who still wish to see this film should note that it's out on video in two different versions the R-rated version that played in theatres, and an unrated edition that contains more sexually explicit material that was later cut from the film to avoid an NC-17 rating. "},{"Title":"Kind of a mess, with a good conclusion","Date":"11 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Let's get right to the point Sliver was made with a main purpose- serve as a vehicle for Sharon Stone after the very fine Basic Instinct. It clearly does that, without a shame. Yes, she masturbates on her bathtub while William Baldwin observes her by a hidden camera. Yes, she takes her underwear off in a restaurant. Yes, she appears naked many times. And now you'll say it's just a matter of chance...Sliver had a good idea, a good premise, but the result fails miserably. The direction by Phillip Noyce is weak. The acting, if not bad, is really bland. The dialogues are sometimes a shame to hear, and the situations make your face turn red. And there is an unforgivable lack of suspense and mystery. Sliver was sold as an erotic thriller, but it's difficult to know what it is in fact. There are many plots, and any of them works. There's an obscure suicide in the beginning. Stone arrives and everyone says she looks like the dead girl. Everyone in the building seems to have a secret. Then we know there is a killer, who may be William Baldwin, who observes people by hidden cameras everywhere in the building. He and Stone have a hot affair. But a lot of things happen and... There's no surprise. No BIG twists. This is the main problem of the film. The identity of the killer and other secrets should have been more obscure and in the end everything would have been jaw-dropping. But no. They preferred to show Stone's naked body, Stone masturbating on the bathtub, Stone taking her underwear off in the restaurant, Stone having wild sex with Baldwin. This worked well in Basic Instinct but here it just turns into vulgar.The highlight of the film, the only thing which remains in my mind years after seeing it, is the conclusion. I know almost everyone hated it and accused it of being very abrupt. But in my opinion it's the best part with no shadow of doubt. Unfortunately, it can't save the whole result- a mediocre mess, with few good moments.5/10 "},{"Title":"Poor movie, but worth a peek","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is neither one of suspense or eroticism as the commercialisation suggests.  The plot never seemed to unravel into anything special, which is shown with the incredibly poor, abrupt ending.  One scene, the stair to lift scene, shows promise, but is over too quickly to keep the viewer suspended. It is however one of the famed stone sex series, which although doesn't rival Basic Instinct can be erotic with Sharon's fabulous figure and great experience in that field.  Mainly the script writers fault.4/10. "},{"Title":"Not as good as i remember, but still a good movie.","Date":"15 July 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" SLIVERI remember watching this quite a lot in the 90s. I loved this film along with other thrillers of its time.The movie is about a woman who moves into a new apartment block. She starts to get a few people saying that she looks a lot like the woman who killed herself that used to live in her apartment. When she starts to make some new friends in the area, she discovers that there is more to this coincidence than she first thought.This is a typical Sharon Stone film of the 90s. It is full of sex and suspense. The story is quite good, and the mystery element to it is actually not that bad. There are times when I watched the film and thought I knew who the villain was, but as time goes on your mind changes about 5 times. When you watch the movie, you realise it could only be one of two people&#x85; but you really are not sure who it is until right at the end.I enjoyed the movie, but to be honest it was not as good as I remember it being. This happens a lot when you return to an old film that you have not seen in many years. It is a shame, but your opinion changes on movies, and with the rapid changes in the effects that Hollywood has made, it is not surprising that you all of a sudden think that the films are not as good. But I still enjoyed it. I thought it was entertaining and I had forgotten who the bad guy was anyway, so the film was still a surprise for me.The movie stars Sharon Stone, William Baldwin and Tom Berenger. Sharon does a great job. She had a very good career in the 90s but just seems to have dipped off of the radar. I believe she is making straight to TV movies now&#x85; it is a shame because she is a talented actress and she deserves to be on the big screen. In my opinion, the last great film I saw her in was Diabolique. William Baldwin did a good job at playing a creepy, slimy guy. He was just weird throughout the whole film. I know he was supposed to play the good looking but suspicions type, but he just came across as creepy. Tom Berenger should have had a bigger role really. He was good in the bits he was in, but to be honest he had a relatively small role.The drama and suspense in this film is the thing that carried it through. I wanted to know who did it&#x85; The ending was OK, but I thought they could have had a bigger ending. It just kind of felt it just ended. There was more that could have happened.I did like this movie, but it is not Sharons best.I will give this film 7 out of 10.You like to watch? Watch this!For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"Get a Life","Date":"29 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This is one movie that should be great and isnt. The lack of chemistry between the two leads. Phillip Noyce has nasty habit of abrupt endings and this certainly has one of the worst. Stone looks like she wants out.The Script is lousy. A Big Summer Turkey. Rotten. 1 out of 10 "},{"Title":"A really great and perspective thriller,one of my favourites","Date":"5 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sliver is a thin murder mystery that takes place in some Manhattan apartments.When a woman called Naomi Singer is murdered by getting thrown off her balcony,the whole thing is made out to look like a suicide.Sometime after the misplace,Carly Norris moves in to the apartment after a seven year bad marriage hoping to start a better marriage.Carly is a book editor who soon after moving in uncovers the murders that took place in her aopartment and that Naomi Singer looked like her.She is pursued by Zeke Hawkins and Jack Lansford.Carly embarks upon an affair with Zeke,but when she discovers the cameras that have been watching her,strange occurences begin and the murders start up again.Sliver begins slow but adequately and shot in great cinematic detail until the final climax at the end of the film.William Baldwin, Sharon Stone and Tom Berenger bring up a great cast and perform stunningly.If you are looking for a great type of erotic thriller (Sharon Stones sex scenes are great),then I recommend this as top quality.  "},{"Title":"Peeping Tom's fantasy","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  There are great Peeping Tom films (Alfred Hitchcock's 'Rear Window' is one of them) and there are bad ones. Unfortunately this falls in the latter category. Lushly produced, cast and directed 'Sliver' fails on all counts as a thriller, mystery or drama. Sharon Stone buys an apartment in a 'sliver', a tall apartment building in Manhattan. To the neighbours she bears an uncanny resemblance to the previous tenant, who fell (pushed?) to her death from the balcony. She slowly realises that there are more similarities between herself and the dead girl and begins to panic. All this is of no concern to the viewer as Stone hooks up with hunky, rich William Baldwin and menacing failed novelist Tom Berenger. More interesting is the supporting actors. Martin Landau as the concerned neighbour. Polly Walker as the drug-taking model/actress, CCH Pounder as the detective and Colleen Camp as Stone's wise-cracking, sex-hungry best friend. BEST LINE Colleen Camp  'I've been using my vibrator so much I've developed a plastic yeast infection. You like to watch? Unfortunately, I didn't. **1/2 stars.  "},{"Title":"Extremely stupid and pointless. (strictly for Sharon Stone fans)","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  It's immediately apparent that the filmmakers were trying to capitalize on Sharon Stone's Basic Instinct fame by making this very poor and sloppy film. Sliver is an erotic-thriller that fails miserably on both counts and has an ending that is laughably awful.Sharon Stone was apparently cast due to her willingness (at the time) to participate in explicit sex scenes and the fact that she would bare all in front of a camera. But the funny thing is is that she stays clothed throughout most of the movie, including the terrible sex-scenes and it's clear that she wasn't comfortable with the role or the movie. And it's easy to see why, it's just plain bad!  The first sex scene between her and the Baldwin brother looks like she is in extreme pain and comes across as more comical than anything else. The plot also meanders all over the place with an ending that was clearly a reshoot. I felt like I had wasted 2 hours of my life that I would never get back after watching this piece of junk.  The only people who would have any interest in watching this would be admirers of Sharon Stone, since she really does look pretty. But people expecting a decent skin flick would be much wiser renting the considerably better Basic Instinct instead.Sliver is unrated but contains  strong sexual content, nudity, violence and strong language. it also is available in a less explicit R-rated version as well.Rating1 "},{"Title":"Cool soundtrack, fairly good flick!","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sliver was riding the 'Basic Instinct' wave, but still it wasn't too bad! Im suprised there is so many bad reviews of this film!I liked it, I've seen it a few times and it's still entertaining to watch. Not the best thriller but it certainly had an interesting 'voyeurism' theme going- similar to 'Rear Window'! Except this time the residents of the apartments are watched by cameras instead of through windows! The plot wasn't great but the acting was fairly good, and plus it had one of the best soundtracks! *** out of *****! "}{"Title":"A very ordinary movie by any standards","Date":"26 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sharon Stone plays Carly Norris in this movie.  Unlike Basic Instinct that at least had a clever plot, this movie;s story line is pretty lame.  I am sure many watched more for Stone's nude scenes than for the movie itself. Any movie that relies on this for interest is going to struggle.Baldwin plays Zeke (the Geek).  Apart from Backdraft, Billy really hasn't had a hit.Not the greatest, but for lovers of Sharon Stone, she gets the gear off again. "},{"Title":"Cheap and dull follow up to Basic Instinct with voyeur angle.","Date":"20 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is weak in MANY areas not the least of which is Sharon Stone's performance. After Basic Instinct, many expected at least an erotic sequel instead of a dull and uninspired rip off.Sharon plays an executive living in a high rise with great views (both in AND out). Some creep uses cameras to spy on everyone while random killings are also taking place. Could he be involved? Will he have sex with Sharon Stone? Will Sharon Stone have a Basic Instinct flashback? ... and these are the last (taped) days of our lives at Sliver Heights...I guess after the 500 watt light bulb used to light up her crotch in Basic Instinct, Ms. Stone decided not to give us too much nudity in this one. Too bad - because there's nothing else to watch in this film... "},{"Title":"Uneven psychological sex-thriller","Date":"15 June 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Carly Norris has just moved into a fancy high-rise Manhattan apartment building, a sliver. After having her application accepted very quickly she soon finds out that the previous tenant in her apartment was not only killed, but Carly looks just like her. Signs point to the fact that the killer is someone Carly knows from the building...The plot tries to tackle some pretty deep psychology by probing into human nature's curiosity and compulsiveness, but only manages to scratch the surface, if that. The film also spends too much time developing as a who's the killer? movie to tackle any deeper subject matter. The list of suspects is also surprising limited so any who has seen a few films in the genre will narrow the mystery here to only a few key shreds of evidence, though the actual ending might still not be totally expected, it won't be satisfyingly clever either. The film's misguided development brings about some serious questions since there are pretty big changes in character, yet very little happens to actually merit them. In a brief, but interesting scene, Carly is dared to take of her panties in a fancy restaurant as part of a game. Pretty risky game that would require a good amount of nerves and build-up, yet this is the first (and only) game they ever play. These things go on and what is left is an uneven psychological sex-thriller that even manages to deliver only mediocre sex scenes. --- 4/10Rated R for sexual content and some violence "},{"Title":"One of Sharon's best!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this little blockbuster failure back in 2000, and I was surprised to why this film didn't receive a wide-span audience. Sharon Stone is finally a woman who is not the antagonist, but the heroine of the film. Billy Baldwin was sexy as the voyeur, who draws Sharon into his deadly web. Tom Berenger, on the other hand, was a character I didn't care for. He just wanted Sharon because she looked like the woman who was killed off (Naomi Singer, played by Amanda Mackey, who by the way, looks VERY much like that of Sharon Stone). I quite liked the Brit neighbor, played by the quirky Polly Walker, who was vulgar to her agent and love interest toi Tom Berenger. I love the building, especially. The interiors and exteriors are simply breathtaking, as so are the cinematography of the city. See it on a hot day, for erotica purposes!!8/101993 108 minutes Rated R CC. "},{"Title":"You won't like to watch","Date":"18 May 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This film is an obvious capitalization of Basic Instinct's success. As usual in these cases, it fails. While the plot is promising, it never creates the proper atmosphere and it lacks depth. It is worth just for Sharon Stone, who is a pleasure to watch, and the redeeming soundtrack. "},{"Title":"Your mission to watch the beautiful Sharon Stone","Date":"8 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  You have to admit, Sharon Stone looks fabulous in Sliver. Her appearance makes me captivated for the whole movie, and I think her short haircut is just perfect. And in odd ways, because of her, somehow I can enjoy the movie. So, your mission, should you choose to accept it just sit back, relax, and watch the beautiful Sharon Stone.   "},{"Title":"could have been a great classic thriller, but .....","Date":"8 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The idea of Sliver is unique and was never done before esp by the time it was released which was the early 1990s . by then the audience were sick and tired of seeing people with gloves killing someone and they wanted new approaches to crime thrillers , the director has ruined the idea of the film by the narrow view of stone as a sex symbol and how everyone wants to sleep with her . he could have made it more interesting by adding the element of surprise like not knowing who is watching these people on video or by adding a twist to the story of the man who sleeps with his little girl. also by hiring more sophisticated male actors unlike Baldwin who came across as immature and clichéd .Berenger didn't add any dramatic effect to the plot ,and looked like he was doing a cigarettes ad metaphorically speaking . Stone seemed cold and very controlled by the director' s narrow vision of the film and how he was keen on making another sex themed thriller like basic instinct instead of concentrating on the great potentials Sliver would have . the ending was very disappointing and forgettable . all in all the director had the chance of a life time to make a great classic thriller where people would think twice before they do anything because someone might be watching , but instead he went after cheap sex scenes and a predictable plot. it is worth watching after all just to see how Stone was coping with massive success of Basic instinct which led her to make the wrong choice because she was under pressure to stay the Hollywood sex symbol . "},{"Title":"This Movie Was Okay......","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I will say that when I watched it was to view something sexy, because that was what I was in the mood for, and it was coming on HBO, so I thought Why not? I was UNimpressed with Sharon Stone's performance as a vulnerable somewhat inexperienced woman. She'd tried almost too hard to make it convincing and I just couldn't buy it. I thought Billy Baldwin was Okay, but I've never been really impressed with him as anything but a pretty face.The ending was just ridiculous, plain and simple. It was like they just completely cut off the movie with an idiot one-liner as soon as they showed who the real killer was. BUT....we don't get to see any further, like, WHY did the killer kill the women and why did he blame the other? Was it jealousy? And was Zeke really attracted to Carley and Naomi just because they looked like his mother, or was that really his mother in the pictures at all? And honestly, I thought Carly should have fed into the voyeurism more than she did.All in all, it just wasn't convincing. I think they could have had something with this movie. But they needed to make a decision, was an erotic film, with the focus on the sex and voyeurism, or was a murder mystery? "},{"Title":"Slender","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sharon Stone's first post Basic Instinct (1992) role casts her in the Michael Douglas style role of the prior film, beset by an unknown murderer in her newly moved into New York high-rise (a Sliver building). The former tenant, another blonde, jumped or fell off the balcony. Good music, stylish photography, intriguing ideas can not compensate for a script full of holes, and an unsatisfying ending (which was re-shot for an allegedly even poorer original ending). Stone is fairly competent as an attractive, uptight divorcée, while potential suitors William Baldwin and Tom Berenger look great and support well. But the whole thing doesn't jell. "},{"Title":"one deficit","Date":"25 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  SPOILER!!!!! I have one thing that I can not understand in plot. Baldwin's tape apparently appears that the murder who killed Naomi who is very similar to Stone is not Baldwin but Berenger. and Baldwin must know it through the tape. then, when he was suspected to a murder by Stone and Berenger intended to take the guilty to him why didn't he show the tape which can improve his innocence to his girlfriend? this movie gave me the stark image that have a unreasonable plot  in order to just make audience confused who is a murder.  "}{"Title":"Plot is Good-Acting is good- Script-Poor!","Date":"14 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I Saw Sliver the other night with a couple of friends and the movie could of been worse. Its Entertaining in some ways and the acting was decent but The writers could of made this a Great film and failed to do so. The Ending was very Aburpt and could of ment more. One Thing that this film did master was its Sex Scenes. They had alot of meaning and have an ACtul backround unlike most movies where they just Kind Of Lets GO!. Great acting by decent actors in this film but the film could of been carried if it just more spice to it. If you want to Rent a film where you dont just want to be WOO'ed but entertained- rent it Plot 7/10   Acting 8/10  Sex Sences 10/10  Script 3/10  Directing 5/10Overall 6.6/10 "},{"Title":"watch this movie with a chick if you want to get some...., other wise don't bother","Date":"16 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is great to watch with a date....but Basic Instinct is better. I watch this when I don't have my favorite bisexual on hand. It looks great, fabulous photography, not very good suspense, Sharon Stone can't really act(Basic Instinct exempt). Otherwise, this is just Joe Eszterhas taking a couple perversions(which he is good at)...and throwing them together. Not a very good movie...maybe a  4, a 5 being nice...just because this film as helped me out in a few situations.=) Otherwise, rent a better movie.Brad "},{"Title":"Wired","Date":"3 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Philip Noyce directed this steamy thriller that stars Sharon Stone as Carly Norris, a book editor moving into a New York apartment building owned by young Zeke Hawkins(played by William Baldwin) with whom she begins an affair, not knowing that he has secretly wired the entire building with his closed circuit television where he can watch all the tenants like a TV series. Tom Berenger plays Jack Landsford, an author who is also a murder suspect, as someone is murdering female tenants in the building, and Carly may be next... Misfired thriller is hopelessly muddled and unsatisfying, though Sharon Stone's sexy performance is by far the best thing about it. "},{"Title":"Would-be 'erotic' thriller","Date":"14 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If the sight of Sharon Stone and William Baldwin gyrating their way through a series of long and drawn-out sex scenes is appealing, then I'd recommend SLIVER, one in a wave of erotic thrillers that populated the mid-1990s in the wake of BASIC INSTINCT. For movie fans in general, though, SLIVER is a bit of a non-starter.The film's biggest flaw is an overly familiar script, which has an interesting premise involving voyeurism but does little with it (other than inviting the viewer to participate, a theme which has been done to death these days anyway). Sharon Stone moves into a high-tech apartment block where people are being murdered, and we're supposed to care about what happens next.There are flashes of interest and inspiration throughout, usually involving the supporting cast. Watching Tom Berenger chewing dialogue is always a delight, and ROME's Polly Walker shows up too, although sadly not for very long. The talents of CCH Pounder and Martin Landau also end up wasted in favour of dull, slightly wooden turns from Stone (who displays none of the charm and allure she essayed in BASIC INSTINCT) and a sweaty, unpleasant Baldwin.The thriller aspects are unevenly handled, and Aussie director Philip Noyce (who directed DEAD CALM, one of my favourite thrillers) drops the ball more than once, failing to elicit suspense from scenarios which should be tense and atmospheric. SLIVER isn't all bad; the most undemanding of movie fans might even enjoy it, but I'm afraid I've been here way too many times to see anything even remotely interesting. "},{"Title":"What went wrong with this movie?","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  This could have been a hit like Basic Instincts; but in the final stage something went wrong. Why? They had one of the most expensive screen writers, a novel from a recognized writer; they had also a hot actress and handsome actors and the director was a pro; so, maybe the problems are based on the changes made in the transit from the novel to the screen.I've read the book, and seen the movie. Who decided to change the original ending into a flawless conclusion? The main theme, erotic voyeurism, was turned in a bloody and violent who-do-unit, spiced with carnal sequences. Was this made in order to please the average audience? Fear of losing their attention?Someone said that the eroticism lies over the absence or the unreachable of the desired object; in this story, this happen while the male character spies on Sharon Stone while she is on her own intimacy; but when the things get in person the plot is forced in the movie trying to make it more suspenseful; and then, the film falls in the common place.Although, it is remarkable the prophetic treatment about Reality TV and its influence in the human mind, years before the waterfalls of Big Brothers and Survivors invaded our media sedated lives.Well, soft porn fans, become voyeurs and enjoy the show without any remorse; there are lots of tasty lust to watch. "},{"Title":"'Sliver', a sex-murder thriller is much more disappointing than compared to its slick production","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sliver (1993) Sharon Stone, William Baldwin, Tom Berenger, Martin Landau, Polly Walker, Nina Foch, CCH Pounder, Colleen Camp, Keene Curtis, Nicholas Pryor, Amanda Foreman, D Phillip Noyce. Lonely book editor Stone moves into a high-rise Manhattan apartment complex beset with a history of deaths. With her getting more and more involved with video-game designer Baldwin and writer Berenger on her pursuit, she gets the feeling someone is watching her and that's when she has to choose who out of the two men is a killer. It's hard to say that this slumming movie fully goes all-out to be what it wants to be a voyeuristic murder-mystery thriller, by the director stressing a high importance on selling sex and violence. Joe Eszterhas's disappointing script is exploitative and empty, and after reshooting the abrupt and changeable ending (that changed the killer's identity), it's still in need of another rewrite. From an Ira Levin novel.Running Time 106 minutes and rated R for strong sexual content and nudity, violence, and language. **   "},{"Title":"Well produced thriller.","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sharon Stone moves into a high rise apartment (Sliver), after getting divorce, but always feel like she is being watched and that's just the beginning of her nightmare. The acting is good and their are some pretty steamy sex scenes. It is also extremely well produced, but a last minute ending change hurt the film a bit. But it does remain entertaining and the film is easy on the eyes. 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Only good for one thing.","Date":"3 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There isn't much of a story here, there is mostly just sex. There is suppose to be some murder mystery in an apartment building but that story is put on the back burner as we soon watch what the character is watching in his apartment. I was so distracted by all the sex that I really forgot what this movie was all about. This movie is weak when it comes to the mystery of the whole thing. There are only two people there in the whole mystery to figure out who did what. As for the erotica, it's pretty graphic so cover the little kids eyes. I hope people don't let little kids watch it. It's a very adult movie with not much of a really strong story. I did enjoy some of it but I could've used a stronger mystery. As for being a movie with hot passion, I enjoyed that. "},{"Title":"A sliver of a movie","Date":"27 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Spoilers!SLIVER, starring Sharon Stone, Tom Berenger and William Baldwin, is not much of a movie. I call it a grey movie it's neither exciting nor thrilling enough for a thriller. It's neither deep nor dramatic enough for a drama. It's neither this nor that. It's just grey. It's easy to figure out who the killer is that they had to come up with an ending that had nothing to do with the revelation of the killer. Originally, Baldwin was the killer, not Berenger. But they reshot scenes before the movie was released. So, when you thinks about this for a minute (they were willing to make Baldwin the killer and yet in the final cut, Baldwin is not the killer. Just a peeping tom), the fact that they change who the killer was at the last minute tells you how flat and grey the rest of the movie was. The killer's identity was interchangeable. The killer could have even been a fire-hydrant and it wouldn't have changed anything in the rest of the movie. The music is good though! "},{"Title":"A Brilliant Thriller...","Date":"17 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I hate when people bash this film, for it has been and probably always will be my favorite movie of all time. A thoroughly constructed and mastered plot line, beautiful cinematography, a delicious soundtrack from hot 90s various artists such as Enigma, a sultry and subtle power score by Howard Shore and Christopher Young, and the greatest actress who ever lived Sharon Stone. Sharon Stone is at her best as Carly Norris. William Baldwin is weak, but I guess passable. Tom Berenger is fantastically entertaining. Polly Walker is a joy. Martin Landau, in a small role, is a nice surprise. People for years have told me that this film is torrid and boring, weak and heavy handled, and so on and so on. I disagree. It's perfect, and I hardly think movies are perfect they can always have a little something more, or a little something less. When people say like most of you people on these message boards that the ending is no surprise or weak or arbitrary, you have NOT been watching closely. What makes you think that Tom Berenger's character is the only murderer about?I suggest you all look CLOSELY, very CLOSELY at the clues Phillip Noyce and Joe Ezsterhas have laid out for you. If you just take the ending for what it is, you're wrong and need to review the film to understand everything that's been going on, before your eyes and in the unseen. See, there are people in places who can know a very great deal if they choose, and also people who choose to make sure that no one knows a good deal about anything...So I dare you, watch the film again and find a new ending all on your own.  "}{"Title":"Dull, Tawdry, and Stupid...","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found Ira Levin's novel Sliver to be very enjoyable in which the protagonist(s) are much more likable and intelligent. In the movie, which was made horrifyingly bad by Eszterhas's pitiful script, Sharon Stone comes off as weak and guilt-ridden and goes through her scenes with questionable motivation. After the first five minutes of the movie, it quickly gets very boring as it's a thriller with thrills that are few and far between. Undoubtedly, all of Sliver's thrills can be seen in the trailer set to the suspenseful score Jerry Goldsmith wrote for Basic Instinct. With the exception of Colleen Camp's performance, all the rest in the movie are a disappointment which was a surprise since it came out just a year after Stone was nominated for a Golden Globe. Ultimately, there's nothing good that can really be said about Sliver. It's too drawn-out with dull scenes that don't really convey a story well. By the time you come to the movie's last scene, you're reminded that it's also a mystery, but you just don't seem to care. In fact, if you make to the end and learn the killer's identity, you'll probably say to yourself I knew it. Read the book and buy Sliver's AWESOME soundtrack, but don't waste your money on this crap.  "},{"Title":"A Sharon Stone movie without excitement or sexual tension? Look no further.","Date":"3 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" If ever there was a movie that sold on Sharon Stone's sexual heat, it's SLIVER. But the scenes in which she takes off her clothes are few and far between in an otherwise overlong crime thriller. Baldwin and Berenger are both miscast, the mystery is pretty inept and it's shot like something for MTV. This is completely disposable Skinemax stuff - more like mid-'90s Traci Lords material - and the only thing it seems to want to say is that we're all voyeurs deep down. Were that message not delivered with a sledgehammer, you might have something. But this thing moves like molasses and there's no real point. 3/10 "},{"Title":"A sliver of interest but otherwise, pretty forgettable - 51%","Date":"10 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sharon Stone is an actress I have a lot of time for. Not because she's frequently naked in her films but because she broke the usual Hollywood stereotype of actresses finding fame early in their careers and then spend the next forty years filling themselves with Botox in order the delay the inevitable aging process. And after the success of Basic Instinct, Stone found herself firmly on the A-list after performing as the femme fatale for the Nineties, Catherine Trammell. The problem is, studios were keen to try and repeat the success and thus, I suspect that this movie hastily found itself into production. A pity because with a much tighter script, this might have matched her earlier success. Instead, it's a badly written thriller that lacks the shock value it wanted to have.Single book editor Carly Norris (Stone) moves into her new apartment, recently vacated by a young woman who threw herself off her balcony overlooking New York. As Carly gets to know her new neighbours, she discovers that accidents and unusual deaths are nothing new but regardless, she finds herself drawn to frustrated writer Jack Landsford (Tom Berenger) and enigmatic owner of the building Zeke Hawkins (William Not Alec Baldwin). Amid ill-timed power cuts and occasional visits from Detective Hendrix (CCH Pounder), Carly finds an unnerving connection between herself and the aforementioned jumper and she begins to suspect that she may be next...I realise that I'm not exactly the smartest cookie but even I wished that Sliver would offer me a bit more than two suspects. As such, the mystery element isn't really that much of a mystery so there are no surprises when the ending arrives (although there are plenty of plot-holes). Stone does the best she can with the material and easily outshines her two male co-stars but the complete lack of chemistry with Baldwin kinda hinders the film on the erotic front as well. Nothing about the film feels natural - if I moved into a building where people come a cropper at regular intervals, I'd pack my bags again and ask for my deposit back! The dialogue is hideously clunky to the point of being unforgivable - the ridiculous scene in the restaurant being almost laughable. At times, I felt sorry for Stone who must have realised that this is a lame and cynical attempt at cashing in on the success and notoriety Basic Instinct by being a seedy and exploitative erotic thriller in the exact same mould.There is enough to suggest that Sliver could have made much more of its premise. Take the CCTV network in the building - it might have argued whether it was morally wrong or not if the information gleaned from it was used for good. We get the faintest whiff of this subplot before descending into the usual routine about how watching other people have sex is a turn-on for our characters. Sliver is derivative of so many films that it cannot help but imitate the likes of Basic Instinct, Fatal Attraction and Body Of Evidence during the erotic thriller explosion of the early Nineties. Trouble is, it's also crippled with such a bad script (sticking rigidly to the Joe Eszterhas formula) that falls into the usual trap of being neither erotic or thrilling. Stone provided further proof that she can carry a movie but even someone of her abilities can only carry this film so far. "},{"Title":"Noyces's film, too little sex or violence, in slivers more than chunks","Date":"20 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sliver is a more tone down version of Basic Instinct or the film is probably a wannabe Basic Instinct. It has a couple of little cute sex scenes, and some over the top violence which like the sex, is very occasional. What we get is a peek into a lot of people's lives who live within this apartment block, it's name Sliver. Stone who acts well, far from her Basic Instinct character, and she's, surrounded by some strong performers, plays Carly Norris, an editor who's just moved into this high rise NYe building, catching the eye of two people, a young mysterious hottie (Baldwin) and a successful, and jealous novelist (Berenger). Choosing Baldwin over the latter, an affair blossoms, as tenants start to die, one looking accidental, the next one, murder, but these aren't the first. A Stone lookalike (though honestly, this woman's more Kristin Scott Thomas looking, with the Stone haircut) in he film's beginning, who ironically was the former tenant of Stone's apartment, is thrown off the balcony, of this towering building by a faceless assailant, which has us jumping from one suspect to the other, and you know whom I'm talking about. Sliver has too little sex or violence, in equal measure. It is great to perve in on the lives of people, one such family, the father is interfering with the daughter. Also we get to see Oz's own Austen Tayshus, sitting a loo, on his cell, arguing with someone. Though of course these tenants, are oblivious to the fact they are being watched 24/7 for Baldwin's sole entertainment. When Stone is let in on this big spy room, you can't get her off the control panel. One scene totally without potency, one could say boring, was the Gym scene. It didn't really need to exist. Okay Sliver is a bad film, but doesn't have a bad script. I just think it's a weak film. It's tease ending, I actually liked, as well as Stone's last line, that summed up Baldwin's whole life brilliantly. "},{"Title":"Not as interesting as basic instinct but Sharon is hot.","Date":"10 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This sexy thriller wasn't as interesting or well made as Basic instinct and is also some what silly that it has some funny moments though that being said I didn't find it terrible and Sharon Stone looks damn sexy in this at 35 years as a vulnerable woman moving to an apartment where a lady who looked like her was recently pushed from the window. We the audience are given 2 suspects who we believe may have been responsible for the fall Tom Berenger a kinda intense writer and William Baldwin a perverted horny landlord of the apartment who watches his tenants on television films. The film does manage some suspense and I thought the sex scenes were pretty good and probably not as explicit as some would expect so its not bad to watch at night time for a thriller film with erotics. "},{"Title":"One of Sharon Stone's worst...","Date":"12 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" 'Sliver' is easily one of the worst entries in Sharon Stone's filmography. Written by a Joe Eszterhas - the genius who gave us 'Basic Instinct' (which obviously made Sharon famous) the film lacks to deliver. It's suppose to be a tense thriller but there is nothing tense about it. Whole thing lasts for almost 2 hours and is horribly boring for the most of it. Sharon Stone gives a decent performance as she always does but she's very, very far from her top. It's not 'Basic Instinct', hell It's even far from 'Year of the Gun'. William Baldwin is annoying as usual but he does his 'creepo' part quite OK. It was nice to see Tom Berenger, he was probably the best thing about the movie, his acting was kinda memorable so was his character. If you are looking for a tense, erotic thriller, you will be disappointed. It plays better as a drama, there is no suspense, no action, no real twists, nothing you would be excited about. 'Sliver' is barely watchable once. Do yourself a favor and pick the better choice. "},{"Title":"Who would have thought a Sharon Stone movie would be boring?","Date":"20 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sharon Stone plays a book editor who moves into a luxury apartment block named Sliver vacated by a woman who mysteriously fell to her death from her balcony.Also mysteriously someone is watching her (and everybody else in the apartment block) with top-notch technology and following every moment whatever they are doing.William Baldwin and Polly Walker star as the neighbours and Tom Berenger stars a novelist who tries to romance Stone.Then follows the tedious attempts at the eroticism it advertises and desperately trying to create mystery, thrills and drama but the plot just witters into boring romps and dirty talk and tries to rush the drama back in.Sharon Stone and Tom Berenger are criminally wasted here despite their efforts while William Baldwin and Polly Walker are woeful.Based a novel of the same name but obviously trying to cash in Sharon Stone's success with the previous year's Basic Instinct, director Philip Noyce and screenplay writer Joe Eszterhas don't give much material to work from and it could have been much better if more carefully handled.Don't bother unless you fancy a moan like me. "},{"Title":"Fear windows","Date":"18 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Looks like a cross between a subject novelist Levin had always broached in Rosemary's baby (the building where horrible things happen;beware of neighbors!) and rear window (voyeurismthe telescope James Stewart used in Hitchcock's classic ;the 'improvement in Baldwin's apartment) The parts of the two male principals have been changed in comparison with Levin's novel and Tom Berenger is not given a single chance to shine ;the new screenplay does not make much sense ,considering the wealthy spoilt child's behavior and obsession with his fellow men's life ;more than the hot scenes,the best is this real sitcom the boy is watching all day long ;considering today's TV ,the movie was ahead of its time for that matter.Levin's novel was not in the same league as Rosemary's baby ,a kiss before dying or even the Stepford wives ;but it was more interesting than later horrors such as son of Rosemary and the director did not make the best of it.= "},{"Title":"If you are looking for a good voyeuristic thriller..........don't look here","Date":"19 October 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sliver starts out fine, but it ages like milk, and by the end, it kind of stinksDumb would be the easiest way to label Sliver, but to be more specific, I would call it immature. This is the kind of material where high profile people have low profile brains, resulting in a motion picture which intends to be dramatic by relying almost entirely on characters doing and saying vulgar, improper things icky flirting, gratuitous sex and biggest of all, invading the privacy of others.Voyeurism is the main topic here. Having its roots Hitchcock, Sliver tries to take the peeping tom effect to the highest high it seems. Director Phillip Noyce sells it to us well visually, but he is unable to use it effectively as a plot device or for suspense. The cast are unable to perform with solidity, the story is unable to achieve focus, and the end product is not recommendable, even for those who get off on erotic thrillers. Try looking somewhere else. "},{"Title":"Sliver","Date":"16 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Sliver (1991) is a novel by U.S. author Ira Levin about the mysterious occurrences in a privately owned New York highrise apartment building, especially after a new tenant&#151;an attractive young woman working in publishing&#151;has moved in. Phillip Noyce directed the film based on the book. This movie gave me the creeps and i don't understand why anyone would like to do the types of things. Maybe i didn't understand the plot or maybe i am not really caring for the plot but the high point of this movie is the song that accompanies it. The movie takes rather a simplistic stance on voyeurism, suggesting that wanting to secretly observe people and thus invading their privacy is part of human nature. "}{"Title":"Pseudo thriller","Date":"22 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This was not exactly a classic. Sliver was a very obvious pseudo thriller(I think the real reason it was made was because Sharon Stone had become the biggest thing since sliced bread.) It maybe mildly interesting while it's playing but not memorable afterward, though that maybe not the fault of the movie, and rather that Stone caused such a stir with Basic Instinct and this came out after that, and it was almost like nothing could measure up(though I don't like Basic all that much.)It seemed like it was trying to ride on the heels of Instinct by casting Stone in yet another tawdry movie.Anyway-Sliver, to me has the same problem as Basic and that's just that it seems to have been made for the purpose of titillating rather then to intrigue. This isn't bad as much as predictable, yet another thriller. For Sharon stone purists only. "},{"Title":"poor film, yet i still like it","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, its not that good of a movie, I will admit that, but for some reason it is a guilty pleasure. And not for any of the very un-erotic sex scenes. Stone certainly is beautiful and I like her performance here and that helps. I will say I read the book and it sucked even worse then the movie. Why they tried to adapt the book is beyond me. Like someone else said in a review it is a very good idea and premise but it just doesn't work here. Had it been done with more thrill and less sex it really could have taken the viewer deeper into the voyeuristic world in which it presents. However, it only goes skims the surface and leaves you wanting more. As for the other performances, both Berenger and Baldwin and even Martin Landau are weak but I enjoyed the small female performances of CCCh Pounder as the detective, Colleen Camp as her perverted co-worker and Polly Walker as her sexy neighbor. As for the abrupt ending I thought it kicked ass. ) "},{"Title":"Do you like to watch?.. don't you","Date":"26 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A great movie... The best movie of Sharon Stone, the screenplay by Joe Eszterhas is brilliant. If you like the good movies, please rent SLIVER... 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"How Bad Can You Get?","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Weak story. Weak plot. Weak characters. Dismal performances from everyone involved. Director Noyce hasn't been able to live this one down. For Stone, it's just more exposure for her Frances Farmer-like image. For Berenger, it was the beginning of the end of a decent movie career. For Baldwin, well, nothing was really hurt here. Way to go, Billy...or is it William?   "},{"Title":"You like to watch?  Well watch this if you want a sexy movie","Date":"22 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Sliver, is to put it bluntly, not very good.  The plot centers around a new tenant (Sharon Stone) moving in to a New York apartment building.  The previous tenant that lived in her room was murdered by being pushed off the balcony.  The problem with Sharon Stone's character, is that she looks very similar to the victim of the murder.  As she interacts with the fellow tenants, they can't help but telling her that.  She later meets up with a man in the building and they have sexual relations together.  I must say that the sex scenes in this movie are plenty, but don't get in the way of the movie.  In fact, there is even a masturbation scene.Well essentially, this movie deals with voyeurism, as somebody is watching every tenant in the building with hidden cameras strategically placed in each room.  He spends his days watching everybody in every room calling it his own soap opera.  However, he spends most of his time watching Sharon's Stone's character. One thing leads to another, and the movie reaches it's climax at the end, but since the ending was so horrible, it seemed as if there wasn't any resolution.  Bad but sexy.  6/10 *Good music by Enigma!!!  "},{"Title":"A scary, sexy, suspenseful thriller","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Very intriguing movie with Stone moving into an apartment  where a number a strange deaths have occured and and no one knows whose doing it. Meanwhile she meets two men, Berenger, who seems like the kind of guy who plays around a lot, and Baldwin, who owns the place, and sits in his apt. watching movies of the tenants on surveillance cameras (kind of playing god). When she suspects one of them is the killer weird stuff begins to happen. It's a scary, sexy, and suspenseful thriller that will hold your attention from beginning to end, with an ending that will take you by surprise so much, you'll still be thinking about it once the credits are over, even though it ends abruptly. It was a surprise to see Stone playing the victim instead of the psycho. I highly recommend it. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"I'd rather have a sliver than see this mess again.","Date":"27 April 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Good Lord, where to begin?  The performances were wooden and unconvincing. Director Noyce - who wouldn't know subtlety if it hit him with a sledgehammer - tried way too hard to force suspense, and failed miserably. And that script.  Hoo-boy.Joe Eszterhas started his Trilogy of Crap with this horrendous dung-heap (The other two being Showgirls and Burn, Hollywood, Burn).  So, I guess the best thing I can say about the script is that it isn't quite as bad as Showgirls.  How's that for a back-handed compliment?  And how about that ending?  I fully expected to hear a rimshot after the line Get a life.Some movies are unintentionally hilarious.  Sliver falls into that category, only it isn't funny.  It's just painful.  At least the title is appropriate.    "},{"Title":"Dull, Tawdry, and Stupid...","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I found Ira Levin's novel Sliver to be very enjoyable in which the protagonist(s) are much more likable and intelligent. In the movie, which was made horrifyingly bad by Eszterhas's pitiful script, Sharon Stone comes off as weak and guilt-ridden and goes through her scenes with questionable motivation. After the first five minutes of the movie, it quickly gets very boring as it's a thriller with thrills that are few and far between. Undoubtedly, all of Sliver's thrills can be seen in the trailer set to the suspenseful score Jerry Goldsmith wrote for Basic Instinct. With the exception of Colleen Camp's performance, all the rest in the movie are a disappointment which was a surprise since it came out just a year after Stone was nominated for a Golden Globe. Ultimately, there's nothing good that can really be said about Sliver. It's too drawn-out with dull scenes that don't really convey a story well. By the time you come to the movie's last scene, you're reminded that it's also a mystery, but you just don't seem to care. In fact, if you make to the end and learn the killer's identity, you'll probably say to yourself I knew it. Read the book and buy Sliver's AWESOME soundtrack, but don't waste your money on this crap.  "},{"Title":"Completely Avoidable!","Date":"3 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" For long time, Basic Instinct and Sliver were two movies that I avoided watching. The general talk around me about these two movies was that both starred Sharon Stone and the primary theme of the movie was sex. But somewhere as time passed, I ended up giving the movie Basic Instinct a try and realized that in spite of being loaded with steamy sex scenes, the movie still had a story and some substance. There was indeed a lot of confusion throughout the movie which makes you wonder what happens next and maybe lay down a bet to predict the end of the movie. What I am trying to say is that, the movie is enjoyable, not for the sex but more so for the story and the element of thrill.Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about this movie Sliver, which I ended up watching in the hope that maybe people were wrong (as in case of Basic Instinct) that this movie was just sex. And yes, because the story is hardly gripping, the movie does end up being a movie which is all about sex. I was severely disappointed with this movie. The story line did not impress me much and Sharon Stone's character was annoying to say the least. Hardly anything in her character that you can like or sympathize. Nothing! Very shallow! The movie centers around an apartment owned by a pervert with money enough to wire the whole apartment with cameras so that he can watch everyone doing anything and I mean it - anything. The story (if there is something called a story) is lame. It follows how Sharon's character eventually finds this out and how she deals with this discovery and blah blah blah! A very predictable end once you are through to the last forty minutes of the movie. Of course, that does not mean, the earlier part is interesting. It is just a pervert's dream come true and nothing else.All and all, I can say that this is one of the movies you can safely avoid. Even a bad movie, I say to people, go and watch so that you know it is bad. But here is a movie, I can say, there is no need to even watch. You will not be missing anything. And if you are Sharon Stone's fans, well, I don't know what to say. I guess there is nothing much I can say.Overall, disappointing. "},{"Title":"If you want suspense, read the book","Date":"29 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" As a thriller, Sliver pretty much sucks.It's obvious that this was a studio set-up hack with Ira Levin's competent, engaging (though far from his best) suspenser vivisected down to the frame in order to be filled out as the next Sharon Stone sexpot vehicle. I'm not completely sure anymore (I read the book over a decade ago) but I think that even the identity of the killer was different...anyway, I remember being at least engaged, which I wasn't at all with this movie.It's not a TOTAL dud...there are some interesting parts...the multitude of small supporting characters gives some voyeuristic thrills, and this is a well-shot movie. It always evokes a really nice forlorn sort of autumn in NY feeling for me. But back to the movie, unfortunately.The biggest minuses Sliver has going against it are the performances (ha ha) of Billy Baldwin and --- ESPECIALLY --- Tom Berenger. It's odd because, especially in Berenger's case, it is obvious he is capable of better work. But it's like he took a slimy character and just made him slimier without adding any depth. Baldwin is guilty of that too...his character is neither appealing or interesting.But a lot of this is Ezsterhas' script...the lines are wooden, cheesy and stale and smack of a dozen rewrites (how bout that ending, guys?). Stone is actually not half bad...she does a lot with what she's given which is just not very much. It's got the bad taste of a left-over pizza...as good as it is at times, it's just doesn't feel fresh. "}]