[{"Title":"More believable than generally given credit for.","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"34 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  In events occuring before the time line in the story, Homer meets and gets to know his double, Jack Sommersby, in a Civil War prison.  When Jack dies, Homer decides (for reasons barely hinted at) to impersonate Jack and take up his life where it had left off before the war six years earlier.Viewers who have trouble accepting this story's basic premise and its subplots must not understand denial, the strongest defense mechanism of all.  Laurel believes the returning soldier to be her missing husband because she wants to -- as does her son, and indeed the whole town (with a few menacing exceptions).  This new guy is nicer than the other one.  He is good to his wife, his kid, and his poor struggling neighbors, inspiring them all to work together to save the community at large from certain starvation if things do not change.  In short, they all *need* this Jack Sommersby; therefore, he must *be* Jack Sommersby.  When folks are in denial -- does anybody not believe in mass hysteria? -- discrepancies are often overlooked, and reality is suspended.  If that is hard to swallow, then consider that some folks were well aware of Homer's impersonation (if not his true identity), but chose to ignore it because it was in their best interests to do so.The courtroom situation is another area where viewers have remarked on non-reality.  But this may be chalked up to historical artifact.  With today's high levels of movie/TV courtroom drama, and even genuine courtroom TV, this century's viewing audiences are far more sophisticated than the actual participants of court proceedings of the mid-19th Century, even among many lawyers and judges of the era.  I had no trouble believing the courtroom of a small, largely uneducated community might have gone just the way it did in this movie...  ...except for one thing, where all belief is suspended  the black judge, presiding over a southern courtroom, just after the Civil War.  If there actually were any black judges in existence then, my guess would be that, like the few practicing black MD's, they were restricted to cases involving blacks, Native Americans, etc -- and not the trial of a white (and formerly rich) landowner.Yet this plot device does not get in the way of my enjoyment of the movie over all.  The judge strives mightily to be impartial, even with those townspeople who would not be so with him.  Their rabid hatred of his race cries out for justice; therefore, the judge appears to provide it, with almost comic relief, precisely at a point when the tension demands it.A haunting, well-told tale for those who appreciate depth of character over high-paced action for its own sake. "},{"Title":"An intelligent, beautiful and moving epic","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"29 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I'm sorry for this long digression, but Sommersby reminds me of Berthold Brecht's play The Good Woman of Szechuan, based on a biblical parable. In the original parable, two women each claim that a baby is hers. King Solomon says he'll settle the matter by cutting the baby in half; one woman stops him, saying that the other can have the baby. Solomon gives the baby to the woman who has offered to relinquish it, on the basis that she loves the baby more than the other, so she must be the real mother. But in Brecht's version it is the false mother who relinquishes, and is therefore given, the baby. Brecht draws the Marxist moral from the story that things belong to those who love and use them best, regardless of legal ownership.Jon Amiel's beautiful and touching film, adapted from a French movie, makes much the same point - that the pretended Jack Sommersby (Richard Gere) deserves to be regarded as the true husband of Laurel (Jody Foster) because he loves her more than the legal one; deserves to be regarded as the owner of the Sommersby land because he works it better; and deserves Sommersby's name - whatever that brings - because he honours it more. At a realistic level there are a few difficulties in translating the original Martin Guerre story from the Middle Ages to the post Civil War era, and parts of the courtroom sequence could have been more incisive; but these flaws are of little account, compared with the overall sweep of the film, both plot-wise, but especially visually. It achieves epic proportions at some points, and there are wide vistas of people working in the fields reminiscent of Terrence Mallick's Days of Heaven, which also starred Gere. It seems to be the done thing on these postings to sneer at Gere's acting; I've no idea why. Time after time, in a wide range of parts and films - from Yanks and An Officer and a Gentleman to Internal Affairs and Pretty Woman - he delivers professional and sensitive performances. Here again, his performance is impeccable; as is that of Jodie Foster, whose part calls for her to be restrained, especially when Sommersby first appears. (Incidentally, I couldn't care less whether there was any so-called chemistry between Gere and Foster; some film-goers should get it into their heads that couples on the screen are acting at making love, not engaging in the real activity.)       "},{"Title":"A Bitter Sweet Romance","Date":"17 June 2004","Score":"27 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is another one of my favorite Richard Gere movies, this guy is one gifted actor.This movie is mainly about character study and the love between the two leads Jack Sommersby(Richard Gere)and his wife Laurel(Jodie Foster).Jack Sommersby comes back from the Civil War seeming to be a changed man(for the better). All the neighbors and especially Laurel want the change to be real, so they just believe it whether it's true or not. Lets face it most people have probably at one time or another done the same thing, I know I have.Later Jack is arrested for murder and the real question is asked. Is he or is he not Jack Sommersby?The love that Jack(Richard)and Laurel(Jodie)have for each other is very important because it comes into play during the trial and at the ending of the movie. The ending of this movie was the only proper way to end it for the characters involved.Richard Gere is a master when it comes to showing tenderness, sensitivity and compassion on screen. It was good to see these two actors Jodie Foster and Richard Gere playing the lead rolls, they complemented each other.This is a beautifully written love story and a real tear jerker. I rate this movie a 10.  "},{"Title":"Engaging and well acted, with an intriguing plot twist","Date":"12 February 1999","Score":"19 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Sommersby is an intriguing film that keeps the audience barely outside the scenes but close enough to be touched by them. The story, of Jack Sommersby (or so it appears)  a changed man after returning to his wife and hometown years after being held captive in the Civil War, was borrowed from the French film The Return of Martin Guerre. But apparently this one has some new twists.As we watch this movie, we're not quite sure what to think. The townspeople, his friends, his dog and even his own wife aren't certain this is the man who left for the war. That, and the trial toward the end of the movie, stretches credulity a bit, my minor complaints.  But after all, this is the movies, and there is a pretty good story here. A real tear-jerker, for certain.Jodie Foster and Richard Gere carry this plot well, both putting in what I believe is some of their best work. The direction and cinematography also shine.In the end, this movie is all about pure love of a man for a woman,  in which he literally loves her more than life itself. That may seem a bit hokey, but it's a refreshing and enduring message in an movie age in which a one-night stand passes for a long-term relationship. "},{"Title":"Is He Or Isn't He","Date":"19 February 2002","Score":"12 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  For the most part I found this movie to be nothing more than a routine movie about a man who may not be who he claims to be. But then, somehow, the last twenty minutes or so struck a chord with me and made the whole thing worthwhile.Richard Gere plays Jack Sommersby (or does he?), a Confederate veteran of the Civil War who returns home after several years in a Federal prison camp. He is accepted by the townsfolk and by his wife, but he is a changed man (war could do that) and suspicions begin to rise. Ultimately, the question of his true identity becomes a life and death issue when he faces trial for murder. Is it or is it not a case of mistaken identity?Richard Gere handled this role superbly. I was very impressed with him. I was less impressed with Jodie Foster, who seemed terribly miscast to me. Be warned this is not a fast-paced movie, and it sometimes bogs down, but it manages to hold its own. Not a classic by any means, but worth a look-see.6/10 "},{"Title":"Jodie Foster superb as always, the rest so-so!","Date":"8 May 2002","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Oh what a gorgeous woman.. (repeat until tongue seizes!).This movie is OK, but, the screen lights up at Miss Fosters performance and presence.Previously I didn't think twice about Miss Fosters appeal other than as a top drawer actress. But now I think differently.Now all I need is for Miss Foster to take another feminine role, in a film with a good story and I'll die happy. "},{"Title":"Sweet and noble tear jerker","Date":"17 April 2001","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This is a sweet film with noble causes and a grand love story.  I've seen it umm, 4 times? now...  An improbable story, but moral, epic, just after the civil war, of an imposter southern gentleman returning to his run down plantation, wife, child, and joining all together, black and white, to bring a tobacco farm to being, against great odds, and prosperity to the town. But the man he is posing as must be prosecuted as a criminal... the imposter can continue the ruse and die for the crime, or confess his true identity, and undo his love, his work, his community. He must prove to the court that he is indeed Jack Sommersby, and must extract Fosters (his wife's) testimony, against her will, that he is Jack Sommersby, because as Jack, he will die. A few grand lines... when Foster must say that he is indeed her husband, that she never loved Jack the way I loved you  and Gere, in his cell, asks her to be there at his hanging I can do this thing if you are there.I've enjoyed it each time I've seen it, and it brings grand tears each time. "},{"Title":"You and this child are in danger of spending eternity in everlasting damnation!","Date":"23 March 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Directed by Jon Amiel, Sommersby is adapted from the historical account of 16th Century French peasant Martin Guerre. It was previously filmed as The Return of Martin Guerre in 1982. It stars Richard Gere, Jodie Foster and Bill Pullman. Music is by Danny Elfman and cinematography by Philippe Rousselot. In simple terms the film is about a man (Jack Sommersby) who went off to war and was presumed dead by his wife (Laurel) and the village folk of the village where he lived. Some 9 years later he returns a changed man, back in the marital bed and a hero to the village. But then questions start to crop up and it becomes a possibility that this man may not after all be who he claims to be. Sounds bizarre for sure, yet it's a true story, and a fascinating one at that.For this American version we get top line production values across the board, with the film propelled with grace and skill by Gere and Foster in the lead roles of Jack and Laurel Sommersby. Director Amiel rightly uses the slow burn approach, a consideration to the art of story telling. This draws the viewer firmly into the post Civil War period and lets us get to know the principal players and their surroundings.The core narrative thrust is a moving romance, one consistently under pressure of a mystery to be proved or disproved. But there's also economic issues to hand, very much so, and the vile stench of racism still hangs in the air. There's a lot going on in Sommersby and it never sags because of it. Also refreshing that in spite of some critical grumblings in some quarters, the ending is potent and not very Hollywood at all. It's not flawless and although it's based on a true story, some suspension of disbelief is needed as regards physical appearance of Jack and his means and motives. Yet this is a lovely film, simple in story telling structure, beautifully photographed and performed, it very much feels and plays like a classic era period piece. 8/10 "},{"Title":"I'm Thinkin', Who Is This Man Sittin' In My Kitchen?","Date":"4 March 1999","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  A soldier comes home from the Civil War to his village, and his wife and son.  The South during the Reconstruction period is an austere, impoverished place.  The returning man, Jack Sommersby, quickly establishes himself as the leader of the community and sets about rebuilding the people's prosperity.  But is he who he claims to be?Hollywood's version of the Martin Guerre legend, Sommersby boasts a good performance by Richard Gere and a wonderful one by Jodie Foster (as Laurel, Sommersby's wife).  Until it allows itself to be deflected by an unconvincing and unnecessary murder trial, the film is a likeable and sensitive study of love and identity.The story moves through the seasons, from the harshness of winter in the aftermath of war to the solemnity of autumn as Jack Summersby is led away to Nashville.  As the opening credits roll, Summersby is literally in the 'dead' of winter, surrounded by images of mortality.  He buries a body (the real Jack?) under a pile of rocks, then walks through a cemetery. Children prod the swinging corpse of a hanged man.  Hope returns in the spring, as Jack distributes land to the villagers and launches the tobacco-growing project.  High summer brings the successful maturing of the crop and with it the pinnacle of Summersby's fortunes.The murder trial weakens the film irretrievably.  It does not sit comfortably with what has preceded it, and just does not work as a courtroom drama.  The ground has not been prepared for it, and so the film is obliged to lurch in an unexpected direction.  Laurel is called as a surprise witness for the Defence, and Jack is startled as she approaches the stand.  Is it really conceivable that Jack's attorney would adopt this strategy without having discussed it with his client?Is this a court of law? asks the prosecutor, and the viewer is inclined to wonder the same thing.  No attorney would say, I believe the prosecution has proved beyond a doubt ...   The lawyer's personal belief has no relevance at all, and it is for the jury to decide if the case has been proved, not the prosecutor.  Taking a straw poll of opinions in the public gallery is utter nonsense, as is the presence of a black judge in a Southern court in the 1860's.  And judges do not pronounce on guilt or innocence.  Juries do that.  The word 'sassy' is hardly likely to have been in currency with its modern meaning in Tennessee 130 years ago.  That a defendant in a murder trial should fire his attorney then immediately cross-examine his own wife, who is HIS witness, is incredible.The early part of the film lays emphasis on the human cost of war. Many of the menfolk of Tennessee are maimed or mentally scarred.  Sommersby explains the changes that have come over him by hinting that he has undergone some psychological trauma and personality shift.Laurel works in the field, trying to hoe the dirt while encumbered by her long skirts.  This is a metaphor of her life as a Southern woman of the period.  She married a man who neither loved nor respected her, then 'lost' him in the war.  Now she has the burden of learning to love this man all over again.  Just as her skirts hamper her, as a woman she is restricted socially and emotionally.Tiny Jodie Foster turns in a mighty performance.  Her character is by turns grave, coquettish, withdrawn and affectionate - and at all times bestowed with intelligence and dignity.  This is a woman who yearns to be loved, but whose painful experiences have taught her to be wary.Bill Pullman is good as Orin, the capable, trustworthy local man who was courting the 'widow' Laurel and had expectations of marriage until Jack showed up.  His feud with Jack is thoughtfully handled.  Orin helps cure the tobacco bug problem when a lesser man would have enjoyed Jack's discomfiture.Ultimately, the story just does not ring true.  Would a whole village take a stranger for the man who grew up in its midst?  And Jack's final choice (which cannot be revealed here) negates everything for which he has striven.  It defies logic.  "},{"Title":"","Date":"11 August 1998","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I found the premise of this movie completely unbelievable. Waiting for a plot  twist that would make it work was distracting. This was a case of good  acting with a bad story. If you don't care if it makes sense, you may enjoy  the picture. "}{"Title":"?????","Date":"8 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Decent storyline, terribly directed. Not to mention, completely historically inaccurate. A BLACK JUDGE JUST 1 YEAR AFTER THE WAR? Who are they kidding? Im not sure when the 1st black judge was enacted but I assure you it was at least 70 years after the war. Gimmie a break! Sometimes Hollywood doesn't know when to stop re-writing history just to get a rise out of us. This movie set up real nice but fell flat on its face. From the comments I've seen here from people who like the movie (and even some that don't), you will probably like this movie if you have no clue about Civil War history, Reconstruction or the reasons it was fought. Jodie Foster is great as usual The Kid was just pathetic! "},{"Title":"Affecting tale of love, loyalty, and nobility","Date":"5 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Part of why this movie resonated so much with me was that I saw it right before I got married, and I thought, now THAT'S the kind of commitment a marriage needs. This is a rather sweet tale of love and sacrifice. Admittedly, it's a bit far fetched at times, but if you buy into it, it is a rewarding movie.John Robert Jack Sommersby (Richard Gere) went off to fight the Civil War, as did many plantation owners in the South, leaving his wife, Laurel (Jody Foster)and son (Brett Kelley) behind. Laurel is a resourceful woman, and she manages the farm on her own. When Jack is presumed dead, Laurel starts a relationship with her neighbor Orin (Bill Pullman). Consequently, neither of them is particularly happy when Jack turns up at the plantation after the war, Laurel because Jack didn't treat her very well, and Orin because he wants Laurel. Still, Laurel feels she must honor her marriage vows, and breaks things off with Orin, who, being a rather poor sport, remains a continual thorn in Jack's side. However, Laurel starts noticing that Jack is much different than when he left for the war. He is kinder, more loving, treats her and their son much better. She actually starts to fall in love with him. The farm prospers and Laurel gives birth to a baby girl that they name Rachel. And then one day, Jack is accused of murdering someone during the war. Suddenly the question of his identity becomes all important, because Jack Sommersby is guilty of murder, of that there is no question. But if this man is someone else pretending to be Jack Sommersby, then he is innocent. Of course, if he isn't Jack Sommersby, then Laurel's reputation is shot, as is Rachel's. Who is this man that has been living with Laurel? Who will he choose to be?It's a rather intriguing premise, as by the end of the movie, Jack is in a no win situation, and his choice may not be what the viewer would expect. Still, the story is presented in such a way that you understand both Jack's choice in spite of what he must sacrifice and Laurel's willingness to stand by him in spite of what she must sacrifice. This makes for a most satisfying ending.The acting was excellent. Gere gives a moving portrait of a man who discovers love, and discovers that love requires a nobility that he hadn't realized he was capable of. Foster's performance shows Laurel's quiet determination to get through whatever she has to and survive as best she can. Pullman's Orin comes off as increasingly whiny and spoiled, which works well for the character he creates. James Earl Jones' judge is an excellent rendering. Of the smaller roles, the most notable is William Windom as the Reverend Powell, showing us that once again, no matter how small the part, he will give it his all.Admittedly this is a tear jerker. I choke up just thinking of the ending. But it is ultimately a tale of nobility and sacrifice showing that sometimes we must sacrifice all to safeguard those we love. "},{"Title":"decent time passer--but why not watch the original?","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is an okay film romance set in the South just after the Civil War. A husband returns from the war but he doesn't seem right--he looks a tiny bit different and acts too nice to be the same man. Eventually, this all comes to a head in a confrontation that might lead to the man's incarceration or execution. The sad thing is, his wife prefers this new man and would rather have him than the man who left for the war.Technically, this is a pretty good film but certainly not a great film. The problem I have with it, though, is that this is a remake of the French film THE RETURN OF MARTIN GUERRE--a TRUE account of a story like SOMMERSBY that occurred several hundred years ago. This Gérard Depardieu film is better acted and written, but also less glossy. I recommend that if the story sounds interesting, why not just see the original since it is the better film. "},{"Title":"Phew! Stinko Long Boring Chick Flick","Date":"8 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I like films set in a Historical context - especially those set in the American Civil War period. A good example of such a film is Ang Lee's Ride with the Devil. This one, Summersby, is contrived, unbelievable and boring. I have liked films with Jodie Foster. I have liked films with Richard Gere. Together? Noooo chemistry I could detect - good acting, but no sexual tension. A film must have some mutual attraction going for a romance/suspense film such as this to succeed. Perhaps the rumored sexual tendencies of these two fine actors is swaying my opinion subconsciously, but I just didn't detect any attraction between them. Then the concept - that married people separated for a couple of years wouldn't recognize each other? No way. I'm sorry. No way! Then sitting through the whole thing when I progressively buy the premise less and less just didn't make for a good experience for me.I give it a 5 out of 10. Gere and Foster deserve that for showing up. But unless your powers of suspension of disbelief are far more powerful than my own, I suggest staying away from this one.  "},{"Title":"A Tale of Identity Crisis!","Date":"27 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Sommersby is a bittersweet romance that heralds back to the days of Gone with the Wind. It's a fine film that is elevated by a mystery that evolves over the course of the film. But this film isn't the greatest romance I have seen, but it does have good marks for being entertaining. There were some awkward plot holes and the script was a little confusing at times. Also, the editing seemed to be a little off which interrupted the flow of the film at times. But the acting is great and combined with the interesting story, we have got ourselves a good movie.Jon Amiel's film is about a man named Jack Sommersby who has just arrived home after he was feared dead in the Civil War. His wife, Laurel seemed to be doing okay without him. When he returns, he seemed to undergo personal changes(for the better)and everyone seems happy about that. But once he is arrested for murder, his identity and his life now hangs in the balance.This film is well-acted. Richard Gere gives off a radiant performance as Jack Sommersby and he gave his character a neat balance of emotions. Jodie Foster was solid as Laurel and she had great chemistry with Gere. We also get some solid supporting characters by the rather hasty Bill Pullman and the underused James Earl Jones.Overall, Sommersby is a fairly decent romance and while it won't change romance cinema, it manages to be effective. Sometimes the film got confusing as it unexpectedly switches gears from a romance to a courtroom drama and so forth. But I was able to connect with the characters and their emotions of love and confusion as the film progresses. I loved the idea in what would happen if your lover would return with the same looks, but a different personality. It's an intriguing topic and the film tackles it pretty well. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Why don't film writers check the history books more carefully?","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The most glaring historical inaccuracy showcased in this film's script (which was chock-full of them) was that Gere's character was supposedly held in a Union prisoner of war camp for a longer period of time than the camp had actually existed. "},{"Title":"Black Judges during Reconstruction","Date":"12 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" One of my favorite films. Just a note to the viewers who have questioned the role of a black judge during this period of history. They certainly existed and handled all manner of cases. A note from an article in the NY Times follows Special Correspondence THE NEW YORK TIMES.February 8, 1903, SundayPage 34, 859 wordsCHARLESTON, S. C., Feb. 5. -- During the reconstruction period in South Carolina, which followed the close of the civil war, the management of State affairs for a time was left to the tender mercies of the Negro. Officers who served with the Governor were Negroes, there were Negro Judges, and practically every county in the State had its black representatives in the General Assembly.  END OF FIRST PARAGRAPH  "},{"Title":"Hanged for a wolf.","Date":"10 August 2005","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" It would have made a great Twilight Zone episode. A man returns home after a six-year absence caused by the Civil War. He's the same man, and yet not the same. He's been taking lessons from Deepak Chopra or somebody because whereas before his departure he was a scumbag he has now turned into a populist hero of the Frank Capra brand. Is he an impostor? If so, why? And why doesn't the wife he comes home to recognize it? Why doesn't the entire VILLAGE see that he's a different guy? Six years isn't so long. When I look in the mirror I see the same Adonis I was six years ago, as good as ever. Better even.The most interesting features of this movie would have turned on the mystery of the new Sommersby trying to adjust to the life of the old. Yes, he's kinder, and maybe a better lover, and his shoe size seems to have changed. But that's about it.The bulk of the movie deals with a kind of love triangle between Richard Gere as Sommersby, Jody Foster as his wife, and Bill Pullman as a neighbor who had hoped to take Sommersby's place after a suitable period.We have to sit through scenes of Gere and Foster falling more deeply in love, and learning to trust each other (and then not trusting, and then trusting again, and then not trusting, and finally trusting again). I hope that came out right. I was a little confused after a while.The courtroom scene, in which Sommersby is charged with murdering someone, REALLY was confusing. A witness is brought in who claims to have know Gere when he was not Sommersby but somebody named Horace or something. This other Gere was a con man who pretended to be someone else, insinuate himself into the trust of his new community, gather up all their treasure for an economic venture -- maybe getting a town belle preggers -- and then take off, leaving them flat.And then -- well, I don't think I'll divulge the conclusion of the story here because I still don't know what the conclusion is. I THINK Gere is actually Horace and that Horace killed the original Sommersby, but I wouldn't bet the farm on it.Nothing wrong with the performances or the direction. The music is a little soupy, the photography surprisingly fuzzy and unsunny, and the plot as murky as a pot o' skoosh.I suspect the audience could have swallowed that initial implausibility -- Gere posing as a non-Gere after such a short absence -- if it had led to further curious incidents casting doubt on his identity. Not just the shrunken shoe size. The writers could have thrown in a shrunken hat size as well. Or his wife might have noticed something about him at night. Well -- let that go. Yes. All in all, it would have been a great Twilight Zone without all that love and intrigue being impastoed all over it. I didn't care for it. It seems too slow. But it has enough redeeming features that I can understand why some people might feel differently. "},{"Title":"A mess of a remake","Date":"5 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  This remake of The Return of Martin Guerre is little more than a mixed-up waste of time.  Jodie Foster is fine.  The translation from medieval France to Civil War USA is nothing short of silly.  If you found even a speck of interest in this film you owe it to yourself to see the original, which, incidently, is a true story. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable and involving drama","Date":"1 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is a very enjoyable and involving movie. While the film borrows heavily from the Return of Martin Guerre it is entertaining enough to stand on its own, and introduces some new twists to the original story. The mystery of the Jack Sommersby character builds gradually throughout the film, and the role is ably performed by Richard Gere (who was also a producer on the film), and is brilliantly supported by Jodie Foster &#x96; in fact these two performances dominate in the film, and help keep the audience interested throughout the story. The trial at the film's climax is someone theatrical and corny, and was the films only weak point - however the film does build to a emotionally satisfying climax and coda.The film is put together with real polish, and Jon Amiel's direction is strong, Phillipe Rousselot's photography is excellent, Bruno Rubeo's production design is impressive and Danny Elfman's score absolutely spot on. In summary this film is an effective mystery rolled into a slightly corny but enjoyable and entertaining romantic drama. "}{"Title":"A sensitive and emotional performance","Date":"2 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" As has been mentioned by other reviewers, Sommersby is a copy of the French movie Le retour de Martin Guerre from 1982, starring Gerard Depardieu. While other such copies leave a lot of the original feeling and acting quality behind, Sommersby stands and holds well on it's own merits. See them both, and for once you may discover that the Hollywodized copy is the better one.While the original French story ends in the clear, the real Martin Guerre arrives in the last second of the trial, the real Jack Sommersby does not return. Instead, the drama plays around if Jack will hang for the crime of impersonating the real one or hang for a crime that the real Jack committed. That conflict, and his final choice is vastly more interesting than that of Martin Guerre. Martin Guerre never gives up his fight, he has all to loose. Jack Sommersby takes a stand and denounces his past but pays the price for it. The role of the wife, as played masterly by Jodie Foster, is much more important in Sommersby than in ...Martin Guerre.The acting is sensitive and expresses the persons inner agony in every blink of the eyes. This is a movie I have seen three times, and I am sure that I will see it several times again. "},{"Title":"Deserves to be mentioned in the same breath as its predecessor","Date":"29 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" In 1548 a young man named Martin Guerre disappeared from the southern French village of Artigat. Eight years later, an impostor named Arnaud du Tilh arrived in Artigat falsely claiming to be Martin. Although he was accepted as such by Guerre's wife Bertrande and his family, rumours began to spread about his identity, and he was eventually exposed when the true Martin Guerre returned to the village. A number of writers and film-makers have taken inspiration from these events, including Daniel Vigne, the director of Le Retour de Martin Guerre from 1982. Sommersby is sometimes regarded as a remake of Vigne's drama, but it might more accurately be described as being loosely inspired by the real historical events upon which the other was much more closely based. Jon Amiel transfers the action to the American South, immediately after the American Civil War. Jack Sommersby, is a landowner who left his farm to fight in the war. Nothing further has been heard from him, and everyone, including his wife Laurel, presumes that he is dead. Nobody, including Laurel, is particularly worried by this; Jack was an unpleasant individual, an abusive husband and a neglectful father to his young son Robert. Laurel is even planning to marry a neighbour named Orin Meacham. And then one day a man returns, claiming to be Jack. Yet, although he closely resembles Jack Sommersby physically, he is quite different in personality. He is kind and loving to Laurel and Robert and tries to help his poorer neighbours by selling parts of his farm to them. He is also a shrewd businessman, as evidenced by his scheme to revive the local economy by growing tobacco. He explains this change in his character by saying War changes you; makes you appreciate things. The only people unhappy about Sommersby's return are Orin, whose plans to marry Laurel have been dashed, and racist Confederate veterans who resent the fact that Jack is trying to help former slaves as well as his white neighbours. Orin begins to suspect that the newcomer is in fact an impostor. (Which indeed he is). I am surprised that Sommersby has such a low rating on this board (currently only 5.9) and that it has been criticised so fiercely. One of the grounds of criticism has been the cultural snobbery of those, on both sides of the Atlantic, who assume that any Hollywood remake of a European film is bound to be a vastly inferior copy of the original. Yet, although Vigne's film is undoubtedly a good one, I think that Amiel's can stand comparison with it. There are, moreover, important differences between the two films. The real Martin Guerre appears in the film that bears his name, whereas here we never see the real Jack Sommersby. (We learn that he did indeed die in the war). Both impostors are placed on trial for their lives, but for different reasons. Du Tilh is tried for his own crime, that of impersonating Martin. (Adultery and fraud were capital offences in the France of that period). The false Sommersby, a former schoolmaster named Horace Townsend, is not tried for anything he has done himself, although there are plenty of murky episodes in his past, quite apart from the question of criminal impersonation. He is tried for a murder committed by the man whose identity he has stolen. There is no doubt that Sommersby was the killer, so the only way Townsend can save his neck is to admit his deceit and prove his true identity. Yet this is something he is strangely reluctant to do. Richard Gere can at times seem too laid-back, especially in comedies and lighter films. Yet when he is given more demanding roles, he is often capable of rising to the challenge, especially in films like The Honorary Consul and Primal Fear, and Sommersby must count as one of his best performances, as Townsend is a very complex character. He is a man with a shady past who commits what is, to all intents and purposes, a criminal deception, yet who does for idealistic reasons, reasons for which he is prepared to lay down his life. To highlight all the varying facets of Townsend's character, while making him appear both believable and sympathetic, was a difficult task, but one in which Gere succeeded very well.Jodie Foster is equally good as Laurel, a woman torn between the need to believe that the man with whom she has fallen in love really is her long-lost husband miraculously changed for the better and the fear that her new-found happiness may in fact be based on a lie. This was one of a number of stellar performances in the late eighties and early nineties- others include The Accused, The Silence of the Lambs and Nell which established her as the most exciting young actress of the period. There is also a good contribution from Bill Pullman as Orin, a man torn by jealousy and resentment and yet not wholly bad. Visually, the film is much darker than Le Retour de Martin Guerre, which seemed to be suffused by a rich, warm light. Apart from the green of the vegetation, it is dominated by dull tones, particularly greys and browns, perhaps appropriate for a film which takes place in a country torn by civil war. It seemed to me that Amiel was taking the theme of the earlier film and using it to explore America's own history, as well as some dark areas of human psychology, the philosophical issues surrounding personal identity and the question of atonement for past sins. Indeed, it perhaps goes more deeply into these issues than did Vigne's film which did not, for example, explore deeply the reasons why du Tilh decided to steal another man's identity. If this is a remake, it is one which deserves to be mentioned in the same breath as its predecessor. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Moving and worthwhile drama","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Passionately acted film about a man who returns from the Civil War a very different person, and is soon suspected of being an impostor. Richard Gere, Jodie Foster and Bill Pullman all give strong performances in a film highlighted by Phillippe Rousselot's marvelous cinematography (he won an Academy Award for his work on A River Runs Through It).But for all its intrigue and mystery, very well handled by director Jon Amiel, the climax may well baffle some. One has to wonder what motivates a man to act in such a way. Perhaps he was looking to atone for his past. A moving and worthwhile drama.Sunday, June 27, 1993 - Village Centre Melbourne "},{"Title":"Sommersby","Date":"3 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Regarding the use of a Black Judge..During Radical Reconstruction the USA put Black's in power to point out the South lost..This backfired and led to the Jim Crow laws and to the racial strife lasting longer..A gentler and milder form of reconstruction would have work better.. I believe the film was able to obtain its goal of suspended belief...The part which I found most difficult was his giving up his life..he must have felt it is better to die for something good than to live with something bad..Of course, if applied to the war itself this fits assuming the South winning the Civil War would fit something bad as an outcome. Thus, the movie conveyed the times even to the clothing which in the case of Foster was done quite well. My only minor concern was the War was only 4 years long which does not fit with Jack being gone 6 years and dying in 1867.. "},{"Title":"It was all right, I suppose...","Date":"3 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Well, what can I say? This movie wasn't the best I've seen, but not the worst. It featured some good performances and an interesting storyline, but still, it had a certain weakness to it that I didn't like very much. The film tried to be too much of an epic and got a little bit corny at times. And it featured waaay too many sex scenes that were quite unnecessary. It wasn't bad; but I don't think I'd enjoy giving it a second viewing. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I thought this movie was quite good. Richard Gere played his character very well, and once again revealed his incredible talent as an actor. The same goes for Jodie Foster. I didn't really like the ending (I cried my eyes out), but I don't think it could have been ended any other way. It's definetly worth your time.7/10 "},{"Title":"film with romance and mystery,terrific!!!!!!!","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  You can't keep your mind in a cool state,when you have watched 'SOMMERSBY'.I was moved by such a film that draws you into mystery.And the act of Jodie foster and Richard Gere is excellent.They collaborate each other so naturally.I love it! "},{"Title":"A fantastic movie! 2 Thumbs up!","Date":"25 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I didn't expect much out of this movie when I first rented it but I was very surprised. Richard Gere gives one, if not his best performances EVER. An all star cast who all are outstanding. The ending has to go down in history as one of the most dramatic and most moving ever.  "},{"Title":"hated it","Date":"17 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I couldn't stand this movie.  I watched it with my mother, who was crying, and I was like, What are you crying for? and she said, Because it's sad!, but it so much is not.  The Richard Gere character is an a***, and sadly enough even the brilliant Jodie Foster could not save this meandering, boring film.  Blech. "},{"Title":"Chases its tail around until the story is looped in a confounding knot","Date":"11 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" American remake of 1982's Le Retour de Martin Guerre has post-Civil War era woman in Tennessee greeted by her soldier husband, missing for six years; he gets a hero's welcome from the townspeople and rallies many of them to invest in growing tobacco on his land, yet his wife and her ex-fiancé (and the family pooch!) know something about this man they are hesitant to share. Gauzy, initially perplexing period drama with very modern leads Richard Gere and Jodie Foster curiously placed within this scenario (both give solid performances, though they aren't exceptionally convincing in Civil War dress). It does improve after a stilted start, and all might be forgiven if the last act had some punch, but a murder rap and a courtroom showdown turns Gere's character into a misty-eyed martyr, and director Jon Amiel doggedly steers the film toward a disastrously unsatisfying climax. **1/2 from **** "}{"Title":"Automatic tearjerker","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHOUT POST Jodie Foster and Richard Gere have a lot of chemistry besides both being very talented people. I wanted to see this movie because the premise sounded SO interesting and it was. The film was very interesting and Foster and Gere were both terrific. It was a good movie.I DID have a major problem with the ending. And it's not because it wasn't Hollywood. I just thought it didn't need to end like that. It is really difficult with endings sometimes because if a movie ends to happily it can be labeled Hollywood, and if A movie ends to sad, it can be called manipulative. I do this all the time myself. But honestly-in this case-the ending was such an automatic tearjerker and it bothered me because while I could understand the choice Gere's character made, in some respects, I had a hard time believing he'd make it anyway. I kept thinking something would happen to save him at the end and the last scene with Foster was not how I anticipated it ending. I thought something else might happen.I can see where the movie would stretch believability at times but my feeling is Foster and Gere were so good respectively, that they make you believe. Richard Gere is one of the most likable actors I've ever seen and Foster-she's just indescribable. The movie was really moving. Also beautifully filmed.I'd give this movie a solid recommendation especially to any strong Gere or Foster fans or for that matter to tearjerker movie purists. You'll find more then enough to move you here. "},{"Title":"Falls short towards the end","Date":"21 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Gere returns home from the civil war. Trouble is everybody believed him to be dead and his wife notices some things about him that just don't seem right. Some anatomical inaccurisies pop up and he just seems to be a completely different person. Could this man be an impostor?This is one of those good romantic films that falls short just towards the end. For most of it's running time the film plays out very well. Gere and Foster have excellent chemistry, the story is intriguing and well written. The overly sentimental conclusion and bad ending really hurt the film. It's really a shame, this one had the potential of being outstanding. 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This film's a keeper","Date":"21 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I have seen this film several times and have always enjoyed it immensely. It's one of those films that plays like a novel. The story is intriguing and suspenseful, like one of those page-turners you can't put down. It's also an excellent character study, about real people with real emotional conflicts. The two principal players, Jodie Foster and Richard Gere, are excellent in their roles, providing nuanced and subtle performances, and generating some intense chemistry between them.What sets this film apart though is the directing. If I were teaching a film class in direction, I would use this film as a highly-skilled example of the craft. Jon Amiel was able to draw excellent performances, not just from his two leads, but from the supporting cast as well. The film moves from one scene to the next with a seamless ease that helps draw you in to its complex story. Unease and menace are skillfully used in counterpoint to the burgeoning relationship of the two leads. And the story is resolved well, providing a path to redemption for a fallen man, and creating a mythic hero in the process.Without revealing any more I will just say that for me, this movie is a treasure. I hope I've piqued your curiosity enough to induce you to discover its hidden assets.  "},{"Title":"Great Story, Realistic Emotionally But...","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" ... there are just a bunch of historical errors.  The time Jack was kept in the Union prison... well, there was no Union prison when he was supposedly to have been there among other mistakes.  Being a history lover sometimes makes it difficult to enjoy a beautifully written movie.Besides that, everyone played their roles very well.  Never a big Foster or Gere or anyone's fans, I was touched by the characters.  Foster's joy of the return of a 'better' Sommersby, lost when the truth was known.  Gere's tenderness towards 'his' wife, kids, neighbors.  Pullman's jealousy of Sommersby's return and then silent acceptance & defeat of the love lost. The movie opened during the time when Hollywood scripts were filled with mistakened identities & the likes yet this movie stands out because the realistic emotions depicted - the yearning of the return of a loved one at war, the denial to suspect a 180 degrees change of a husband returned... well, I'm only allowed 1000 words here so I'll end here for you to enjoy the film. "},{"Title":"France 10 vs Hollywood 3. Just another failed remake.","Date":"24 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Almost every time Hollywood cribs from foreign classics to make a bad imitation with an American setting it's like making French gourmet cuisine with a Mickey Dee mentality. Not as much of a disaster as Paul Newman in THE OUTRAGE, it's just simply that the remake lacks the gusto that made the original special. The same rule applies to current remakes of Hollywood classics. THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN is highly respected only because almost nobody back then had the chance to see Kurasawa's original SEVEN SAMURAI; high on the list of 250 all time great films. Anticipate disaster with this year's release of the KING KONG remake. "},{"Title":"Never Reaches Its Potential.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Eerie little would-be-romance that staggers far too much to be interesting. Jodie Foster believes she is a Civil War widow until her husband (Richard Gere) returns one day. But Gere has changed so much that everyone, including Foster, question whether he really is who he says he is. A film that could have been so suspenseful and thought-provoking becomes trivial due to sorry pacing and a screenplay that roams way too much at the most distressing times. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"DUMB MOVIE!","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  The movie was very boring, and unrealistic. Dumb ending. Jodie did not have enough lines to let her talent shine. I really found the movie to be way too long, and like about nothing! The whole movie is about Richard and Jodie's character's love for each other and the stupid identity thing. DUMB MOVIE! "},{"Title":"Surrealistic story overcomes realistic medium","Date":"19 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  I really was skeptical about this movie.  It seemed it would be another good imaginative story that failed because Hollywood relies on crystal clear realistic film-making.  But the film did work for me.  After awhile, I was comfortable with these people's acceptance of this man as Jack Sommersby. And if you can more than you ever hoped for by just believing...well, it's definitely a great date flick. "},{"Title":"Shaky editing but otherwise great","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Sommersby is an extremely well-acted, very moving film that suffers from occasional strange editing cuts, where crucial plot material was obviously removed or left out for some reason.  But Jody Foster and Richard Gere give such great performances that it almost doesn't matter.It's so rare to see Hollywood tackling the difficult themes that drive this movie (identity, redemption) that Sommersby is worth seeing just for its novelty.  Another underrated gem.   "},{"Title":"Oh, the dilemma!","Date":"13 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Here is the story of a man whom you both love & hate.  You can't quite hate him because he gives the slaves land, but you can't quite love him, either, because of who he was before.  He changed, to be sure, & you understand why he lied, but it's hard to accept that he would pretend to be someone he is not.  In the end, you forgive his lies when he makes the right choice that allows the slaves to keep their land.  This film makes you think about right & wrong, honesty & lies.  Sometimes, there is more honor in lying, as this film displays. "}{"Title":"Gere!","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Fair civil war romance/drama that suffers from asking the audience to believe too much unlikely scenarios.Also,there are some poorly choreographed confrontation/fight scenes which could have easily been done better given the pains taken to have a good attention to detail here with regards to the set.The acting was inconsistent as was the directing and editing.I also noted a negative tension between Gere and Foster during their kissing scenes which I believe was not supposed to be there for their characters.It seems to have more to do with the actors behind the scenes chemistry.The courtroom scenes were also poorly done as they seemed to be rushed.The final scenes of the movie though was very good and touching for an audience who have a mature taste on the meaning of life and love.Although these final scenes were not enough to save the movie from mediocrity.Ony for love story fans,soap drama fans and big fans of the lead actors.......       "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"13 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Personally I found the movie excellent.  Although many would not agree, I still DO stand my ground on this.  The acting of Jodie and Gere were superb. The picture was well done and the costumes/props almost authentic. There was nothing corny about the whole movie.  "},{"Title":"A film of controversy, but a very good film.","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Many people having a french cultural background think that this film is a bad remake of a classical french film Le retour de Martin Guerre interpreted by Gerard Dépardieu. Nonetheless, this version stands by itself not only because of the remarkable performances of Richard Gere and Jodie Foster, but because of the renewal of the framework which implies a new plot that is developped in newer times and circumstances, this film can compete with the so called original as a winner. Who says that second versions are always worse that originals? This film proves that a second look on an ancient history can enrich both versions. A pair of films that must be seen to make your own judgement. "},{"Title":"Acting","Date":"20 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  oh my, the acting is that bad, Richard Gere is the ANTI-actor and Jodie Foster has everything but one expression. I think she was great in Taxi Driver, but - she got an Oscar for that - in Silence all she had to do was looking scared or puzzeled. But acting is ALL what was required! How come a woman cannot recognise her husband, even after several years? Thats why she WANTS to believe he´s him. But neither the ANTI-actor nor Jodie can deliver. This movie is very bad and compared to the French original 1/10 Macaulay J. Connor, Munich, 20.7.2003  "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"6 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies! I love the suspense of wondering just who Richard Gere's character is, which is kept up throughout the story. Even though I know who the Sommersby character is, I find myself holding my breath with tension, waiting for the outcome. And no matter how many times I watch it, the end just kills me. It's a movie I watch alone so I can sob all I want to. I find myself wondering what I would do if I were in Mrs. Sommersby's place.Great acting, great editing, very gripping. The only thing I would omit is the sexual content, which wasn't at all necessary to advance the story. I'd recommend it for any adult, but not children. "},{"Title":"Great film.","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" Great film - really enjoyed the twist - was Gere the killer?Sommersby might be considered a woman's flick. Well, so be it and more power to it. Go ahead and be ready to laugh, and also to tear up over some of the scenes. This is a well-acted, well directed, and enjoyable film in the solid time- honored tradition of totally watchable Grade B movies. Some of the characters portrayed are people a viewer can get to know for a few hours and really sympathize with. Other's behavior you can get mad at. You might even want to express a little outrage at some behavior portrayed. Enjoy it. The film has its flaws, but for the most part is one the sensitive and discerning viewer can see more that once and be happier with than much of the real trivial tripe that passes for film these days. And to be perfectly honest, it's better than the book. "},{"Title":"same scene two times","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" a lot of my family and many friends were extras in this movie(it was shot in the court house in my home town). my uncle, father, and a few teachers and acquaintances are clearly shown in the court scene, and the guy who says hear ye, hear ye is definitely one of my neighbors. (it's funny, he got credit for that). but at the end of the movie you can see my grandmother, twice. When Jodie foster is running through the crowd screaming jack, jack, you see my grandmothers face take up nearly all the screen. it flashes to a view of Richard about to be hung, and then shoots back to Jodie running into, and around, my grandmother a second time. isn't' it obvious that they used the same shot twice? you think they'd try not to do that same one in a 5 second slot. "},{"Title":"It still brings tears to my eyes!!","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Even after watching this movie thrice, it still brings tears to my eyes. Richard Gere and Jodie Foster are brilliantly cast in this 1993 Hollywood re-make of the French film The Return of Martin Guerre.In short Gere stars as a soldier returning to his wife after being imprisioned during the American Civil War. He has transformed from a gambling drunk to a sensitive and innovative man who brings prosperity back to his village. However, the question is Can a War change any man so much? Or is this man not Jack Sommersby??'Sommersby' is well written and full of intrigue. It moves at a leisurely pace entrancing its audience with beautiful images of Virginia. Gere puts in one of most touching roles to date and Foster proves to us she is Oscar winning material. This couple carry the film and there are some memorable scenes as husband and wife become accustomed to each other.If you're a romance lover or want a bit of mystery, this is a great film to watch. This story will not only leave you spellbound, but thinking.I highly recommend this film and I hope you enjoy 'Sommersby' as much as I did. (Don't forget to bring your hankies!!) "},{"Title":"Patronising","Date":"17 December 2002","Score":"7 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":"  Jack Sommersby returns to the deep south after the civil war . Well I`m afraid Richard Gere doesn`t make a convincing confedarate officer anymore than he made a convincing IRA terrorist in THE JACKAL . Even more unconvincing is the scene where two slaves approach the long lost Jack and warmly hug him . Yup I`m sure if you worked in the cotton fields 24/7 for no money you`d sure be glad to see your slave masters return in one piece after a war that was supposedly fought against slavery . Only thing is Jack Sommersby was fighting for the side that wanted to keep slavery . This reminded of a very funny sketch from THE BENNY HILL SHOW with Benny as a southern belle and Bob Todd blacked up as a slave . Remembering this comedy classic caused me to laugh so much I was unable to concentrate on watching the rest of the movie . Instinct tells me I didn`t miss much   "},{"Title":"Has To Be One Of The Dumbest Movies Ever Made","Date":"9 August 2006","Score":"13 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Mystery, Romance","Review":" If you believe this story, I have some swampland in New Jersey I'd like to sell you. Hey, it's right near Atlantic City! C'mon, now....really....a man (Richard Gere) comes home from the Civil War and claims to be Jodie Foster's husband. He had been presumed dead. The whole movie is the story of whether she can figure out it's really him or not - even when they are naked in bed! Yeah, right! What an insult to anyone's intelligence. Don't waste your time with this lemon.For those who think this is intelligent, I hope your lobotomy went well! I hope the original (this is a re-make) The Return Of Martin Guerre, was better than this. "}]