[{"Title":"Uhhhhhh... wow, this movie's bad.","Date":"20 March 2007","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Okay, I was a fan of the first movie. And, embarrassingly enough, I was sort of a fan of the second one. But this one...Okay, first off, there's NO fluid movement to the Turtles AT ALL. They look about as mechanically-enhanced as those crappy singing robots they used to have at your local Chuck E. Cheese. In several shots, you can actually SEE where the turtle mask ends and the body suit begins, thereby magically creating the illusion that this is a guy in a turtle costume. The Splinter costume/puppet/whatever is SO. BAD. In the first movie, he was nuanced and realistic, but I guess that's why the folks at Jim Henson's Creature Shop make so much. Apparently, New Line couldn't afford them anymore.The plot is... SO ridiculous. The writers send the Turtles BACK IN TIME to ancient Japan(?), a place where they don't have any villains from the comics or the cartoon. Some Japanese guys switch places with them in the present to be baby-sat by Casey Jones, and fish-out-of-water hilarity ensues (HA HA HA kill me). I actually have a theory about this I think someone dug through a bunch of crappy action movie scripts, found one that would work with the Turtles and wrote the Turtles into it. It's the only thing that makes sense to me.And P.S. -- the jokes are... not.Anyway, avoid this abomination at all costs. If it means anything to ya, it ranks near the very bottom of my Worst Movies Ever list (somewhere below The Cat In The Hat but just above Freddy Got Fingered). "},{"Title":"The least enjoyable of the series","Date":"1 October 2004","Score":"15 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  STAR RATING*****Unmissable****Very Good***Okay**You Could Go Out For A Meal Instead*Avoid At All CostsA magic sceptor transports an ancient warrior from 1603 Japan to present day New York.The heroic foursome in turn learn they must travel back to the warrior's timeframe to battle Lord Norinaga (Sho Shinoba) and his right-hand man Walker (Stuart Wilson) who are enslaving the people.The only film in the series to be completely absent of Shredder,the desperation begins to seep through at a very early stage.An obviously different,helium voiced actor plays Splinter,whilst we see Raphael adopt a less aggressive nature as events in the film progress.For this,and a fairly engaging script,the film is not a total failure.However,the lack of an engaging story proves to be quite a hindrance.The Turtles were certainly massive in the late 80s and early 90s and in retrospect,you could say good on them for wrangling all they could out of feature film adaptations for the franchise.Lets just say,they were certainly wise to leave it at this.**  "},{"Title":"More like Teenage Mutant Ninja Toilets","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"30 out of 52 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Like a lot of prepubescent children in 1989 or 1990, my imagination was captured by this new Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles fad. I remember sitting down and watching an interview with the creators, a pair of comic book authors who chose to go the independent route and gamble on their own ability to succeed. They were lucky enough to win against the odds, at least for a time, but in this interview, they also mentioned something about believing the phenomenon would go on forever. Well, the Turtles are still selling on comic book stands, and you can still see some of their adventures on DVD, but as to whether it survived the 1990s is a matter of opinion.The first feature film, complete with man-sized turtles played by actors in suits, was a low-budget triumph. Indeed, the dominance of Golden Harvest studios in Hong Kong martial arts cinema can easily be traced back to their winning of the rights to do the original film. With a little help from the Jim Henson workshop and some well-cast B-actors in key support roles, the original Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film was a major success that utterly dumbfounded the studio system. What is even more surprising is how the film did not go in the easy we're primarily marketing to children, so we can be patronising route that most children's entertainment follows.That last point is where the first sequel, and this one in particular, went wrong. By the time 1993 rolled around, the Turtles fad had more or less utterly died, replaced by a far longer-lasting fascination with The Simpsons. As a direct result, the budget allocated by Golden Harvest to the third Turtles film was a mere fraction of that allotted to the first film. This is most obvious in the turtles themselves. Sure, they are still portrayed by men in suits, and those suits are still maintained by the Henson workshop, but the overall tone of the turtles' skin and the motion of their mouths indicates that Golden Harvest told the Henson workshop that they just wanted something passable. Given that the first film was dedicated to Jim because it was one of the last things he worked on before he died, this is quite the sad come-down.Another major problem is in the tone of the story. While the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles will never be confused with the likes of RoboCop, the first film went back to the roots of the original comic book and depicted a world that was, for all intents, rather dark. There was a bare hint that being a 5'6 turtle with consciousness was not all it was cracked up to be, unlike the utopia implied by the afternoon cartoon series. There was acrimony, grief, rage, and a million other things that children's entertainment seems to believe we cannot really handle now or ever. That was what turned Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles into Golden Harvest's big breakaway hit.Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III, also known as Turtles In Time, picks up with the turtles milling around their sewer hideout with Splinter (who now looks like a shag carpet with eyes). When April shows up with a bunch of items she found at a garage sale, she happens upon an ancient artifact that transports her back in time to feudal Japan. The turtles, in their usual confused weird-species adolescent fervour, take it upon themselves to go back and rescue her, because we all know how an adolescent turtle would go all bug-eyed at the thought of rescuing a woman who looks anything like Paige Turco.Elias Koteas, the real star of the original film, gets to jump back in here, but the character he is best known for spends most of his time eating pizza, watching over a bunch of Japanese soldiers who changed places in time with the turtles (don't ask), and sharing conversation with the shag carpet that Splinter turned into. For the rest of the time, he plays one of the English scoundrels who are trading with the Japanese monarchs. Yeah, it doesn't make a whole lot of sense. Nor does it particularly excite the viewer. In fact, much like the previous film, the fight sequences are so toned-down and PG-fied that the adults in the audience will fall asleep. Or worse yet, just use this film as a kind of artificial babysitter, which I somehow doubt was what Kevin Eastman and Peter Laird had in mind for their original creations. I don't doubt that they were trying to reach the widest possible audience, but as this film proves, the more you try to please everyone, the more you wind up pleasing no one.I gave Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III a one out of ten. There are moments when it gets bad enough to be funny. The problem is that there are just not enough such moments to justify this film for all but the most hardcore fans of the turtles. And since the most serious fans would all be at least twenty years old by now, well, let us just say this film has its work cut out for it pleasing even that audience. "},{"Title":"Not the best, but still a laugh","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Originally when I saw this movie, it had only just come out in theaters and I was just a kid. At the time, I thought the movie was a steaming pile of crap, no where near in comparison tot he first two. Hell, I overlooked the inclusion of Vanilla Ice for YEARS, insisting that even if he was in the second movie, it was still better than the third. However, now that I am older and a touch wiser, I've gone back and watched all three movies (I've been on a serious TMNT-a-Thon ever since I heard a new movie was in the making). While I admit the third is indeed the worst of the three, it is far from the travesty I originally thought (and thought for years). Aside from the silly story and the poor quality turtle costumes, the dialog is given several moments to shine with some surprisingly funny jokes and one-liners and minor giggles. I'm not saying every TMNT fan should go out and buy this. I don't even own it myself. However, I think you should get a few friends together, grab some snacks, some source of caffeine, order a pizza, and rent TMNT III for a night of absurdity and laughs. That's what my friends and I did <3 "},{"Title":"I don't mean to have a cow, dude, but this is totally the worst of the series.","Date":"25 May 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The story of the turtles gets even more far-fetched in this inferior installment, with the turtles going back in time to 1603 Japan. The Jim Henson's Creature Shop obviously didn't provide for the turtles, which is a major blow to the overall production. There are a couple of pros that save the film from being a total disaster, including the return of Casey Jones (Koteas), who's reprisal may make some fans feel that the second installment had a void with his omission; some fun parallels between 1603 Japan and the turtles' life in 1993 New York; wonderful set production for the Japan scenes; and well-developed new characters. While the omission of any references to the Foot Clan may heavily separate this film from the others in the series, it executes an entertaining and solid story. It's also nice to see the turtles and Splinter are still living in the abandoned underground train station from the second film, as well as Turco NOT suffering a recast of April O'Neal like Hoag did; which shows some attempt at continuity despite its major differences from the first two. However, the flaws are too great for its pros to overcome mediocre status. Right from the get-go the movie seems like a lost cause, with the opening credits being accompanied by a ridiculously, terribly unnecessary, spontaneous turtle-dance. Also, couldn't they have found a way to throw Chief Stern (Serra) in for some extra comedic-relief and continuity?** (out of four) "},{"Title":"skip it","Date":"19 February 2010","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm only a fan of this movie for the nostalgia. As a kid, I was obsessed with 1993 ninja turtle Saturday morning cartoon. I distinctly remember getting this movie as a reward for getting good grades in every subject on my report card that term. I must've watched this movie at least a dozen times that summer.sorry for the tangent. corey feldman does the voice of a lifesize puppet. how can that possibly be a good sign? the heroes of the movie are irritating in every scene. the consistently bad puns will make you want to slam your head against a wall. the portrayal of the fictional early 90's new york that exists in this movie is about as funny as rick moranis's career. avoid avoid avoid. "},{"Title":"Worst Of The Trilogy","Date":"23 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III (1993)(Possible Spoilers) The Ninja Turtles (one of my favourite series' as a child) return in their third, and worst, movie. Not alot happens in this one (the Turtles go back in time to 17th century Japan, have lots of fights) though some of the fight scenes are pretty good. Overall, children will love it but they still won't like it as much as the others.2/5 "},{"Title":"Tame and sickening kiddie fare","Date":"20 May 2004","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Oh dear, if you're diabetic then I would seriously advise against watching this film. It' so sugary it'll rot the brain right out of your head.Why on earth Eastman and Laird allowed this to be made is beyond me. It's soooooooo far removed from their black and white comic book. Okay, I know the cartoon series was too but the first movie did have a hard edge to it. I mean, take a look at the cover-the Turtles are smiling and happy. Then look a cover of one of the original comic books. They're almost always gritting their teeth and frowning. THAT'S how it should be. Not like this.Even the animatronics look fake. The first 2 had a rather believable Splinter but now he's juddering and stiff and obviously operated by a couple of technicians loitering a few feet off camera. His voice is also totally different and he seems a touch more upbeat and lively. HARDLY the way Splinter is supposed to be.The plot itself defies logic and there are massive holes all over the place. With such a dramatic change in locale from New York to Fuedal Japan you'd think the movie would take advantage of that and go nuts with imagination.But sadly not. It just...goes nowhere. I mean, what is the deal with the character of Whit. Why does he look like the great, great, great grandfather of Casey Jones.In fact, the return of Casey is the only reason I am not giving this a 1-star rating. It's a pretty wretched movie but Elias Koteas can make it a tiny bit less unbearable.Hopefully the new cartoon show and the possibility of another (harder) movie will cancel this one out. It's nothing but dated, mindless fodder for under-fives. At the risk of repeating myself; this is NOT how the Turtles should be.Extras are almost non-existent but the animated menus are cool. The 1.851 anamorphic picture is in pretty good shape but the Dolby 5.1 track isn't up to much I'm afraid. The film was originally recorded in Dolby SR so this is obviously a remastering job. It's just adequate is all I'm saying.  "},{"Title":"Were you expecting maybe the Addams Family?","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The turtles are at it again with their 3rd Turtle movie, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 3 but unfortunately, it isn't as good as the first two, the first one was a classic and the 2nd one was very good but the 3rd one is fairly dissapointing, the worst thing about this movie is Splinter's voice was awful and going back to time was a cheesy idea, but fortunately Elias Koteas returns as the immortal Casey Jones although he only gets to appear in about 10 minutes of the whole movie and Corey Feldman returns as the voice of Donatello (he couldn't make it to the 2nd one due to heroin addiction). This movie gets 2 out of 5 stars instead of 1 since this movie does have Casey Jones and it's not a total waste of time. "},{"Title":"I love it - An underrated solid action fun sequel from my childhood!","Date":"26 February 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III in my opinion it is a underrated solid good sequel to the original flick. Everyone hates this film and going for the second film. This one get's the crap for it and the second one gets the praised. This film was actually the first film in the trilogy that I have watched. As child I wanted so badly to see Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles the original movie it was my biggest childhood wish, I heard that Splinter throw Shredder off the roof, I didn't know in which movie that was, so my mom bought me Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III on VHS in 1993, when this movie come out. The VHS sadly had a terrible picture quality and awful sound but even with all that I still liked the film not seeing the first two films. But after watching the first two films, they both become my favorite films, but I hated this one because there was no Shredder, Rocksteady, Bebop, Foot clan or Krang in this movie, that was than. So after many years watching the original trilogy on Blu-ray, as a child Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze was my favorite film in the trilogy. But re watching all of them again, I must say I was really disappointed with the slapstick humor in The Secret of the Ooze, but I was really surprised by this film. They don't use jokes in here, they try too, but they aren't cartoonish like are in the second one. They actually use weapons and swords, nunchakus, not their fists they are Ninja Turtles so they are using weapons which I love that. The only thing that hurt the film are the costumes they aren't Jim Henson's Creature Shop, they are more cheap costumes that were provided by Effects Company the animatronics, that is a minor flaw. Plot The four turtles travel back in time to the days of the legendary and deadly samurai in ancient Japan, where they train to perfect the art of becoming one. The turtles also assist a small village in an uprising.Why I love this film and I don't love the sequel anymore. I really don't care about the second anymore but I love the third one. Like I said as a child Secret of the Ooze was my favorite film, but as an adult Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III is my second favorite film in the series. It is my childhood film. I love that the story is original, no one brings back the characters who died back again. Elias Koteas reprise his role back as Casey Jones and he also plays another character Whit a double spy by Walker's army. There is less humor in this film and it is more serious. Turtles are using there weapons. Leonardo is a bad ass. Fighting Japanese Samurai was awesome. I love that Turtles are back in the time in ancient old Japan, where the air was more cleaner, than it is today. I love Stuart Wilson as the villain Walker. A year later he was another villain in Lethal Weapon 3. Seriously I don't see the hate for this film I love it a lot! I love that Elias Koteas plays two double roles, one as Casey Jones and the second one as Whit. Again a lot of people are complaining because Casey Jones doesn't do anything in the film, just sit around, really? Seriously? Haven't you watched the movie? Whit (Elias Koteas) kills Waalker on the end of the film, when he fires a fire ball on Walker, while he try's to escape. Leonardo defeats Lord Norinaga (Sab Shimono) in a sword fight, even tough the scene was hilarious I still have enjoy it. I love the music score and song Tarzan Boy by Baltimora and of course Rockin' Over The Beat by Technotronic. Paige Turco did outstanding performance as April O'Neil much better than she did in The secret of the Ooze. I grew up with this movie as a child a lot, I have even had Michelangelo and Walker's toy's, I Think I even had a Raphael figure I am not sure. Overall I love this movie it get's solid 9 by me, I love Ninja Turtles in here, I love how Michelangelo saves a child from a flammable house and Leonardo saves him from dying, by giving him a mouth to mouth and he saves him. So why would I hate this film? when the effects are good and the acting is solid. Turtles saved and they prevented the war, they help people out. I think this film for me personally is better than second one and the reboot. I love this film to death and it is my second favorite film of the three. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III is a 1993 American action comedy film based on the comic book characters the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. It is the second sequel to the 1990 live-action Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film. 9/10 Grade A- Studio New Line Cinema, 20TH Century Fox, Golden Harvest Starring Elias Koteas, Paige Turco, Vivian Wu, Sab Shimono, Stuart Wilson, John Aylward, Brian Tochi, Robbie Rist, Corey Feldman, Tim Kelleher, James Murray Director Stuart Gillard Producers David Chan, Kim Dawson, Thomas K. Gray Screenplay Stuart Gillard Based on Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles by Kevin Eastman, Peter Laird Rated PG Running Time 1 Hr. 36 Mins. Budget $17,000,000 Box Office $42,660,000 "}{"Title":"Order a pizza instead","Date":"14 October 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Like a lot of prepubescent children in 1989 or 1990, my imagination was captured by this new Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles fad. I had all the toys, seen the shows and movies. So my cousin and I were super excited for another. A third movie. What could be better than this? Anything. Almost anything would have been better than this movie. I'm only a fan of this movie for the nostalgia. And the pizza. Can't go wrong with pizza. Just avoid this movie. The previous movies were full of good puns and good times. This movie just seems to keep falling flat. Flatter than a pizza. The plot is thin, the costumes are horrible. Someone was slacking. Don't buy the movie. Order in a pizza instead. "},{"Title":"A film that got taken the wrong way!","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Despite the negative critical reception of TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES II THE SECRET OF THE OOZE, the film was still a financial success and another TMNT film was announced, but this would be the last film to be released by New Line Cinema.The film was titled TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES III or TMNT III or TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES III TURTLES IN TIME.The plot revolves around the Sacred Sands of Time, a mystical scepter which transports the Turtles back in time to feudal Japan, where they become embroiled in a conflict between a daimyo and a group of rebellious villagers.The plot of this movie just drives me crazy a little bit, but the story is a little bit incoherent in a few areas, but it can also get really amazing and this movie should have gotten more praise and acclaim that the first film did and I really don't know why people hate this movie.The turtles look stupid as hell in this film and the visuals are impressive, and part of the reason why I think the turtles look as bad as they do is because and they are just fantastic and simply amazing.The music is composed by John Du Prez and it is spectacular. The visuals and designs of this film is just amazing and really cool and spectacular.The acting is okay and that, along with the music is what keeps me from hating this movie in the worst way I can possibly can. Corey Feldman and the original TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES cast returns to do their voices of their respective turtles and it sounds amazing.Paige Turco plays the role of April O'Neill and she does a great job once again. Elias Koteas plays the role of Casey Jones once again and he does a great job once again and he is just incredible this time, especially after being absent from the second film.After this film, another film was in development for a release in 1997 titled TMNT The Next Mutation, the film would introduced new turtles, but this project was cancelled after trying to get it made.So, in 2007, both Warner Bros. Pictures and The Weinstein Company teamed up to bring us the 100% computed generated imagery version of the four heroes, simply titled TMNT. "},{"Title":"Definitely Not Written By A Kid","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie concluded the trilogy of the original TMNT movies, where the turtles were stuntmen in costumes. It wouldn't be until over a decade later where we'd have a new TMNT movie in 2007, which is also called TMNT. I saw the 2007 TMNT movie once, and didn't like it. Then, there'd be a 2014 Michael Bay TMNT movie with Megan Fox as April O' Neil, and a sequel for that movie is in the works. It was a cool action movie, but a lot of us prefer the original TMNT movies.This movie is probably the most forgotten next to the 2007 movie. I've also seen bad reviews from this movie, both on IMDb and critic reviews. But, despite those bad reviews I love this movie and am going to give it a good review. This movie for one takes us in a different direction than the other two movies. How so, well we are used to seeing the TMNT movies showing the turtles in an urban environment and in sewers. It also looks different to see a TMNT movie without The Foot Clan, Tatsu, and Shredder. In this movie, the turtles and April travel back in time, and rather go back to like the time of the dinosaurs, they go back to Feudal Japan in the 17th Century. The scepter they use to travel back in time was cool.I've read reviews on this film, specifically on Wikipedia where one of the reviews stated that they felt like the movie would only appeal to kids, and not only that but looked like it was written by a kid. I have to say, definitely not. Here are some of the reasons. Well, I feel like most kids are not familiar with Feudal Japan in the 17th Century. This movie takes us back to Japan during that time, and I feel like they do a great job in brining 17th Century Japan back to life. You could watch this movie, including the trailer and in scenes the turtles aren't in, you'd think you were watching some other movie showing ancient Japan as we see the turtles in a different environment. Also, I could easily summarize the plot for the first two movies, but this one is harder to summarize. A kid wouldn't write a plot that was hard to understand for such a productive movie. I also feel like it could appeal more to adults than those other movies for a few reasons. One, I think if you're like me and like history it would be interesting seeing Feudal Japan. Also, this movie seems a little less cheesy, as the way the turtles act can be cheesy at times, but in this movie they seem a little more mature than in the last movie. This movie also seems dark which was a complaint for the first movie and toned down in the second. The turtles finally use their weapons again. This is also the only TMNT movie of the original trilogy with guns. We can ask ourselves, why if the Foot And Shredder intended to kill the turtles, why don't they ever use guns? We also have cannon usage. This movie also includes Casey Jones who wasn't in the second one. He plays two different parts in the movie, so it's great to see him back. Let's not forget about the humor in this movie. Then again, we also see more nature in this movie than any other TMNT movie.So, I saw this movie yesterday and really enjoyed it, more so than the second. I feel like this movie is underrated. If you think like I do, then this movie will definitely be enjoyable to you. It does a great job in taking the movies in a different direction and making an enjoyable movie different to what we typically see. So if you haven't seen it, I'd definitely recommend it. "},{"Title":"I Don't Hate TMNT III","Date":"30 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" By 1993, the Ninja Turtles franchise continued to be enormously popular. However, its grasp on the kiddy zeitgeist was starting to slip. Critically acclaimed adaptations of superheroes, like Batman The Animated Series, had inched in on the Turtles' territory. The Turtles were no longer as hip among the playground crowd. These things I can attest to, as I was there. A few months after Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III was released, the Power Rangers would premiere, stealing the TMNT's thunder, quickly eclipsing the older series in popularity. But before that happened, the Green Machine went back in time.The film begins with the Heroes Four at ease, practicing via synchronized dance moves. April climbs down the ladder, barring gifts from Japan. Among those gifts is a golden scepter. When holding it, April is thrown back in time to 1700's Japan. A prince is teleported to the modern day in her place. Determined to rescue their friend, the Turtles quickly decipher the mechanics of the device, heading into the past after her. Once in Edo era Nippon, the turtles are embroiled in a plot involving an English trader selling guns to the samurai lord, eager to use the weapons in war, something his son is strictly against.Ninja Turtles III is not well regarded. Most consider the film the long-running series' nadir. As a kid, I remember being disappointed because the villain wasn't Krang. Now that Shredder's dead, that's the second most important villain, right? Or how about Baxter Stockman or Slash? I wasn't alone in that disappointment. The film, instead, breaks wildly from Turtles canon, featuring an original story populated with new characters. It takes the characters out their urban setting, putting them in a different time. It's a Ninja Turtles movie where ninjitsu plays a small role. The Teens spent most of the film dressed as Samurai. Yet it's not fair to judge III for what it isn't.So why do people hate this movie so much? The number one reason is doubtlessly the steep drop in quality concerning the special effects. The Jim Henson Creature Shop, who provided the fantastic suits for the last two films, passed on this one, leaving the effects duties to less disciplined hands. The animatronic heads are less expressive, with blockier faces and more exaggerated features. Whenever they have to talk or express emotion, the fakeness of the suit become apparent. The Turtles' look more rubbery and their skin is dotted with odd liver spots. Splinter, meanwhile, is obviously a hand-puppet, as you never see his legs. While the last two films convinced you that these puppets were real characters, here they look like the unconvincing special effects they are.There are other reasons Ninja Turtles III is considered the crappy one. The film has an obnoxious sense of humor. Throughout the entire film, the Turtles repeatedly drop random pop culture references, many of which have little relevance to the actual plot. There's no reason for the characters to mention the Addams Family, Elvis, or Clint Eastwood and even fewer reasons for the film to find such references so inherently hilarious. While the Turtles are in the past, Casey Jones has to take care of four ancient samurais in modern day New York. He does this by teaching them hockey and taking them out to a dance club, which leads to broad, embarrassing comedy. In the past, the Turtles obsess with Wet Willies and mock a fat dungeon master. It's not sophisticated, is what I'm saying.Moreover, the movie's plot isn't very interesting. Some consider the time travel device too far fetched but I don't think that washes, considering the silly things Turtle fans do accept. Walker is a fairly generic bad guy, motivated by simple greed. The exact reasons he and the samurai lord are working together aren't elaborated on much. His death scene is also super stupid. The looming threat of war is mostly kept off-screen. The film is also poorly paced. After arriving in the past, there are some action scenes with the Turtles attempting to rescue Mikey. After that, the story relaxes into a long, leisurely sequence of the Turtles hanging out in the village. Donnie is preoccupied with going home. Raph befriends a young child who he thinks is too serious. Mikey, meanwhile, starts to fall for Mitsu, the human samurai chick that is actually the time-displaced Kenshin's love interest. Not until the very end, when the Turtles make their way back to the castle, does the plot begin to move again. And that plot is a fairly uninspired MacGuffin chase, the Turtles chasing after the scepter that can take them back home.But I don't hate TMNT III and am coming awfully close to calling it underrated. The film tries something different with the characters. The relationship Raphael forms with young Yoshi comes close to being touching, as it finds the turtle confronting his own angry personality. Michelangelo developing feelings for a human female might strike you as odd but it forms into an interesting storyline, especially when the turtle debates staying behind in the Feudal Japan. The story may be poorly paced but I appreciate the filmmakers attempting to tell a lower-key tale. Elias Koteas and Paige Turco are back and both give decent performances. Lame as the character may be, Stuart Wilson at least has some hammy fun as Walker. The action scenes are surprisingly well choreographed and features the Turtles using their weapons more then part 2 did.The film still opened number 1 at the box office but didn't have the staying power of the previous flicks. Despite plans for a fourth film, the series took an extended break from theaters. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III is ultimately a failure but it's an interesting failure that attempted to take the franchise in a different direction. It didn't do it well but at least it tried. "},{"Title":"The installment that destroyed the franchise","Date":"20 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Yeah, it's the worst one in this Ninja Turtles trilogy and it is a bad movie. However it wasn't as super awful a I thought it was going to be. Some of the parts are just plan out stupid though and it seems to go in a certain direction but completely disregards it. And a lot of things just doesn't make any sense. The villains were silly and goofy in the previous installments, but this take it to another level. To the point it actually become really annoying to watch. So this time the turtles comes across a magic scepter that allows the turtles to go back in time to feudal japan. And few samurais in the past to make it to present time. And it become pretty much predictable and straightforward from then on. With the turtles siding with the a group driven by rebellion against a tyrant and his men, including a arms dealer who is basically the main bad guy. And the turtles has 60 hours to do there thing, get the scepter back and make it back to the time period they belong in. The thing is, this seemed more like a live action Ninja Turtles TV show from the 90's over it actually seeming like it's a movie. Even the turtle costume this time looks super plastic looking and appeared to be a left over costumes from Chuck E. Cheese. The previous 2 installments are lame and cheesy, but this one becomes appalling even if it's a kids movie. Like I said, it isn't a super awful movie but the pointless scenes revolving Casey and uber weak character development and interactions equipped with directions and scenarios that doesn't make any sense really hurts this one. Fortunately at least the actress that played April O'Neil is much better than the one in the second installment. Despite most of my review being negative about this movie, the reason I say it's not super awful is because it does have few although very few parts that are decent. However it's a major negative when the audiences can think of ways to make the movie better than the actual writers, probably within the budget as well. And I usually don't make statements like that, because I am not a Monday morning quaterback. But the audiences even have some better ideas. 3/10 "},{"Title":"Its now middling between keeping and losing its audience","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" By the early 1990s, it was definite that the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles were a bankable asset in the film and television industry. With their popularity soaring through the ceiling, along with the help of Vanilla Ice's one hit wonder Ninja-rap from the first sequel, it seemed as if nothing could stop them. That is, until this installment came along two years later. But how? What could possibly blow the tires out from under the turtle vehicle? Two words - time travel. More than likely this is what made people role their eyes and either walk out of the theater disappointed or avoid it altogether. You can only make a ridiculous but also fun concept only so preposterous. Pushing the limits could just make it unbearably silly and that's probably what happened here. Making things harder to weigh pros and cons is that for every plus, there seemed to be a minus to counter it.After anticlimactically defeating The Shredder for the SECOND time in a row (the first being from the original), the quadruplet of turtles come across an ancient magic Japanese staff that is able to transport people to another time. When April (Paige Turco - from the previous film) is zapped into another time zone, the turtles jump in to rescue her. While rescuing her, they realize they play a much bigger part in the fate of another conflict. The conflict exists between one family at war under reasons that are not explained. This isn't a good start. Although according to sources that the writing contains material from the actual comics, what is set in motion in no way recognizes the mythological foundation that was set up in the last two predeceasing movies. Instead of normal turtles happening to randomly come in contact with toxic ooze, now their ancestors are legends, which were, recorded as a prophecy that helped end an ancient evil. OK really? This is getting far-fetched.Stuart Gillard (mainly a TV director) directed and wrote the screenplay. Surprisingly, as much as the plot doesn't in anyway sound easily approachable or acceptable, Gillard tries to make this movie feel like the other films, although there a several changes. For one, Casey Jones (Elias Koteas) returns which is great, sadly is also underutilized. The actual character just hangs around Master Splinter while the turtles fight in another time zone. Come on! That's not to say Koteas isn't around however. Koteas plays another character in the other time zone but his other role is weakly defined and lacks any charm. The villain is another problem. Underrated actor Sab Shimono (Uncle, from Jackie Chan Adventures (2000)) plays the emperor at odds with his family. Along with him, he allies with a westerner named Walker (Stuart Wilson). Wilson is effective at being a bad guy but his showdown with the turtles AGAIN is anticlimactic. What is with these showdowns?Speaking of showdowns, viewers may be surprised to see that the turtles actually revert back to using their iconic weapons again unlike the first sequel. That was nice, but the problem was that the action scenes felt too infrequent from the last time. Most of the time the turtles are just looking for someone. What gives? Gillard also tried keeping the snarky dialog and comedy from that of the first two films. At first, it seems the same but over time viewers will notice that almost every sentence that comes out of the main characters' mouths are references to other movies. This is an element that is too frequent through the running time. It just feels goofy, like none of the characters have original content to say. The sound effects also come across more like a cartoon than an action film.Some of the practical effects looked better on our heroes for the third time. The facial features keep getting more detailed to create a more human expression, which works. What viewers may not expect though is that Splinter (like mentioned before with Casey Jones), just hangs around. He doesn't even move from the set he's first seen from. Making him look even more like a puppet is that he's always behind something. It kind of made it feel like Splinters entire body wasn't ready for filming. Lastly is the music by John Du Prez who composed the score to the first two movies. And although his music wasn't a classic orchestral score, it had a catchy main theme and worked. Here, Du Prez makes tracks appropriate to the Japanese setting but lacks the memorable main theme. I don't know, it got a number of things right but had enough flawed elements to counter it. The only thing I can say is I'm glad it didn't take place in space. For its third outing it isn't terrible but it's no longer being consistent with the original elements that helped make the first one a hit and its sequel a moderate guilty pleasure. Plus, involving time travel wasn't the best idea. "},{"Title":"Marshmallow pizza","Date":"3 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Vilified, a film that ponders the wasteland of sequels. It's often hard to make a good follow up to a series of movies, and making a third or fourth or whatever sequel proves to be even harder (hellraiser, lethal weapon). But Hollywood is a place largely dominated by how much money can be squeezed out of an idea, so here we go. This movie get's way more flak then it deserves, the costumes are an improvement, the time travel was cool, April is still hot and the action is dope. The second installment had weird costumes that looked to be heavy on complex mechanical masks and not enough on body movement/fluidity. The third makes up for that, the costumes look the best in the whole live action franchise which helps for any part of the movie driven by dialog or combat. This film saw the return of Corey Feldman, a departure from the Jim Henson prop department and the introduction to an awesome SNES game. But it failed to catch on with fans and was panned by critics. The sequels never managed to capture the gritty aspect of the first film, or find a happy medium between storytelling and action, but for a trilogy i've seen a lot worse. "},{"Title":"3rd time is no charm","Date":"16 August 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When growing up, I actually didn't want to see this movie because I was getting older and thought that I was too old for it, but now that I have seen it, I now realize that it was one of the worst hour and forty-five minutes I have ever waisted! I do have to say that the best part of the movie is when I didn't have to watch it anymore, but the fact that there was no Cowabunga or I made another funny at the very end made it suck 100%. Even when a movie sucks from a line of good ones, you need to keep up with a theme, and if they went back in time to the beginning of the Foot Clan, that would have been cool. Or if Yoshi had turned out to be Splinter's owner, that would have been cool too, but no, this movie sucked! "},{"Title":"seriously...I am a Turtles nerd....and this doesn't hold up","Date":"26 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I loved this movie as a kid, I think I even went as far as to say that it was my favorite movie at one point (but I think I did that with just about any kids movie that I saw), but sadly this movie doesn't hold up for some reason, it's good nostalgia sure, but what's the problem? Well for one it's kind of boring. Ironic I find it more boring as an adult than as a child. The other problem is that in more than one way it blatantly (or very coincidentally?) rips of Back to the Future 3. How, you ask? Well off the top of my head I can think of the general plot as an example...In BTTF 3 Marty goes back to rescue his friend Doc who accidentally got sent back in time...In TMNT 3 the turtles go back in time to rescue April...who accidentally got sent back in time. In BTTF Marty breaks the fuel line for the DeLorrean, in Turtles 3 Mikey loses the scepter. So the basic gist seems copied...on top of that there are a few more things. In BTTF 3 one of the jokes is that Marty calls himself Clint Eastwood in the old west, in Turtles 3 Mike mistakes the main bad guy for Eastwood...in kind of a painfully unfunny scene. And last but not least somebody wants to stay behind because of a pretty lady, Doc in BTTF 3 and Mike in TMNT 3...I really wish this movie had held up better because I love the turtles, but it just doesn't.... "},{"Title":"The turtles trip over there success and they cant get up","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well after the amazing first Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film and the second not quite amazing but still good Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 2The secret of the Ooze the turtles return to the big screen for the unlucky third time where in the first 2 films they had a great opening sequence like in the first we had never seen the turtles on the big screen and really alive before so they kept that suspense going for about a awesome 10 Min's we finally see them all together right after there about to jump at the main titles and in the second one the turtles all jump up and the main title goes right there it was pure awesome and everyone couldn't wait for them to come up.....but in the third there is no thought no imagination its just the turtles dancing witch couldn't even succeed at being funny and brings me to splinter witch if you think splinter was an undeveloped character in the second...wait until you see him in the third splinter is supposed to be a main character that teaches the turtles but in this movie he just stands in his under ground house and at least the first two films he looks really cool but in this film he looked like a puppet behind a wall and only appeared in a few scenes witch was pointless so lets get to the plot April buys a some sort of time warp thing and warps the turtles in time and this movie would have been good story and have something that fans wanted such as shredders return and the debut a krang if thats what you are hoping to get......your wrong...instead you get 2 weird stupid undeveloped characters that nobody cared for why? because we didn't know these characters from the cartoon show and they don't look cool there just siting on a horse shooting guns and ones the gos guy and other is the bad guy and the Michaelangelo gets kidnapped witch keep the turtles back April as well gets set back in time where her and mike and prisoners and the turtles costumes just look so awful it isn't funny and there is only a couple fight scenes not involving all the turtles until the end at least the previous films had more then one for scene with all the turtles more then once so as you can see they pretty much went wrong where ever this is buy far the worst tmnt film as well as it being one of the worst films and let downs ever and goes to show that most three's in a sequel flop the first,second and fourth tmnt films are all great so lets just pretend the fourth is the third and leave this horrible film as a past and killed off memory. so now its time to overall this film.story 3/10scenes 3/10special effects 6/10fight scenes 4/10character development 4/10brilliance 3/10overall 3.5/10 "}{"Title":"An insult to the Turtles fans...(* out of * * * *)","Date":"28 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" April O'Neil (Paige Turco) buys a magic scepter that somehow manages to send her back in time to 16th century Japan. So, her friends, the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, use the scepter to go back in time to rescue her.Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (1990) was entertaining--the animatronics were good, excellent fight choreography, it had a nice film noir look to it, and it was fun watching a live action Turtles movie with guys in rubber costumes. It marked the end of the '80s, and the beginning of the 1990s. The second film, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret of the Ooze (1991) was a bad movie, but entertaining in its stupidity.The third film, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III (1993), is horrible. The Turtles look like sock puppets with teeth. Splinter is much worse (Why does it look like only the upper half of his body was completed?). Even the jokes, the one-liners, the editing and the voice acting are horrible. And let's not forget the annoying pop culture references.One thing I liked about the first two films were the opening sequences, which were nice suspenseful build-ups. When the Turtles made their first appearances during the pre-credit sequences, you felt like cheering. Not this time...The movie opens with a fight in 16th century Japan that doesn't make any sense, then what we get is the Turtles dancing to ZZ Top. No creativity, no suspense, no thought. The same thing goes for the ending. You'd expect a big climactic fight sequence but no. The villain turns out to be a complete wimp.I would have enjoy it more if the movie continued with the Turtles still fighting crime in New York. And don't expect another villain from the comics or the cartoon. Instead, make way for Walker (Stuart Wilson) and Lord Norinaga (Sab Shimono), two clichéd, over-the-top characters who look like they belong in a bad TV show. Does anybody remember them from Ninja Turtles? I don't. Paige Turco is annoying this time around as April. She spends most of the time in Japan yelling, complaining and being angry.The only fun I can get out of this watching this is watching the 16th century Japanese guys in modern-day New York dancing to Tarzan Boy and playing hockey.Like the Home Alone movies, death isn't really a strong reality in the world of the Ninja Turtles as villains survive being beaten up, and shot at.Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III is just a big insult to the the fans who had been waiting two years after the first sequel for another Turtles adventure. Sure, young kids will probably enjoy this, but hardcore Turtles fans may be disappointed. It's definitely a bad sign when a low-budget sequel moves away from its original roots and goes in a different direction. "},{"Title":"It Was Panned, But Its Still Good!","Date":"12 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Some people claim that Turtles 3 was the worst one of the series. But come on it focused more on kids than adults like Turtles 2. In Turtles 3 the turtles get sent back into time by a old Japanese specter to recuse April which was also sent back through time from the specter. The turtles end up in 17th century Japan. The overall result is really entertaining! Some of the original cast members return from the first movie, such as Elias Koteas who plays the funny Casey Jones, Corey Fieldman returns as the voice of Donny. Out of all of the turtles movies this one is properly the best one for young kids. Its violence is more like childish acts and its full of comedy. The bad guy in this movie is a dude named Walker and he uses guns to kill people. The start of the movie starts with the turtles dancing to ZZ Top music and showing off their ninja skills. The special effects aren't as good as the first two movies but they are still convincing. This movie was panned by critic's and people on its release and a written out to be a flop and at one stage it was a rare movie to have because only a few thousand copies were only made world-wide. But thanks to DVD the movie is now part of the Turtles series pack on DVD. "},{"Title":"Worth a see with fun, puns and a happy ending.","Date":"5 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  All in all, this is a fun movie.  After the first two TMNT movies, this one breaks with the Shredder theme (fortunately as Shredder seemed about as hard to kill as the first Terminator) and takes the brothers back in time. Warring families in feudal Japan provide the backdrop for teenage Turtle-jinx while Elias Koteas (Casey Jones) displays an enlightening dual role capability.  The costumes look more comfortable at the expense of realistic but otherwise, the puns - I mean fun - keeps flowing.  If you enjoyed the first two then see this one. "},{"Title":"A film that got taken the wrong way!","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Despite the negative critical reception of TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES II THE SECRET OF THE OOZE, the film was still a financial success and another TMNT film was announced, but this would be the last film to be released by New Line Cinema.The film was titled TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES III or TMNT III or TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES III TURTLES IN TIME.The plot revolves around the Sacred Sands of Time, a mystical scepter which transports the Turtles back in time to feudal Japan, where they become embroiled in a conflict between a daimyo and a group of rebellious villagers.The plot of this movie just drives me crazy a little bit, but the story is a little bit incoherent in a few areas, but it can also get really amazing and this movie should have gotten more praise and acclaim that the first film did and I really don't know why people hate this movie.The turtles look stupid as hell in this film and the visuals are impressive, and part of the reason why I think the turtles look as bad as they do is because and they are just fantastic and simply amazing.The music is composed by John Du Prez and it is spectacular. The visuals and designs of this film is just amazing and really cool and spectacular.The acting is okay and that, along with the music is what keeps me from hating this movie in the worst way I can possibly can. Corey Feldman and the original TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES cast returns to do their voices of their respective turtles and it sounds amazing.Paige Turco plays the role of April O'Neill and she does a great job once again. Elias Koteas plays the role of Casey Jones once again and he does a great job once again and he is just incredible this time, especially after being absent from the second film.After this film, another film was in development for a release in 1997 titled TMNT The Next Mutation, the film would introduced new turtles, but this project was cancelled after trying to get it made.So, in 2007, both Warner Bros. Pictures and The Weinstein Company teamed up to bring us the 100% computed generated imagery version of the four heroes, simply titled TMNT. "},{"Title":"Cowabunga!","Date":"24 April 2014","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III is a great kids Title. If the other two movies were dark than this one was most certainly light and I am glad. If they were to change the Turtles movies they would have done it in Secret Of The Ooze. That Title all be it an entertaining watch was still dark like the epic original movie.I cannot be unbiased when it comes to the Turtles movies. I grew up watching it and I loved seeing the departure of the Turtles from the traditional gritty feel of the other two. To have the Turtles out in the open, seeing a less aggressive Raphael. Having Michaelangelo going missing instead was a nice change.This movie also did a lot more with Leonardo, Donatello, Casey Jones, April O' Neill and Splinter. The absence of a strong Villain meant they story could focus on the Turtles. The enemies were forgettable but you watch the movie to see Turtles in a half shell taking on a bunch of Feudal warriors. "},{"Title":"No, ninja. No, ninja. NO","Date":"4 November 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Being a MAJOR ninja turtles fan I was very disappointed in this movie. But I feel like I should give my two-cents on the first 2 movies.The first Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is a classic movie for any fan. It has action, adventure, comedy, drama and everything that can be expected. And the effects are AMAZING. You actually feel like those are EXACTLY what the live action turtles would look like. Yes it can be silly (I mean teenage mutant ninja turtles) but that's why this movie can have a lasing influence. There was a passion behind it and it really shines in the movie. 9/10 Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles The Secret of the Ooze was a very good sequel to the first one. Yes it was a bit underplayed and was less violent then the first one but it is still very enjoyable. It's a good cheesy movie and very memorable. It had the action, adventure and comedy that can be expected. I recommend this to all fans. 9/10 Then we come to this...abomination, for lack of a better word. This movie is just bad. Well bad doesn't even describe it. It is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. There is no atmosphere, no character development, no story, no effort, no...ANYTHING! It's painful to even sit through. Avoid this movie. Pretend it doesn't exist and just watch the first two movies. 1/10 If you want to see a review before watching, or even after watching to find out how bad this is, I recommend you-tube The Angry Video Game Nerd Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. It gives you a great breakdown of what is wrong with this 3rd TMNT movie while still discussing why the the first 2 are good movies. This review is more entertaining then this movie. So basically, avoid this movie at all costs! "},{"Title":"Watchable","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III is a bad movie with good parts, that's really all you need to know.One of the best things about the film is that the turtles get to use their weapons. The fights are much better than the 2nd's and are actually pretty exciting. The film is more like II than the first, it's more lighthearted, and surprisingly some of the jokes are pretty funny, and the dialog in general isn't terrible, but it's not exactly well-written. The turtles voices are all great, and Cory Feldman makes a welcome return in the role of Donatello, I missed him in the second film.The film's cinematography is pretty good, the sets and lighting are decent, the scenes in Japan look really great, but the scenes in the sewer look like a set. Outside of the turtles, the acting is pretty sub-par, Casey makes a return, but his character is nowhere near as great as it was in the first. April O'Neil is basically there just to give the turtles the plot, which is disappointing to me because I really enjoyed her character in the first, and to a lesser extent, the second.The puppetry is bad. Splinter looks horrendous and moves like a robot. The turtles suits look horrible, the lack of Henson's team is very obvious here. When their mouths move it really draws attention to how bad the mechanics are. The spots on their costumes are supposed to be subtle, not draw attention to themselves like in this film. The film is just nowhere near as good as you'd want it to be, but it's also not terrible. It's watchable and enjoyable enough, and I pop it in every once in a while because it has its moments.5/10 "},{"Title":"What happened with this one??","Date":"13 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" What the hell were they thinking? The first one was a surprisingly entertaining movie, even to this day. It's dark and still humorous just like the turtles comics were. Being a 90s kid I loved the Turtles as did every child in the free world at that time. A great movie with a great ending that could have been the last but because of the success of it they rushed out a sequel. Now as a kid watching the Sequel Secret of the Ooze I always thought it was the better of the two. more action, more goofiness and more villains. As an adult now it is still a decent sequel but isn't as good as the first. Has some nice fights and SUPER SHREDDER that is just awesome.Now still as a Kid assuming the 3rd movie would start with Super Shredder breaking out of that dock disaster, I was disappointed. What they gave us is a over the top horribly written, mess of a movie that should have never been made.Nothing about this movie stands out or even is slightly memorable or even funny. When your a kid and still hate this TURTLES movie you know it must be brutally bad, which unfortunately it is that and worse. I tried re-watching this movie as an adult and by the end I really wanted that wasted time back. The movie is bad; the animatronics are bad the jokes are bad and the ending is one of the worst in film history. They could have easily brought back Shredder or Maybe Krang or Baxter Stockman. They had an abundance of evil villains they could have used to make this movie more appealing but they chose a crappy character named Walker. This movie is the reason they never made another Turtles movie until 2007 a whole 14 years later. Don't waste your time or money on this travesty of a movie.2/10 "},{"Title":"Not as turtle-rrific, but still fun.","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Turtles decide to take a time trip back to Feudal Japan after a cheesy scepter inexplicably transports April O'Neil to the same place. They find themselves in the middle of and become involved with sparring nations.There is some redeeming value to this ordinarily plotted third movie in the defunct franchise. The action scenes are good but don't expect Crouching Turtle, Hidden Tadpole. The violence returns to greatness and surpasses the second movie's less violence than the original TV cartoon! There was some cute chemistry with Michaelangelo and Mitsu, and a nice scene with hot-headed Raphael teaching a young boy to control his temper.It certainly is less dark, visually and in tone, than the first two, which is a nice switch. And what got me so surprised was the superb acting from the humans! The largest disappointment was that Jim Henson's puppetry wasn't in this one. The most glaring inferiority was in Splinter, who is not the wonderful rat from the first two. And his voice was shockingly bad, Kevin Clash was sorely missed. Still, TMNT 3 is a thoroughly tasty turtle soup a gumbo with Seven Samurai Ran, Romeo and Juliet, Back to the Future 3, and the the first TMNT. "},{"Title":"Still great fun","Date":"29 June 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The Turtles still offer great fun in their third outing on the silver screen. More aimed at children than ever, this movie has an interesting story, action, funny jokes and a happy ending. While not as good as the first two, the third movie is very entertaining. Now bring on another sequel. "}{"Title":"This is acctually really good!","Date":"6 June 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The only thing I feel this movie lacked was Jim Hensons Studio's help.  It shows by the cheapness of the Turtles (and especially Splinters) New look. Which actually looks great, but it's not the same material used in the first two.   Splinter actually looks fine, but his outer appearance lacks the spirit of the original Splinter.  People at Jim Henson Studios must put effort and life into anything they create because most puppeteers create their actual puppets -such was the case with Splinter in the first two. But this was taken out of the third movie...and thus the only thing to back it up would've been another return of Shredder and a good plot.Sadly any return of Shredder would probably be a bad plot. (   As he did die in the comic book...   And since the second story pushed away from the Comic's original storyline....(TGRI was really TCRI...and was run by aliens from outer-space) There was no way a plot that furthered the story would be any good...unless....they chose the script they chose for this movie.  The whole side story in Feudal Japan is it's own movie and this works excellently for the film.   The Turtles show up to save April, who has been transported to Feudal Japan by a magic scepter.   And of course adventure and comedy is bound to ensue.Another thing I digged was the character development...which is sometimes sped up sometimes on Michaelangelo, Raphael, Whit, April and Casey's relationship, and Kenshin.   However April (by herself), Lord Norinaga, Mitzu, Walker, and Donetello's character development works... (Don's character changes throughout the entire trilogy....first smart mouth, then joker who is a whiz with computers (or starting to be.) then finally Turtle Nerd...I can't possibly exist without one single microchip?)Which brings me to one another issue..... Corey Feldman's return was awesome!   The second Donatello always annoyed me.   I think it was mostly because Corey Feldman made Don his own character and not just the smart guy, but rather a smart guy with a smart-ass mouth.  D  Corey's Return is highlighted in the credits and with good reason.   He does an excellent job of following up on the second Don's attempt to be a Computer Wiz..The rest of the cast is great, with the exception of Splinter's new voice actor.   He tries... but he is no Kevin Clash.  I must comment on Robbie Rist and Brian Touchi.  They are Michaelangelo and Leonardo..they surpassed the cartoon voice overs from the cartoon series in the first movie...and they continued with their roles until the end and never faltered.  Tim Kelleher is excellent as Rapheal, tho' it would've been nice to have the original voicer of Raph from the first or the second...he makes the role his own and that's actually good!  Paige Turco return is surprising as she doesn't look herself in this movie at all.   (I thought it was a third April) and this could be seen as good or bad for the film.  (She looks like she's acting more like Judith Hoag) and this could be because of Elias Koteas, who is the only actor to return from the original movie. (Actor..the others did voices)  'Course I may be wrong.    But his presence helps connect this film with the previous two.  We get to see how Casey has changed (or hasn't) in this film since we didn't get to in the first. His appearance as Casey is short but good.   He also gets a chance to play a secondary character named Whit who may be Casey's great great great great grandfather.All and all... a good Turtle Movie on it's own. "},{"Title":"The Film That Killed the Franchise","Date":"4 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The turtles find themselves transported back in time to ancient Japan.The best thing about this film the return of Casey Jones (Elias Koteas). And in two different forms. Koteas is one of my favorite actors and it is incredible that he isn't bigger or more well-known. Where is his shelf of Oscars? His appearance(s) in this film is the only thing saving it.Now, to be fair, I remembered it being much worse. It's not the worst movie ever. It is definitely a big step down from part one and part two. The humor is not as good, the script not as tight... and even the basic concept is not incredibly clever. Did this kill the franchise? That is the way I remember it. Today (2016) the Turtles are back, but only because the folks who grew up with them are now in their 30s and have kids of their own to expose. There was at leas ten years there -- maybe more-- where the concept was dead. "},{"Title":"To mush whining about this movie because it is a sequel","Date":"11 March 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This is not a bad movie. This is a good movie. People do not like because it is a sequel. Teenage mutant ninja turtles (1990) is better. That is true. Teenage mutant ninja turtles II is better. That is also true. The cartoon show from the 80's and 90's is also better. Teenage mutant ninja turtles (2014) is also better. But 4.8 is just underrating this movie. Do not skip it. It is a great movie. All the Teenage mutant ninja turtles movie are great movie. OK is would have been better if Shredder had been in it. But that did not make it a terrible movie. This is one of the best action movies from 1993. This is a great movie. Do not lesson to the people whining about it. See it. "},{"Title":"Cowabunga, dude. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III was just disappointment.","Date":"26 May 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 1990's trilogy had its up & downs. The first movie in 1990 was alright. The second movie was watchable. The third movie directed by Stuart Gillard, was just not in the same as the others, and felt out of place. Since, the movie kill Shredder from the last movie, the movie needed a new plot. From all the rich plots and villains, they could had chosen like Krang, Rat King, or Baxter Stockman. The movie choice, none of them and instead create a new concept in which the Turtles travel back into time to 1603 feudal Japan. I have to give them some credit for trying to make something new out of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, but couldn't they just wait until they run out of the establish concepts that the comics and television have provided for their viewers. The feudal Japan settling is pretty interesting, since not a lot of Americans movies at the time, provide that, and I'm glad, they got a lot of Japanese actors to play the supporting roles. Still, the way, they marched the two concepts into one, is dumb plot. So in the present day, April O'Neil (Paige Turco) been shopping at a flea market, and just happen to upon an ancient Japanese scepter that cause them to travel back into time! First off, what a weak establishment for how the Turtles came to hold of the ancient Japanese scepter. A flea market? It's never establish, how the ancient Japanese scepter even got to a flea market in America. Really bad storytelling here. You would had some treasure hunting fun adventure scenes with this, with the Turtles discovering it when travelling to Japan for their training, or the screenwriters could had a story where the turtles find a hideout of a criminal who stealing ancient artifacts, but no. Instead, April buy the Japanese scepter at some odd-screen flea market, and we don't see the turtles in action, until they travel back into time to rescue April. The movie really lack action scenes. Plus, none of them were anything new. The violent was toned down to the point to fit in the PG rating. Full of childish fighting styles, slow fight cinematography and bad one liners sayings. I really doubt they ever go back to the extremely good fighting scenes of the first movie. There were different fighting scenes shot for different countries. Such in the case of Great Britain, which had a law at the time against the presentation of martial arts weapons especially the Nunchakus. When watching both the American & US version, I can say, there is only a few differs. Most of them are in the opening scene. The movie opens up with them dancing to ZZ top in a goofy matter than fighting, anyways. I don't see the big deal. The build up to the turtles is so badly done. Unlike the previous films, the Jim Henson's Creature Shop did not provide the advanced animatronics and it shows how badly done it was. They look like giant underdeveloped frogs than the Turtles. You can even see the man's face in the costume through its mouth in some scenes. They really do lack the facial emotions of the previous films. I still love how they have the same or similar voice acting that was given to the turtles throughout the films. Since, the movie is PG, there wasn't that much foul language. So, there will no scenes of the turtles saying damn, here. I have to say, most of the turtles jokes were really unfunny due to it being out of context, or making no sense. I think, the most fun, I had in the film is with the Ancient Honor Guards with Casey Jones (Elias Koteas) in the present day. It was funny, seeing them dancing to Baltimora 'Tarzan Boy' and learning how to play Hockey. There is a lot of filler scenes with other characters, that didn't live up the turtles premise such as the Kenshin (Eidan Hanzei) love sub-plot. His acting was bad. The actor that play Walker (Stuart Wilson), the villain was pretty good. He looks a bit like a mixed with William Shatner & Kevin Costner. While, the acting isn't so great, I have to say the cinematography for this movie is pretty damn good. The opening shots of the horseman riding away from the samurais in the red rising sun background was amazing. Great use of locations. It really felt like they were in medieval Japan. The famous Turtle Rhapsody from the Orchestra on the Half Shell from the first two movies seem to be missing from this. Instead, it's plays unnoticeable Japanese folk music. Overall I wouldn't shell money over to get the movie, but if you're a turtle fan. It's watchable, but just don't come in, hoping it's going to be as good as the cartoon or the previous films because you'll be deeply disappointing. It should tuck its head into its own movie shell in shame. "},{"Title":"A bit of a sloppy job","Date":"29 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Maybe it's nostalgia or the Zeitgeist of the TMNT - but to me the movies stay wonderful.In itself, this movie isn't worthwhile. It's a sloppy and quick realization and it shows. Where the first two movies told a story, cover elements of mystery about origins. And more attention to detail, emotion or atmosphere. The third one was just loosely tied and cheesy.For me personally the idea of time-travel could've hit off well - seeing as the Turtles are trained in the ancient Japanese Ninja Arts. Yet they time-travel and fail to be taken or impressed by the ancient Japan, nor do they get in touch with the history or essence of their training. They didn't meet the kin of Splinters' mentors, for example. The story about the demons isn't fully developed nor explained and seems strange (as the origins / genesis of the Turtles is explained in prior movies.)In all, a classic but don't get your hopes up. It's old-fashioned entertainment. "},{"Title":"Time's up!","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" For one brief moment I seemed to have almost been able to tell the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles apart &#x96; then something interesting came on The History Channel and it slipped away from me. Not that I'm complaining you understand, on the few occasions that I attend these blister-pack kid's movies I do try to make some sense out of what keeps the little ones coming back. I don't really find the Ninja Turtles any harder tell apart then the Power Rangers or the characters from Pokeymon or The Spice Girls (and the only way that I knew one of them from the others is that she had brains enough to know when to quit).The Ninja Turtles carry big weapons, wear color-coded headbands, speak in a lot of pop culture speak which includes the same cereal commercial buzzwords. I've been by the rack in the toy store and had a look at their wall-o-merchandise (I can't get the image out of my mind when I went to a toy store at the height of their popularity and witnessed nearly the entire eastern wall seemingly papered up with their merchandise.I remember when Spaceballs came out and Mel Brooks took the occasion to make fun of Star Wars overwhelming flurry of merchandise. Now (disturbingly) it's commonplace to find a simple idea (or simple-minded idea) and package every conceivable costume, action figure, wall decoration, eating utensil, and school supply embossed with their trademarks.There are no less points for 'Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III' which isn't much more or less than the other two movies except in the location. Finding something for them to do on screen isn't an easy task unless you give them one purpose or another and the plot here doesn't reach much further then the plot provided in the booklet for the latest kick-and-punch video game.A warlord in 1603 in engaged in a battle with a heroic warlord and his noble band of rebels led by a tomboyish girl-fighter (Vivien Wu providing a smidgen more personality then the movie deserves). Trying to find a no-fuss method of meshing our heroes with the battle being waged in the past we have a plot involving a magical talisman which transports news reporter April O'Neil into, well you figure it out. You can also figure out that the turtles don't spend a lot of time standing around trying to figure out how it works. There are also no points for guessing that they get tangled up in the battle and have to come to the aid of the small band of rebels (I'm getting bored just jotting down this plot).The production design in this movie looks better then it should reminding me of the dusty, gritty streets of 'Shogun' and when I see the human characters facing one another I do wonder if the beginning of a better Shogun-type movie had been shelved and just resurged when the studio figured out what to do with it. The film looks great when you aren't looking at the four guys in rubber suits.How do I rate this movie? The above paragraph doesn't qualify it for any best list but I will say that I didn't walk away nearly as depressed as I was when I saw the second movie which was drab and miserable. This one is light-hearted, inoffensive and will appeal to it's target audience.'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon', it ain't.** (of four) "},{"Title":"Lousy","Date":"23 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The flies are buzzing around the corpse of the 'TMNT' franchise as it enters its third instalment. Writer/director Stuart Gillard is so desperate for something to fill his decrepit movie's 90 minutes that he sends the annoying, jerky-mouthed puppets back to a laughably unconvincing 17th century Japan and rips off 'Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure' while he's at it. Baddie Stuart Wilson seems to be doing an impression of Rik Mayall, but there's more life in his performance than Gillard's flat direction can dredge up from the rest of the cast. The smiling dead kid and the Japanese woman with an American accent are just two of the inattentive touches in this blandly photographed,unfunny threequel, while Wilson's demise must rank amongst the worst visual effects ever committed to film. "},{"Title":"Where to Start?","Date":"1 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ok, first, the negative. Ket's keep this simple. (This review may contain some spoilers).1) Now, for me, the greatest thing about the Turtles hasn't been the plots necessarily, not even the turtles themselves! The greatest thing for me was believe it or not - Splinter!! Who could forget that great speech he gave to Raphael? Or the telepathic one later on? He was the source main reason that the first film had any decent emotional content. That perfectly voiced Japanese sensei who puts Yoda to shame (for me). The turtles look up to him always, they love him, his father figure is perfect for the father-son elements of part one.Now watching part 3, I've come to realise that they did alot to make Splinter what he was, the voice, the tone, the music accompanying his speech and of course, his dialogue; all was perfect. I know that because they totally left that behind for this film!!!! Splinter is now pitiful, what did they do to him???? He's a joke, almost a parody, he's terrible, AHHHH!!! Whenever he speaks I cringe and just hope he'll stop because I can't bare it anymore. Okay, since no-one else likes Splinter as much I'll stop that.2) I really wish someone hadn't mentioned to me that the turtles now look like frogs. It goes as far as ruining some scenes for me because it's so true. As a youngster, and even now, they'll be no way I can ever hate the turtle films because of simply the turtles' presence. It's good enough for me to love any film. That's definitely diminished in this one.3) Finally, another pretty minor and simple point. The music. I actually thought the music was great for the first two films (except for the soundtracks at the closing credits) but the classic turtle stuff has gone. I find myself perking up when I hear music from the first film in this one, but it's usually a 3 second clip.Okay, those may have been long winded negative points, but I don't really think this film is that bad. Before I get to the plot, it does have some redeeming points.First the action. It's always been hugely impressive to watch the guys in big turtle suits pull off so many martial arts moves so well. What was strange though, in the second movie was how obviously the fights were toned down. It was pretty stupid to see Leonardo's katanas remain in his shell for the whole film except once to put them through the ceiling and balance on them. Infact I don't remember seeing Mike's nunchuks at all in that film. All we saw was Donny's Bo.It's great to see the weapons back though. I liked the idea of the opening sequence of the guys showing their stuff, especially Mike and his pair of nunchuks. The fights are a bit gimmicky sometimes, and no their not martial arts movie material but their still good enough.Alright let's get to the plot. (((((SPOILERS!))))) Yes, going back in time the way they did is cheesy; yes, it was overall predictable. We know it was good to see Elias Koteas back as Casey (I'd have like Keno too).I definitely think it could've used more twists. We saw Whit wanting to go to the future. So why couldn't the turtles have their business done, go back earlier, but in the confusion have Whit try to go back with them. Whit could then have made it to the future and Casey accidentally take his place in Japan, armed with his hockey stick of course. The turtles would then have to make a second trip to get him back. And then we have the basis for a better movie? Huh? Huh? Oh come on!! Koteas went through cutting his hair and everything, Casey and Whit should definitely have been more involved in a more unpredictable action/adventure comedy thing!! I'm telling you!!!!Anyway, if you usually skip the meat of most reviews to see the conclusion at the end Well, there IS enjoyment to be had for turtle fans, just block out the stupid parts. I saw this in the cinema when I was young and loved it. That has to be the best thing about being a kid, you're not cynical, you don't get annoyed, you just never let stupid things in a movie spoil you're overall enjoyment. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"23 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Here the turtles find themselves transported back in time to ancient Japan. It's Die Hard for ninjas. I really like this type of film, as it reminds me of French movies where it's more about the characters and their environment. This is a story about a place most people might not be able to conceive. You can predict the whole movie and ending easily. Worse, these characters were walking cardboards. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them, so it's 7/10 for me. "},{"Title":"Lord have mercy","Date":"18 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" This movie is terrible, even worse than the new TMNT movie. The rumors are true the puppetry is poor, the characters idiotic, and the plot is a nightmarish mish-mash of stupidity and time travel clichés.It's also quite boring, with few entertaining moments in between. The villains are bland and feel like rejects from the Shogun miniseries. The human supporting cast is equally generic. Just like in Secret of the Ooze, April O'Neil is only there to be eye candy and little else, unlike the first film or even her often distressed 1987 series incarnation, where at least she was sometimes an active player in the story.If you decide to watch this, then approach with caution and several bottles of hard liquor. It really is that bad. "}{"Title":"Despite my childhood obsession, I didn't even know this one existed","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I was 7 when Turtle fever first gripped my world. It was grounded in a mixture of my fascination with creature special effects, animatronics, along with models and other fantasy beings, after seeing films or programs on TV such as Star Wars, Star Trek, Dinosaurs, Labyrinth, Willow, and a little later Time Bandits and The Thing. I claimed I'd become a model or creature maker for movies. I'm not, but that's not important. I'm young yet, and may still pursue that one of many dreams.I remember knowing a great deal about the world of the turtles, with all their fighting capabilities etc. It was a major talking point among my male friends. Later I even had a latex turtle arm I begged a friend to give to me. It was a reject from his uncle who worked in the design studio. I wore it around my local Scottish neighbourhood. It was only 1 arm mind. Funny stuff.Then it came time to see the first 2 movies in the cinema. I don't remember whether I saw them with my friend or my mother, or both. I was amazed by how they got the faces to move on the turtle characters and impressed by the actors moving so well in all that latex. I saw some fantastic documentaries on TV at the time about how it was all done. However, even at that age, I began to recognise how atrocious the acting was. In the second one it was even worse. I haven't seen the films since, so I can't have been influenced again.It was a fun time in my life, and I thank the creators for influencing that, but ultimately it was myself and my friends who created the great memories and not the film.I must have moved on to another interest when this third film was released, as I didn't even know of it's existence. I saw it on UK television many years later and to watch it for old times sake. It hadn't improved. The actors moved not so well in their suits, the voices were poorly chosen and vocalised, and there was little comedy. I did like the Japanese set design however, but then I realised that's not what the turtles are all about. "},{"Title":"Not a bad film, not the best either","Date":"13 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Well, I think that the 3rd entry is not that bad. I mean, it at least had them doing martial arts in Japan. I mean, I guess it could have had them doing yoga at a temple. I do think they should have tried to pay Judith Hoag whatever they wanted to get her to reprise April in this and II, because she made a better April O'Neill. I think they needed to also have Elias Koteas as Casey from the first. Have him going back to Japan with them. If all else, should have followed this up to a direct sequel to II, having Master Tatsu as the leader of the foot and them getting revenge on the turtles for getting rid of shredder, and bring back Danny and Kino as friends. Then one of them wonders should he be part of the foot or aligned with the Turtles. What I really hate is Stuart Wilson's outlandish accent, and if that's his real voice, gets some halls cough drops.Either way, see it as what not to do. Although, the ZZ Top wasn't a bad touch "},{"Title":"Fun, tubular sequel (spoilers)","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  By 1993, Turtlemania was waning somewhat.  The initial craze and enthusiasm had gone and youngsters were almost ready to lap the craze that became Mighty Morphin Power Rangers.  However the film world decided to deliver one more Turtle film into the public realm, and that film was Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III The Turtles are Back....In Time.The green-skinned mutants are now well-settled into their abandoned subway home they adopted in the last film, and are contentedly getting along with things in their own merry way, now the Foot Clan has been finished off for good.  However, their reporter friend April O'Neil (Paige Turco) comes across a mysterious sceptre that transports her back to feudal Japan, whilst a warrior from that era takes her place in present-day New York.  The Turtles decide to use the scepter to go back and rescue their friend, using their old friend Casey Jones (Elias Koteas) to keep an eye on whoever replaces them.  They drop in on a village uprising, where rebel Mitsu (Vivien Wu) is leading the revolt against the war-mongering Lord Norinaga (Sab Shimono) and his English sidekick Walker (Stuart Wilson)...The most enjoyable aspect of this romp is watching the culture clash between the Turtles and the natives they encounter.  It is hilarious watching the befuddled reactions of the rebels and the villains as the Turtles spout off references to pizza, sewers and Kurt Russell as everyone else looks on not comprehending.  As for the Turtles themselves, the actors under the suits and the voices may have changed, but they still make an entertaining collective ensemble.  However, as with the first film, only Raphael (Matt Hill, voiced by Tim Kellener) has any distinctive personality.The human actors are not perfect, but still seem up for the task.  Paige Turco is still sexy and spunky as April O'Neil, and Elias Koteas doubles up both Casey Jones and Whit, a mercenary employed by Walker and who takes a fancy to O'Neil. Sab Shimono wisely plays it straight as Norinaga, in contrast to Stuart Wilson who enjoys turning Walker into a pure pantomime villain.Totally brainless, lighthearted fun, the Turtles ride out their heyday on a high.  The Turtle films were killed off after this outing, as the heroes went out of fashion.  However, they are currently experiencing a hugely popular revival, so we may very well see another Turtles motion picture yet. "},{"Title":"I thought this movie was alright, I like samurai's and it has lots of them","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  While the turtles are still their funny selves, some of the fight scenes are not very well put together.  Raphael takes on an entirely different approach to his character.  Overall the whole going back in time is sorta bogus. Yet the switching places causes some funny things to happen with the people who end up in the future. "},{"Title":"Are the Ninja Turtles Ready For Ancient Japan? Is Ancient Japan Ready For the Ninja Turtles?","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS         The Ninja Turtles are back with their friend, April O'Neil. She's going on vacation and has brought the turtles some gifts. She brought Splinter a sceptor. One used in ancient Japan.         Meanwhile, in 1603 in Japan. The evil warlord Lord Norinaga hastaken control of the village. He has a rebellious son, Kenshin. Kenshin goes inside the temple, takes a sceptor and says Open Wide, Gates of Time. Now I'm not exactly sure why he does this. Sorry. And soon it's the old switcheroo April and Kenshin switch places.And clothes! Kenshin now wears April's leather jacket and April wears Kenshin's robes. The problem is soon identified. The sceptor has magic powers. It can transport beings through time. Leonardo announces they must go back and rescue April. Michaelangelo is cool with the idea, but wonders if they had pizza back then.         Back in ancient Japan, everyone thinks April is a witch.Especially Walker, a sly devil who's in cahoots with Lord Norinaga. Theyput April in a cage.         Back in modern day New York, Michaelangelo has brought in some heavy artillery Casey Jones! Casey has been given the task of staying behind and keeping an eye on Kenshin while the turtles go back in time. Soon they are ready to go. They're transported into the places of four warriors riding horses in battle. They can't seem to get the hang of them. Michaelangelo is riding his backwards, rides into the woods and get's captured. He was also the one holding the sceptor so now it is gone. Michaelangelo also has an encounter with Mitsu, Kenshin's love interest.        The three other turtles go looking for Michaelangelo in the temple. They adapt to the language--most unsuccessfully, and rescue April (it's what they live for). Also in jail with April was Whit, a man who looks remarkably like Casey Jones! They all escape together.        The turtles also have an encounter with fury fighting warriors and whip them in their own creative style. Michaelangelo escapes from where we was being held captive. The turtles even save young Yoshi from a burning building. Michaelangelo does the risky job of going in and getting him, and Leonardo brings the kid back with mouth to mouth revelation. Raphael becomes good friends with Yoshi and teaches him to watch his temper, though he should be taking his own advice.       The turtles know they must return to the future, or disrupt the time continueum and have a major paradox. Unfortunately, the sceptor is gone, so they build another one and quickly lose it. They find the original.        They soon engage in a battle with the evil. They even send Walker right off a cliff. It was actually an accident on his part with a little help from Whit. Soon it's time to go. Michaelangelodoesn't want to go. Raphael is still gray on that decision, but Donatello wants very much to go. So does April. Leonardo is sort of in the middle. Suddenly, the sceptor is turned on. There is very little time remaining.        Back in New York, Casey Jones had really gotten the four warriors that arrived in the turtles' places into hockey. He has quite some trouble getting them back, but he does. Michaelangelo is very hesitant and they disappear without him.         Back to the sewer. The others find Michaelangelo gone, but he soon arrives. He's saddened about leaving his new friends and says he'll never smile again. That changes thanks to Splinter wearing a lamp shade and pretending to be Elvis.       This movie wasn't as good as the others. On change is that now Leonardo is the joke maker. He used to be the serious one, but now he's making jokes with the rest of them. Also, Corey Feldman is back! He couldn't make Part II because he was in rehab, getting off his heroine addiction. I'm glad Elias Koteas returns as Casey Jones. Movie probably would've been better if Casey had had a more major role in it. Anyway, I say it isn't as good as the othe "},{"Title":"Unlike most critics, I like this one better than 2, but less than 1.","Date":"7 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Our beloved Turtles go back in time to visit Ancient Japan where they must, of course, save ... something. Honestly, the story gets lost amid the cacophony of comedic exploitive attempts, but frankly, I was happy that those idiotic genetically-enhanced snapper turtle and wolf pup weren't back.This attempt was more fun than the second, which I found entirely puerile, and while this one wasn't aiming at any awards or accolades, it was far superior to the last, but not as good as the original.Unfortunately, I have to report that the turtles are still 4 feet thick, and are still campy crack-offs.It rates a 6.9/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"The third TMNT movie!","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This Turtles film is good but the truth is it is My least favorite of the three.Its funny and has action but in My opinion it just doesn't have the same stuff the other two films.If you like the Turtles give it a chance! "},{"Title":"The Tigris and Euphrates of crap","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  When I saw this in the theaters when I was 9 in 1993 (you do the math) and honestly, as a kid, I thought it was OK.  But then I saw it again recently (a few years ago), and it made Batman and Robin seem uplifting by comparison.  This film is crappy when compared to the first (which was a masterpiece) and the second (which was OK) combined.  Maybe kids will like it, but me, I found that just sitting alone with my own thoughts are more creative than watching this sad, pathetic excuse for a TMNT movie.  By the way, don't the turtles seem more plastic now than ever before? C- "},{"Title":"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turdles","Date":"19 August 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" It actually got worse! After the abominable part 2, I didn't think the series could sink any lower. Boy was I wrong. Know what stinks worse than doo-doo? Doo-doo that's been sent back in time! That's what happens in this terrible movie. The Turtles go back in time to feudal Japan and fight samurais. The costumes and special effects are cheap. Jim Henson's Creature Shop wisely had nothing to do with this movie. Poor Splinter gets the worst of it. He looks like a ragged stray dog. And that voice! Awful. The script isn't good enough to be used as toilet paper. The acting is embarrassing. Just a stinker of a movie on every level. For the brain dead among us only. "},{"Title":"Turtle Power no more","Date":"19 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Movie franchises often experience diminishing returns with their sequels, both financially and artistically, but the fall in quality from the first 'TMNT' live-action film to this one is astounding. To put is succinctly; 'TMNT III' is dreadful.I applaud taking the Turtles out of their NYC environment and attempting something fresh, but dropping four guys in poorly made rubber suits into a Feaudal Japanese setting was not the way to go. Still, it could've worked on a level similar to 'Secret of the Ooze' had the script not been so devoid of wit.'TMNT III' is often painful to watch, and a sad way to end the original live-action saga that began with so much promise. "}{"Title":"Easily the worst of the trilogy.","Date":"17 October 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES IIIOh boy oh boy oh boy. One of the may catchphrases from the original film is I love being a turtle!&#x85; I don't think it is true in this one! This is such a dire film. Easily the worst film in the trilogy.April O'Neil gets transported back in time when she buys Splinter an ancient relic. The turtles have to go back and save April, but when they get there, they arrive in the middle of a huge war. They hang around and help the village that they are staying in defeat an evil samurai leader from taking over.The first thing I thought when this film started was what disease have the turtles caught?. The costumes looked so much worse than in the second one, which is really bad considering the second one looked far worse than the original. They seemed to have spots all over their heads. I don't think they had them in the others, and even if they did they were not as dark as they were here. The story was that good. I always thought the turtles were much better in the city hiding in the sewer, so when they went back in time and they were all out in the open it just didn't feel right. The other thing I was missing from this film was the Shredder. He was always such a great villain and he was missed in this. Thankfully Casey was back. He was missed from the second one, but again his character was very much a small part. He didn't do a lot. I was hoping he would have been in it much more.The casting again was very average. The actors in the costumes were Mark Caso, Matt Hill, Jim Raposa and David Fraser. April was again played by Paige Turco. She was slightly better in this one, but her new hair style really didn't suit her. Elias Koteas returned as Casey Jones. He did a good job with what he had to do, but like I said before he should have been in it more as Casey. He also played another character in the film, but it just wasn't the same so he was missed as Casey.There are some great comedy moments in this film, which is the best part of the movie. Some of the script were actually quite funny and made me laugh a little bit. I also liked the small references to other movies. The Terminator and Wayne's World being 2 of them.The fighting was actually quite good during some of the scenes. Even the turtles were moving with some speed and made the fighting look smooth. There were some bad fighting scenes, but there were also some good ones.All in all this film was a big disappointment. Yes I mentioned some things I liked about it, but the bad outweigh the good by a long shot. It is a very poor sequel and I believe this should have never been made.I will give this 4 out of 10.You were expecting maybe the Addams Family?For more reviews, please like my Facebook pagehttps//www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl "},{"Title":"A dumb and dire entry to a series that had a strong start but keeps getting worse!","Date":"15 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When this film came out everyone pretty much knew how it was going to be before they even saw it judging by the direction taken by TMNT II Secret Of The Ooze and unfortunately they were bang on.Plot and script wise the film is a mess. The dialogue is so unbelievably rubbish it's hard to keep track of what's actually going on. The comics have a pretty good selection of villains to choose from and they could have gone back to the dark roots of the first film but no, this is once again greedy studio execs pandering to a young audience with insultingly bad material. The Japnese people don't speak Japanese to each other. This is one of the many flaws of the film and one that you would not get away with these days.The flimsy time travel plot is both highly unbelievable and totally rushed (I don't even think it is 3 minutes in before it happens) which gives no real build up or suspense. This does however make an excuse for some very pretty cinematography and sets as ancient Japan is depicted rather mystically and quite smartly.Other kudos goes to fight director Pat E. Johnstone who keeps the choreography to the same high standard as he did in the last film (Again a total surprise seeing as this is aimed at very you children and fights tend to cop out on this factor!) and we are treated to some very well staged fights although they are sparce to the point of blink and you'll miss it.Apart from looking quite nice in parts and some smart fights there isn't a lot that is good that can be said about the film. True it's nice to see the return of Corey Feldman's voice and Casey Jones but I suspect Elias Koteas Took the part for the dual role he plays in the film. The lack of the amazing Kevin Clash as the voice of Splinter really lets the film down with a poor and rather fake sounding substitute made all the worse by bunging his way through the awful dialogue which steals lines and jokes from the first 2 films without a shred of shame.Anyone who has read the comic books will know how very mature and violent they are but also the cartoon series was a triumph in itself with the other side of the coin.The smell of money was never going to see the two merged to full realisation. The first film came close and was satisfactory but the sequels are nothing more than dumbed down, cinema trash cashing in on an excellent idea and first movie and are quite frankly insulting to the intelligence of children.If you MUST watch it as part of a turtles binge or whatever then it's doable for that, otherwise don't bother! "},{"Title":"Top Ten Reasons(Quotes) How this Movie Nearly Killed TMNT","Date":"25 August 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I'm not sure how the quotes go but here's my Top 10 stupidest quotes of all time. #10 I think I swallowed a frog, I hope it wasn't an ancestor. What, were you expecting Teenage Mutant Ninja Frogs? #9 Well, the Three Stooges. Yeah, Larry, Curly, and Moe! So, were the Three Stooges in Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, I didn't know that. What, no Shemp, Joe, or Curly Joe? #8 Wow, a leg-o-rama. SWING! As the Nostalgic Critic once said You know, for kids!#7 It's Star Trek Time, Guys! This does not sound logical, Captain.#6 What if we make like a cosmic u-turn and end up back in Godzilla-Land? What does Godzilla got to do with... Oh, I get it! Godzilla, Japan, Gozira, and... What am I saying?! Let's continue! #5 It's Hammer Time! Who do you think you are, MC Hammer? #4 Did you know that in some countries dung is used as a fuel source? Uh..... No comment there.#3 We're turtles, friend! Of The Teenage Mutant Ninja variety! Wow. Stupidest comeback I have ever heard.#2 Hey, you were expecting maybe the Addams Family? What does the Addams Family got to do with Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles?! Who wrote the dialog, 4kids TV?!#1 Help! I'm a turtle and I can't get up! What was Donatello auditioning for, the Life Alert Commercials?!I noticed there's no subtitle for this movie. If it were up to me, the movie should've been renamed Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III Bad News Turtles Go to Japan!Bottom Line If you don't like any of these quotes I typed out or if you don't approve Corey Feldman from the Freaking Magic Voyage voicing Donatello, stay far away from this movie! PS, thank you Angry Video Game Nerd for showing me those quotes. "},{"Title":"Not entirely like the others, which doesn't have to be a negative","Date":"14 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Hey, they were gonna use this gimmick sooner or later. This is different from the two before it, and whether or not that's a positive is based on how you felt about them. I will not argue that the first one was the most well-done and well-rounded, but I did like this at least as much, and quite possibly more, than those. Personality returns to the characters, to an extent. They even get stuff to do, growth, changes, and new and at least potentially interesting conflicts are introduced. This managed to engage me, and surprised me with a couple of the occurrences, in spite of holding numerous clichés. The humor gets a tad less aggressively childish(to the point where it even includes a joke or two inappropriate for younger viewers, but they may very well be too vague for them to pick up on), and they stop trying so hard, making for several genuinely funny bits, also due in part to using clever material. The references weren't bad, either. The plot is reasonable, and develops nicely. The pacing isn't completely even. Direction varies, but there are well-done moments in this. The effects, puppets and creatures are still great, for the time, in spite of not being the same as those of the others. The martial arts are magnificent and plentiful, with fights that you're unsure how will end, and no longer constantly(which is not to say it goes all the way away) packed with silly gags to try to get laughs out of the audience(who put it in these peoples' heads that young audiences cannot appreciate coolness?). The time travel is well-done and relatively respectful(this actually holds some consequence, something sorely missed, at least to me, in the second one). There is really nothing objectionable in this, other than what little I have mentioned. The DVD has wide-screen as well as full-screen versions of this, a Pick That Flick mini-game, and a theatrical trailer. I recommend this to fans of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, maybe in particular those who want it less obviously and obnoxiously a family film, without at all excluding kids from watching. 6/10 "},{"Title":"The film that almost killed the franchise...","Date":"19 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" If there's one thing I can't stand in film, it's unnecessary sequels created to continue milking a franchise. It's even worse when sequel is nearly enough to ruin a franchise, such as the third Ninja Turtles film. The third film removed any sense of seriousness left over from the first film and amplified the campiness of the second film. In this installment of the Ninja Turtle trilogy, the team must use a magic scepter to travel back to 17th century feudal Japan to rescue April who had teleported on accident. It seems blatantly obvious at this point that the filmmakers were running out of ideas by this point.In my personal opinion, this time travel plot line feels like a major cop-out. It's as if the filmmakers had no previous experiences with the franchise (whether it be the movies, cartoons, or comics) and, rather than pull from existing popular story arcs, writer/director Stuart Gillard thought to himself, What would be a WACKY adventure for these guys? DUH! Time travel!. If I never see another comedy that relies on the tired fish-out-of-water routine for the rest of my life, I'll be a happy man. The bulk of the movie's humor relies on the Turtles being tossed into 17th century Japan, and five men from Japan being introduced to modern times in exchange. Why couldn't the filmmakers have gone with something, I don't know...entertaining? I would've much preferred to see the Baxter Stockman/Mousers story arc brought to the big screen instead of the zaniness of Ninja Turtles trying to ride horses.On a positive note, Elias Koteas returns as Casey Jones, one of my favorite elements from the first film. Koteas is actually in a double-role Casey Jones and Whit, one of Walker's crew members in Japan. Koteas brings some humor to the movie and actually makes some parts of the movie enjoyable. Paige Turco returns for a second run as April O'Neil, though she seems to be hamming it up a bit more this time and comes off as irritating more often than not. Probably my biggest complaint on the film's recasting was Splinter's voice; James Murray replaced Kevin Clash (who had voiced the character in both I and II). Rather than the voice of a Japanese elder that we became accustomed to, it now sounds as if Splinter is a guy with a bad case of laryngitis. It's distracting and a bit of a let-down.The third film is a major disappointment for the Ninja Turtle franchise. It practically killed the series until Kevin Munroe revived it in 2007 with his CGI film. When it comes to the Ninja Turtles, I wish filmmakers would give us less Three Stooges-style slapstick and concentrate more on decent stories and creating great action sequences. And, please, no more time travel. "},{"Title":"UK Titles","Date":"12 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The reason there are no white specks on the end titles of the UK release of this film is due to me.I coloured them all out using a black marker when I worked for Capital FX in 1993.Capital FX was a small special effects and titling company in a square in Soho. They also did the fire sequence on the end titles of the TV series London's Burning. I was introduced to the man who made Superman fly.I would run around Soho picking up and delivering films to and from the various companies involved, Warner Bros, etc. with a mobile phone and an account at the sandwich shop and to studios in Perivale.--- by Jerome, computer coder, author, and voter of 1,000 films. "},{"Title":"Not everyone else's favorite, but still good","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I saw this movie after seeing the second one. Mainly the only one with no help with the Jim Henson company which is why the costumes of the TMNT and the Splinter puppet are very different compared to the previous 2.It's also the only one without Shredder in it. More Japan and less New York in it. The action and humor is still good. Allot of people hate it more than #2, but I still like it. Still TMNT, still good to see every now and then.I give it 7.5/10 It's suitable for 8 and up. "},{"Title":"Turtles 3 my point of view..","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Although,from a critic point of view the Turtles franchise wasn't a big success I really liked it cause it was very funny!!I really liked also the cartoon series and the comics......If someone will ever go for a 4th movie they should go for the alien villain Krang and his band of stone soldiers,or Beebop and Rocksteady,the two mutant punk....Apart from this,did you know that the characters of Toka and Razar in the 2nd movie weren't present in the comics and the cartoons?Toka has however many points in common with the character of Slash in the cartoon series!!I don't know why they didn't use the cartoon villains..they would have attracted more Turtles fans!!!!! "},{"Title":"Best movie of the 1990's!","Date":"8 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I still remember TMNT when I was 11 years old in '93 when it aired. I loved the show very much that I used to watch everyday on Saturday mornings that I remember that I sat on floor near the TV at my old house where I grew up when it was on. My most childhood favorite ninja turtle character is Michaelangelo that he always eats pizza and say COWBUNGA, DUDE!. I remember as a kid, I always learned how to do karate like them that they did because I copy like Michaelangelo do that and eat pizza. I loved TMNT so very much because it brings me for my childhood memories back because of watching TMNT! I still miss that show very much. TMNT is my most favorite childhood movie of the 1990's! "},{"Title":"better than II.","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This movie is NOTHIN' compared to the original movie, but it is a definite improvement over II.  Even though the plot is pointless and the violence is mild, the characters act like they're supposed to and there is some character development here.  Also, no Turtle is in the spotlight; the story revolves around them faithfully and fairly.  Leonardo is portrayed as the leader, Mikey is the fun-loving turtle, Donatello is actually SMART for a change, and Raphael shows a soft-spot for kids.  Unlike the others, this one has a moral and it teaches it to kids.  So, don't completely discard this one as it isn't that bad. "}{"Title":"good turtles movie but not the best","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This instalment wasnt as good as the first two. I still liked it . The ninja was good. It was funny too. Of course I was in third grade when this movie came out. I used to watch the turtles cartoon, in fact every episode. I loved the turtles cartoon and movies. I wasnt as happy with this one as the other ones. This one lacked something.  But i still liked it. ** out of **** "},{"Title":"Mutant turtles at their worst","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The first two turtle movies where somewhat decent. They had good costumes and related to the show fairly well. They are great movies for kids and anyone who wants to see giant teenage turtles beat up a lot of bad guys. This third installment however is very badly done. The story is too wacky even for the ninja turtles and the idea is no longer original. If your kids love the ninja turtles and can't get enough, then this is good, but if you expect a somewhat decent movie, skip this one.  "},{"Title":"Good Movie!","Date":"24 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" To Be honest this isn't a bad movie i love it it turtles i mean it lucky enough to be turtles not some crappy one which is not the fight scenes are that great but still there weren't very many fight scenes in the first one nor the second but give it a chance i think this turtles movie is for major turtles fans only and besides They go back in time how cool is that even though it not like the game turtles in time it stills a movie that has great laughs and not only does it have great laughs it does have good battle scenes but the only thing that was not good about this movie was that Leo looked like he got punched in the face don looks like he got older Ralph looks like he become a pussy and Mikey well he just Mikey master splinter on the other hands sounds like he has a cock in his mouth and some of the acting well is just plan horrible like some of the japan people but overall this turtles movie to me gets a 9/10 only because i love TMNT and the games and i cant wait for the new TMNT coming in 2011 "},{"Title":"Oh, how I miss Vanilla Ice... oh, God, I thought I'd never say that in my lifetime","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I am a huge fan of the first and second Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, they were both fun films that even the oldest adult could still have fun too, I grew up with the cartoon and movies, so I just loved them from minute one. I never had an interest to see Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III, because it looked so horrible, but my friend said it was pretty cute and to give it a shot, so I did since it was a free rental and at least I finished the sequels. But it did waste my time because it was so sad hearing really lame voices and the costumes seemed to be different.Basically, this is going to be such a short paragraph since the plot is really very simple, but here it goes, the turtles now have a time stick thing-a-ma-jig, so when April accidentally steps into it, she goes back to the 17th century in China switching places with the king's son, the turtles must go back and help April. But they find out that they need to help the army against and evil British soldier, or at least from what I've gathered.Please, stick to the first and the second Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, those are really the worthy and fun movies for the classic cartoon and story. This was such a bad change, to be honest, if the directors couldn't get the original cast, not including Casey Jones, he shouldn't have bothered, because it was so disturbing hearing Splinter in a scary high pitched evil Japanese voice, you have to admit, it was scary.3/10 "},{"Title":"by far, the best of the three","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  First of all, these movies have a huge nostalgia factor for me because I was about 5 when these movies came out and I watched them so many times I wore the tape out. But going back now, I still love all the movies just because they are what they are, but this is the best film by far of the three. It has the best jokes, the best villian, the best action, Koteas provides a likeable human lacking in the others. The reporter woman does better her second time around. This movie is actually enjoyable whether or not you like TMNT at all. I don't think I could sit thru Secret of the Ooze again even though it was my favorite as a kid. I always watch this whenever it comes on TV, its that good. Its a shame that this film, the best of the three, came out when the fad was dead causing everybody to dislike it, unfairly so. I would also like to say that being I was 11 when Pokemon hit it big, I as a big fan of the game, the show, and the cards, but I hated that they never made a live action movie. With TMNT, a cartoon show and a video game became an actual movie, with actors and stunts and everything. Pokemon wouldve been an even bigger success if they had, instead of pasting three episodes together and calling it a movie, had invested the time and money to make a live action film with actors, just so that it would be something worth remembering. I havent seen a single Pokemon movie, never will. I give a lot of credit to the makers of the TMNT movies for having the guts to take the trouble of taking a cartoon show and making a real movie, with puppets and actors. It just shows to just that only ten years ago the film industry was that much more daring. Rock on, American film makers. Forget that Pokemon joke. Anime is the worst stuff ever. "},{"Title":"the suits","Date":"29 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  they changed the suits!! in the previous movies the turtles all had a personal type of look, donatello had a pretty large and happy face, michelangelo had a small and happy face, raphael had a large and angry face and leo had a small and angry face, and a lot of other differences aswell.. but now they look almost the same except for their colors, look at them and think of the flying bird dinosaurs from jurassic park and youll see what i mean. anyways.. as a movie it had almost no good moments, the script had to be the worst ever and it was fairly entertaining.. the first turtles movie ROCKED, the second ALMOST rocked and the third did almost everything but rock... peace "},{"Title":"The heroes in a half-shell are back again","Date":"27 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The four turtles and their reporter friend April O'Neill run into  difficulties after she picks up an old Japanese relic that, when activated, transports whoever is touching it through time.  She gets transported to feudal Japan in the 1600's, and the Turtles have to go back in time to save her from the malevolent Walker. This was released shortly after the popularity of these green guys had waned from the cult it had been not so long before, so a portion of its impact was lost.  Also, the Turtles' banter outside of the modern-day sewer seems a little less entertaining than in the previous two films.  The story's not bad, and it's good to see Elias Koteas reprise his role of Casey Jones from the first film, but somehow this just does not match the charms of the original.  It's not a bad film as such; just a little disappointing.  (I love that Baltimora 1980's song 'Tarzan Boy' that appears in it, though!) "},{"Title":"For whatever reason, my favorite of the series.","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Yes, I know it's an unpopular opinion. But TMNT3 is easily my favorite.The first movie was classic. The script seamlessly blended several disparate plots from the comic books and created an enormously fun movie that appealed to children yet still had depth. In particular the theme of a father's relationship with his son(s) was well developed.The second movie? Now I'm a huge TMNT fan. And I know some people saw some redeeming features in TMNT2. Not me. Even as a kid. There was nothin'. The plot was lame, the writing lamer. A major theme seemed only half-developed. Donatello agonizes over their 'creation' being an accident, feeling there must be more to their origin than what they've been told. Obviously this was a set-up for the TGRI company to be (like the TCRIs in the comics) revealed as aliens. This never develops, leaving the movie feeling half-baked (or less).But the third! Why do I love it so? I'm not sure. There are superficial things to support it. The one thing TMNT2 got right (replacing the dreadful Judith Hoag with the lovely Paige Turco) is repeated here, and (yay!) Elias Koteas return as Casey Jones. In addition, it was great to hear Corey Feldman doing Donny's voice again.But mostly, I just love the plot. The whole return to feudal Japan, the ancient legends of Kappas, the Casey Jones lookalike, the hockey-loving time-traveling Japanese guards... It all works for me.It might not work for you. It doesn't for a lot of people. And that's okay. This isn't a work of art. You don't have to have taste to like or dislike it. But for me, this is one of my favorite movies to watch.Give me three! "},{"Title":"Great Fun, Supercool comedy action.","Date":"4 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  The turtles are back in their 3rd motion picture as cool and fun as ever. This is a non-stop action/comedy martial arts turtle movie that shouldn't be missed by turtles fans.  "},{"Title":"I was a huge Turtles, so I had to accept it...","Date":"4 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" I remember being a huge TMNT fan when I was a kid, our favourite pizza-eating, bad guy defeating turtles were my favourite of all time. When I saw the first movie, I was amazed, every kid talked about it all the time. When the 2nd movie came out, kids screamed in the theatre like a miracle, I even participated with them.Well, most of it was good, but when I heard a third movie was coming out in two years, I got so excited. I even had dreams about when I went to go see the third movie and got mad when I woke up and found out it wasn't real. Finally, that day came and I was excited. I entered the theatre expecting Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 3, but instead, it was just a big disappointment.Let me talk to you about this movie's plot, it has the Turtles go back in time to Ancient Japan where there is two villains who are nothing like the ones in the comics and the cartoon. And the acting is garbage and the Turtles look like ugly. Shredder looks like road-kill. What happened? Is this Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles or Back To The Future?Now I know you've seen a lot of bad movies. But no, let me tell you. This movie is bad. Like how bad? Like is it the worst of the Turtles trilogy? Oh undeniably. But that's not the point. My point is that this is the worst movie I've ever seen in my life! Now I can tell you the perspective from a 12 year old and a 26 year old that it needs to rot in hell. Now what I mean by that is that I was 12 the first time I saw the movie. In the theatres in 1993 And I was such a big Turtles fan, I just accepted it. I just held the truth inside and you know it's just been tearing away at me all these years. And now, looking back at it, I just gotta come clean and honest man. I just gotta let it all out. This movie is terrible! You know what, I can't take it anymore! Alright, movie sucks, end of story! "}{"Title":"Japan gets a visit from the renaissance men.","Date":"25 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" There are a number of signs you can spot to tell when a franchise is in trouble (like any rule, nothing concrete but generally well worth adhering to) an episode is set randomly in space, an episode features a crossover with another ailing franchise and/or an episode decides to pull out all the stops and go the time travel route.The third outing for our heroes in a half-shell (if you don't know about them by now then start at the beginning before even attempting to endure this) provides us with some time travel shenanigans as the quartet find themselves being transported to ancient Japan to fight some angry folk and rescue April O'Neil (played once again by Paige Turco).It's all really rather lame and I find myself unable to get worked up enough to either praise or damn the movie with any energy. The fights are very unexciting, the comedy is even more dated and immature than in the previous outings and absolutely nothing happens that stops you longing for the movie just end as quickly as possible.I will never know what persuaded Elias Koteas to return as Casey Jones (and, in fact, as a glutton for punishment he takes on TWO roles this time around though neither of them get that much screen time) but he's a small ember of enjoyment in a rather stinky quagmire of a movie.It's passable and it may well keep the kids amused for the duration but I wouldn't even guarantee that. I am the most undemanding viewer you could wish for, at times, and even I was tempted to reach for the Eject button so make of that what you will.Hopefully, director Stuart Gillard's name is not one I will see attached to any project I am interested in further down the line. It looks like he's stuck in TV land now and even that's more than he deserves judging by his inept handling of our mean, green, fighting machines.See this if you like 3 Ninjas, 3 Ninjas Knuckle Up, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles II The Secret Of The Ooze, "},{"Title":"Doesn't even deserved to be a movie.","Date":"20 April 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" The first Ninja Turtle movie was a classic; the first sequel however was okay but tried to hard to be family-friendly. Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III however didn't belong to be in the theaters or be watched since it lost all the darkness of the original and concentrated on cuteness and having children involved.The plot of TMNT III deals with the ninja turtles going back in time after finding a device that takes the turtles all the way to 1800 Japan where a war is going on. It takes their news reporter friend April (Paige Turco) with them while back in New York the humans from Japan who have another time device are in a bit of surprise when they realize they're not at home. With the turtles in Japan, they befriend many of the townspeople with tough turtle Raphael being a pal to young Yoshi while Michaelangelo finds love.While I was glad to hear Corey Feldman's voice as Donatello after his absence from the first sequel due to the drugs along with seeing Elias Koteas as the crazed Casey Jones, the film wasn't the same. Josh Pais who voiced the tough guy Raphael is replaced with another actor; April doesn't have much to do but be the damsel in distress. The costumes are just as freaky like puppets that you'll probably have nightmares after watching this movie. "},{"Title":"?","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" very rarely do I go into a movie expecting total crap and I get disappointed cause it was shittier than expected. This is one of those rare occasions. My biggest question has to be, when the hell did the turtles get herpes pock marks all over their body. The set designs were incredibly accurate. No longer do I have the urge to travel back in time to feudal Japan thanks to this film. It is easily the most accurate picture of the era painted. Last Samurai needs to give a shout out to this film, as it clearly stole stock footage from this movie and just added Tom Cruise with special effects. The best part had to have been Cory Feldman voicing Donatello. His smooth voice put me to sleep. "},{"Title":"A movie that totally destroyed TMNT once and for all","Date":"16 November 2009","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Oh yeah, I used to be a fan of the Ninja Turtles. Honestly, I was a fan, but then I started to hate the turtles, only because of THIS MOVIE! This movie is awful. The plot is heavily contrived(April O'Neil buys a lamp that makes them all go back in time), and has the lamest story ever. Basically, the Turtles find themselves back in ancient Feudal japan and end up fighting a generic samurai and a generic guy on a horse with a bird in a cage... wait... what did I just say?! I can't believe I just said that but it's true! They fight a guy on a horse who has a bird in a cage! This guy is totally out of place! I guess the writers thought hey maybe we should add one or two ridiculous elements so that the movie is cheesy enough to be at least enjoyable on some level. Well this proves that they failed to even achieve that optimistic level of greatness! Anyways, the battles are poorly done and very short. Also, every time the turtles wisecrack or try to insert a little humor it comes off being very forced and stupid. They even had the gall... the GALL to insert a joke saying Help, I'm a turtle and I can't get up!. There's even a line where one of them says You were expecting maybe uh the Addam's Family?!. OMG... these jokes MIGHT be funny for anybody under the age of 10, but for anyone older, it works more as an ipecac than anything else. So I guess we've found one use for this movie. If you are over 10 and have ingested poison, just watch this movie right away and you will be projectile vomiting within seconds.The turtle outfits also look terrible. Their lip movements don't match the words and Splinter looks like a generic puppet from Sesame Street or the Muppets show. There's also plot holes, countless continuity errors, and so on. It's obvious that this movie was made solely to be a cheap cash in on the ninja turtle craze. This is ironic considering the craze pretty much had died down completely by 1993 when this movie came out.When you look up asinine in the thesaurus... you will find that one of the synonyms is TMNT 3. It's poorly written, a cheap cash-in, and doesn't even work as cheesy entertainment. On the other hand, there is actually one TMNT movie that is worse than TMNT 3... and for those of you who want to know what it is, I will spare you the horror of ever thinking about it... okay, it's the Coming out of their shells tour video. "},{"Title":"this movie killed the turtle francise","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  this is the movie that killed the ninja turtle francise. The turtle costumes and splinter looked horrible as compared to the other films and the jokes are old and tired, for example - Im a turtle and i can't get up. Thats so overused its annoying. The one bright point was Casey Jones returning, but he only makes a cameo in the film and is totally wasted. A sad end to the ninja turtle series. "},{"Title":"Improvement over the silly sequel and this third film is completely different from the first two.","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" When April O'Neil (Paige Turco) bought a old magic scepter that accidentally brings April back through time to 17th Century Japan. The Turtles have to save April before the magic scepter closes the gates of time. The Turtles arrived in the middle of a war, they have to battle the Evil Lord Norinaga (Sab Shimono) and an English Pirate (Stuart Wilson) to reclaim the magic scepter that will bring back below the subways of New York City.Written & Directed by Stuart Gillard (Rocketman) made an enjoyable film that has great action, humour and fun for the whole family. This is the best of the series, this is a well written script and it has a different look to the film. Elias Koteas returns as Casey Jones for the Sequel and He also plays an another role. Corey Feldman reprises the voice of Donatello. Wilson is an entertaining villain. This wasn't a large success at the box office like the first two. The film plays well on Video. Do not miss this entertaining sequel. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"Turtles In Time","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  JAPAN, 1603 A lone warrior races through the forest, being chased by four Samurai on horseback. The young man is captured by his pursuers, and taken to the imposing Fortress of Lord Norinaga. Inside, we see Lord Norinaga confront his captive, who we find to be his son, Prince Kenshin. Norinaga quarrels with his son, who is ashamed of his father's actions in what he considers to be an unjust war. Just as Norinaga is about to strike his son down for disgracing him, we hear a gun shot fired. Enter Walker, a conniving English trader. He warns Norinaga that the rebels are about to attack. Guards take Prince Kenshin away, as Norinaga and his British allies prepare for battle. NEW YORK CITY, The Present We find the Turtles in their sewer abode, practicing their ninja skills. April appears to present gifts to the teen terrapins as they've offered to watch her apartment while she goes on vacation. She's brought an odd scepter along to give to Master Splinter... which begins to glow with weird magic. In a flash, April disappears, and in her place is a man... Prince Kenshin! April finds herself back in time, at Lord Norinaga's fortress! Everyone there save for Walker thinks that she is a witch, and April tries to use this to her advantage by frightening the ancient warriors. Walker, disbelieving that April has any supernatural powers, defies her to shrink him. When she fails to perform the sorcery, guards haul her away. Back in New York, Donatello and Splinter have determined that the scepter is a time-switch device, and for the Turtles to use it, people from the past will be brought to the present. The Turtles get their friend Casey Jones to guard the people from the past that will appear when the TMNT go back in time to find April. Donatello determines that the staff's powers will only work for 60 hours, and after that time, if the Turtles don't come back, they'll be stuck in the past! Don activates the scepter, and in a blinding flash, the Turtles are gone! In their place we see four very confused Samurai... the four Honor Guards of Lord Norinaga! The Turtles pop back in time into the middle of the battle between Norinaga's forces and the rebels! They're on horseback and decked out in full Honor Guard Samurai regalia! Michaelangelo ends up backwards on his horse, and it gallops out of control into the forest! He is attacked and dismounted. The leader of the rebellion, Mitsu, is shocked to find a giant Turtle under the helmet, and she orders Mikey to be carted off to the rebel village. As night falls, the 3 remaining Turtles sneak into Norinaga's keep in attempt to rescue April. Walker is talking with Norinaga, who has just learned that his four Honor Guards have disappeared, along with the Sacred Scepter! Walker argues that Norinaga must buy his guns to quell the rebellion, while Norinaga fears that all is lost now that the scepter has vanished. The Turtles follow Walker's henchman Niles, and he inadvertently leads the TMNT to April in Norinaga's dungeon. April finds an escape route, and she and the Turtles fight their way to escape. They are accompanied by a prisoner named Whit, who looks amazingly like Casey Jones! It seems that he was jailed for mutiny, and he is as eager to leave this place as April and the Turtles are. Norinaga, when discovering April's escape, prepares to punish Niles.Walker is able to prevent his henchmen from being toasted, however. The Turtles are now in the forest, basking in its ancient beauty. Suddenly, rebel forces ambush them, thinking that they are Norinaga's Honor Guard! Donatello removes his helmet, and the rebels are shocked to see more giant Turtles! The TMNT are taken to meet Mitsu, who exclaims that they are likethe other one. The Turtles realize that Mikey is with the rebels and rejoice in the knowledge that they'll soon be reunited. As they head back to the rebel village, they see smoke rising from it!Walker and his men are burning the town, looking for the scepter and Prince Kenshin. As the Turtles and the rebel warriors rush to save the town, we see a young boy trapped in a burning home. Mikey rescues the child and Leo saves his life by performing CPR. Mitsu now knows that the Turtles are good, and welcomes them. The Turtles remember that they need the scepter to get back home... and they're running out of time! They go in search for it, as Whit and April help the townspeople rebuild their homes. When the Turtles can't find the scepter, Donatello comes up with the unlikely scheme of creating a new one! April is very skeptical! Meanwhile in the present, Casey Jones keeps the four Honor Guard busy by teaching them to play hockey! Back in the past, Michaelangelo introduces the villagers to pizza, and Whit tries to convince April to take him back to New York City. Donatello's scepter is finished, but Leonardo drops it and it breaks! It seems as if the TMNT are trapped in the past! Just then, Mitsu walks in and announces that Norinaga will attack in the morning! The Turtles decide to join Mitsu and her people to fight the overlord. That night, Raph and Yoshi hang out. Raphael gives Yoshi a yo-yo, and the boy wanders off. When he returns, he brings the Sacred Scepter! As everyone argues about who hid the scepter, Whit holds a knife to Mitsu's throat and demands the scepter! Whit takes Mitsu to Norinaga, and tells the Daimyo that she has kidnapped his son Prince Kenshin. Mitsu then tells Lord Norinaga that Whit is holding the Sacred Scepter. Mitsu attacks Norinaga but is stopped by Walker, and she is taken to the dungeon. Whit tries to cut a deal with Walker, using the Sacred Scepter as a bargaining chip. The Turtles break into the castle once again to save Mitsu and the other rebel captives. As the heroes attempt their escape, they run headlong into Lord Norinaga and his men, and a battle ensues. Michaelangelo is injured accidentally by Mitsu! Leonardo manages to beat Norinaga in a sword fight, and captures him in a giant bell! Things are going great for the Turtles when Walker takes April hostage at gun point. Leo challenges the vile Brit, and Walker fires a cannon at the bold Turtle... but misses Leo and hits the bell that imprisons Norinaga! Walker tries to flee with the Sacred Scepter, but the Turtles catch up with him. Walker tosses the staff into the air, but the TMNT manage to catch it before it hits the ground and breaks! A fireball explodes from nowhere, knocking Walker off the top of the castle and into the moat waiting far below. Back in New York, Casey realizes that it's time to send the real Honor Guard back to the past... but he's taken them out to a nightclub! They hurry back to the sewer. The Turtles finally have the Sacred Scepter and the rebels have finally defeated the evil overlord Norinaga. As the TMNT prepare to use the scepter, Mikey, Raph and Leo decide that they'd like to stay in the past, where they are welcome and happy. Don says no way! As they argue, the magic staff activates! With a flash, the TMNT and April are gone!Back in the sewer, the four Honor Guard and Prince Kenshin have vanished, and in their place we see April and the Turtle team. Casey and Splinter welcome the Turtles and April home. Michaelangelo laments for a moment, but quickly realizes that home is where the heart is... even if home is a sewer! Hopefull this will won't be the last Turtles movie. They deserve a better film than this to end the series. I can remember loving the first two flicks, and I still do enjoy them. But I can't remember ever liking this one. It's pretty darn lame. The Turtles now look like Jim Hanson had a breakdown and took it out on the Turtles. The show isn't even all that bad, but it doesn't even seem like anyone put any effort into this mess. At any rate, a very disappointing sequel.*/****  "},{"Title":"You know...","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  This actually wasn't that bad. I mean, it's the exact opposite of anything that could be called good art. The script is cheesy, the make-up effects are bad, the whole thing is just totally hokey. And yet, there's an odd charm to the whole thing. The turtles constantly spew out cliche-ridden one-liners and are about as convincing as the liver in John Waters' Serial Mom. The come across as having fairly unique personalities, though. Paige Turco is enjoyable as April, andactually gives a pretty good performance, with a strong presence and smoothdelivery. Feudal Japan is recreated the way Disney would, creating a world one could want to believe. It's not a deep movie, but it's good fun. A nice no-brainer for a rainy Friday night when there's nothing else to do. Watch it with younger siblings, too. "},{"Title":"Ummmm","Date":"14 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Ummmmmm.....1st was the best, 2nd was good, 3rd was just not cool. This movie was missing so much. One, it was missing a good soundtrack. Two, you cant have a Turtle movie without Shreder!!! If they were smart, they would of had the SuperShreder come back and wreck havoc. And they could have brought in Bebop and Rocksteady. So many things could and should have been done. Or even Crain, that would have owned. But noooo, they had to be all lame and go back in time and wear retarded suits with boring villians. Hopefully, one day they will make a 4th and do it right. I give TMNT 3 3/10 stars just cause I feel sorry for the movie. "},{"Title":" Cowabunga!","Date":"14 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Mark Caso is corny as Leonardo in this solemn adventure film. The remaining cast is poignant. The costumes are simple. One of the fair flicks in the genre, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 3 exerts rare adventures. 4 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Go Ninja, Go!","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Hilarious stuff Leonardo is fighting villager slashing his swords, he stops for a second and hands them to the villager here hold these and then punches him thankyouDonetello is fighting another villager (who has a club) Donetello grabs it and says its hammer time and hits villager on the head, I couldnt stop laughing for an hour. "},{"Title":"Ho Hum","Date":"2 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III is a pure trial of a movie to sit through.  This time our heroes go back in time to feudal Japan to fight some bad dudes.  The franchise took a different turn this time with these new villains and this makes the series even more unbearable than it previously was.  While the first two films were far from masterpieces, this one is not very enjoyable at all.  Not a total waste of time, but pretty close.  2 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Adrenaline pumping comedy that you will thoroughly enjoy from start to finish if you enjoyed the first two","Date":"20 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":" Whoa! If you ask me, TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES II THE SECRET OF THE OOZE is an adrenaline pumping comedy that you will thoroughly enjoy from start to finish if you enjoyed the first two. I hate to say this, but I like Gloria Estefan's rendition of Conga better than the version that was featured here. Also, the martial arts and special effects were very well done. The most fascinating effect was the teleporting back to fifteenth century Japan. Now, in conclusion, I highly recommend this adrenaline pumping comedy that you will thoroughly enjoy from start to finish if you enjoyed the first two to anyone who hasn't seen it. When you see this movie, prepare for lots of laughs and a good time. "},{"Title":"A perfect conclusion to an absolute perfect trilogy","Date":"25 October 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In 1993, two years after the secret of ooze, life was beginning to be boring without any new TMNT movies. But then, as a god send gift, Stuart Gillard gives us this highly underrated grand epic. The final chapter of the greatest saga ever capture on film. Here is the story, thanks to David Landers, the four turtles travel back in time to the days of the legendary and deadly samurai in ancient Japan, where they train to perfect the art of becoming one. The turtles also assist a small village in an uprising. The movie is grandiose, watch it again and you will understand why I love so much this film. A pure joy capture on film. Perfection itself.A superb masterpiece to treasure forever. "},{"Title":"sad. very sad.","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  all i can say is that this movie is crap. they changed their turtle costumes...and also their attitudes....and not to mention the entire story line. ICKY POO. There isn't much for anyone to like. Little kids won't even like this mockery. "},{"Title":"My favorite of the series","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"3 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Comedy","Review":"  In no way is this movie unoriginal. I find that it becomes more original the further from the animated tv series it becomes. Sure, it's even a far cry from the first two, but that alone is an accomplishment. It's also nice to see Casey Jones back, although they lost some of him in the comic relief.  "}]