[{"Title":"Memorable Performances For Intense Drama","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"19 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Celebrity bio-pics are very hit or miss, but once in a great while a really good one comes along--and WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT is one of them. Based on the autobiography of Tina Turner, the film offers a glossy but intense portrait of her rapid rise to stardom under the sponsorship of husband-manager Ike Turner--a relationship that quickly turned dark and became increasingly abusive as Tina's fame began to outstrip Ike's own.Although the film is a bit on the obvious side, it is well-crafted and the two leads offer powerhouse performances. Angela Bassett is simply astonishing as Tina Turner; where most other actresses might have simply imitated, Bassett accomplishes the impossible she makes you believe that she is Tina Turner, capturing both Tina's famous on-stage performing style (the concert scenes are really exciting) and giving a completely believable interpretation of her off-stage personality as well. The script offers Laurence Fishburne little more than a one-dimensional role, but he plays it brilliantly from start to finish, and both are well supported by the overall cast.There is certainly a great deal more to the lives of both Ike and Tina Turner than this film conveys--but what it does show it presents with considerable power and conviction, and by the time Tina finally hits back at Ike you'll be roaring for her to hit him again--and again--and again--and eager to see her finally triumph entirely on her own. Recommended.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer "},{"Title":"Angela Bassett should be proud","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I watched the film recently, and was amazed by how brilliant it was. Not knowing about Tina Turner's life, I was shocked. The movie was pretty hard hitting.Laurence Fishburne was amazing in his role, he was very scary, and it just made you hate Ike for being so evil. Angela Bassett's performance was outstandingly amazing though - I've never seen so much good acting out of someone in a movie.All in all, I loved the movie, and any awards for it were well rewarded.10/10 "},{"Title":"Two Red-Hot Blazing Performances Bring Fire, Glory and Nuance to Tina Turner's Story","Date":"8 February 2006","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" It was gratifying to see rock legend Tina Turner earn the coveted Kennedy Center honor last month, certainly reason enough to revisit this wonderful biopic based on her 1987 self-affirming autobiography, I, Tina co-written with Rolling Stone editor Kurt Loder. Directed by the late Brian Gibson in an appropriately feverish manner, the 1993 movie still burns brightly thanks to the electrifying performances of Angela Bassett and Laurence Fishburne. There have been several fine performances in biopics of late - Jamie Foxx in Ray, Joaquin Phoenix and Reese Witherspoon in Walk the Line - but I still feel Bassett and Fishburne maintain the high watermark as they seem to inhabit the roles of Ike and Tina completely in this film.Adapting probably the most melodramatic parts of Tina's book, Gibson and screenwriter Kate Lanier built a dramatic framework about the former Anna Mae Bullock that is somewhat standard-issue and probably biased, but it works on a visceral level as a story of personal triumph punctuated by some of the most gut-wrenching scenes of domestic violence captured on film. Playing one of the most recognizable and enduring celebrities in the rock world, Bassett manages to capture the physical mannerisms, vocal patterns, and onstage energy of the real Tina, even though her voice obviously had to be dubbed. With her almost distracting musculature, she convincingly rips into all her musical performances with unabated fire, but it's really in her dramatic scenes, especially when she becomes an increasingly degraded victim of her husband's demons, that she soars. Fishburne has an extremely tough role, as he has to transcend the inherent villainy of Ike by displaying the bravado and talent that brought the pair the spotlight in the early years. He brilliantly manages to imbue a spirit that is at once frightening and pitiable.With a relatively sparse filmography, Gibson provides surprisingly sturdy direction here, often using an effective faux-combination of grainy home movies and TV programs to make the movie feel like a Behind the Scenes rock documentary. I particularly liked how he edited the inevitable Proud Mary - complete with gyrating Ikettes and Tina in her classic cave woman mini - to show the passage of time between the late sixties to the mid-seventies. Unsurprisingly, no one else makes nearly the impression of the two stars, though Jenifer Lewis has a few funny moments as Tina's mother Zelma, and Vanessa Bell Calloway does what she can in her switch from hard-bitten back-up singer to becalming Buddhist. Regardless, see it for two actors - sadly underutilized since this movie was released, the wondrous Bassett in particular - giving all they have into this memorable movie. The DVD has no significant extras other than the original trailer. "},{"Title":"Acting, writing, directing, and musical showcase","Date":"7 April 1999","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  What's Love Got to Do With It is a fascinating and absorbing portrayal of the first 43 years of Tina Turner's life.  It accurately and convincingly depicts the abuse she underwent and her escape and, finally, salvation through Buddhism.  Laurence Fishburne is one of this generation great actors and gives a riveting and observant performance as Ike Turner, but cannot come close to the overwhelming, breathtaking, and mighty presence of Angela Bassett as Tina.  She deservedly won the Golden Globe as the Best Actress in a Comedy/Musical of 1993 and if the film had come out any other year than 1993 (during which Holly Hunter gave a performance of a lifetime in The Piano), she would have easily taken home an Oscar.Music plays a huge part in the film and all of it is good.  Though I'm only 12, I truly appreciate Tina's music and am always in awe when she sings Proud Mary (one of my favorite scenes in the film.)  As Roger Ebert pointed out, one of the most triumphant scenes is where, after Tina and Ike have had a vicious and bloody fight, Tina runs away to the Ramada Inn where they take her in.  It is one of the best acted scenes of this decade and I never tire of it when I see the film again.What's Love Got to Do With It is one of the best films of 1993 (one of the greatest movie years in history- Schindler's List, The Piano) and one the most passionately and skillfully performed films of the decade.**** out of **** (A) "},{"Title":"Much better than I expected","Date":"21 February 2003","Score":"14 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  As a young girl, Anna Mae Bullock is left behind when her mother flees an abusive husband.  As a young woman she comes to the city to rejoin her mother and sister.  Going with her sister to a local club, Anna Mae is drawn onto the stage by band leader Ike Turner and reveals a powerful voice.  He takes her into his band and the two go onto success, marriage and children with Anna Mae taking the stage name Tina Turner.  However beneath the surface, Ike is a violent man and Tina is forced to either defend him or escape.I have seen this twice already, although I'm not a Tina Turner fan and don't find her music to be that good (aside from a few of the bigger hits) but I do know a powerful film when I see it.  The plot is based on the biography of Tina Turner and, because it is official, the end result is that it lacks an eye that approaches with fair judgement.  The film therefore builds up the strength of Ike and the resolve of Tina and is a little too reverent at points like Tina finding strength in Buddhist chanting.  However it is difficult to miss the cynical eye when you accept that having a violent husband and being trapped is a difficult situation that anyone does well to come out of.The film is moving but never lets itself become overly emotional or sentimental.  Instead it just soldiers on like Tina herself and the final scenes give you an impression of someone who has overcome to get to where she is.  Usually it would be difficult to feel for someone who is as rich and successful as Tina Turner and it is to the film's credit that it has managed it.  Part of the reason for this is a sympathetic yet strong performance from Bassett (one of the better black actresses around).  She at times seems to be just impersonating Turner (during the music pieces) but she is in her element in the rest with a meaty part not often offered to her.  Fishburne is good and bad in different ways. Firstly he is good because he grips the audience and commands attention and is, as always, an excellent actor given the chance.  However he is too powerful &#150; the real Ike is less physically dominant and Fishburne doesn't do him justice &#150; appearing to point the blame on drugs and no inner turmoil.Overall this is a good film that deals with a difficult subject matter.  The fact that it is a true story just makes it better.  Strong black leads and emotionally involving makes for a good watch even if it's hard to describe the violence at times as `entertainment'. "},{"Title":"Excellent story of Ike and Tina,,,, and then Tina Turner.","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I really loved Ike and Tina Turner. then I got to love Tina Turner. I remember I was so sad way back when they split up but,,... after seeing this movie SO SO,,, many years later, I see why. Maybe Ike was a driving force for the group, but Tina made it happen and as far as I can tell, Ike didn't like that he was then along for the ride... and couldn't accept it. It is Too bad he didn't know/or understand at the time what was or would've been best for for his kids and himself. Famous or not, til people understand it's FAMILY that matters, nothing will ever be right. I know this is a Hollywood-ish type-style movie, but I'm proud Tina did what she has done for herself, and I'm glad I got to grow up Knowing Both Ike and Tina, and then Tina Turner.... This is...history in the making. "},{"Title":"St. Tina","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" The deification of St. Tina and the deserved crucifixion of Ike, starring the magnificent Angela Bassett, is harrowing and crackling with electricity. Perhaps the only movie with more domestic violence than *Mommie Dearest*, this is the movie bio to end all movie bios. From the earliest scenes of a rambunctious Tina (or Anna Mae, as she was known then) acting up during choir practice, we, the audience, belong to her completely, irrevocably winning us through empathy and admiration for such a feisty, plucky spirit. Showing Ike as a famous R&B star and suave ladykiller at the time he meets the young Tina, Ike wins her through a combination of persistence and flattery, appealing to her vanity and sense of loyalty (I make them famous and then they run off, Ike tells her). But they team up and, as we know, and make musical history. Their codependency is of the direst sort &#150; he *made* her and feels like he owns her, and she just wants to please him. But pleasing Ike is a tall order, and any success is only temporary. We are taken on a wild ride of spectacular performances in vivid color &#150; both the great achievements of the duo, as well as their darkest hours, but as Ike slides into drugs and domination, the situation is as hopeless as most codependent situations are. We see Tina as she is, once again, beaten to a pulp&#133;but perhaps for the last time. She runs away, and with a wrenching scene in which she appears in the lobby of the neighboring Ramada Inn, begging for shelter, we are begging with her, praying for some nameless act of charity to deliver her from evil. She makes a relatively clean getaway, winding up in the hands of Roger Davies, her manager (and a producer of this film), who engineered one of the greatest comebacks in history. Of course, Ike tries desperately and unsuccessfully to woo her back, telling her how he *made* her, but then becomes ridiculous, uttering to her in 1980, You ain't no Donna Summers. But we know what the outcome of that is &#150; Tina's personal success and lifetime appointment as posterchild for Survivors Anonymous is legendary. Angela Bassett is one of the finest actresses alive, but has yet to produce anything rivaling this performance. She is backed up by a number of extremely strong performances, especially that of Vanessa Bell, in a stand-up performance as her friend Jackie, who not only proves to Tina that she can escape from Ike, but also shows her a way to inner-peace through Buddhism. During the closing credits, we see the real-life Tina perform the title song, but it is a gratuitous, and even negligent performance, that undermines the audience's belief in Basset as Tina. The crime is that this film did not receive Academy attention &#150; for art direction and costuming alone, it is the exquisite evocation of an extremely lively era and lifestyle &#150; as an almost perfect production, it meshes together the cinematography, script, acting and music into a dazzling and sometimes horrifying, but always riveting tour de force. "},{"Title":"great performances, powerful film","Date":"28 September 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Angela Bassett, as Tina Turner asks the musical question What's Love Got to Do with It in this 1993 film also starring Laurence Fishburne, Jenifer Lewis, and Khandi Alexander. The film tells the story of Tina Turner's childhood as Anna Mae Bullock her move to St. Louis after her grandmother's death to live with her mother, her meeting Ike Turner at a nightclub, her subsequent singing with Ike's band, their marriage and divorce.By necessity, biopics have to leave out people and incidents, often combining several incidents into one or skipping several steps. In no way does a knowledge of Tina Turner''s life detract from the impact of this film. It's a story of a woman's determination, beating the odds, suffering, perseverance and ultimate success.Ike's and Tina's marriage was pretty much a horror show. Ike was always controlling, to the detriment of his own career, and as he turned to drugs, his abuse of Tina escalated. The most stunning scene in the film (besides the performances, which are fantastic) occurs when the couple fights in a limo en route to a hotel. Ike becomes physical; Tina has discovered Buddhism and finally gets the courage to fight back. A bloody mess, she runs away from him with only 36 cents in her purse.Angela Bassett gives a searing, electrifying performance as Turner. Her sinewy body is a great match for Turner's, and she uses it to perfection in replicating Turner's performances (Turner's voice is used on the soundtrack). She shows the star's vulnerability, fear, and internal strength throughout.Bassett is matched by Laurence Fishburne's terrifying performance as Ike. Fishburne seethes with manipulation and anger, even in scenes where he's being nice. When Ike loses his temper, you can see how he can't stop and the violence just gets worth. A brilliant performance.A must see. The latter part of Turner's life is not explored, but while she always remained popular in Europe, it was a long time before she could get a recording contract here after some failed recordings. Today she remains one of the greatest singing stars ever. But there were lots of valleys in between. "},{"Title":"The Vidiot Reviews...","Date":"26 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" What's Love Got to Do With ItIf it weren't for females, record labels would have to rely solely on money and cocaine to entice potential male acts.However, the male singer in this biography needs a woman to complete his act.Abandoned by her family, Anna Mae (Angela Bassett) grows up with nothing but her unorthodox singing voice to keep her company.In her teens, she auditions for local bandleader/lothario Ike (Laurence Fishburne), who is impressed by her pipes.Joining him and his band under the moniker Tina, Anna Mae begins banging out the hits, while her new husband begins banging on her.Under Ike's thumb, Tina is unable to branch out and become the star she's destined to be.Based on Tina Turner's biography, WLGTDWI is a superbly acted, heartbreaking tale of overcoming domestic abuse in an era of blind eyes.Fortunately, domestic violence in today's music has been restricted to the Top 40 list. (Green Light) "},{"Title":"The grand old lady on screen","Date":"2 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Personally I'm not especially keen on this type of movie; movies packed with music numbers. But after all, it is the grand old lady Tina Turner we are talking about; she deserves more than something average. I really did like her songs in the 80s when she got rid of her abusive husband Ike. Her voice was strong and with a great personality.The relationship between Ike and Tina was almost made for a movie; there is drama, violence, and music. The title really says it all. Angela Bassett and Laurence Fishburne are stunning as the main characters. Bassett got the nearly impossible job to portrait one of the most remarkable female artists in music history especially when it comes to the body language of Tina. However, Angela Bassett did it very well. Also in scenes with playback I could hardly notice it was an actor imitating a great rock star.Overall a very good movie, but like I said; too many music scenes that I felt interrupted the story. But most of the songs are well known - and good! "}{"Title":"be prepared!","Date":"31 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Be prepared to fall in love with Tina Turner! Played by Angela Bassett telling the true story of Tina Turner's rise to fame. Starting off as a small town choir girl with a big voice young Tina ( Anna Mae) knew she could sing much to the dislike of the jealous choir women. Her mother leaves town with her older sister leaving her with her grandmother and no goodbye. Growing up very sheltered , one day Tina goes to the city to stay with her mother and sister. Her sister is a bar tender and trying to be grown up Tina gets dressed up and shows up - this is the place she first sets eyes on Ike Turner who with his band are performing and part of his show is to release the Mic to the crowd and let many of the screaming girls sing but when it's Tina's turn Ike's jaw falls to the floor at the little woman with such a big voice. He wines her and dines her and asks her to join his band after paying her greedy mother first for her approval. Long nights and early mornings pursue in the studio and Ike soon finds his way into Tina's bed even though he has already a wife and kids. She falls in love and stands by her man promising to never hurt him the way all women have done so before - this was her biggest mistake! He marries her and Ike's ex. wife dumps th kids with him and runs off leaving Tina an instant mother but a good one also. The drink and drugs and partying start for Ike and the beatings begin for Tina - even viciously raped by her own husband. Many years pass and Tina grabs the spotlight causing great jealousy in Ike and he tries everything to keep control over her but you can only keep a good woman down for so long and Tina leaves Ike and becomes one of the biggest stars in the world - while the rest of the world go  who's Ike?  Fantastic cast and passionately driven movie please buy it A.S.A.P . "},{"Title":"A National Enquirer interpretation; entertaining swill...","Date":"8 October 2006","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Although based upon Tina Turner's co-authored autobiography I, Tina, What's Love Got To Do With It plays like a condensed version of a star's memoir, half-fabricated and the other half taken from a supermarket tabloid. While the performances are spot-on, brave and intense, and the original tunes frequently sound incredible, the facts and details of Anna Mae Bullock's relationship with R&B shaker Ike Turner remain hazy and suspect. Certain set-pieces, like Tina's recording session with Phil Spector, look marvelous but serve no particular purpose (and the film lets us think Ike had no involvement in a group-project that resulted in a full album, not just a single release). Angela Bassett is undoubtedly just the perfect choice to portray the exciting Tina Turner, but what of Turner's own tumultuous personality? The movie's narrative gives all the fire and anger to husband Ike, despite Tina's burgeoning muscular arms (she didn't get those muscles from Buddhist chanting!). Also lost are the solo years between leaving Ike and finding success on the pop charts in 1984. The film hopes to wrap things up with a little unnecessary melodrama, but just fouls itself up trying to make a (tired) point about finding one's inner peace and independence. The look of the film is quite remarkable throughout, and the early sequences are entertainingly staged, but very little of the film's final third rings true or comes to close to matching what music-historians know to be accurate. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Sizzle and Rock","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This film portrayed the experience of Tina Turner,one of Rock and Roll's popular artists.I love Bassett,and feel the tense drama of Tina's struggle with finding herself.Tina had to deal with Ike(Fishbourne) bullying,taking over her dignity and self-respect.It is through the film,fans see the strength Tina possessed.Like a robot,Tina took orders and tried to satisfy Ike's whims. After the divorce,fans realize that Tina shone and came alive.Tina Turner was reborn and found herself.The real Tina came alive,and fans are really grateful to hear the new Tina sound.More power to the new Tina! "},{"Title":"Riveting & Profound Biopic!","Date":"30 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I read the book first, which was intriguing and enlightening on the life of Tina Turner, and one would think that if would be difficult to translate her life's journey into a great movie .Not so! the movie is one of the best biopics related to a famous singer's journey that i have ever seen so far.I was drawn into the story from the beginning of the movie, which begins when Tina was a child singing in the choir, and even at that time, Tina's voice was so magnificent that she was ostracized by the choir director. I was riveted throughout the movie and the story conjured up so many emotions. The music of course, took me back in time when I grew up in the 60's and 70's, which is fantastically revitalized and full of energy.The years of battery that Tina endured from Ike is wrenching and disturbing, but the triumph and endurance of the person called Tina Turner is enlightening. "},{"Title":"great  movie.","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This film is truly extraordinary. This is one of those films that you will not forget about. Angela Bassett portrayed Tina Turner perfectly in this movie. Whether you were a fan of Tina Turner's music or not you will feel some type of respect for her and what she went through after watching this film. She lived a life that not too many people were familiar with. This movie teaches you so much about her and what she went through and that celebrities aren't always as happy as they appear to be and that behind the scenes anything goes. Tina's husband Ike Turner, who was played by Laurence Fishburne, used and abused her in the movie. He initially got her started and made her a big star but he controlled all aspects of her musical career, and her life! He became obsessed with her and would beat her a lot. After years of being in this domestic violence filled relationship Tina finally came to her senses and left her, it took a lot of years because she was very gullible. This movie is so interesting and it will keep viewers captured all the way to the end because they want to figure out how it will end. Will she fight back? Will he kill her? Will she kill him? These were questions that were going through my mind as I sat and watched the film. This is one of my favorite films and although the movie reveals Tina's constant struggle with Ike, ironically the movie had it's funny moments. This is a must see. Excellent film 10/10. "},{"Title":"Terrific biopic of singer Tina Turner","Date":"1 September 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" It took me a while (18 years), but at my wife's urging I finally got round to watching this superb film about the harrowing life of popular singer Tina Turner. The film is brilliantly directed by the late Brian Gibson, whose previous film in 1991 had been the life story of another famous black singer, Josephine Baker. But the film sizzles and fascinates primarily because of the sensational performance of Angela Bassett as Tina Turner. She is simply a knock-out. I presume her singing may have been dubbed by Turner herself. But whether she sang or not, her performance was dazzling, full of charm and sweetness as well as conveying all the heartache, emotional confusion and weakness, joys and sorrows. This is really a superior biopic, and the true story has plenty to tell! One should not neglect to mention that the little girl who plays Tina as a child, Rae'Ven Larrymore Kelly, is also superb. (She has grown up and appeared now in 42 films.) Tina Turner had a rough time in life, and it is shown very vividly in this film. She married an egocentric, violent, borderline psychopath named Ike Turner (died 2007), who beat her up regularly for years. Men who beat up women are really sick, but women who let men beat them up year in and year out without leaving them are sick too. In the film her excuse for not leaving Ike is said to be because she 'can't abandon family', due to the trauma of her horrible mother having abandoned her as a child. That does not wash. But let us not heap blame upon the ravaged Tina Turner for the horrors she endured and for her determination over so many years to remain a victim rather than save herself. At last she did summon up the courage to save herself, and she also went on to reinvent herself. So this is a story of heroic endurance and dedication to her art by a girl who was born to sing. If she suffered a lot along the way, well, that's life. But the songs go on. "},{"Title":"My Favorite Film","Date":"18 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" When this movie came out, I was about one year old. When my sister and I were little the only scenes we were allowed to watch were the performance scenes. As time went on, they were the only scenes I remembered. As I got older, I began to have this sudden urge to watch this movie again (the VHS we had once owned had gotten lost somehow).On my 16th birthday, I was given this movie on DVD as a gift. I suddenly realized why I wanted to see this movie again, and it instantly became my favorite movie of all-time.'What's Love Got To Do With It' is the biopic of Tina Turner, mainly focusing on her turbulent marriage to Ike Turner. The acting is PERFECTION (Angela Bassett starred as Tina Turner, Laurence Fishburne starred as Ike Turner) and the entire movie was COMPELLING, CAPTIVATING, EXCITING, AND INSPIRING.Despite the fact that the two lead stars barely look like who they're portraying, and with a few 'unnecessarily altered' facts for dramatic effect, this movie is a must-see! "},{"Title":"A truly inspirational and incredible biopic...","Date":"28 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" What an incredible film!An inspirational tale of an amazing woman who triumphed against all adversity and quite insurmountable odds to become a truly great star of popular music and also found great spirituality...Quite amazing performances from Angela Basset and Laurence Fishburne. As in so many of these kind of movies, the performances distill the essence of the people they portray so that they are almost more their roles than the people themselves, if that is possible.What more can i say...?I recommend this highly. "},{"Title":"i like this movie","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" it amazing tina great movie Tina Turner is the most successful female rock artist of all time it good biographical film which tells the life story of Tina Turner. This film is directed by Brian Gibson, starring Angela Bassett and Laurence Fishburne.The screenplay was adapted by Kate Lanier from the book I, Tina written by Tina Turner and Kurt Loder. The film paints a dark picture of Tina's relationship with her then mentor and husband Ike Turner. The film's soundtrack featured the hit song I Don't Wanna Fight. The movie grossed over 39 million in US alone and produced around 20 million What's Love Got to Do With It is the filmed biography of R&B/pop singer Tina Turner (Angela Bassett), documenting her efforts to break away from her abusive husband Ike (Laurence Fishburne). After a few scenes detailing Tina's life as a young singer in Nutbush, Tennessee, she's discovered by Ike Turner, an already established songwriter, guitarist, and record producer. Ike takes Tina under his wing and makes her a star, but her fame makes him jealous and abusive, and she has to struggle to break free of his domination.Eventually, Tina frees herself from Ike and tries to create a solo career. She meets mega-famous manager Roger Davies (who worked with Olivia Newton-John at the time). The movie ends with a final confrontation between Ike and Tina before Tina's major show at the Ritz, where Ike pulls a gun on Tina, but ultimately doesn't harm her. Tina proceeds to the stage to sing her new song What's Love Got To Do With It that historically went on to be a huge hit and established Tina Turner as one of the most successful acts in the world and an entertainment icon for the ages. "},{"Title":"A Sheer Attention Grabber!!!","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Now this is the role and year that a Black Actress should have received the Oscar for Best Actress(Sorry Halle!).Angela Bassett does Tina Turner proud, never mind that she is quite muscled. She infuses life and colour into the role.  Each Time I watch this movie, I ain't watching Bassett, I'm watching Tina Turner.  That's how good Ms Bassett is.  It's a testament to her that she isn't drowned by Fishburne's presence who happens to be one of the most magnetic Black Actors around after Freeman and Samuel L Jackson.Watching both reverse their roles from Boyz In The Hood, it's eerie with Fishburne switching to vengeful-coke snorting Ike in the blink of an eye. Bassett chameleons from teen angst to mother to stifled wife and liberated star!!!One of the most significant scenes in the movies is when Tina after bashing Ike and being bashed in turn runs out and away and goes into a motel. When she registers her identity and asks for a room promising to pay, she tries to pull off her jewelry as surety but the manager who happens to be a white man knows of Tina Turner and refuses to accept her jewelry or anything else trusting in her word of honour.  It simply goes to show that there are people out in the world who recognise that we are all the same underneath the skin colour.  I applaud that singular act by that chap, GOD BLESS HIM, he helped restore my faith in mankind.In this story there is more than human beauty, in the depiction, there's more than human justice.What's Love Got To Do With It?   Absolutely Nothing!!!! (As Tina croons in one of her later hits  Afterglow  if you could see me now?).  If only Ike could see her now!!!!! "}{"Title":"An incredible film!","Date":"29 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  What's Love Got To Do with It is an absolutely incredible film.  While watching it, it seems so real to me.  I can almost imagine what Tina Turner had to go through.  The highlights of the film however are in the performances of Laurence Fishburne, as Ike Turner, and Angela Bassett as Tina Turner.  Both received Oscar nominations for their roles and both deserved them.  Bassett deserved to win.  Her performance is so good that it keeps you thinking after the film is over.  She truly captures the spirit of Tina Turner and allows it to come alive on the screen.  Overall Grade B+ Angela Bassett A+ "},{"Title":"Triumph through Adversity","Date":"14 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Who said the life of a superstar is always glamorous?  Angela Bassett does a wonderful job of, among other things, bringing the horrors and anguish of a physically abusive relationship to the screen without making her character a one-dimensional victim.  The film is made all the more real given that the life she's portraying on the screen is that of superstar Tina Turner. Angela also manages to capture some of the physical fire of Tina Turner in the performance numbers.  Laurence Fishburne does an equally impressive job of portraying Ike Turner.It's an amazing story - from poverty and abandonment to discovery, minor fame, an abusive marriage, lean times, and then the most amazing musical comeback of the century.  Soap opera stuff.  The film ends on a high with footage of the real Tina performing in concert on her Private Dancer tour. Her radiant smile says it all - she hung in there and triumphed! Inspirational for us all.  "},{"Title":"Great movie based on Tina Turner's life!!","Date":"20 July 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" A truly wonderful movie, 1993's What's Love Got To Do With It is based on the life and career of none other than the famous Tina Turner. Angela Bassett plays Tina to the hilt and Laurence Fishburne plays Ike equally well. The movie begins with Tina (Anna Mae Bullock, her original name, as she was known then) as a sweet little girl, who acts up in church singing with the choir by not singing the song Bright Light appropriately. The lady conducting the choir stops the music, warns her to stop, and then escorts the girl out of the church just seconds later for not listening. Jenifer Lewis was excellent playing Tina's mother, and she was fabulous as well. She then meets Ike in the late 50s, and, at first, he treats her kindly, but after a while, he is very mean and abusive to her (there are several scenes of such content in this movie that are so horrible to see. In these instances, you automatically feel sadness for Tina and intense anger at Ike; how dare he lay a violent hand on her!) You see for yourself that Ike was NOT a good husband to Tina; in other words, he was a real (you know what), and she did not do or say anything to deserve being beaten and bullied by Ike. She WAS singing the songs properly, but Ike didn't listen. There was one scene where she tries to take the kids and sneak out, but unfortunately, Ike catches up with her the next day, and her plan to get away is dashed. There were several instances that Tina got back at him the scene where they and a friend of Tina's, Jackie, were at the cafeteria and Ike forced her to eat some cake by forcing it in her mouth, and she threw her drink in Ike's face (Wow!! What a way to make him back off!), but Ike had hit Jackie, she told him to kiss her (you know what) and bolted out. The next fight back scene was when Ike and Tina were in the plane and he kept leaning on her, she got up to get away from him and told him to Go straight to hell, Ike!, and in the limo where she hit him back after he hit her in the car. Whooo! She wasn't going to put up with him anymore!! Ike had had some problems with drugs and possibly alcoholism during the marriage (the addictions made him abusive to her, I assume) and Tina should have gotten rid of him sooner, but after a while, she sued for divorce and got rid of him FINALLY!!! Way to go, Tina!! It is quite obvious that you had taken enough of his abuse. The music in this movie is great to listen to (I have the soundtrack album of the same name on CD). Songs like I Don't Wanna Fight, Nutbush City Limits (that's a funny one), the title track is great as well, A Fool In Love, and their version of Creedence Clearwater Revival's Proud Mary is great also, with Tina speaking the intro describing to the folks listening how it is being done. Creedence's version of the song is great to listen to, as it is a soft rock version, while Ike and Tina's version contains a nice and jumpy groove to it (with horns added) to almost want to make you want to dance. I am a fan of Tina's, even though the songs on the soundtrack are the only ones of hers I like. I never read the book, I, Tina, but this movie is good to watch. I highly recommend watching this movie. "},{"Title":"The best musical bio-pic of the nineties","Date":"7 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" For my money, Angela Bassett's portrayal of Tina Turner was the best performance of the nineties. It doesn't matter that Bassett does not physically resemble Tina Turner, because throughout the film's runtime - Bassett is Tina Turner. She even impressively nails Turner's legendary and unmistakable stage presence in the film's many high voltage concert re-creations. Even more incredibly, Bassett takes on this larger-than-life personality and makes her into a three-dimensional human being, without scaling down her considerable achievements.It's a performance that ranks among the best of all time and, in the many years since the film's release, it has yet to be equaled. Though Bassett was nominated for an Oscar for her work here, the fact that she went home empty handed is an insult to this great actress and should remain an embarrassment to the film community. Justifiably, the Foreign Press relies less on politics and awarded Bassett with a much-deserved Golden Globe. It irritates me to no end that the immature, modestly talented Hallie Berry will go down in history as the first African American to win a Best Actress Oscar when the regal and lady-like Bassett has her beat in talent, beauty, and grace.The film version of Ike Turner could have easily become a one-note monster, but Laurence Fishburne creates an Ike whose emotions are varied and shaded. He can be charming, chilling, sympathetic, and as frightening as hell. Unlike Bassett, he never really overcomes the physical limitations of being compared to the real Ike Turner, as he is too handsome and muscular to be physically believable as the wiry, homely Turner. Fishburne also delivers an Oscar-worthy performance (He was nominated alongside Bassett and probably should have won as well).While WHAT'S LOVE would be worth watching for the performances of Bassett and Fishburne alone, the film itself stands as one of the screen's best show biz tales. It may stretch some of the facts (for the sake of dramatic coherency) every now and then, but the film delivers the goods emotionally with many moving scenes. Director Brian Gibson breathtakingly recreates many of the Revue's finest performances, the A Fool In Love and Proud Mary numbers are particularly stunning. Turner herself re-recorded all of the vocals, and the then-54-year-old singer still has enough power and soul to completely shame the whiny-voiced R&B divas of today. "},{"Title":"one sided","Date":"4 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I really didn't like this movie, because it made Ike turner look like a monster.  Tina Turner looked like a saint in the movie. Before I make any judgement on how a person is treated I like to look at both sides. The acting was brilliant. The accuracy of the movie is doubtful.  "},{"Title":"Tina should be proud.","Date":"27 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  How could anyone not like this movie? Unless they were Ike Turner, that is. When we walked out of seeing the movie during its first run in the theater, my husband commented dryly, Well, that movie didn't paint a very flattering portrait of Ike. and we both laughed at the understatement. If you've read the Tina's book, though, you'll know that the movie goes VERY easy on him-while merely a typical abusive bully in the film, Ike treated her much, much worse in real life. I think if they put even half the abuse and torture he put her through in real life, though, the movie would have been too much of a downer-you got the idea. Fishburne does a good job of making Ike so charming when Tina first meets him that you can see why she falls in love with him, until he turns into a monster. Angela Bassett is just fantastic, she has Tina down perfect, though her upper body is so pumped up in some scenes she looks almost masculine. Tina Turner was (hell, still is at 60) toned and buff, but not a female bodybuilder. Her performance is dynamic and heartbreaking, and I can't watch the scene where she finally gets sick of his abuse and starts fighting back. When she finally hits him back in the scene in the limo, I heard the loudest cheers and applause in the audience that I've heard since I saw Thelma and Louise. I've seen the movie dozens of times and her passion in that scene still gets me emotional every time.But the real reason I watch the movie over and over (especially when I'm trying to get motivated to work out) are the musical numbers. They include among others A Fool in Love, Rock me Baby a great montage to Make me Over, but the centerpiece of the film has got to be the perfect recreation, right down to the choreography, of the Ike and Tina Turner Revue's Proud Mary. It is full of so much energy and rocks so much that your jaw will just hang open in amazement when Tina and the Ikettes start going into their dance moves. I never get tired of watching that scene (almost as good as the real thing). I'm still trying to figure out how they kept their wigs on when they were whipping their upper bodies back and forth, they danced so hard. Oh, and the costumes (especially on the Ikettes and the Proud Mary fringe dress) and period detail are not only accurate but To Die For. I can't recommend this movie enough. She should have got the Academy Award, not just the Golden Globe, and the movie should have got the Oscar for best picture of 1993. "},{"Title":"Bassett's finest hour","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Angela Bassett is amazing in this life story of Tina Turner. Laurence Fishburne is less successful but I don't think his character was written as well. The Golden Globe that Angela won was well-deserved and I hope this is not the highlight of her career.  The only thing that bothered me was seeing the real Tina at the end; I felt that it took away from the actress.  "},{"Title":"A great mix of music and drama","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  What's Love Got to Do with It is clearly one of the best music bio films released in the nineties. Angela Basset brings justice and passion to the role of Tina and Laurence Fishburne gives an Oscar Worthy performance as Ike. You get a feel for the concert scenes and the ending makes you wanan stand up and cheer. "},{"Title":"A Richly Entertaining Biopic about a Musical Legend featuring two electrifying star performances...","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT is the dazzling 1993 musical biopic that chronicles the legendary Tina Turner, from her humble beginnings as a show off in her church choir when she was a kid named Anna Mae Bullock to her now legendary success as one of the top rock and roll performers of our generation. As expected, the majority of the film focuses on Anna Mae's relationship with Ike Turner, a musician who works steadily but stays on the cusp of stardom until meeting Anna Mae, changing her name to Tina and making her the lead singer of the group. The film shines a not-too-flattering light on Ike's abusive treatment of Tina, which ranges from severe beatings to marital rape. The screenplay, clearly based on Tina's autobiography I, TINA, is kind of one-sided...in the film, Tina is presented as just this side of Mother Theresa and that Ike single-handedly destroyed their marriage, but in later years, Turner has admitted that the movie does paint Ike in an unflattering light and that she had as much to do with the destruction of their marriage as he did. On the other hand, it is the single-sided view of the screenplay that helps to make this movie so entertaining...we have a crystal clear heroine and an equally clear villain here that arouse the expected reactions from the filmgoers. Angela Bassett and Laurence Fishbourne deliver electrifying performances as the Turners, performances that earned them both Oscar nominations and are the anchor of this film. Bassett does a more than credible job of lip-syncing to original Tina recordings. Yes, it may gloss over the facts and the actors may not look like the people they are portraying, but this film is powerhouse entertainment from start to finish. "},{"Title":"Even if things were exaggerated, this was truly an amazing movie and inspirational","Date":"1 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I just happened to walk by What's Love Got To Do With It in the video store and remembered how much I wanted to see the movie, I am a fan of Tina's, have been since I could crawl. When I was 4 years old I would walk around with a walk man and sing out loud What's Love Got To Do With It?, and my mom would laugh and she eventually told me when I got a little older what the song was about. I still blast and sing the song every time I hear it and understand it's power, afterwards, I wanted to read the book I, Tina and my heart was shattered for Tina and I just wanted to be like her and have her strength. Finally, I saw this film last night and I was blown away by such a terrific performance by Angela and Lawerence! They were truly amazing and made this film an incredibly biography.This is based on Tina Turner's life, mainly what happened between her and Ike, the utter and horrific abuse that ensued by Ike by his jealous rage of Tina's spotlight. Tina has only one friend by her side that truly defends her against Ike and Tina tries so hard to get away, but Ike won't let her. Finally, Tina has just had enough in an extremely emotional scene, they have a fight in the limo and Tina swings back at Ike finally! You just cheer and scream for her to leave and she finally gets what she truly deserved, the solo career and utter fame for being a truly gifted star.I have a feeling things were a bit exaggerated in the film, you know, the fights? But I think almost 25 years of an abusive marriage is hard to get into a 2 hour film, so they had to make you understand the pain Tina went through. Angela did a terrific job, one of the best performances I have ever seen in fact, I was just cheering for her in that limo! I cried and cheered for Tina, she is truly a remarkable woman and to understand that, please read the book and watch What's Love Got To Do With It.10/10 "}{"Title":"An incredible movie from start to finish","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Angela Basset gives an Oscar-winning performance as Tina Turner. Laurence Fishburne is very powerful as Ike Turner, her abusing husband who drove her career with an iron fist, including a fist to her face one too many times. The story begins with Tina as a young girl being left by her mother, a few years later she joins her mother and sister in Tennessee. Her sister works in a jazz club, so by chance she sings one night. Surprise, she is a wonderful singer! There she is discovered by Ike Turner and his band. The career is rolling. She and Ike have a child, and they get married. Then, they are know to the world as Ike and Tina Turner. Over the years, there is abuse, rape, and beatings. A gripping tale of abuse and broken promises. Both stars give Oscar worthy performances. My heart goes out to the real Tina Turner, who put up with so much for so long. An emotional tale of a life in the public eye. Brilliant in every way! A wonderful film. "},{"Title":"great!","Date":"11 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  A great biopic with terrific performances in the leads by Angela Bassett and Laurence Fishburne. You will feel for Tina as the movie progresses and will come away feeling thoroughly satisfied. Do not miss this great movie!*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Better as movie than a biopic but it's great nevertheless.","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" There is plenty wrong with this movie as a biopic, however when you look at it as purely being a movie, it is a surprisingly great one.I never really considered Tina Turner to be such a good subject for a biopic, especially not in the '90's. First of all she was still alive and at an all time popular height and second of all, she in my opinion is not a that big star, when compared to all other people who get a biopic made about them. But I must say that after seeing this movie i have a whole lot more respect for her by now and I was definitely wrong about her career and life not being worthy or interesting enough for making a movie about it.The movie was a positive surprise. But nevertheless there still is plenty wrong with it as a biopic. It suffers from lots of the stuff other genre movies often suffer from. Thing with biopics often is that you try to capture a persons entire life and career into a 2 hour long movie. This means some stuff will often get rushed and shoved down your throat. You often just have to take things for granted, without them ever getting developed properly and convincing enough, like would be the case in a normal film drama about a normal average, every day person. And yes, this happens quite a lot in this movie. It often makes some very sudden jumps with its story and make jumps in time as well. We just never get to see how popular Tina Tuner is with the public and some things seem to happen very randomly in this movie, just because they happened in her real life as well. It at times feels like some stuff really got crow-bared into the film. They movie because of that also feels quite distant at times as a biopic, since you don't ever get the feeling you are really getting into the character.But having said all that, the movie still works out great. The story is always intriguing and keeps you interest throughout. It's also really fast-going, which makes this a bit of a distant one when it comes down to its emotions and characters but at the same time keeps this movie consistently good to watch, since you never get bored with things.It's also true that it are the actors performance that keep the movie going and make this a great watch. Angela Bassett really shines and she deserved her Oscar nomination. Same goes for Laurence Fishburne as the abusive Ike Turner, who is perhaps the foremost reason why this movie remains such a good and interesting watch. His character, no matter how awful he is, is still what gives the story as well as the Tina Turner some real depth. Because lets face it, would Tina Turner's life had been interesting enough for a biopic if she had never met Ike? I really don't think so.But of course the movie does not only focus on her personal life but also her career. It's quite fascination to see how she started out and at several points at her career had to start all over again but every time came back stronger, as a performer and person as well. It's why I now have so much more respect for her after seeing this movie. I now kind of wished I would had gone to her concert when she was in town here a decade ago. Besides, I really don't think you have to be a fan of her music in order to enjoy and appreciate her incredible stage presence and performance. Same sort of goes for this movie. You really don't have to be that much in Tina Turner in order to really like and appreciate this movie.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"ITS WORTH SEE!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"15 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a very good movie.  It expresses things that most people need help with.  It helps people understand how important life is. It also gives a very good example for people to get out and to get help before it is too late. Tina really should have got out of the situation before things got that bad. But if you never seen the movie then I recommend you to watch it its  a great movie, it shows you how family do you and how money is the power of almost anything in the world. "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  As a musician i really like the accurate way in which their show performances were shot. Absolutely fabulous!Highlight for me was of course the recording session of Proud Mary, which gives you nice insight on how Phil Spector used make his recordings.My only dislike was the physical state of Tina in the movie. As I could recall she was no body builder!  Luckily at the end of the picture Tina herself appears, and I could check she has no muscled arms!But nevertheless, a great movie!  "},{"Title":"Good film, but could have used some more of Tina's later hits","Date":"8 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Angela (Bassett) and Laurence (Fishburne) give dazzling performances as! You guys rule! One of my favorite quotes of this film is, Is that your best shot? Huh? You can't do no better than that? I thought Tina (Angela Bassett) looked especially beautiful in her dressy clothing -- Especially the dress she was wearing while she was singing Rock Me, Baby. Anytime Tina got beaten by Ike (Laurence Fishburne), I wanted to got a LITTLE frightened. WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT was a good film, but, it could have used some more of Tina's later hits, such as Private Dancer and We Don't Need Another Hero. One of my favorite based-on-a-true-story films, I give WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT three out of four stars. "},{"Title":"Brilliant recreation of America","Date":"13 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Brilliant recreation of America, 1940s-1980s, and Ike and Tina Turner's place in it. Delves into the Turners' private life like few showbiz bios before it, with courage and passion in every frame of Bassett and Fishburne's uncanny performances. Outstanding soundtrack album by Tina Turner. Terrifically moving film, with Bassett's Turner becoming a real-life heroine. "},{"Title":"Interesting casting choice.","Date":"17 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  I have not seen this film as such, but from the clips I've seen from it and from documentaries I've seen on Tina Turner, what strikes me is how much Angela Bassett looks like Tina Turner from the Ike & Tina days, and how LITTLE Laurence Fishburne looks like the real Ike Turner!Maybe Fishburne's usual powerful performance convinced the powers that be to cast him, or maybe the producers didn't think people would believe that a small, thin, scrawny man like the real Ike Turner could intimidate Tina, much less physically abuse her.  In any case, I wonder if Don Cheadle tried out for the role.  He's a reasonable actor (although maybe not in Fishburne's league) and he looks a lot more like Ike that Fishburne does. "},{"Title":"Superb film-superb acting. Just superb!","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  This has got to be one of the best films I have ever seen. Angela Bassett is incredible-her portrayal of Tina Turner was excellent. The depth she brought to the character makes you almost forget that she is not the real Tina! Although I have always been a fan of Tina's, after seeing this movie, I walked away with a new and deeper respect for her. One of the most moving and poignant scenes for me was watching Tina walk into that hotel and ask for a room, explaining to the clerk who she was and that she had no money...Even if you don't like her or her music, you can't walk away from this film without having at least an admiration for all she has gone through. Laurence Fishburne was also an excellent Ike.  Bassett deserved the Oscar for this! (Sorry, Holly Hunter.)If you haven't seen this yet, buy it, don't rent it. This is one you'll watch over again. Can't wait for the DVD! "},{"Title":"A terrific film","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  What's Love Got To Do With It was one of the best films of 1993.  Angela Bassett gives a brilliant performance as Tina Turner.  She received the Golden Globe award for her performance and in my opinion, she deserved to win the Oscar as well.  Laurence Fishburne as Ike Turner is also good.  He adds a lot of realism to the film.  His Oscar nomination was well deserved. The film itself gives an accurate portrayal of the life of Tina Turner.  I highly recommend this film to anyone interested.  Two thumbs up-way up! "}{"Title":"One of the best films of 1993","Date":"2 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  What's Love Got To Do With It is a gut-wrenching, excellent film that features one of the decade's most solid lead performances. Angela Bassett is excellent as Tina Turner, she does the best performance of a real life singer since Sissy Spacek won an Oscar for playing Loretta Lynn.Many think that the movie is only about Ike and Tina Turner, but it's about so much more. It's about a woman's strength to sacrifice the life she built with a man she thought she loved to save her own life. One of the best films of 1993. "},{"Title":"A Truly Impressive Biopic of One Of The Most Sought After Performers in  Music","Date":"29 June 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Sometimes biopics tend to be instantly forgettable made-for-TV franchises, with very little to offer in terms of character development and exploration which attempts to dig deeper into their personal lives, and their eventual triumphs over adversity. There are also biopics that seem to be memorable and popular with mainstream Hollywood, such as the Rocky series, Ali, Ray, Walk The Line to name but many. But 'What's Love Got to Do With It?' is neither a made-for-TV type of film, nor did it reclaim instant recognition and appraisal from the Academy Awards folk, seeing as it was harshly and virtually ignored. Bassett was nominated for a best actress gong, only for that to go to Holly Hunter in the rather dull drama,'The Piano' whilst Fishburne lost out to Tom Hanks, who starred in the overrated 'Philiadelphia' for best actor. It is indeed one of the very few (music-based) biopic films where in which it delivers strong but impressive performances from the main leads without all the necessary commercialised bravado and hype. 'What's Love Got to Do With It?' chronicles the imminent and illustrious life and times of Anna Mae Bullock aka Tina Turner- one of the most prominent and successful female solo recording artists in (pop)music, ever.The narrative of the film attempts to present to the audience a glimpse into the difficult hardships that Tina had to endure both as a child and as an adult, as well as her troublesome and at times violent marital relationship with her husband, Ike. Laurence Fishbourne excels in this role, even though some would argue that he bears little resemblance to Ike Turner, in physical terms. He is so convincing and yet so menacing and vile as Ike, you just feel nothing but total repulsion towards him for the way he has treated his wife. Beating and hitting her so hard, i'm sure it wasn't easy for Fishburne and Bassett to film such difficult scenes because on screen for us viewers, the violence, which was being inflicted on Tina by her lover, was so brutal to watch. As for Bassett, she may not be an accomplished vocalist in her own right, but her lip-synching of the tracks during the music performances of the film was impressive and she succeeded in capturing and projectifying Tina's mannerisms and presence on stage.What I like in particular about this movie also, is that as it is based on a true life account of Tina Turner's ups and downs, in contrast to other similar themed auto-biographical films, the events that unfold throughout the duration of this production are presented to us, not in an idealised way but as and when it happened, no matter how bleak and unsettling it is and was. Ali, Ray and even Malcolm X all celebrated the achievements of Black African American heroism but that they also celebrate the acceptance and importance of Black masculinity within what was then a predominantly white society and what it is to be male, Black and American. In Tina Turner,and this film, it in a way celebrates and acknowledges the contribution of Black femininity through her struggles and in overcoming such struggles and through her music, in addition for others to make sense of what it is to be female, Black and American.Although the abuse scenes are often difficult to stomach, particularly the rape scene where Tina is attacked by Ike, which I found incredibly disheartening and painful to sit through, 'What's Love Got to Do With It?' is an unmistakable- yet intense journey of emotions, sheer brutality and pure heartache on the part of the so- called main protagonist. But of course, Tina does indeed triumph in the end, which is a wonderful thing. And although it feels like it is like any other film with a predominantly Black cast, the fact that Tina Turner's music caters for all audiences and not just the Black community at large, means that regardless of your social, ethnic background, gender or sexuality,'What's Love Got to Do With It?' is an extremely accessible and engaging film that is as hard-hitting and powerful as it is moving. And in Angela Bassett, she should be a much, much bigger movie star than she is right now. It is unbelievable that this underrated actress doesn't receive as many film roles that she rightly deserves.Nevertheless, this film has to be one of the cult classics of all- time and the brilliance of the performances have to be seen to be believed. If you're a massive Tina Turner fan, you'll love this, but if you love to watch great acting and expect a good story, then this is definitely worth seeing as well. "},{"Title":"one of the better biopics","Date":"14 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" This is definitely one of the better biopics i have seen. However the 'Saint Tina' mentality and occasionally soap opera quality is a little hard to swallow, and at times makes some scenes unintentionally funny.Not that it was right or OK what Tina went through, but she's made one hell of a career on the back of it. Though i'm not saying she spilled her guts for sympathy or publicity.And while it draws heavily on the 'triumph of the human spirit' i wish that some people would remember that Ike is human too, he's made mistakes just like anyone, but they just happen to have been immortalised on film. and on a lighter note i would just like to add that even in those ridiculous costumes and wigs, Laurence Fishburne looked HOT! "},{"Title":"Good film, but it could have used some more of Tina's later hits","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Angela (Bassett) and Laurence (Fishburne) give dazzling performances as Tina and Ike Turner! You guys rule! One of my favorite quotes of this film is, Is that your best shot? Huh? You can't do no better than that? I thought Tina (Angela Bassett) looked especially beautiful in her dressy clothing, especially the dress she was wearing while she was singing Rock Me, Baby. Anytime Tina got beaten by Ike (Laurence Fishburne), I got a little frightened. WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT was a good film, but it could have used some more of Tina's later hits, such as Private Dancer and We Don't Need Another Hero. One of my favorite biopics, I give WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT three out of four stars. "},{"Title":"What Performances and Music. There is virtually something for everyone....","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" It begins like many biographies. A child full of joy, unaware of the dangers to come. In a film that is unbelievably violent this is a worthy film to watch for two incredibly intense performance. The film gets two very gutsy performances in the form of Angela Basette and Lawerence Fishburne. They make a great on screen pairing mostly however in the violent abuse scenes that show Ike to be the most hateful of men. Fishburne does not try to be likable but based on the material he was a violent drug taking womaniser. Fishburne is a powerhouse and deserved fully his Oscar Nomination. However the film belongs to Basette. I think virtually everyone will agree that this is a performance that requires a lot of depth. From happier then happy rock and roll star of the sixties to abused and sudicial Anna Mae Bullock. The film is slightly frustrating because too much goes on and there are too many scenes dedicated to this and that but i found it wonderful to watch such unparallelled acting. The setting provides for a brilliant use of dazzling cinematography and brilliant outfits (virtually anything Ike wears I would wear!.) The end scenes also make the film balance out. Watching the final number What's Love Got to do With it? shows that people can learn from there mistakes.For this film though the music, costumes, setting and overall mood does not beat the two Oscar nominated (and well deserved winners) of a film like this. Very much watching and the kind of film where you're next purchase is the soundtrack. Well that is a cracker.Finally Basette's Tina is on par with Garland's Vicki Lester in A STAR IS BORN. Both were nominated performances that are both the most genuine of genuine!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"This is a great bio pic","Date":"6 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I have recently seen What's Love... again. I loved it! Lets now look at this movie in the context of other more recent and/or more acclaimed bio pics like Malcolm X, A Beautiful Mind, The Aviator and Ray. The first question is the actor who portrays the subject believable? In my opinion, Angela Bassett nailed Tina Turner; her mannerisms, her voice, her movements. Angela Bassett did a wonderful job worthy of the academy award nomination.The second question does the picture itself portray the subject's life accurately? I must admit-- I have not read Turner's autobiography upon which the film is based, but I have searched the web and I do not find any criticism regarding its accuracy from Tina Turner, herself.If this movie had been released in this millennium rather than in the last, it would have gotten more praise and recognition. About Lawrence Fishburne you do not have to like his character. I recall Denzel Washington in Training Day or Charlize Theron in Monster. I did not like them either and for THAT the actors are brilliant and so is Fishburne. "},{"Title":"Simply The Best","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  When I first saw this movie I had no idea Tina Turner was at the receiving end of an abusive husband! The film was magnificent! Angela Bassett was outstanding, and to this day I can not understand why she didn't receive an Oscar for her performance! Laurence Fishburne was equally brilliant playing the horrific husband that was Ike Turner! A wonderful film which hits you so hard its something you'll never forget! "},{"Title":"When will Angela get her Actress of the Year Award?","Date":"11 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Angela is Angela, she can play anything, unlike most people, she did a great job lip syncing...as I said before, biographies are my favorite, and What's Love Got to Do With It? explains why.Laurence was awesome, just some months back I saw him play in an old 1975 movie called Cornbread, Wilfred and Me, he was just a kid, if you seen that movie you know that he came a long way from that role. But What's Love....? is a superb movie, Angela recreated Tina in the most exceptional way, I would rather want to meet Angela instead of Tina, only because she's an actor and mines well be every person she every played. Where is Female/Actress of the Year, leave the nominations for the people who only deserves the nominations, but give the Awards to the people who deserve the Awards, like Bassett. She didn't do a bad job in the Jacksons, another biography, then Malcolm X, not to mention the small roles she entered into in the 80s and throughout the 90s, and recently playing Rosa Parks in the Rosa Parks Story. If she don't get a Actress of the Year Award, I don't care if it's Supporting Actress of the Year, then I know something is wrong. I have people listed for those Awards. "},{"Title":"surprise, surprise.","Date":"7 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Much has been made of this movie and Angela Bassett's amazing performance in it.  So, after seeing a preview for it in front of our recently-rented copy of Strictly Ballroom, my wife and I were reminded of it and decided to check it out and see if lived up to the hype.We were expecting a rather rote interpretation of a singer's climb to stardom.  What we got instead was a harrowing, engaging, cautionary tale that's not just about Tina Turner's rise to the top, but is also a chilling indictment of spousal abuse.Surprising, to say the least.  Since we'd gone in thinking What's Love Got to Do with It is simply a charming film starring an actress who's giving her best Tina Turner imitation, we were hardly ready for the emotional impact this movie has.I hope any man who's ever beaten his wife, or who's even ever thought of it, sees this movie.  And any woman who's currently in an abusive relationship should definitely see it -- if only to help them get out. "},{"Title":"Simply the best","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  First I have to say that Im a huge fan of Tina Turner. So in my opinion, this movie is my #1 of all time. This movie had a huge impact on me. The movie, based on the wonderful book I, Tina written by Tina and Kurt Loder, is simply fantastic. It shows what kind of person Tina is strong. As a little Anna Mae Bullock, she was abandoned by her parents. She stood by her husband Ike, despite the fact that he did drugs, slept with other women and beat her. But enough is enough. Tina couldnt stand it any longer. She left Ike and finally got a divorce. Tina started to rebuild her career as a solo artist but it wasnt an easy job. After years of working and touring, finally in 1983 Tina hit the charts with the cover of Al Greens Lets Stay Together. Tina made the greatest comeback ever. She became the greatest singer of all time, the Queen Of Rock, Female Lioness, Female Tiger Of Rock, Mega Diva... She became the biggest female rock star ever. She became thebest-selling female live performer in history. She became a legend. And even now, after 40 years in business, shes one of the most beloved artists out there. And this movie salutes this wonderful woman. Angela Bassett shines in her role as Tina. She is simply sensational! Ikes role is played by Laurence Fishburne and he does excellent job as well. Bassett got a Golden Globe for her role and both Bassett and Fishburne were nominated for Academy Awards. Unfortunately, they didnt won but its an award to be nominated as well. This film includes violent scenes in which Ike beats Tina. They are not nice or easy to watch and we can only imagine what happened in real life during those years Tina was with Ike.This movie also includes fantastic music. Tina herself re-recorded some old songs for this movie and they can be heard in the movie and on the fantastic soundtrack. A Fool In Love, Its Gonna Work Out Fine, Nutbush City Limits, River Deep - Mountain High, Proud Mary, Shake A Tail Feather, (Darlin) You Know I Love You, Disco Inferno, Tinas Wish plus Whats Love Got To Do With It and I Might Have Been A Queen - All these fantastic, irresistible classics!!! The music scenes are wonderful to watch (if you have seen Tina in concert youll know why), especially the live performances of Shake A Tail Feather and Proud Mary. The movie ends with Tinas 93 recording I Dont Wanna Fight which is a really good song as well. If you are a fan of good music, this movie is for you! This is a perfect movie. Great story, great music, great performances. Tears came in my eyes many times during the violent scenes but especially in the end. Tina becomes a mega star and the real Tina is singing Whats Love Got To Do With It in her 1985 concert. She gives that wonderful smile and looks so happy... Then I Dont Wanna Fight starts playing and at this point, tears are flowing on my cheeks. Tina Turner is simply the best. This movie is simply the best. See it. Now.10 out of 10.  "}{"Title":"Tina Tells It All","Date":"22 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Another really great rock and roll movie, only this one is non-fiction, plus it was another movie which was nothing like I expected it to be.  I thought it was better from time to time and worse at a certain extent.  Angela was a terrific Tina and Laurence took the job playing the brilliant, but spiteful Ike Turner.  I thought the both of them really put on a great performance! It was marvelous!  The costumes that Tina wore were so very dazzling and each part was vividly described.This movie is great.  A must see for all music lovers. "},{"Title":"It's a movie","Date":"14 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Do not mistake the script of a Hollywood movie for fact. Not a bad movie, actually, just not very accurate or fair to Ike. Annie Mae Bullock was not the innocent little country girl she's made out to be when she met Ike. Ike, in reality, was half Laurence Fishburne's size (and in a punch-up between him & Tina, my money'd be on Tina). And the movie seems to suggest that Ike spent every day of the week beating on Tina, while in reality he was always working writing, rehearsing the band, recording, organizing tours etc. That is why the group was successful, while the movie seems to suggest that Tina was the only one with talent & Ike was nothing more than a parasite. Ike made much of music history what it is, scouting talent for the Sun & Modern labels for instance. The movie utterly destroyed his reputation & even now that he's dead, he'll never be remembered for his amazing work. Musicians & other close associates from the Ike & Tina days regularly dismiss this movie as a gross distortion of facts. Of course, that's what makes it a good movie - you can't build a story on facts. "},{"Title":"I love this movie so much!!!!!!!!","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" I freakin' love tina turner!!!She is like the best onstage performer i've ever seen also with the best freakin' legs I've ever seen. She has so much energy and justs rocks on stage!!! This movie influenced me greatly in getting to admire her. At first, when I saw this movie, I was touched by her story and how she never gave up once. THe scene at the end is my favorite because it shows just how happy she is and that she basically is telling ike to kiss her *ss!! I have to point out that at the last scene when Angela is performing What's love... notice that each time it cuts to the audience watching her and look closely and you'll find somebody in the audience that looks just like Tina Turner herself! I noticed her because of her hair and her smile.She is wearing a black coat with an orange shirt underneath. It may not be her but it sure does look just like her!Anyway, this is, without a doubt, my favorite movie. "},{"Title":"Good movie, but Fishburne miscast","Date":"1 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Al's comment is on the money with regard to scrawny Ike.  Laurence Fishburne can't help looking powerful (unlike Gary Busey, incidentally, who managed to play Buddy Holly).  The relationship is believable as a  movie relationship, but not as an Ike-and-Tina relationship.  One look at the real Ike Turner, and  you see this is not a man whose own physical power is going to get out of control.  He looks like a man whose fears, whose nerves, whose addictions have turned him dangerous, but he's not Othello and he's not Steinbeck's Lenny.  He's not the rhino, he's the rattlesnake. "},{"Title":"good movie.","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  a well done gritty movie about The life of singer Tina Turner. The movie featured excellent acting and was simultaneously entertaining,quite touching as well as  empowering to watch. I'd recommend it, a very very well done movie with an outstanding actress playing an outstanding singer.  "},{"Title":"Bassett & Fishburne at their career best; above avg. biopic","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  WHAT'S LOVE GOT TO DO WITH IT (1993) *** 1/2 Angela Bassett, Laurence Fishburne, Jenifer Lewis, Yvonne Stickney, Vanesa Bell Calloway, Penny Johnson, Kandi Alexander.  Excellent adaptation of rock superstar Tina Turner's autobiography, `I, Tina' depicting the struggles, triumphs and redemption of her life.  Powerhouse Oscar nominated performances by Bassett and Fishburne as the nefarious Ike Turner.  Turner sings herself on all the songs performed.   "},{"Title":"Laurence Fishburne as Ike Turner","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":"  Although presented as a tv movie, Laurence Fishburne was notable in his interpretation of Ike Turner. Angela Bassett who plays Tina Turner added Fishburne amongst her leading men alongside Denzel Washington in 'Malcolm X'. "},{"Title":"Too Few Shades of Grey","Date":"1 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Recent years have seen a number of pop star biopics, such as Ray, Walk the Line and Dreamgirls, a fictionalised version of the story of Diana Ross and the Supremes. (I understand that a life of Marvin Gaye is to come in the near future). What's Love Got to Do with It, based on Tina Turner's autobiography, was one of the earliest in this genre.Ray and Walk the Line both laid considerable emphasis on their subjects' early years. Like Ray Charles and Johnny Cash, Anna Mae Bullock (Tina's real name) was born in America's Deep South in the 1930s and grew up in poverty. Her birthplace, Nutbush, Tennessee, was later immortalised in her song Nutbush City Limits. (Her promotion of this small village to city status was presumably a piece of sardonic humour). The film does not, however, dwell on her childhood at any length, although there is one scene in which the young Anna Mae is thrown out of her local church choir for singing with too much fervour. (Ironically, she was later to renounce Christianity in favour of Buddhism, and this is dealt with in the film, although we are left with the misleading impression that the Buddhist religion consists of little more than the attainment of inner peace through the repeated chanting of a phrase in a foreign language).There is a convention, observed by most showbiz biographies, that success doesn't come easily. The star must be shown battling against internal demons or external forces which hinder his or her rise to the top and then threaten to destroy his or her career. This convention may be something of a clich, yet it is often a necessary one, needed to give dramatic force to narratives that might otherwise be bland and uninteresting. It is for this reason that I found the Jennifer Lopez film Selena vaguely unsatisfactory. Selena Quintanilla-Perez seemed to achieve success as easily as breathing and, as portrayed by Lopez, was so innocent and wholesome that the concept of internal demons was entirely foreign to her. Her murder in the final scenes- even though this is what happened to the real Selena- seemed like an ending tacked on from some entirely different movie.In this film the threat to Tina is not an internal demon but an external one, in the shape of her husband, mentor, and performing partner, Ike, The film concentrates largely on the first two decades of Tina's career, and especially on her marriage. Yet, in the early part of the film, Ike is not the villain of the piece. In the 1950s he was an established star in his own right, and the film describes how he met Anna Mae while she was living in St Louis in the late fifties, how he became first her lover, then her husband and how created her career as a performer. They were to win fame in the sixties as a husband-and-wife double-act, Ike and Tina Turner. (Ike suggested that she take Tina as her stage name).As the film progresses, however, it becomes clear that Ike is an unstable personality with an uncontrollable temper, subject to fits of rage in which he abuses Tina both verbally and physically. Although he created her as a performer, he comes close to destroying her as a person. Eventually, after fifteen years Tina has had enough, and the marriage ends in divorce. The title is taken from another of her well-known songs, although it might also be taken as her comment on her marriage. What had love got to do with the way Ike treated her? The last part of the film deals with Tina's attempts to make a new career as a solo performer, but overlooks her long-standing relationship with her German partner Erwin Bach. Hollywood is often uncomfortable with the idea of mixed-race relationships, even real-life ones.Angela Bassett was very good at conveying the raw energy and sexual power of Tina's stage performances, although it is Tina's voice that we actually hear. I was, however, less impressed by her interpretation of the role in the rest of the film and was surprised that she was nominated for an Oscar, especially as there were some deserving performances that were overlooked (notably Michelle Pfeiffer in The Age of Innocence). Bassett's Tina, away from the stage or the recording studio, came across as too passive and willing to submit to Ike's demands, as well as a bit too saintly.Laurence Fishburne was better, bringing out both the Jekyll and the Hyde in Ike's character, both his charisma and his violent fury, although the film perhaps does not explain why their marriage should have lasted for so long. The film may have been based upon Tina's autobiography, but autobiographies are not always the most reliable sources of information, and this reliance on a single, partial, source means that What's Love Got to Do with It, although a very watchable and at times powerful drama, ends up rather unbalanced, with too many black and white distinctions and too few shades of grey. 6/10 "},{"Title":"Great Performer, Good PC Heroine","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"12 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Biography, Drama, Music","Review":" Wow, what a great story to promote Liberal and political correctness! Here were can make a hero out of a woman - even better a black woman - and make a man look terrible and promote Buddism at the same time while taking shots at Christianity. This has every filmmaker's leftist agenda, all rolled into one movie. Great!Rock superstar Tina Turner (played well by Angela Bassett) is the subject in the biography, which is still interesting despite the obvious agenda in certain areas. It's nicely photographed and has wonderful music. The story is interesting and tolerable except when Tina's husband Ike (Laurence Fishburne) gets abusive. Wife-beating is too ugly to enjoy watching. On a personal note Tina Turner will go down in history as one of the all-time greatest live rock performers ever. Her shows were fantastic and for her to be out there dancing at 60 years of age was remarkable. "}]