[{"Title":"Kids, Dinosaurs, a Parade...It just can't lose!","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  The basic plot Four dinosaurs (made more intelligent by a kindly scientist) are given the chance to delight children by coming into the future to live with Dr. Bleeb at the Museum of Natural History.Why it works Kids love dinosaurs (especially big cuddly talking ones that sound like John Goodman), kindly scientists, time travel, and (when given the chance) Natural History.The animation is good quality, the basic premise is fun, the music (with a surprise by Thomas Dolby) is good and well placed (no one bursting into an annoying song every 30 seconds) and the voice talents are wonderful, featuring well known actors such as Martin Short and Rhea Perlman, voices we know from elsewhere--Walter Cronkite and Julia Child, and veteran Voicers Yeardley Smith (the unsinkable Lisa Simpson) and the remarkable Charles Fleischer (Roger Rabbit).Some characters needed a little more character...a little more explanation (such as Professor Screweyes--who went mad and turned evil because he lost his eye--??).  But hey, this is a kids' movie, right?  Let it slide.Will kids' like it? Absolutely.  And the adults?  Relax and have a good time, and try not to think too much. "},{"Title":"This Brought me back","Date":"6 February 2005","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When I was a kid, I loved dinosaurs. Jurrasic Park, The Land Before Time, (the original, not the crappy umpteen sequels), and We're Back especially were my favorite movies.Now when I look at it again, I see that the movie's plot made no sense, the characters were stereotypical, and that it was sappy at the end.But as a kid, I didn't care. What could be cooler than a singing tyrannosaurus(with the exception of Barney)? I didn't care if the plot made no sense to an adult because it made perfect sense to me. I never wondered why Rex didn't know what lunch was but instantly knew the tune of Row your boat. I didn't see the average example of unhappy children and a villain that was one sided and overly symbolic. I saw some cool kids and a crazy scary guy with a screw for an eyeball that somehow had magical powers.Because that's what this movie was and is a children's movie. And somehow in all the critic reviews and hype and over analyzation of movies in general, I forgot what it was like to watch a movie as a kid and to just enjoy it regardless of plot and characters.I get the same feeling from watching old Saturday morning cartoons. They were stupid, and the plots were ridiculous, but I loved them. Bring on the genetic mutants who know kung-fu and fight crime! Throw in a few aliens and you've got a good thing to eat sugary cereal to! Anyway, I guess the real reason I wrote this review was to perhaps remind people to simplify their lives from time to time, and quit over-analyzing. You enjoy more that way. "},{"Title":"Wow, what is with the low rating? This was a good movie!","Date":"2 November 2009","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I do try not to take IMDb ratings to heart, but I was flabbergasted when I saw the 5.4 rating to one of my childhood favourites. It doesn't wow me as much at 17, but as a family film this is a sweet and well meaning movie. Kids will definitely love it and won't mind the flaws, and the adults can guess the actor behind each character and admire the subliminal messaging of the film. None of the film was preachy in any way, in fact it has a great message that added to its sweetness. I will admit though that the story is on the thin side, and some scenes like Screweyes's death(which still freaks me out) may be a tad on the scary side. But the animation is well above average with nice colours and good character animation. The music by James Horner is very beautiful, and the song featured is memorable, catchy and amusing. I really liked the characters, Louie is probably the most in-depth of them all, but the dinosaurs were at least engaging. Martin Short's clown was both hilarious and emphatic, the part when he tells Screweyes I quit! had me in stitches. My favourite is Screweyes though, an effective villain who is crafty and I suppose intelligent. If anything though, I wish the film kept in the part when he explains how he lost his eye and why he is scared of crows because that way he could've been more developed in terms of depth. The script, while not Oscar-worthy, has its funny and heart-warming parts, and should keep kids and adults entertained. The voice acting for me was what made the movie. John Goodman, Martin Short, Rhea Perlman, Felicity Kendall and Yeardley Smith all gave solid performances, but special mention has to go to Kenneth Mars for he was absolutely superb as Screweyes and almost unrecognisable. All in all, this is a good movie. I don't get the rating, honestly I don't. Sure this film isn't perfect, and it is not as good as a dinosaur movie such as Land Before Time, but it is good fun. 7.5/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Silly and cute, but nothing else.","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" How ironic it is that in 1993, two dinosaur pictures courtesy of Steven Spielberg would hit the theaters. One of them was a runaway box-office hit, the live-action spectacular JURASSIC PARK; the other was WE'RE BACK! A DINOSAUR'S STORY, which came and went without much fanfare. An animated film from Spielberg's London-based Amblimation Studios (AN American TAIL FIEVEL GOES WEST and the underrated BALTO), WE'RE BACK has been dubbed as a sort of Jurassic Park, Jr. Actually, that might be a bit inaccurate, for while there is one not so subtle reference to the Spielberg monster hit (a marquee theater advertising the movie), this film has none of the visceral, nail-biting scares of JURASSIC PARK. As it is a kid's movie, one shouldn't expect too much.Even so, this dinosaur's story is a bit of a curious creation. Based on a children's book by author Hudson Talbott, the movie involves a quartet of prehistoric giants who are taken aboard the spaceship of an elderly time-traveler, Captain NewEyes. The foursome is treated to some sort of cereal that transforms them from vicious but dumb monsters into talking creatures with human qualities (think Barney and his friends). Before long, the four dinosaurs--with the names of Rex, Elsa, Dweeb, and Woog--are whisked to modern day New York City where they meet two children tough-talking (but secretly soft-hearted) Louie and a neglected cutie named Cecilia, both of who are running away from home. Together with their new pals, the dinosaurs crash the Thanksgiving Parade (which involves a very silly song-and-dance number), escape the police, and get sidetracked by the evil owner of a fright-show circus (NewEyes' brother ScrewEyes)... all before arriving at their destination, the Museum of Natural History, where the dinosaurs are to become real-life talking exhibits for many children.The plot, such as it is, is pretty wishy-washy, and the routine execution barely elevates WE'RE BACK above anything but your typical, average kids animated fare. The animation itself is mostly serviceable and includes some interesting computer-generated effects, but it's not up to Disney quality... and at times I felt that there were some frames stolen from a more superior animated film about dinosaurs, Don Bluth's THE LAND BEFORE TIME. John Patrick Shanley's screenplay has few lines to appeal to older viewers, much less a plethora of characters one are likely to remember. The four dinosaurs, for instance, are your typical talking animals that, while cuddly and likable, never develop into fully realized personalities, and their supporting co-stars don't get much to do either.Probably the only character who does show any depth is Louie, the freckle-faced street kid. When we first meet Louie he acts pretty fresh and self-centered; but as the movie develops, his more soft qualities shine through, whether he saves Rex from drowning or befriending Cecilia to cheer her up. He even admits, in a tearful sequence, how he uses his tough demeanor to hide his own fear. If anything, it's really Louie who steals the movie and makes it worthwhile. His relationship with Cecilia (who is less well-defined than Louie, but that's irrelevant) although more romantic than it has to be, is very nicely handled and is the highest point of the film. (The moments where Cecilia flirts with Louie are quite funny.) Equally pleasing is the characterization of Professor ScrewEyes, the villain of the piece. He only shows up in the second half of the picture, but commands his screen-time with devious manipulation and pure nastiness. In addition, his demeanor of tapping into people's nightmares and a hypnotic stare render him a menace to be feared. ScrewEyes may be a bizarre baddie, but he works all the same.That leads to another problem of WE'RE BACK. The first half is lighthearted (and outrageously unbelievable) silliness, but midway through the picture becomes dark--particularly the scenes involving ScrewEyes' fright-show circus, which are executed in a way that may be too intense for small fry. This unbalanced shift in tone calls the film's target audience into question. Kids in the 5-12 age group should be fine, but older viewers expecting more may find it to be too silly and uninspired. And the very young, too, could be traumatized by the aforementioned scary scenes.And yet, in spite of saying all this, there is something rather likable about WE'RE BACK--A DINOSAUR'S STORY. Its plot is outrageous, sure, and the movie is little more than just a cute, forgettable time-passer. But it has its heart in the right place, and there are some tender moments--one sequence, in which Rex and company make the ultimate sacrifice to save Louie and Cecilia from eternal life as chimps in ScrewEyes' circus, is genuinely moving, especially when Rex's gentle touch reverts the kids to normal. This is done in a very subtle, effective way that stayed with me for a long while. The voice cast includes some solid performances, too, notably John Goodman as the gruff yet gentle Rex, Walter Cronkite as Captain NewEyes (and yes, he says his trademark that's the way it is toward the end), and Martin Short in a cameo as a comic clown. The standouts are Joey Shea, who sizzles with attitude and likability as Louie, and Kenneth Mars (Triton in THE LITTLE MERMAID and Grandpa Longneck in the LAND BEFORE TIME sequels), chewing the scenery as the fearsome ScrewEyes. Yeardley Smith's Cecilia is the one voice I take issue with--she doesn't exactly sound like a young girl, and most of the other voices--Jay Leno, Rhea Perlman, Charles Fleischer, and Julia Child--all seem to be just in the movie for the sake of, well, being there. The musical score by James Horner is beautiful, although at times it does sound like a rehash of many of his other scores (a trait not uncommon with most of the composer's work, it seems).In short, WE'RE BACK is passable fare as a family animated film; it's cute and funny, but that's about it. "},{"Title":"I really wish they hadn't come back","Date":"26 August 2013","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" With the family friendly dinosaurs and story, it is hard to not see the connection between this film and the classic film, The Land Before Time. The difference between the two is that this film has no good qualities, the characters are stupid and boring, and the premise that lacks all logic--and I'm not talking about the cereal that makes the dinosaurs smart, the fact that there is time travel, or the fact that there is a circus dedicated to scaring people.The film opens up with a bird who is being picked on by his siblings and decides to leave the nest. As he flies away, he is picked up by Rex, a Tyrannosaurus Rex that was one of four dinosaurs brought from the past to the present. The bird tells Rex his plans to join the circus, leaving Rex to tell the bird the story of a boy he knew who joined the circus. We flashback to when Rex was a monster and is given the cereal that makes him smart. With that, he is brought aboard a space ship where he meets a Triceratops, a Pterodactyl, and a Parasaurolophus, three other dinosaurs who have been given the cereal and become smart. They learn that Professor New Eyes has chosen them to go to the future so they can make children's wishes come true.With this, the film starts it decline. The first thing to go in the movie are the logistics. There are herbivores eating hot dogs and when we get to New York, it just gets worse. The dinosaurs are in a parade and to show the children that they are real, Rex breaks into song and dance, singing one of the worst and most awkward songs I have ever heard. So, instead of this making everyone believe that they are fake, suddenly everyone realizes they are real and run away. What...? Later on, Professor New Eye's brother, Professor Screweyes, is eaten by his crows somehow. Now, I know in films you need to push your imagination but the film should still be logical in its own universe.Next, every character in this film is either stupid, unlikable, or both. In fact, the only character who is even remotely likable is the main antagonist, Dr. Screweyes. This is bad as the writers have spent tons of time basically throwing at the audience that you should like the dinosaurs and the kids and hate Screweyes and the complete opposite sort of happens.The film has two elements to it, dumb and awkward. Everything dealing with Cecilia is awkward, complete with terrible acting (a real shame as she is played by Yeardley Smith (Lisa Simpson)). Then, everything else is dumb from the characters, to the premise, to the story, to the minor elements of the story.This family film is awful. Completely awful. Boring characters, a dumb story and premise, character motivations that are cliché, awkward dialog, and it forces the audience to have to throw away all logic to enjoy this film. That is, to me, one of the worst things a film can do and I find it no surprise I find the film to be this bad. "},{"Title":"Young kids will be happy sitting through for a soild hour and a half,  if they get tired of Barney the dinosaur.","Date":"18 August 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Did you ever see the movie Jurassic Park? that's right that action packed movie by Steven Spielberg, the movie that gave us some impressive CGI and really awesome dinosaurs. But much like the Ying and the Yang for every good movie that existed there's always going to be a bad one, this one, Were Back! A terribly stupid Dinosaur Story!I mean why? why would Spielberg make a movie that's the opposite to a really good movie? In fact why would big named actors like John Goodman, Jay Leno, Martian Short, and Kenneth Mars would sign on to something this ambitious? Well here's are the problems of this movie &#x95; The story looks like a something a second grader would write for his class, for example; this scientist named Twoeyes and his alien assistance gather some fierce and realistic dinosaurs and feed them some Brain Grain, cereal that makes them smarter and unrealistic and cartoony you see Twoeyes want to use the dinosaurs to for fill kids wishes that wish to seeing real Dinosaurs (yeah I beat they won't wish for some better, no stopping war, no stopping terrorism, no stoping racism, no peace around the world, JUST HARMLESS DINOSAURS!).&#x95; The song that John Goodman's character sings is AWFUL, and can't you believe that James Horner, the guy who did the score to Titanic, has written this song?!? &#x95; Do you think that some of the s scary moments are to scary for kids even a morbid death scene towards the end, why is this film even gotten a G-rating? Even the death scene in Cars 2 looks more G-rated than this morbid and creepy death scene, they only show it off screen! &#x95; what is up with the expression, Let no bad happen!.in conclusion, if your interested to view a bad, I would pick seeing this one once. "},{"Title":"Positively Idiotic and Ridiculous","Date":"16 June 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Come on, John Goodman! You were the guy who starred in timeless masterpieces such as Roseanne and Monsters Inc. Why did you have to appear in a bad kid's movie like this?! Et tu, Charles Fleischer(Known for voicing Roger Rabbit in Who Framed Roger Rabbit)?! Et tu?! Okay, I'll admit that the animation was nice, but I have a funny feeling about the characters. What other character could be more annoying than a flying Marvin the Martian wannabe or the girl who sounds like Lisa Simpson from the Simpsons(It's true! You can tell by the voice!)? The parade scene has made no sense and neither does the scene with the clown entertaining the children. The plot, oh yes, the plot! Do you ever wonder why a scientist brought dinosaurs from prehistory and took them into the present?! He could've messed up the time-space continuum! The script is absolutely abysmal. Let no bad happen? What are you, two years old?! Who's the idiot who approved that line let no bad happen?! This is a combination of Jurrasic Park on crystal meth, the Land Before Time on crack cocaine, Dexter's Laboratory on dope, Dumbo on marijuana, and Back to the Future on steroids! I've got four syllables for this movie RI-DI-CU-LOUS! "},{"Title":"These animated features always get more interesting once I see who provided the voices.","Date":"28 April 2007","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I wouldn't call We're Back! A Dinosaur's Story simply a kiddie version of Jurassic Park. I found it more interesting than that. Like the former, it calls into question the security of bringing beings from one era into ours. But it really opens my eyes when I see who provided the voices John Goodman, Rhea Perlman, Jay Leno, Walter Cronkite, Julia Child, Kenneth Mars, Yeardley Smith, Martin Short and Larry King. To paraphrase that a given actor, the Cheers woman, the Tonight Show host, the Most Trusted Name In News, a famous chef, the Young Frankenstein police chief, Lisa Simpson, one of the Three Amigos and the CNN guy.But I guess that I shouldn't focus only on the cast. I thought that this movie had something for both children (purely fun) and adults (natural history). True, it's escapism, but the perceptive kind. I would actually say that John Goodman doing Rex's voice here is sort of a precursor to his voice work in Monsters Inc. Worth seeing. "},{"Title":"i still love it!","Date":"7 January 2007","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" this was a personal favorite of mine when i was young, it had everything that was great with 90's kids movies... lovable dinosaurs, cute kids, an eccentric villain, and a few great songs (and not the typical little mermaid/beauty and the beast type songs, but ones that are atually entertaining)! i ran into this movie again recently and i still love it as much as ever! i recommend that everyone of every age should see this movie, and i definitely think that it should be introduced to the younger generations! sorry not the most informative, i'm in kinda a rush... just please, trust me. all who go against this movie are killing their inner child! "},{"Title":"A kids Jurassic Park","Date":"8 March 1999","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This quite simply is a kids Jurassic Park.  The jolting scares are gone, the computer/robot/live action is gone, and the story is whittled down to cartoon caliber.  In this aspect the movie is OK.  It is enjoyable for kids and watchable for adults.  Voice talents include people of Simpsons, Cheers, and talkshow fame.  The story-line is ok too (of fairy-tale/bed-time story calibre).  The animation is nothing spectacular and is not on the Disney level, but that is not this movie's goal.  The goal is to bring the world of Jurassic Park and of Dinosaurs to a young audience in a well made fashion. In this case We're Back a Dinosaur Story succeeds where other movies; which tried to jump on the Jurassic Pack media bandwagon, like the Carnosaur (goar) series, failed.   "}{"Title":"Back with a New York slog","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I just can't see anyone over five truly enjoying Phil Nibbelink and Simon Wells' We're Back! A Dinosaur's Story simply on its own terms. It's a children's movie that works for nobody but little, little children. Even when they're five, by showing them this movie you could be pushing it. I've stood by my realization and claim that one of the contributing factors to a child's growth, development, and success is their imagination and experience to things other than what they're used to. What you find in this film could easily be substituted by a more ideal episode of PBS's Dragon Tales.The selling point (which also serves as the most surprising name on the project) is executive producer Steven Spielberg, who of course made the other dinosaur movie released in 1993 that deserves no introduction. It's baffling to the mind to think that Spielberg, whose dinosaur epic is now the quintessential motion picture about the ferocious beasts, would want his name stamped all over a kiddie flick with minimal heart and imagination. A better investment would've been to bet on Disney, whose pictures were sweeping up money at the box office like disposed trash. Hell, if he would've waited a few years, Pixar would've been on its way. And then Dreamworks.But what's done is done, and now we have a mediocre children's film on our hands, bearing the name of one of cinema's finest men. Our story revolves around an orange Tyrannosaurus Rex named Rex (voiced by John Goodman) and his dinosaur friends, who run into Louie (Joe Shea) when they are transported in time to present day New York City. Louie is a young boy, who is running away from home to join the circus and feels lonely and helpless in the world as both his parents have neglected him. He then meets Cecilia (voiced by Yeardley Smith - who voices Lisa Simpson on The Simpsons - explaining why her voice sounds like a blend of Lisa's and Cindy Brady's), another neglected soul, leaving Louie with a source of companionship and empathy. That's all well and good, until an evil circus owner (Martin Short) reveals his plans to kidnap the kids, leaving the dinosaurs as their only source of rescue.The plot alone makes this a very strange movie. Certainly not frightening to its target audience, but weird it definitely is, consistently giving us goofy situations, a laughable villain, and a repetitive strain of events before the ends credits roll. There's also a rather bleak color drawing style to the film that had me craving the likes of that polished, fluent Disney style. Certain images (like the character's themselves) seem to be over-colored, the color-palette itself is never consistent, and the cityscapes seem as lifeless as the dinosaurs themselves.And the final point of criticism is the length of the picture, further cementing the fact that We're Back! is as unsubstantial as it is. It credits itself at seventy-two minutes, when in reality, minus the credits (which are slowed down meticulously to try and pass for feature length) it's roughly sixty-five minutes, even making this an inconceivable TV special. The fact that thousands of parents had to nestle in their theater seats for a drab sixty-five minute affair makes me upset in ways just as inconceivable.We're Back! A Dinosaur's Story isn't detrimental to the intelligence of your children the way some franchise are, put it's not particularly vital either. It's a decidedly random film, featuring one modestly-catchy but forgettable song, repetitive events, lame characters, an archetypal villain, and blatantly obvious voice-acting. At least hearing Walter Cronkite will give the parents something to be entertained by.Voiced by John Goodman, Julia Child, Jay Leno, Martin Short, Walter Cronkite, Joey Shea, and Yeardley Smith. Directed by Phil Nibbelink and Simon Wells. "},{"Title":"not the best Animation but a good family movie","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" well I can't remember much of this film but saying it was good movie with some corny music and silly things but its still fun to watch the story is about Dinosaur who was became a human type dinosaur after meet eating beast and meets a boy who has problens in his life and helps him suit them out and they became best friends but are taken away by a evil mad person who trys to scare people and turns the dinosaur back into a real dinosaur and the boy turns his friend back to normal this story is charming really good to watch all in all its not the greatest Animation ever made because its a little bit short but its still good to watch so if are looking for rare this is one of them you must find I am not sure if it is on DVD we will so find out.I give this movie a 6.6 out of 10 just because its not awful but great as well its alright to me. "},{"Title":"Great kids movie, a little scary for the youngest crowd.","Date":"19 January 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I saw this when it first came to video, my little sister got it as a gift and I was probably 12 at the time... What stood out for me was the lack of mid-movie conflict that so many movies have, where the main characters get mad at each other because when it comes time to explain themselves they just don't say the one thing that you're shouting at the screen that would make sense of the whole deal, that any person of reasonable intellect would know to say. This is what I like the most about the movie I guess, that the main characters don't do mean things to each other halfway through... they don't break up and make up, they just grow to like each other more as the movie goes on.These two kids team up and though they seem at first to be from opposite sides of the track, they're not that different. Loui is actually just some middle class kid that needed to realize how lucky he was to have a loving family, and Cecelia was an upper class kid that just needed to prove to her family that she existed and they would miss her if she was gone. Anyway, I saw this movie posted on Hulu and had to watch it again... sure there's plot holes if you analyze the script and no, Woog and Dweeb shouldn't be eating hot dogs since they would have been herbivores in reality.Now, what detracts from the film is it's unexpected scariness. Little kids under the age of 5 would probably be frightened by the scenes with Dr. Screweyes. And, the addition of him halfway through the movie (though it's blatantly obvious in the first scene that he will make an appearance) is too abrupt... there should be a glimpse of him doing his show earlier in the movie, perhaps to show that it's not that scary without the the dinosaurs. I guess it just lacked any real present danger for the entire first half of the movie, so that it lacks a little continuity when he appears for the second half.Considering the target audience, who I'm sure can overlook the not so mind blowing animation and dialog issues... I think I'll give it a pass on those factors too, and just enjoy the story. It's a great flick for kid and it does stick in your mind... makes you kinda think about how you treat people and it should be revisited every 10 years I think. "},{"Title":"A fun dinosaur film","Date":"20 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I'm 17 and I am a fan of animated films. Today, I decided to watch We're Back! A Dinosaur's Story just for fun. I wasn't expecting much from this, but I enjoyed it.Four dinosaurs named Rex, Elsa, Dweeb and Woog are taken inside a time machine where they are feed Brain Cereal. This turns these ferocious reptiles into friendly, cuddly chaps and gives them the ability to talk. The time machine operator Captain Neweyes (wisely voiced by Walter Cronkite) informs the dinos that he has chosen them to be sent to the present day to fulfill kids wishes. Thats when they are dropped off in New York City.Yes, I found this plot a bit strange (it's based on a children's book) but it was fun enough to enjoy. This film has nicely done animation, the character drawings are good and James Horner's score is pleasant to listen to. I also liked the voices in the film. The dinosaurs were well casted with likings of John Goodman (Rex), Charles Fleischer (Dweeb), Rene LeVant (Woog) and Felicity Kendal (Elsa). They weren't too annoying either, which is a good thing.Still, I have to report a few negatives for We're Back!. About half way through the film, the theme suddenly changes from happy and colorful to a scary, dark perspective. I think kids might get a fright or two from this. Another minor problem is that I found it somewhat too short (72 minutes at most). It should have been a bit longer, but it's appropriate enough for a kids flick.With all that said, We're Back! is colorful, silly and has friendly dinosaurs, things children like. It may not be a masterpiece, but kids are going to enjoy this movie a lot if they can forgive the few scary scenes. B- "},{"Title":"its a great show for its animation great for a family show","Date":"8 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" its great i loved it ha cause i love dinosaurs they r the greatest animals but i loved the show cause it wasn't copied from another show and it was a originals ha it has a good storyline and great for little kids (if they like dinosaurs that is) i have a few downs too its not all that great cause of the dinosaurs look a little mutated so i should have had but a 7 but right now is a little late for that yay 4 more lines to go it is great for a fantasy show though warning this might spoil a part for u so if u don't want it to be spoiled don't read on plz near the end is kinda weird cause all they need to do is get dang i forgot what it was so nvm guess its not a spoiler so never mind i loved it and its my opinion and sorry for any missed spelled words if any "},{"Title":"cool cartoon","Date":"16 May 2000","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  This is a cool cartoon. The plot is good, and so is the characters. I watch this movie over and over again and never get tired of it. This is a movie anyone at any age can watch. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good cartoon movie.  "},{"Title":"Roll back the clock to the time when I was a kid!!","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" This film was absolutely amazing! I loved this movie as a kid, and I love it now as an adult. It has a mixture of everything! People are commenting on the plot being unable to make sense. If you really pay attention to the beginning credits you will see that this film is based on a children's book. For a kids movie this film made perfect sense! This movie has a mixture of fun, dinosaurs, action, fear, laughs, oh and a pretty clever musical number! This film is perfect for the whole family! The ending was pretty cheesy but it had a great message to kids! The only cautionary warning about this film is that there is a moment in the movie that is dedicated to ghosts, monsters, and really scary stuff to kids. Prepare your kids for a wild and fun adventure! The voices are perfect for the film as well! John Goodman does a phenomenal job ad the main role! And even Jay Leno voice is in this film! It's Jurassic Park for kids! "},{"Title":"Eh","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" We're Back! was one of my favorite books as a kid, and I'd already grown beyond the target audience when this movie finally came out; hence the reason it's taken me 22 years to get around to it (having a 5 year-old also makes a difference). My curiosity derives from how many changes were made from book to screen. Not a whole lot, but it's a different beast entirely. The art design is completely different, new characters and subplots to pad things out, etc. It's alright, not really my thing. But I do think it's kinda sweet that Spielberg put out another dinosaur movie in '93 better suited to little kids. It's nice.One thing that threw me this thing's got four directors. Is that a record? It just didn't seem like a ship that needed four captains.5/10 "},{"Title":"My hero","Date":"13 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I love the Movie We're back!a dinosaur's story! My favorite character is Rex. Don't mess with him, he got the groove. I'm a child at heart, so I enjoy this movie every time I watch it, even now when I'm a teenager. Rex is just one of my childhood heroes and I'm still watching them all. It is a great children's movie. I would definitely recommended it for parents to let their kids watch it. It teaches children that there are stronger feelings than fear, like friendship and love. Also the movie critics don't know a good movie or story when they see one. I can tell if a movie is good or not. I'll tell you this movie is one where kids will want to watch it over and over again! "},{"Title":"A Childhood Favorite.","Date":"25 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Okay, so as many of you have so eloquently stated, this is no The Land Before Time. You know why? The Land Before Time is a classic, it's my all-time favorite animated movie that still brings tears to my eyes. It's... legendary.This is a totally different movie with a totally different premise, so no, it's not like The Land Before Time because it's not supposed to be. The only thing that links the two is they both have animated dinosaurs that talk. This movie takes you on a fantastic ride through the wishes of children. This movie is all about seeing childhood wishes come true. And being so, yes, it's ridiculous and a bit beyond the realm of reason, but hey, what childhood fantasy IS logical? Good points about the movie The voice acting was wonderful and believable. I absolutely fell in love with Louie's character. He is adorable and the deepest character in the film. I love how he progresses in his character with the help of the dinosaurs (especially Rex) to not only get his wish for a friend but also find there is more to life than being a tough guy because the original tough guy chose the life of love and heart instead of teeth and claws. The sacrifice the dinosaurs made for the children was very heartwarming. Imagine basically giving up your sanity for a friend. Having a mental illness myself I can imagine that as someone forcing me to give up my medicine to save a friend and I can tell you it'd be a tough decision, a terrible one, but I'd do it in a heartbeat. Thinking of it that way, one cannot belittle that moment in the plot by saying this movie doesn't have a lot of heart. The animation was great but I would have preferred they kept the dinosaurs slightly more realistic when they entered the human world. They looked a lot like mushy balloons to me and as an artist and fan of animation I would have loved to see a film with a more realistic and anatomically substantial set of lovable, cuddly dinosaurs. I immensely enjoyed the scene where Rex shows how he started life as a monster. That part of the movie and that alone reminded me of the animation in The Land Before Time. It was excellently pulled off. And the other animation was great too but as I said, it had a saturday morning cartoon sort of feel rather than an animated movie. The dinosaurs were goofy in comparison to the animation given to the humans. And we can't talk about good things without mentioning Professor Screweyes. I love this villain very much. I wish his character had more development and that they had kept the deleted scene explaining his past. There were some issues I had with the parts of the movie with him in it but I'll get to that later. But I will say this, I will never forget the fear I had as a young child watching this villain. It was wonderful. Negative As mentioned earlier the friendly forms the dinosaurs took looked more like the goofy form to me. They could have been friendly and more anatomically correct. I would have loved to see Rex looking more like a friendly version of Sharptooth because I've always found these animals beautiful just the way they are. They took Rex's beauty.Also I do have a bone to pick with Screweyes and the whole premise of him being a villain. Captian Neweyes told the dinosaurs that Sreweyes was insane and evil right from the beginning. As a child I didn't understand Screweyes was a villain because he manipulated the kids and the dinosaurs. The moment I saw him, before he made the children sign the contract, I thought he was a villain just because he dealt with fear and that he scared people. That is the way a lot of people teach their children. Horror is evil. Exploring fear is evil. When it is not. I love horror, good creepypasta, and even write my own. This movie displays anyone who enjoys fear or dresses in a darker more alternative style as evil. Yes I know he IS evil and shows this later in the film but the first thing you get from the movie as proof of his evilness is that he runs a scary circus and prefers horror to comedy. There's nothing wrong with a good scare when it's under control. If he hadn't had his backstory deleted it would have made more sense as to why his scaring people is evil. It shows that he scares and manipulates people to feel in control of fear so that he isn't afraid of things himself. A very selfish reason for doing what he does. Without it he just seems like a horror buff for a while until the real bad things happen. Even Rex as a monster couldn't find a reason to eat the poor guy.Overall I love this movie. It will always be one of my childhood favorites and a great memory. It has heart, fear, childlike wonder, and even a tiny smidge of romance. It is short and yes, Screweyes will be horrifying to younger children but I watched it at 2, got a wonderful scare out of it and turned out fine. Sometimes watching the darker animated films from that time is good for kids. A more realistic take on the world than all the bubbly, happy nonsense our kids watch today. If your kids haven't seen it yet I say give it a try. "}{"Title":"A very weird and poor animated film","Date":"11 May 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" If you thought, The Land Before Time, was the only animated film with Dinosaurs, guess again. Because on Thanksgiving Day 1993, there was an animated film called, We're Back A Dinosaur's Story. The film was a box-office bomb and got a lot of negative reviews (Yes, Rober Ebert did a review of the film and he didn't like it).The animation in this film was very sloppy, the story and the plot were lame, I didn't care for any of the character's, and the movie was more of an acid trip.But I did like John Goodman and Walter Cronkite's voice acting and the song, Roll Back the Rock (To The Dawn Of Time).We're Back A Dinosaur's Story, is a lame animated film that is not worth watching at all. If you're looking for a good animated film with Dinosaur's in it, watch, The Land Before Time. "},{"Title":"Timeless","Date":"15 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Children from 6 months to 60 will love this tale of friendship and overcoming fear. From the first to the end of the movie it holds your interest. The characters are expressive and the animation is great. The story line is very good and keeps you interested all the way through no matter what age you are. Because of a kindly scientist the dinosaur's have evolved into creatures of intelligence. Then they hear the wishes of children to see dinosaurs. There is a little boy that believes in no one nor trust anyone and a little girl that has been abandon by her family. The kind scientist also has an evil brother that wants to do only evil. And that is how the friendship starts and by helping the dinosaurs the children learn a lot about themselves. The only problem is finding a new copy of it. Mine finally played out and it doesn't seem to be on DVD yet. "},{"Title":"Shows moral lesson and love","Date":"25 April 2004","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  First of all, this animation movie was great, I'm having fun while watching it. Next, I believe the movie showed me some good moral lessons to follow in life. That includes loving your family and care for others not just yourself. Third, in this film,making the dinosaurs good to humans was excellent. In addition, it showed that friendship cannot be broken by evil. Finally, the film was really children's choice because there are many things that we can learn from this. Including, showing compassion,love,respect, forgiveness and having faith on one another. In conclusion, the film deserves a rating of 10/10 because it was absolutely great and memorable.Thanks to the actors,performers,designers and writers who made this film possible Also, they did their best to make this an interesting film and that includes moral lessons. "},{"Title":"A somewhat charming, but strange animated feature.","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" After the huge success of Jurassic Park, Amblum Entertainment knew that making an animated movie about talking dinosaurs would certainly be a smash hit. Unfortunately, this movie only took in less than 10 million dollars in the USA, and got mostly poor reviews. I can see why the reviews were bad. This is a strange cartoon, and sometimes, for little kids (who this is geared towards), this can be really scary.With the scarce running time of 72 minutes, or 65 without end credits, this flick moves at a brisk speed. It has to introduce the protagonist kids, Louie, the street wise tough kid, with a soft side just dying to get out, and Elsa, the sweet little girl who sounds oddly similar to Lisa Simpson. The dinosaurs have to be introduced, including how they became smart and nice, and what they're doing in New York city, and who brought them there. It has to scare the little kids with the evil Dr. Screweyes, a circus ringmaster who has a screw for an eye (hence the name), and fears the dark. There's much more to the plot too, including a dinosaur circus, which might scare toddlers to death, and an amusing scene where the dinosaurs walk through a parade singing a catchy tune.The animation is quite good in this film, about as good as Disney animation was at the time. The characters are likable, including the dinosaurs, all voiced by television actors, led by John Goodman as Rex, the T-Rex. The story is strange, involving rival brothers, Captain Neweyes, and Professor Screweyes. Neweyes created a cereal to make the dinosaurs less realistic and more cartoony, and Screweyes invented a potion that reverses the effect, which works on any being (including humans). Like many cartoons, this is both corny and cheesy, and parents will be looking up at the ceiling or staring blankly elsewhere to avoid the effects of the corny writing. Kids won't care.Overall, this is an okay movie, but will scare little kids. Parents won't like it, because unlike Disney, Amblum is only catering to the little kids needs, not the parents.My rating ** 1/2 out of ****. 72 mins. G. "},{"Title":"Not good quality - but it's fun - especially for kids!","Date":"21 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" Genre Dinosaur, animation, New York, time travel, circus.?Main characters Rex the Tyrannosaurus rex, Elsa the pterodactyl, Dweeb the Parasarolophus, Ooo the Triceratops, a boy called Louis, a girl called Cecilia and Captain New-eyes. ? Actors John Goodman (Rex), Yeardley Smith (Cecilia), Martin Short (Stubbs the clown), Felicity Kendal (Elsa) etc.?What happens Four dinosaurs (see above) are fed some brain grain cereal and are now cuddly, friendly dinosaurs who are going to be nice to children. They go into New York, with big plans&#133;My thoughts This is a cute animated film. The animation of the dinosaurs when they go cuddly and friendly is a bit floppy and not-so-good, but they look pleasant all the same that way. I like the dinosaurs when they are cuddly and friendly, they are nice, friendly and good. I like (almost) all the characters featured, especially Elsa and Cecilia, but of course I like the others as well. Overall, I like this film a lot! -)Recommended to People who like good children's animated films, people who like dinosaurs, John Goodman and people who think that circuses aren't always what they seem&#133; Enjoy! -) "},{"Title":"Announcing the Great Lost Head Movie!","Date":"8 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  For the first half or so of this movie, we get the usual cartoon buisiness of some cute goofy dinosaurs befriending some annoying kids.  OK, whatever. Then the kids get lost in the park and the movie wanders into new and very weird territory.This is when we meet Dr. Screweyes.  He's an evil magician.  He runs a freak show.  He collects nightmares and enjoys showing them to his guests.  He is also the trippiest thing in a mainstream animated movie since Dumbo met the Pink Elephants.I would have loved to have been a fly on the wall when this movie was being conceived.  Gee, Steve, parents are thinking Jurassic Park is too scary (more on that in a sec)!  Let's make a dinosaur cartoon with an evil circus and nightmare scenes!  Unbelievable.So here comes the Gremlin's lil' rant on parents who think J. P. was too scary for kids.  The only scary parts they were worried about were of Dinosaurs Eating People and Smaller Dinosaurs. Come on! Kids LOVE that! If kids wrote all of the dinosaur movies ever made, the whole damn running time would be filled with Dinosaurs Eating Things! That's the whole selling point of a dinosaur movie! Sheesh! "},{"Title":"I disagree with anyone who dons't like this movie","Date":"22 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" I disagree with Anyone who done't like this movie. I used to LOVE this movie when I was little and I still do. It's sweet, funny and warms your heart. And It proves that love and friendship can never be destroyed. And even though it didn't have much of a story, it was still excellent I give it a 10 and two thumbs up. Oh yeah and it proves that your deepest wish's and dreams can come true. (Tear, tear)I love this movie, personally if anyone says it sucked than I will say Shame on you. Because it was a delightful little movie and I'm glad that at least SOME people liked it. "},{"Title":"Jeez. Another stupid movie.","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Children love dinosaurs. It's somewhat part of their culture. But they've got The Land Before Time. The original. At least that movie had heart. This. This movie is just plain pathetic. Just because kids love dinosaurs doesn't mean you can just slap together any old story and show it to the children. This movie has no plot, the whole premise is stupid, and it's more by the numbers stuff. Not as soul sucking as Theodore Rex, but it's lightyears away from being a Land Before Time. "},{"Title":"This animated crap makes no sense at all","Date":"6 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" We have reached the ceiling of implausibility with this movie. Basically, Dinosaurs come aboard this ship piloted by some weird old fart named Neweyes(which I needed after I watched this movie). Apparently, Neweyes hears the wishes of children everywhere and decides that he should grant the wish of children that Dinosaurs be brought into modern times to be seen by everybody for shameless exploitation. The dinosaurs eat this stuff that makes them smarter(Too bad the screenwriters didn't have it). By the way, does it seem weird that out of ALL the wishes of the children in the world, Neweyes grants the wish of bringing Dinosaurs to modern times? Why not grant the wishes of kids to stop famine? Disease? War? I mean come on! Doesn't Neweyes have anything better to do with all this power he has??? Finally, when the Dinosaurs get to modern times they start singing, dancing and wrecking havoc(basically the kind of thing you might see on a bad LSD trip, I mean where else could you see a T-Rex playing golf and jumping on a balloon of Spider-man?). They end up in the circus and Neweyes Brother Screweyes(???) makes the kids that have befriended the dinosaurs sign a blank contract. Why? Why would kids sign a blank contract??? Screweyes says that if the dinosaurs take some...Brain-Drain That he will let the children go. The dinosaurs instead of tearing apart the evil Screweyes limb from limb, give in and agree to his terms. What?! This is stupid! They could have just menaced him, made him drop the contract, eaten it then walked off with the kids. I think the filmmakers were trying to show that violence is bad, which is a moot point when finally the dinosaurs escape and a bunch of crows envelop Screweyes and apparently completely eat him. Oh yeah, that's not violent at all! We're back makes no sense, it's not fun, it's goofy, it's stupid, poorly written and contains some of the biggest plot holes ever committed to film. Even for a kid's film... this is BAD. "},{"Title":"****.5,4.5 out of 5 stars,For those who got a little tired with all the Jurassic Park fame,not just for kids.","Date":"30 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":"  Don't be too fooled by the Alt.title it's still well a kids film,anyway although it's been seen as a G-rated version of Jurassic park I found it very enjoyable not just for kids but well for adults,the animation is well good,the storyline places itself in well,the relationship between Louie & Cecilia is well rather interesting,although my problems are that like many other Don Bluth films it gets a little frightening for the little ones later on(Professor Screweyes Circus),so basically not only this is a good kids film it's also a good film for people that thought Jurassic Park was something to pacify dino-fans. "}{"Title":"An Animated Masterpiece from Steven Spielberg","Date":"31 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" People expect no less than brilliant when Steven Spielberg directs a movie, and this movie is no exception. Some movies I love did poorly at the box office but, I'm glad to say, this movie isn't one of them (over nine million dollars, which I don't think was bad for back then). The characters were fun, the animation was clear and not fuzzy, and the music was modern, too, which is unusual for an animated movie. I didn't think Professor Screw Eyes or his Scary Cirus was too scary for little kids (the targeted audience for this movie), but I thought what happened to the creepy professor at the end was a little too dark for a kids' movie. Overall, this movie is a fun and enchanting classic that I have loved dearly for years. "},{"Title":"We're Back! A Dinosaur's Story","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Family","Review":" When I was a kid, I remember watching this while visiting a friend of our Uncle Phil. We're Back! A Dinosaur's Story is a silly cartoon about a dinosaur called Rex (voiced by the wonderful John Goodman). He tells a little boy dinosaur the story about how the dinosaurs came back to Earth to live. He explains that he was part of the thing that brought them back, along with some friends. The Doctor/Professor villain of this film I think might have been responsible for them being them back, but I don't care about him. The kids might like this, but personally it is just too cheesy. John Goodman was probably the only decent thing. Poor! "}]