[{"Title":"Give It A Chance","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"52 out of 60 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I'd be lying if I didn't admit this is yet another patterned Bruce Willis flick. The kind where he plays the hard boiled cop with a colorful past, but I gave it a chance. This one finds Willis as Tom Hardy. A cop from a family of cops and things aren't going too well. First off, he's just ratted out his violent partner (Robert Pastorelli) at an official police inquiry and that doesn't win him any fans in the department. Then his depressed former partner jumps off a bridge killing himself. What a load to carry. All of the while there's this killer on the loose and when his father is murdered by him, he lets it be known he thinks the killer is a cop and suddenly he's reassigned to River Patrol.This movie succeeds on a basic level -- it's entertaining. Sure the story is loose and the film's surprises are somewhat stale, but it's all in good fun. Willis gets to look aptly serious and hunt for the killer on the waters and there's just enough suspense to sustain interest and the minor twists of the story keep things at a good pace. Meanwhile the rounded supporting cast keeps things lively and keeps the viewer going, Where have I seen him before? or Hey that's such and such.I've read on here how people think this is stupid, dumb and lacks any suspense or thrills. Like any of the Die Hard movies had exceptionally smart stories, you didn't know what was gonna happen next or how it would all end. Of course not. For a entry level Bruce Willis flick, this one satisfies. Now if only I could get the Little Red Riding Hood Song out of my mind...! "},{"Title":"Not Your Ordinary Action Film, Very Underrated","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"36 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  More than any film I can remember in a long time, I have never understood why this film hasn't gotten higher ratings than it has. The plot, while not ingenious (and even somewhat predictable) is still exciting and will keep you engrossed.The film's creators get a lot of points in my book for locale creativity. Instead of setting the film in some predictable location such as New York, Los Angeles, Miami or San Francisco they set it in Pittsburgh, PA, definitely not your ordinary movie location. It's one that adds a wonderful freshness to the movie however.The location shooting is outstanding. The scenery is different and excellent, the photography is great, even spectacular in places and the action is on a par with some of the best action films ever, including Bullitt. Who would normally think to expect extensive boating and water action in a state as synonymous with mountains as Pennsylvania is? That alone is worth taking a look at this movie.I do not usually care much for Bruce Willis. I thought he was very well cast in this movie however and Sara Jessica Parker added extra special chemistry. The cast is much better than average overall and includes such outstanding actors as Andre Braugher, of the outstanding tv series Homicide. I thought that the casting in general, as well as the photography, location and action very adequately made up for any possible deficiencies in the plot itself.I would warn that there is extensive foul language in this film, more than is necessary even for a film of this genre in my opinion and probably it's biggest drawback. I would still say that the film is well worth watching when your in the mood for some escapist fun and action fare. As I said earlier, I think the film deserves higher ratings than it's gotten so far. I've watched it twice now (it was just as good the second time, in fact even better) and that definitely won't be the last time I watch it.  "},{"Title":"A good Bruce Willis movie","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"35 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I don't understand why this film is so over-looked. It has pretty everything fans of Bruce Willis would want. He is a cop, not liked by his fellow officers, and he is on a murder case where no one believes what he has to say. There is action, swearing, one liners, and even some sex. Bruce doesn't usually have that in his films, maybe that is what threw people off. Just Kidding.By all means, this is no masterpiece, but it is an entertaining mystery with an AWESOME car chase. One of the best. Bruce Willis fans should definitely check this movie out. It is pure Bruce and without him the lone cop story wouldn't work as well nor be as credible as it is because of him. 8/10Rated R violence and profanity "},{"Title":"Nice and suspenseful","Date":"16 August 1999","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I caught this one on TV at about midnight, and I wasn't planning to see more than five minutes of it. I did (why would I write this comment if I didn't) and it kept my interest through the whole film. Bruce Willis and Sarah Jessica Parker were excellent together and the supporting cast was also outstanding.Director Rowdy Herrington also brought us the awful A Murder of Crows (1999), but he didn't ruin this one, even if it did get a little far-fetched in places. An interesting plot line, and Willis is believable in his role.+ (GOOD THINGS)  1.) Direction  2.) Chemistry between Willis and Parker 3.) Ending (unlike everyone else, I didn't see it coming) 4.) Length 5.) The score  6.) John Mahoney's performance- (BAD THINGS)  1.) Believability  2.) The script (uneven in places)TOTAL  7/10 "},{"Title":"Starts off okay then heads straight downhill","Date":"30 July 2000","Score":"22 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I took a chance on this one on a slow night and wish I hadn't bothered. It started off with some promise and atmosphere, and includes a pretty good car chase early on. However, it then starts throwing bad cliches that you've already seen 100 times in all over the place. The troubled cop is haunted by a past incident and is now a detached loner who drinks far too much. Gee, how many times have we seen that before? Making matters worse, the final 30 minutes become so implausible, ridiculous, and insulting to the audience's intelligence, I found myself yelling insults at the director and producer for their complete and utter lack of imagination.In short, do yourself a favor and pass on this one. There's bound to be something better to do or watch even on the slowest of nights. If you are tempted to take a peek due to the presence of Bruce Willis or because you like serial killer films in general, do so at your own risk, but don't say you weren't warned! "},{"Title":"Two key cast members make this movie","Date":"17 November 2007","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Great support cast. Dialogue between Farina & Willis is as real as it gets. Irish vs Italian is always interesting. Needed more of those scenes. Some cliché movie lines but storyline hides the cheese. Location, Location, Location. All things being equal, I'd rather be in Philadelphia (right Willis from Die Hard). I prefer Philly movies, but Pittsburgh is a great setting. Not NY. Not LA. I'll take it and it works. Every other profession has been glammed up by Hollywood so river police was a refreshing change. Getting back to the cast, most of them are interchangeable with other actors. But there is no substitute for Dennis Farina as tough cop. He ad libs in his own way as well as Hackman & Matthau. If he's a non-smoker in real life, he should have won an Oscar for this role. This is one of those movies where the pre-quels would be just as action packed. Yeah I know the Episode IV thing has been done before in a galaxy far far away. But these characters would be interesting in their younger years. "},{"Title":"cool movie Bruce!","Date":"28 August 2007","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Actually watched this on a bus ride home. Found myself entertained for once! Bruce Willis plays good cop Tom Hardy, who's convinced the police killed his dad and framed some poor sap. He opens his big mouth too often and they demote him to river duty! Tom is still on the job and now he's partnered with sexy diver Jo (Sarah Jessica Parker). They keep finding dead women and Tom realizes the killer is toying with him!Tom and Jo hook up, and I actually found their romance quite charming, has SJP ever been bad in anything? She's a really good actress and looks great in this, and try to actually solve the murders, which angers his uncle, played by the underrated Dennis Farina. Even the chief, a ogre of a cop played by the terrific late character actor Brion James, just wants Tom to stay quiet. His cousin Jimmy, I couldn't believe that was Robert Pastorelli, the guy from Murphy Brown he was totally dissolved into the part, just seems like a wise-ass, but watch him.The film is well paced and nicely shot, I liked that the Ohio river seemed smelly like in real life. Willis actually bothers to act here, though I understand he didn't like the film, and you won't see the killer coming. Striking Distance is a good action flick, with an excellent cast. Its rated R for profanity and violence. "},{"Title":"Yes, This Has Been Done, But It Is NOT As Bad As Critics Say!","Date":"31 May 2007","Score":"10 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A cop receives phone calls wherein he hears the murders of young women perpetrated by a wily serial killer. Okay, the premise is not new. It is a bit reminiscent of the Zodiac killer, but only a bit. The truth is, only a big star like Willis could pull this one out of the $1 bin and set it upon the eye-level shelves. Fortunately, Willis and Sarah Jessica Parker manage to do just that.This film is highly underrated and under-appreciated, and wrongly so. The performances by even the supporting cast (actors who are known for lesser films and lesser performances) are wonderful. No, I'm not trying to say this film is Oscar-worthy, but it IS highly entertaining. It properly generates atmosphere, and delivers upon generation.All in all? I found this work entertaining and enjoyable.It rates an 8.3/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"At the end of the day it's entertaining","Date":"2 August 2014","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I'm not going to say it's original, because it isn't. I'm not going to say it's unpredictable, because it isn't. I am going to say that it was enjoyable.Sure the whole maverick, womanising cop with a bit of an alcohol problem thing is fairly worn out, but still, it works. Truth be told I actually guessed who the killer was before the end- it was a little obvious. The only real shock was when it was revealed that Sarah Jessica Parker was actually working undercover to 'spy on' Bruce Willis (there was certainly a lot to spy on in some scenes, if you know what I'm saying). I did say that it wasn't very original. It is in fact stereotypical Bruce Willis. At the same time, however, there is a certain timelessness to stereotypical Bruce Willis films. The one-liners never get annoying, the action is never not exciting, the swearing is never nonexistent and the nudity is always manageable but yet somewhat awkward for a teenager such as myself. It was well-acted, well-shot and a perfectly enjoyable action film. "},{"Title":"Comic book cop thriller in Pittsburgh","Date":"13 July 2014","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Released in 1993, Bruce Willis' Striking Distance has a bad reputation. Roger Ebert tore it to pieces, basically saying it was too derivative and by-the-numbers, and Willis himself said he hated it. After finally seeing it I can understand criticism to a point. The story has a very melodramatic comic-book vibe, which is obvious in the opening act, almost like a TV production except with a superior cast and action scenes. But -- and this is an important but -- I quickly found myself drawn into the story & the characters and greatly enjoyed the Pittsburgh locations, the (melo)drama and the thrills. In other words, the movie IS entertaining and entertainment is the name of the game.The story revolves around Tom Hardy (Willis), a Pittsburgh detective who's demoted to police river rescue. A serial killer returns after a two-year absence and bodies of beautiful women start turning up in the river, all women whom Hardy used to date! Sarah Jessica Parker is on hand as Hardy's partner on the river.This is a cop thriller in the manner of the Dirty Harry series, except more comic booky and taking place in Pittsburgh rather than San Francisco. It's also reminiscent of films like The General's Daughter. Although not technically as good as the Dirty Harry movies or The General's Daughter due to the cartoonishness, Striking Distance nevertheless pulled me into the lives of the characters and gave the requisite thrills. As such, I feel it's at least as good as some of the lesser Dirty Harry films.The generically-named movie was originally called Three Rivers -- a much better title simply because it's more specific -- but was changed at the last minute because the marketing department feared people would think it was a sports movie due to Three Rivers Stadium, so they switched it to Striking Distance. Why? The first hint is at the beginning of the movie when the title card shows two electrical bolts coming out from either side of the title. Later we observe the mysterious killer using a stun gun before killing his victims and, with a stun gun, you must of course be within... striking distance! Speaking of the killer, one element of the plot I haven't mentioned is that this is a whodunit. Someone is charged with being the killer early on but Hardy knows it's the wrong guy; in fact, he and others are sure it's a cop or ex-cop doing the killings. There are a few suspects, including Hardy himself, but -- I'll be honest with you -- I was unable to guess the right person. There's another twist late in the story that also took me by surprise.The bottom line is that Striking Distance is a cop thriller that effectively entertains and that's what's most important when it comes to these types of movies. Plus it was shot in Pittsburgh, a refreshing change.The film runs 102 minutes.GRADE B "}{"Title":"Predictable suspense-thriller has its moments but overall it's entertaining.","Date":"8 December 2007","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Detective Tom Hardy (Bruce Willis) grows up in the family of cops. Hardy turns against his uncle Captain Nick Detillo (Dennis Farina), since he believes that he's protecting somewhere who's corrupted and fighting him since the death of his dedicated Lt. Vince Hardy (John Mahoney). When Hardy's cousin Jimmy (The late Robert Pastorelli) committed suicide from jumping off a bridge. Since Hardy knew there was something wrong with his cousin. Since Hardy's get fired from his job believing that a cop has murder womens in the streets of Pittsburgh but he can't prove it. Months has passed, now Hardy works for the boat patrol for the city. He's forced to work with a young by the book officer Jo (Sarah Jessica Parker) as his new partner. Which Hardy prefers to be alone. When Hardy is called on the crime scene to the river to discover that the latest murders are woman, which Hardy knew before. Now the killer calls Hardy from his phone and he wants to play of Cat & Mouse with him. He has to find the next victim before it's too late, while the local police especially his uncle thinks that Hardy isn't right in the head.Directed by Rowdy Herrington (Road House) made an watchable-thriller that tries to be suspenseful but overall the script is quite predictable sadly. The identity of the villain is too easy to guess for most viewers. Since Willis' was quiet disappointed with his experiencing working this forgotten thriller. But it is not boring, thanks to a strong cast that includes Tom Sizemore, The late Brion James, Andre Braugher and more that keeps this far from being boring. Willis tries to do something different with his role. But his scenes with the character Jo slows the movie down, especially when they start a romance. It is quite unintentionally funny at times and way over the top towards the conclusion. Herrington's previous picture Road House was much more fun to watch than this failed effort. Striking Distance is one of those films that certainly plays better on TV and fans of Willis' work might enjoy this movie much more than others. Check your brain out the door before watching it. (***/*****). "},{"Title":"Loyalty above all else, except Honour.   | V.Good Thriller |","Date":"2 September 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Just what you expect from Bruce Willis in that decade. He plays the character of drunken failure but always comes out on the good side.I enjoyed it from start to finish. V.good thriller of the 90's with good character personalities working off each other/ j. Parker gave it the romance feel and it worked well. The film itself had v.good action sequences and the length of the film was probably just about right. The consistent negative feeling towards Hardy throughput the film from other cops adds to effort that he has to put in to prove he is right and gain vindication. This struggle allows the film to develop its journey. Thanks "},{"Title":"I quite liked it, not a classic but entertaining enough.","Date":"18 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Striking Distance is set in Pittsburgh where Tom Hardy (Bruce Willis) has just had to testify against his partner & cousin Jimmy Detillo (Robert Pastorelli), on his way to a policeman's ball with his father Vincent (John Mahoney) they get a call to say that a wanted murderer is being pursued. The two Hardy's decide to help out & give chase but end up crashing their car, when Tom regains consciousness he finds the murder suspect gone & his father dead. Two years later & Tom has been forced to take a job as a river patrol man as he has become an alcoholic loser, suddenly dead bodies begin to be found in the rivers around Pittsburgh that Tom patrol. Tom is convinced the killer is back but discovers that officially the new murders have no connection to the earlier ones, Tom is sure that a big cover-up is going on & that the killer is targeting him personally...Written & directed by Rowdy Herrington there doesn't seem to be much love for this much maligned action thriller with even star Bruce Willis saying 'it sucked' while on a chat-show in 2004, hey Bruce I have news for you Striking Distance is nowhere near the worst film you have appeared in. Hudson Hawk (1991), Color of Night (1994) & Cop Out (2010) anyone? Anyway, Striking Distance was known under the title Three Rivers during production & is a decent enough action thriller. One suspects that maybe Willis was trying to star in another Die Hard (1988) but his character here is much less likable or quotable. The script is nothing more than a string of cop film clichés stringed together around a fairly basic murder mystery plot & every so often there's a big action set-piece. As it is I quite liked Striking Distance, there are a few decent one-liners, the character's although clichéd are given life by a good cast or pro's & there's enough action here to satisfy most. There's a particularly good car chase at the start. As I said the clichés come thick & fast, a disgraced alcoholic cop, a cover-up, a killer who taunts the cops, feelings of guilt & remorse & loss, honour & family connections. At just under 100 minutes maybe it's a little long but there's enough going on to keep ones interest even if the murder mystery may be a little easy to figure out & a bit too improbable to take seriously. Also the ending features a little overkill when it comes to the villain dying as he comes back from apparently being dead at least four times in ten minutes!There are some good action set-pieces here including a great car chase with one of my personal favourite moments from any chase from any film when the cars start jumping over those humps & shoot up in the air one behind the other. There are boat chases, shoot-outs, fights & a bit of suspense as a mystery killer stalks & kills a few people too. Nicely enough shot there's not much style here but it looks alright.With a supposed budget of about $30,000,000 this has the usual glossy Hollywood production values & is well made. There's a very good cast here including Bruce Willis, Dennis Farina, Tom Sizemore, Brion James & Tom Atkins with the only weak link the ever awful Sarah Jessica Parker in an early role.Striking Distance is a pretty good action thriller, it has a reasonable murder mystery, some clichéd cop drama & some good action scenes. It's certainly no worse than a lot of routine Hollywood action thrillers, you could do a lot worse. "},{"Title":"Great mystery","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Now, I know that the majority say this film is bad, while I loved it.  It DID get far fetched, it DID get ridiculous in the end, but I still liked it. This movie is more realistic than the other thrillers, take I Know What You Did Last Summer.  One thing is for certain, and that is that this movie does show cruelty towards women, so I don't think many women would like this movie, my mom sure didn't!  Anyway, Bruce Willis is a river cop, now that's a job I want, to drive a boat around a river all day, easy job, right?  Well, not when your area has a ton of killings going on and the bodies dumped in the river for the poor river patrol, who are used to just cruising around have to pick up the bodies.  This movie is great keeping the villain secret until the end, they certainly fooled me!  This movie got an 8/10 on my scale, probably a 2/10 on my moms.  I give it that for great suspense, mystery, and thrills.  I lowered it due to how it was a bit against women. This movie is definitely rated R, and shouldn't be viewed by children or young teens for strong violence and language, and also some sex.  It is pretty good, while maybe offensive to women, maybe not.  "},{"Title":"Murder and revenge on the waters, in a high octane thriller that strikes back","Date":"27 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Like John Q, Striking Distance is another film, that leaves me in an enigma, of how panned it was. This is just as good as a lot of other Willis actioners. Most of Willis's films I like, and this is no exception. It's really a very well plotted revenge thriller, with a great car chase, I might add, which left this flick playing over a couple of months in Adelaide. I like the family angle to it. Willis like his father, (John Mahoney, before Frasier, and years after Code Of Silence, which he made a brief appearance in) is a Pittsburgh cop. So is his Uncle (Dennis Farina) and his two other sons, one of them who's on trial for battery, where Willis gone up against him, telling the court the real version, much to the bitter dislike of his fellow officers. Like Willis's character, Tom Hardy, (catchy) says Look where telling the truth's got me. Sadly at the end of the chase, things went awry, where Mahoney is executed. There's a bigger picture to this story, and I'm not gonna spoil it for ya. Soon after, Farina's bad cop son, where things are not looking to good for him, threatens to jump off the bridge saying Cops don't go to prison. I'm not going. Well, bad cops do. Well, he jumps. His body's never recovered. Cut to a couple of years later, disgraced cop, Willis, now drowning his sorrows in alcohol, and making the best of his stinking situation, now works as a river cop. Everything's just dandy. He lives on a houseboat, has a cat, even gets a surprise visit later from Farina's other out of control, boozing son, now ex cop, (Tom Sizemore, quite impressive here) who like the other cops, initially had it in for Hardy too. Things are looking up when he's partnered with Jo, new to the job. But now things are about to become a living hell, where for Hardy, his haunted past returns, though he's always been haunted, since those tragic events years prior. A score of dead young women, start surfacing on the river waters, all of who have been sexually involved with Willis. He's convinced this is the work of the same killer, responsible for his father's execution. So here's a great thriller ride for you. Too, as an added treat, we have an unrelated action scene on a houseboat, where some hijackers have taken it over, so it's good ol Bruce to the rescue. Too near the end, in it's horrifying revelation, where the killer comes into light, we really learn about family and loyalty, where again to finish the killer off, a cattle crod is used, that instantly had me remembering that scene in The Last Boy Scout. And like the end of Cobra, Willis gets to punch out the loud mouthed cop. See, this film has everything, including a bit of romance and a nice after ending. For Willis fans, specially. Check out the classic opening with the remote control car, cool like the rest of the film. "},{"Title":"Just clichéd enough to be familiar,just unique enough to be enjoyed","Date":"7 June 2010","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" To say that being a policeman is in his blood would be both understatement and literalism for Tommy Hardy(Bruce Willis,pre-shaved,still reasonably bad-ass),a fifth generation Pittsburgh police detective. Already stinging from having to turn witness against his own partner(Robert Pastorelli)over mistreatment of a witness,things go from bad to worse when a high speed pursuit of a perp,believed to be a serial killer,ends in tragedy for the man in question,both personal and career-wise.Flash forward two years,and Hardy now works River patrol,considered a sort of non-essential position in the force,away from his former plain clothes and uniforms--to which he seems to have burned many bridges--and his life has taken a more apparently low key quality. He still cannot play nice with others and earns himself a new partner/diver a chipper,idealistic single mom(Sarah Jessica Parker,still many years away from Sex and the City).Unfortunately,a serial killer is on the loose again,one very similar to the one the force believes they'd captured and convicted already. The MO has Hardy convinced the real killer is out there,but he seems to be the only one who believes this.Very pat elements to this cop drama(stubborn,tough cop who doesn't believe in the blue code,a sadistic killer,Irish/Italaian cop families,etc.)give frame to this still-watchable flick from director Rowdy Herrington(director and co-writer)and Mark Kaplan(co-writer).Willis is completely at home in this,and this is a side of Parker I frankly miss(it seems like forever since she settled on playing chatty,selfish city dwellers with personal problems!). Throw in solid character actors who look the part like Dennis Farina(as Willis' Uncle,a chief mucky muck in the department),Tom Sizemore(as Willis' cousin,a perceived screw-up),Brion James(as a department head who has a natural tendency to chafe Willis' character and vice-versa),John Mahoney(as Willis' Dad,a chief himself),Andre Braugher(in a small part as an inscrutable District Attorney)and Timothy Busfield(as a wormy,by-the-book partner diver;there mostly for physical comedy relief),and you have a film that,while unremarkable in and of itself,is still interesting and works on the designs it was drawn. I would classify this as a cheap rent and worth a watch,particularly for the main stars on the marquis. Don't get me wrong,though,that's hardly a bad thing. "},{"Title":"Land shark.....","Date":"3 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Tom Hardy is a fifth-generation cop. When his father dies during the chase of a serial killer, Hardy further complicates matters by implicating his partner and cousin Jimmy in a police brutality case. Two years after Jimmy is believed to have committed suicide, women from Hardy's past start to turn up dead, and his father's alleged killer is found. Believing that the alleged killer is a patsy, Hardy conducts his own illegal investigation into his father's own death, and the women's deaths as well. Hardy and the killer ultimately lock horns in a showdown that ties all the loose ends on both case.It's pretty formulaic stuff for Willis, during the time I like to refer to as his 'chubby era'. He had a pretty bad run of films between 93 to 95, and was finally broke by DHWAV in the summer of 95.It's fun stuff though while it lasts, Cop turns alcoholic, argues a lot with Farina and James, and the killer turns up at the end, but isn't surprising as his name is pretty high up on the credits at the beginning.Parker is fine, but if her character was cut out of the story, it wouldn't damage the narrative.If your a Willis fine, it's a good movie with no surprises. "},{"Title":"Decent cop thriller... but not as good as The Last Boy Scout","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Although this film is not a classic, you'll love this if you enjoyed Bruce in The Last Boy Scout, Hudson Hawk or the Die Hard Movies as he basically plays the same character. A down on his luck cop who kicks ass as hard as he hits the bottle.Bruce stars as Tom Hardy, a Pittsburgh city cop who gets busted down to working on a police pursuit boat as he testified against his partner. His ex girlfriends keep getting murdered and dumped in the river - he knows that someone is doing this to frame him but who? This movie has an excellent car chase and some cool lines from Bruce plus some very good set piece action scenes. There are also some very good supporting performances from Tom Sizemore and a very crazy Robert Pastorelli.I picked this up on DVD from ebay and was surprised by how good it looked on a large widescreen TV - I was only a kid when this was released so never saw it at the cinema. Good cinematography of the rushing river and the bridge. Definitely worth checking out.Who's the best cop now Jimmy?? "},{"Title":"Maybe the most underrated film of all time","Date":"23 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Bruce Willis is one of my favorite all time actors, and this is one of my (#17 all time on my personal list) favorite movies of all time. There is a original location (Pittsburgh), original occupation for male lead (river patrol), a story with great twists, one of the best car chase scenes ever, a great tugboat takeover scene with a cool shootout and timely humor, great performances by some really good actors Sarah Jessica, Dennis Farina, Tom Sizemore and Robert Pastorini. There is no reason why anyone would not enjoy this underrated treasure. The music is also great especially the eerie little Red Riding Hood. I loved the fact that it was set on a river, it is quite original in that regard. Sure Bruce played basically the role as he did in many of his films such as Die Hard and The Last Boy Scout (both excellent films) but I say if its not broke don't fix it. Pure Movie Gold Striking Distance !! "},{"Title":"Bruce the action hero","Date":"23 January 2016","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Striking Distance (1993) is a thriller/mystery/action film that stars Bruce Willis and Sarah Jessica Parker. Now this film is not a shining glory, but it's not as bad as some critical reviews reflect. Bruce Willis is very good in his leading man role, it's an action movie, so it's kinda his turf. Now this is a different kind of role for Sarah Jessica Parker, I don't think I've seen her in any other action film, this is probably her only one, but nonetheless she was great in her role! Sarah was probably my favorite aspect of this movie, she was just so intense and dramatic, as needed for her role. The script was alright, the lines of dialogue were a bit lazy in a few scenes, overall as a whole the dialogue was pretty good, but just in a few scenes in particular, it came across as weak and lacking, that's one of the main reasons the rating for the film isn't higher. The action sequences were pretty standard and run of the mill action scenes, they weren't badly done or wonderfully hit out of the ballpark. Sarah and Bruce had good on screen chemistry, that was a big thumbs up for the film. You could really see their awesome chemistry during their short sex scene, it was really showcased and brought out into the open during that intimate scene. The mystery side to the movie was well done and just FYI, I guessed who the culprit was before the ending, I might take a little pride in that lol, but seriously, that faction was pretty well put together. Overall, I give striking distance a 7/10. "}{"Title":"Underrated good action movie","Date":"3 December 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Well one of the best vintage car chase ever. And in the end when you get to the boats flying scene, best one ever ! I'm not even a Bruce Willis fan but i liked this movie a lot, sure it wasn't perfect, had some plot and script/dialogue issues, but actors (Willis, SJ Parker among many others) were quite good and so was the story. Seeing Willis reassigned to river patrol made me think about The Wire (though i guess its should be the other way around), the location being Pittsburg rather than NY, LA or any of the usual places cop movies takes place was nice, the ending was good even though the believability of it left to be desired. Some similarities with the movie The River Murders i guess but it would be wrong to call it a remake of Striking Distance, both should be watched, especially if you liked this one. "},{"Title":"Fun whodunit with a nice cast","Date":"24 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Striking Distance is carved from the same block as countless other 90's cop vs. killer thrillers that the industry churned out. Some turn out excellent (Jennifer 8, Silence Of The Lambs) and some flail (The Watcher). This one falls squarely in the fun category, nothing too groundbreaking, but a solid dose of entertaining big city crime pulp. Bruce Willis plays Detective Tom Hardy (lol), whose pursuit of a vicious killer in the excellent prologue leads to the murderer's escape, and Hardy's disgrace. Is prompts Willis to steer his performance into grumpy hangdog territory, which he does oh so well. He's stripped of his stripes, and sent out on harbour patrol with rookie Jo Christman (Sarah Jessica Parker). Stuck with busting rich kids drinking on their parents speedboats, Hardy itches with the urge to still nail the killer. Dennis Farina plays the police chief solidly. Tom Sizemore is his dodgy detective son, a prime suspect, and Robert Pastorelli his other screw up kid. Veteran John Mahoney makes a brief appearance as Hardy's father, as well as nice work from Andre Braugher and Tom Atkins. It's no classic, but it's hard boiled 90's fun, with a cool Willis character and a nice urban vibe of scuzzy, behind dark doors violence, with a nice central whodunit aesthetic. "},{"Title":"Bruce Willis as a fifth-generation cop","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I like Rowdy Herrington, and he assembled a good cast for this 1993 film - Bruce Willis, Sarah Jessica Parker, Dennis Farina, Tome Sizemore, Robert Pastorelli, John Mahoney, Timothy Busfield, and Andre Braugher.Willis is Tom Hardy, who spoke out against his crazy partner (Pastorelli) and for this reason is shunned by other officers.There is a serial killer on the loose, and he's killing all of Tom's ex-girlfriends. Tom knows the killer is a cop, targeting him. He's let go from homicide and all that's available to him is river rescue.Two years later, his views haven't changed. The killer is back in full swing, but the police thinks it's a copycat. Tom knows better.The first eight minutes of this consist of a police car - obviously a computer graphic, which was a little off-putting, it was so obvious. This is the type of film that was made for the movie theater - it's loud, it has car chases galore, shootings, crashes - non-stop action.Willis is very good; the rest of the actors are good, too, but they're from television - Willis is the only true movie star. He and the special effects got all the money.Pretty good and entertaining, too, with a mini-twist. "},{"Title":"Striking Distance-Strike **** for this Gem","Date":"2 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" We could literally call this excellent thriller ALL IN THE FAMILY as it deals with a family of police caught up in a series of serial killings that eventually takes the life of the father of Bruce Willis. Scorned by police when he turns his own cousin in on an unrelated police matter, and his persistence that the man found guilty of the crime is innocent and that the real killer is none other than a police officer.The plot twists are great and there is plenty of action. Bruce Willis has the perfect part for himself and he is aided by Sarah Jessica Palmer, who has another assigned agenda on her part. "},{"Title":"The killer was caught or was he?","Date":"9 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A homicide detective tracking a serial killer alienates himself from his fellow officers when he suggests that this killer who also killed his father/police Ltd in a high speed car chase may be one of their own men. He gets demoted to the harbour patrol, but still his obsession grows to prove that it was an officer that murdered his father and the girls. A very presentable, slick cop after serial killer thriller with a dependable cast (Bruce Willis, Sarah Jessica Parker, Denis Farina, Brion James, Tom Sizemore and Robert Pastorelli) and interesting backdrop (the beat isn't the streets, but a river system) despite the same old-same, same-old plotting with stock clichés and some very implausible revelations. Yes it does go over-the-top for its outlandish climax, but its always exciting, eccentric and high-octane in its routine action and this can said about Brad Fiedel's scorching music too. The opening car chase sequence is actually quite well done by director Rowdy Herrington (who does a durable job throughout with the tough thrills and humid dramas), the taut script keeps it suspenseful and before the killer murders the girl/s he plays the seductively catchy tune Li'l Red Riding Hood by Sam the Sham and the Pharaohs. Willis provides your usual gruff, maverick cop who likes to get on the bottle (because of past events that sees him not a favourite of the men in blue) and Parker sexes-it up as his greenhorn partner. James is great in the role as the smarmy detective always looking to pick a fight with Willis' character and Farina is solid as usual. Also showing up in small parts are Tom Atkins and John Mahoney. Mindless early 90s action fun.I used to be a homicide detective. I lost my shield because I said a cop killed my father "},{"Title":"A terrific mystery action thriller with the man himself in the lead role...","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I often start Bruce Willis reviews with a disclaimer...I LOVE Bruce Willis. He can rarely do wrong with the exception of most the 2000's (small joke.) Striking Distance was solidly into his leading man career that made him an action superstar. Striking Distance didn't appear to have the enormous budget of like minded Willis vehicles (30 million vs 70 million for Die Hard 2, 3 years earlier) but that is part of its charm. Striking Distance is part mystery, part thriller, a dash of action, and some great character depth even if the lead character is a little bit predictable as a washed up, alcoholic, traumatically scarred former cop. Willis plays the broody alcoholic like nobodies business. The mystery is solid, and the action scenes are well done. It even features one of the best and most underplayed car/boat chase scenes in action film history...or at least the nineties. A terrific supporting cast of whose who nineties character actors help move the story along and support Willis throughout. Sometimes movie watchers like mystery, dislike action, or some variation of such but Striking Distance gives a little of all of the major genres to make it the perfect film for just pure entertainment.Bruce Willis is the iconic macho man. I could watch him do just about anything. As the aforementioned brooding former cop spending his days as barely more than a security guard on the waters. The character is not revolutionary and can be considered predictable but Willis makes Tom Hardy the best he can possibly be and that's a bad ass good guy. Remember Sarah Jessica Parker before she was Sex and The City's Carrie Bradshaw? Me neither but she is cute and vivacious as fellow boat cop Jo Christman. The character doesn't truly fit into the dreary, dark and often foreboding setting but somehow Parker impressively makes it work. Equally impressive is the fact that Parker and Willis do have decent chemistry and their romance somehow works although it feels forced into the story at times. The whose who supporting cast I mentioned include talented character actors, and TV actors. The most noteworthy are Dennis Farina, Tom Sizemore, Brion James, Robert Pastorelli (really terrific), and John Mahoney (small role but really terrific as Willis' decorated cop father.) Director Rowdy Herrington isn't big in Hollywood but he can be attributed to helming the 80's classic Roadhouse and now Striking Distance. Given his ability to direct two big leading men and let them be what the audiences love should account for something. I have a feeling though Herrington's directing ability ends there. Given something without a leading man probably wouldn't account for much although I haven't seen any of his other work. Striking Distance is just plainly entertaining. It isn't mind blowing and it isn't likely to be most peoples favorite film but it is one that I frequently go back to on a lazy Sunday afternoon for some simple, well made entertainment. It also isn't necessarily considering one of Willis' big films by any means but at the same time is gem amongst his work from the nineties. Definitely worth watching at least once and you'll find its charm beneath the surface. 8.5/10 "},{"Title":"Lots of Drama, Mystery & Romance","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Bruce Willis, (Tom Hardy)The Family Stone,'05, plays a former detective in homicide and wound up on a River Patrol in Pittsburgh. The photography around the City of Pittsburgh was outstanding, especially on the river and under the various bridges with lots of action on the water. Sarah Jessica Parker,(Jo Christman),Sin City,'05, wasted very little time going to bed with Tom and of course there was a definite reason for her fun in the sack. Dennis Farina,(Capt. Nick Detillo),Scrambled Eggs,'04 gave a great supporting role who seemed to have a horrible love and hate relationship with Tom Hardy as a long time friend. In the opening scene, there is a car chase with Tom Hardy's dad holding on to his seat along with plenty of action scenes. Great film. "},{"Title":"An enjoyable thriller","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Most moviegoers are disappointed by Striking Distance because they go in expecting another Die Hard.  Striking Distance deserves a lot more credit than that.  This film is so different from Bruce Willis' other action films, like Armageddon and The Last Boyscout, that it is almost in another genre altogether.  Willis stars as a disgraced 5th-generation Pittsburgh cop demoted to river patrol when he suggests a cop is responsible for his father's murder, and several new murders taking place two years later.  The entire police force, including Dennis Farina and the late Brion James (both a little over-the-top with their resistance to Willis' accusations) writes him off as crazy, except for his new partner, played by Sarah Jessica Parker.  He is also taking much heat from testifying against his own partner and cousin in a criminal trial.Willis turns to the bottle for comfort until he begins to pick up clues as to who the murderer is.  Several good action sequences, including a great opening car chase and a boat chase, as well as an entertaining sequence involving a hijacked tugboat, make Striking Distance better than most cop thrillers.  If you are a fan of any of the stars, I recommend this film. "},{"Title":"Excellent And Extremely Suspenseful Murder Mystery, That's Way Underrated, With An Amazing Performance From Bruce Willis!","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is an excellent and extremely suspenseful murder mystery that's way underrated, with an amazing performance from Bruce Willis!. All the characters are fantastic, and the story while familiar was really awesome, plus Bruce Willis is simply amazing in this!. I can't believe everyone bashed this film, it really is an awesome film in my opinion and i thought Willis and Sarah Jessica Parker had awesome chemistry, plus the finale is extremely tense!. I myself was really surprised by the twist ending, and the car chase at the beginning was just awesome!, plus i thought Willi's acting was fantastic!. I really felt for Willi's character, and it also had a great supporting cast as well, plus Brion James is excellent as the asshole you will hate him!. Robert Pastorelli is very creepy, and the film is very engrossing throughout!, plus This should be much much higher then a 5.3 rating!. It's one of Bruce's most underrated films, and the plot was really cool!, plus there were some shocking moments!. Thi is an excellent and extremely suspenseful murder mystery, that's way underrated!, with an amazing performance from Bruce Willis and i say it's a must see for everyone!. The Direction is awesome!. Rowdy Herrington does an awesome job with great camera work good angles, and keeping the film suspenseful and at a very fast pace!. Th Acting is wonderful!. Bruce Willis is AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, had a great character, had awesome chemistry with Jessica Parker, was quite intense, did wonderful in his emotional scenes, and i didn't find him lazy at all not one bit, he also had some cool lines! (Willis Rules!!!!!).Sarah Jessica Parker is excellent with what she had to do, she was very beautiful, had awesome chemistry with Willis, and just did an excellent job overall i really liked her. Dennis Farina is awesome with what he had to do, he added a lot of class i liked him. Tom Sizemore is fantastic as always, he was really intense, was very convincing as the drunk grieving over the loss of his brother, and just did a fantastic job overall, wished he had more screen time though! (Sizemore rules). Brion James is excellent as the asshole, you will hate him and i cheered out loud when Willis gave him a shot it in the end!. Robert Pastorelli is extremely creepy here, he seriously was scary, and gave a memorable performance here. John Mahoney and Tom Atkins both add class and are great in the small roles. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall a must see for everyone!. ****1/2 out of 5 "},{"Title":"No surprises here.","Date":"16 September 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Location Pittsburgh, unfamiliar. River policeman. Boats as well as cars. Chases. Mismatched partners Sarah Jessica Parker and Bruce Willis. Start off at odds with one another. Meet in the moonlight. Next scene the beast with two backs. No tedious falling in love nonsense. Willis's father has been killed Revenge. Willis obsesses over case after case is supposedly closed. Calls for suspension in most movies. Here demotion to the River Police. No ritual placing of gun and badge on lieutenant's desk. Missed it badly. Like going to church and finding the mass has been called off. Like finishing gigantic jigsaw puzzle and finding last 3 pieces missing. Hollow emptiness inside, instead of usual full emptiness.First chase -- cars. In Bullett two cars bump up and down on hills. Here, five cars. Worth doing at all? Then worth doing to excess. Next chase, boat follows car. Willis shoots flare at car. Car catches fire, crashes and blows up. Next chase boat vs. boat. No hills to bump over in river, small waterfall is poor substitute.On top of revenge motive, serial killer. Somebody killing all the pretty blond gals that Willis ever knew. Frame up. Willis cannot reveal he knew victims or he'd be blamed. Trusts only Parker. Parker nice bust, skinny legs. Pretty blond, too.Serial killer turns out to be old partner of Willis who jumped from bridge two years ago and thought to be dead. Not dead. Kidnaps Willis and Parker and third guy. Struts around in old cop's uniform while explaining motive. Presses muzzle of pistol against all the captured heads, one at a time, before pulling away and laughing. Definite fruitcake.Triple murder interrupted impolitely. Murderer is shot by intruder, falls dead to floor. Murderer is wearing bullet proof vest, comes back to life and shoots intruder. Murderer crashes through window. Bruce chases him still handcuffed. Murderer steals boat, Willis ditto. Long chase.Boats crump up on river shore. Chase on foot. Railroad tracks on bridge. Willis and murderer wrestle while train approaches blowing whistle. Willis doing very well with handcuffs still on. Rolls away at last minute as train runs over villain? No! Villain rolled away on OTHER side of train and charges Willis. Both go into river. Murderer defeated in underwater struggle and drowns. Willis eats handcuffs for breakfast.Best thing in film usually dead body comes back to life only once. Here dead body comes back to life total of three times. Wretched excess? No. Happens every day in my experience.Recommendation don't miss it if you can. "}{"Title":"Violent and Over-The-Top, But Good, Game Cast","Date":"23 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Thank goodness Bruce Willis and Sarah Jessica Parker have good chemistry because they are not allowed any time for a relationship to develop. In a blink they are smack-dab in a romance. But this police thriller has some funky, operatic and over-the-top moments that show the plot's weaknesses. The clichés keep piling up from the bad-mouthing, trash- talking banter between Irish and Italian cops, to the endless profanity, and the staginess of the big scenes. It's also pretty violent. Bruce Willis is almost always a good action hero. Sarah Jessica Parker knows how to do the girl part perfectly. Their scenes have real chemistry. Dennis Farina is always a great cop and he manages to keep you fascinated even when his sons are acting perfectly ridiculous. John Mahoney, Andre Braugher and Timothy Busfield show their talent and professionalism and are captured before bigger roles made them major TV stars. I did find Braugher chewing up the scenery a bit too lustily in the hearing scene. I save Robert Pastorelli's utterly hammy appearance for last. He's a fine actor and I loved his classically funny house painter, Eldin on Murphy Brown. But he's assigned the psycho role here and the screenplay doesn't give him any depth at all. He's just an insane psychopath. There's not a clue as to why he behaves as he does. Maybe the director should have stepped in more to tone it down. The final confrontation with Willis steals from every thriller you've ever seen, most obviously Fatal Attraction. And it goes on forever. Rerun on TV it was fun to encounter this movie, which I had not seen when it was first released. "},{"Title":"Starts out as a typical action, but then shifts to more of a thriller.","Date":"1 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This film started out in different kind of way as there is a big chase, Willis' character father gets killed and he is convinced it is a cop. Well cops do not like it when you accuse one of them of being a murderer. Other stuff happen, someone jumps off a bridge then the movie shifts to years later and Willis is an ostracized cop who now works as a patrol officer on the river. You get an action sequence and then the movie becomes a murder mystery as another killer who performs his kills in a similar fashion to the one that Willis thought was a cop is seemingly targeting acquaintances of Willis. Yes, if you think there is a bit to much plot going on there you are probably right. Heck, I forgot to mention his new female partner who has other motivations beyond just being a good partner. While there is a lot of stuff going on though it is till a somewhat good movie. It has a cast that includes Willis, Sarah Jessica Parker, and a host of other people that appear in movies as usually more background characters, but usually do a good job when given the chance to shine. The previews of this one when it came out made it seem more like an action movie, however other than one situation on the water involving a big boat there is very little action as it is more thriller than anything else. "},{"Title":"pretty good for a Bruce Willis cop flick.","Date":"23 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHI have seen a lot of negative reviews on striking distance and disagree with many. While I do admit the movie is far from a 10 and had numerous flaws, I liked it. It was different. Not just another cop/serial killer movie-a genre I don't even like very much. This movie was good for a couple of reasons.One is the photography. Most of it takes place in boats on the river and the scenery is beautiful. The movie is moody and gloomy, in perfect keeping with the storyline. The other good-and different thing is the character development. This is really less a serial killer movie, then a movie about the characters themselves. The movie develops the character of Tom so he is believable and focuses more on him as a person then on the shenanigans of the serial killer-though those are there to. But it's really one man's quest, both to find the serial killer and to find out the truth of past events. I liked the movie. It is not something that I would normally get into but I saw it on television and it was both interesting and also had suspense.As far as it not being original-of coarse it's not-how many movies of this genre are? In terms of it being predictable-oh yes it is-I predicted the line you were once a man before it even happened. Predictable? very.But it was still good for a night's viewing. atmospheric and good character development. However my main criticism isSPOILERThe ending which has got to be among the types of endings I HATE!(Corny chase scenes and the killer that wouldn't die.) THAT was awful! No stars out of ten for that annoying 15 minutes of boring nothingness and faked chases and 7 for everything else.(It would have been an easy 8 but I'm taking a point off for the cliché factor of those above mentioned 15 minutes). Not a great movie but it had its moments. "},{"Title":"Predictable, but enjoyable","Date":"28 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I began viewing this movie with low expectations, given my experience with Bruce Willis movies. While the storyline was, I thought, quite predictable, I found it to be a bit of harmless escapism and and quite enjoyable - mainly due to the presence of Sarah Jessica Parker and the performances of John Mahoney and Robert Pastorelli. His character in this film couldn't be further removed from his role in the Murphy Brown sit-com. "},{"Title":"the end is worth it","Date":"5 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  The movie starts out interesting, then takes a turn.  Even though Bruce Willis and Sarah Jessica Parker are good, the movie definately lulls for a while.  The end is really cool though.  I don't want to give anything away. It's not a great movie, but it's worth a look if you like mystery\action and you like Bruce Willis. "},{"Title":"Willis goes on the river to stop a serial killer","Date":"21 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Bruce Willis stars as a son of a family of police officers whose father was allegedly killed by a serial killer. Willis makes waves by claiming a fellow officer did the deed and gets reassigned to river rescue detail and a new partner (Sarah Jessica Parker). To much suprise (not) the killer starts killing again.. this time those that know Willis..An ok movie with some suspenseful action scenes on the rivers..but it lacks any real suspense..On a scale of one to ten..6 "},{"Title":"not great, but certainly enjoyable","Date":"13 November 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not a particularly big Bruce Willis or Sarah Jessica Parker fan.  About the only movie of his I like is Nobody's Fool, and for her, L.A. Story. Nonetheless, I really enjoyed this movie.  It certainly isn't Oscar quality, but the characters are interesting enough, the story is intriguing, and some of the chase scenes are FABULOUS!!  There is a terrific one through Pgh. down one of the hills that is great fun to watch.  Being from Pgh, I thought it made the city look great, although I can't say that I've ever seen the river cops out and about and involved in nearly as much intrigue as those shown here.  Mindless fun.  I'd recommend it for a lazy afternoon or evening. "},{"Title":"A pretty-good movie","Date":"29 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this was a pretty good movie. I had higher hopes though before watching it. The movie starts out real good with one of the best car chases I seen in a while. The movie is about a killer murdering girls and then throwing their bodies in the water. They get in a car chase with the killer (the one I mentioned)but he gets away. The cops later bring in an accused killer and Hardy gets mad because he thinks a cop is the killer. He gets in trouble for saying that and is moved down to water patrol. Two years later he is finding bodies in the water. A good mystery (had me fooled). Striking Distance has some good action sequences. 6/10. A good movie if you don't mind the same old approach. "},{"Title":"Decent Movie","Date":"14 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I thought this movie was an alright thriller, there wasn't much to the plot. You could kind of figure out how was doing the killing.  I'm a huge Bruce Willis fan and that's probably the only reason I enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"A good movie","Date":"2 March 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I liked this movie. Its not his best action movie but its still worth having. Willis must stop a killer with the help of Sarah Jessica Parker. It may be kind of predictible but its still a cool movie. Its got the usual action adventure from a Willis movie. Its worth seeing.  "}{"Title":"Below average for a thriller, but good for a laugh","Date":"5 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is so filled with cliches that nobody could actually take it seriously. The very theme of it is based heavily on cliches. I wonder if it's coincidental or on purpose that it was so loaded with cliches; but it's actually pretty entertaining to count the cliches, and laugh hard at them. I saw this movie with a friend, on TV, for free(luckily), and so I could laugh at the pure ludicrousness of the extreme cliche-count. The plot is one big pile of cliches; the acting ranges from horrible to average at best. The characters are cliches and stereotypes, every single one of them. For some weird reason, the word f*ck is also said at least a couple of times every five minutes. This movie is so cliche-filled, corny and B-movie like that it's hard to believe. I honestly don't believe that anyone could take this seriously, but I hope anyone else who, for some reason or other, decides to watch this, can also appreciate the comedic value in counting cliches and laughing at them. Otherwise, I don't think you could enjoy this, at all. I recommend this to anyone who's seen enough thrillers to know of all the cliches and who knows a good thriller from a bad one. Watch this, and laugh at how corny and ridiculous it is. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Real-life thriller (spoiler alert)","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I am a great fan of Bruce Willis. This movie is one of the toppers in the list of my favorite movies. It's a real life thriller depicting the stress, pain, miseries, struggles that a cop goes through every moment of his dangerous profession. Bruce Willis is no Dirty Harry, He has created his own heavy disposition, rough action hero, eccentric in his own way, lonely sincere hurt aggressive dedicated irresistible sharp smart, Bruce Willis is a fantastic package all the way. In this movie he teams up with Sarah Jessica Parker, no pair could be better than this. Not just the series Sex and the City which fascinates me so much, think of Miami Rhapsody (1995), Honeymoon in Vegas (1992), Extreme Measures (1996), Parker is always irresistibly beautiful, soft, sweet and talented. Moreover, I can't help commenting on Dennis Farina, he made me think a lot lately, he has a special way of portraying those grey characters, the way he throws words, his accent, his looks specifically attracted my attention. I will never forget two scenes in this movie the one where Bruce Willis is telling Dennis Farina that the killer called him on the phone and Dennis Farina is advising him to get his head examined. The other one, the night when intimacy between Sarah and Bruce starts for the first time with a very unusual consequence.   "},{"Title":"This is an excellent movie","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Unlike some of Bruce Willis' movies that do not have any plot what soever this one is one plot twist after another. I really enjoyed this flick. Tom Sizemore who is the greatest actor of all time puts in another great performance. Even though he is great in all of his movies. Another great under rated actor in this movie is Dennis Farina he is hilarious as always. He adds a touch of humor when the movie is in a gloomy state. Overall it is one of Bruce Willis' finest movies that he has ever made since Pulp Fiction. "},{"Title":"TWO THUMBS UP","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is a fantastic thrill-ride that is very interesting. I thought Bruce Willis was great but it seemed he wasn't as into it as he was in the Die Hard series. I thought the plot was great because it was really cool to see action on the sea and on different boats. The mystery that was involved made it a totally different kind of action plot. I thought it gave the movie a better thrust to it. I am a big Tom Sizemore fan and I really thought he was really great in it. Overall, I think this movie was great and I recommend it to all viewers who like Bruce Willis movies.  "},{"Title":"This Film Should Be Struck Hard Regardless of Distance.","Date":"6 November 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Striking Distance (1993) Dir Rowdy Herrington / Cast Bruce Willis, Sarah Jessica Parker, Tom Sizemore, Robert Pastorelli, Dennis Farina Cliché filled mess that misses its mark. Bruce Willis stars as a homicide detective whose father was murdered by a serial killer. An innocent victim faces death row and Willis suspects a cop. This decreases his popularity amongst the other officers and leads to a demotion to a river rescue squad with Sarah Jessica Parker. Suddenly women he knows are found in the river and he suspects that it could be linked to his father's murder. Plot is as dead as the victims with a climax wallowing in its violent muck. Director Rowdy Herrington handles the plot twists as well as high powered action sequences but the screenplay provides nothing that hasn't been done countless times. Willis survives the dread as he accepts his demotion as a trespass to further clues involving his past. Sarah Jessica Parker only exists as a possible love interest. Not to sound sexist but generally the females in these films are there more or less for physical encounters with the hero. Parker is far above this material but is wasted in a role that is presented pretty much so to put a female in the film. She lucked out and got cast in this junk. Tom Sizemore and Robert Pastorelli surrender to useless stereotypes. A pointless noise that misses its mark by a long shot. Score 2 / 10 "},{"Title":"Strikes with a dull thud","Date":"6 October 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Striking Distance held some promise in the opening police chase; illogical by car chase standards, but certainly not sleepy. But I've gotta admit, with Rowdy Herrington's name attached, I was expecting (hoping for) entertainment value comparable to Road House . . . not the morose Bruce Willis dramatic actioner filled with reheated potboiler clichés. You can see these beats coming before they happen. The movie's also full of notable character actors, but they don't look all that enthused to be there.The movie's nothing special, but also nothing to get upset about. Somehow, the knowledge that this was made during the Peters-Guber reign at Columbia clarifies a lot. This feels like a troubled production.5/10 "},{"Title":"overwrought police thriller","Date":"6 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Pittsburgh police homicide detective Tom Hardy (Bruce Willis) is an outcast after testifying that his partner and cousin Jimmy Detillo (Robert Pastorelli) used excessive force. His uncle Capt. Nick Detillo (Dennis Farina) and cousin Danny Detillo (Tom Sizemore) are both fellow officers. Tom and his father chase after the serial killer Polish Hill strangler. His father is killed. He suspects the strangler is a police officer. The police make an arrest based on a questionable witness. Jimmy jumps off a bridge to escape prison time and presumed dead. Two years later, Tom has become a drunk and transferred to River Rescue. Jo Christman (Sarah Jessica Parker) is his new diver. The killings start up again and this time, the killer is directly taunting him.This is an overwrought unreal police thriller. The opening car chase is crazy. It's borderline joyous fun and I'm willing to go with it. However that's not where this movie is going. When Jimmy jumps off the bridge, all of a sudden the heaven opens up and rain pours down. The movie keeps pushing everything over the top. Dennis Farina and Tom Sizemore never stop yelling or talking intensely. Sarah Jessica Parker is playing a hottie in this one. There are some unbelievable things going on that feel unrealistic. This movie could use a little simplification and a lot more believability. "},{"Title":"good car chase","Date":"25 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A mediocre time-waster at best, but does contain one of the best car chase scenes at the beginning of the movie. The plot is predictable enough with a serial killer and an obsessed detective on his tail, but the location of Pittsburgh is used effectively for a change, including the river. Great cast, Sarah Jessica Parker, John Mahoney from West Wing, Tom Sizemore an always good villain, and Andre Braugher from Homicide.(Spoiler) the cops doing the chasing comment  he drives like a cop -lot of reverse driving moves etc.- This last comment of mine is a thought I had after reading comments On Steve McQueens' Bullitwhere a number of people mentioned great car chases from some otherwise so-so movies. Ronin, etc. "},{"Title":"I HAVE A QUESTION?","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Why did Bruce Willis take the shells out of the shotgun before he went underwater?I have seen the movie several times and it still makes no sense.He puts the shells in his mouth so they are still exposed to water.I have been hunting and shooting guns for at least twenty years now,and it just makes no sense to me? "},{"Title":"TWO THUMBS UP","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is a fantastic thrill-ride that is very interesting. I thought Bruce Willis was great but it seemed he wasn't as into it as he was in the Die Hard series. I thought the plot was great because it was really cool to see action on the sea and on different boats. The mystery that was involved made it a totally different kind of action plot. I thought it gave the movie a better thrust to it. I am a big Tom Sizemore fan and I really thought he was really great in it. Overall, I think this movie was great and I recommend it to all viewers who like Bruce Willis movies.  "}{"Title":"I really, REALLY wanted to love it...","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I don't know.  I saw that Striking Distance was on TV this evening, and figured I would watch it, since I am a big Bruce Willis fan.  What a flop.  I mean, the movie's plot is not bad, but the acting is so contrived and it is  chock-full-o' major inconsistencies, such as, the chase scene where the blue Caprice loses a bumper, then mysteriously gains it back in the same scene...it is nothing short of a miracle. As I mentioned in my summary, I wanted to love the movie, but I could barely say that I even liked it.  There were some good parts, but the bad acting and inconsistencies were too much too bear.  Nevertheless, I found myself needing to continue watching it.  Strange.Anyway, I give it a 6.5/10. "},{"Title":"a die hard clone","Date":"26 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie may have been another 'Die Hard' clone, and the plot may have been predictable, but it was an entertaining movie nonetheless.  That's all I'm looking for anyways.  What were you really expecting?  An oscar-worthy movie from Bruce Willis?  He's one of my favorite actors, but in the early ninties no action/adventure movies were even nominated for any of the big three oscars.  I think Silence of the Lambs is the only exception.  "},{"Title":"Not awful, but has too many problems.","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Striking Distance starts out well, but only seems to get worse as it goes along.  There are some good action and mystery elements but not too far into the movie, it begins to telegraph too many moves.  For example, anytime that the viewer knows the probable ending 15 minutes into the movie, and anytime the viewer can figure out things that the central character can't, you know you have a movie with problems.  There's an obvious red herring and other cheesy plot devices along with lines of dialogue that come off as unintentionally funny (not usually a good thing). The old standby bad guy keeps coming back from the dead scene at the end of the movie doesn't help either. Overall, I rated the movie a 5 out of 10, and some may say that was too kind. In a few years I may think the same thing. "},{"Title":"Being from Pittsburgh...","Date":"21 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" ..I love seeing the city on the screen like that; there are some great shots.  I chuckle at the numerous geographical errors throughout the movie, although none are as blatant as the one in The Deerhunter.  The movie is entertaining and predictable, with so-so characterization, and a decent performance from Willis.  Without the Pittsburgh connection, I would give it a 4 or 5. "},{"Title":"no one mentioned Robert Pastorelli!","Date":"20 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  just read all the user comments,which I mainly agree with; it's a cut above usual film of this kind.  But surprised no one mentioned Robert Pastorelli, as the bad cop, who's acting is best in film. If he looks familiar- he played lead in CRACKER TV mystery series, in US copy of British Cracker "},{"Title":"Intriguing plot with a twist..","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  I never intended to watch this movie!  My TV Guide had My Cousin Vinny scheduled for this time slot - but once I started watching it, I couldn't turn it off.  Give it a chance - other than the gratuitous violence, it's an intriguing story.  "},{"Title":"Probably Sarah Jessica Parker's Only Watchable Role","Date":"24 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" Let me qualify this by saying I've never liked Sarah Jessica Parker in any of her roles. She looks like a bag of antlers or an emaciated gazelle. The scene in Mars Attacks! where she becomes a dog is very appropriate. But as much as I have found her annoying and hideously deformed, in this film I make an exception she was a decent actress and not as difficult to watch. At least she wasn't Susan Sarandon.In the city of Pittburgh (Jeff Goldblum's hometown) a cop (Bruce Willis) comes too close to finding out that a serial killer is another cop and he is transferred to river patrol with Sarah Jessica Parker. But then the bodies start showing up in the river.Bruce Willis has gone on record as saying this movie sucks, but he's really being too harsh on himself. While it is true this movie does not really stand out as a great action flick (like his Die Hard films or Hostage) and you have a fairly good chance of guessing the killer in the first five minutes, the film is entertaining and has enough action and suspense to keep you in your seat.It has Dennis Farina! It has Tom Sizemore, who never disappoints (haven't you seen Lock Up or Strange Days?). And it has one of the most unique car chases in movie history, the only one I have ever seen where car are leap-frogging over hills in synchronous maneuvers. If you don't want to watch this movie, at least watch this scene... you will be impressed, I guarantee. My proper credit goes to the stunt drivers and director Rowdy Herrington (whoever the hell that is).Check this one out for a night of action and just a little bit of love (but don't think it's a romance because it's not). Sure beats a marathon of Moonlighting... "},{"Title":"When the male lead is prettier than the female....","Date":"2 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This is just an OK action/murder mystery film starring bruce willis when he was around 40 and in his acting prime. He looks super-fit and almost handsome as he plays a cop who's been ostracised by every other cop in the city just because he refused to lie to protect his partner. Big problem with this film is sarah jessica parker as his girl. How the hell did she get to be a star? She looks like that transvestite republican witch ann coulter you see screaming on Fox News all the time.Anyway, some loony is killing off women and dumping them in lakes and bruce and his girl try to catch him. They do in the end but it's kind of an anticlimax. The way this show is set up you just know there's gonna be a twist ending even if you don't know what the twist will be. T "},{"Title":"Over the top and daft Willis vehicle...it's fun though","Date":"8 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I like films like Striking Distance. While they offer nothing in the way of intelligence or substance, this sort of film is always good if you just want ninety minutes or so of entertainment. While this film isn't the greatest waste of time movie ever conceived, it's not the worst either and it benefits from Bruce Willis' star power. The star of the show plays a cop who, after blaming the police department for the death of a fellow policeman - his dad, gets relegated to the less than exciting post of 'water dog', which, for the less savvy amongst you - is a policeman who rides in a boat rather than a car. However, our hero believes that the man the department sent down for the death of his father and several other people isn't really the killer at all, and that the real fiend is still on the loose. This all appears to be true as well, when our man starts finding bodies of women he knows in the river that he patrols.This film's main downfall is that it's just too silly to be taken seriously. The car chase at the start of the movie gives a good indication of the sort of film that you're in for, as it's extremely overlong and throughout the movie - from the over the top start to the very over the top climax, this film makes no attempt to ground itself in reality. It's not hard to see why Willis took the role, however, as seeing the amount of action in the script; this movie is a good vehicle for him to cement his 'action star' status in. Sarah Jessica Parker is the love interest, and throughout the movie she looks out of place and uncomfortable. Of course, nowadays she's famous for being in the terrible sitcom 'Sex and the City', so no matter how she performed in this film; she'd look out of place. There are better thrillers than this one for you to waste your time on, but this isn't all that bad. It's forgettable after a few days, but at the time of viewing; it's a fun ride. "},{"Title":"Striking Distance!","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Striking Distance is good action and mystery movie! Bruce Willis was really good and the late Brion James was put on a very good performance and Dennis Farina, Tom Sizemore and especially Robert Pastorelli were good! The movie is entertaining and if you like Bruce Willis then this is a must see!  "}{"Title":"Who are you kidding Tommy? You ain't got nothing worth stealing.","Date":"10 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I logged on to IMDb expecting to see at least a 6.7 average for this movie. This movie seems like the type to please most audience groups. I was shocked to see this movie below six, but barely making it into 5? Come on people..What are you thinking? This movie is completely original in plot and loaded with action. Not a knockoff of everything you have seen made 10 times over.Bruce Willis has always been a favorite actor of mine so maybe I'm a little bias in my rating..Maybe not? I don't think so but its a good movie anyway.If out go in expecting to see a 5.0 average movie you are in for a pleasant surprise. Its loaded with top notch actors combined with originality. Enjoy! "},{"Title":"Bad movie, but appreciated the research","Date":"14 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" First off, as a movie... Script, plot, acting... This is bad. Bad, bad, bad... But being from Pittsburgh originally, I still pull it out from time to time and watch it because I enjoy all the little touches they put in to actually set it in Pittsburgh. From using actual Pittsburgh news personalities, logos and music... To the Iron City Beer truck upsetting in the chase scene... To referencing actual Pittsburgh places and things in their conversation, including actual area high schools when talking about where they went to school... Not to mention the great shots of the scenery. Sure there are some inaccuracies, but it is so much better than a lot of films set in Pittsburgh where they just say hey we're in Pittsburgh and then throw in things obviously made up by scriptwriters who have never been there. Sure, only the natives will appreciate this stuff, if your not from the burgh, this is a bad, bad film. But if you are... it's still a bad, bad film. But you'll enjoy all the little details they threw in that only you can appreciate. "},{"Title":"One for Willis fans","Date":"14 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" A lot of people tend to put this movie down, but I really find it enjoyable and will go back to it frequently for some good Bruce Willis action. He reminds me in this film of the Chris Noth character on Law and Order. he got sent to Jersey, while Willis is on river patrol.Sarah Jessica Parker is quite lovely as the new partner, and look at that supporting cast Dennis Farina. Tom Sizemore, Timothy Busfield, John Mahoney, and Andre Braugher.There really is a good mystery to solve even if it involves some formulaic plot. So, pop a bag and sit back for some good entertainment - you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"On Strike","Date":"10 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is a completely unremarkable film except for the bigger than usual twist at the end.What I find interesting in reviewing Willis' career is how important it is for actors of his type to find projects that exploit their niches.By actors of his type, I mean actors with a single gift -- something that on repeating becomes an expected trademark. With Willis, it is that wink at the audience, a sort of Milton Berle aside that says ` I'm an actor and you know I know you know it. I'm here to entertain you and we can both share in watching me have fun.' In this, he follows a trend begun by Gable (in `It Happened One Night') and became attached to a career first (I think) with Cary Grant.Willis has some power as an actor, but he just cannot escape this winking mode. It worked in `Die Hard' stuff, `Pulp Fiction,' (where his role as boxer-performer mirrored it) and in `6th Sense,' where the two roles of winker and character were leveraged in the story twist.But this film neither wants nor needs that wink. It makes no attempt to exploit it. And as a result comes off as a simple TeeVee movie-level project. Ms Parker doesn't help.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "},{"Title":"This is Hardy, go at the beep.","Date":"18 April 2010","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" That's the answer phone greeting of Bruce Willis' bitter and troubled river cop Tom Hardy. Well I'm telling you all that this is John Chard and you all should go as far away from this movie at the opening credits. It's truly awful and probably stands up as a candidate for biggest collective waste of actors in the 1990s.Directed by Rowdy Herrington (Road House), who also co-wrote it with Marty Kaplan (The Distinguished Gentleman), it's not unfair to say that expectation isn't set too high with that collaboration. But the cast on the other hand does suggest we are in for a popcorn thriller of some note. Oh how wrong that suggestion proves to be. Although Bruce Willis was at the time on a run of poorly received film's Pulp Fiction and a career invigoration was a year away, he still had two Die Hard movies behind him and a cult favourite in The Last Boy Scout. He was still an action star of some credibility and a draw card. Joining him in the cast are Dennis Farina, Brion James, Tom Sizemore, Andre Braugher, John Mahoney and Tom Atkins. Oh and Sarah Jessica Parker (the sarcasm is intentional). What transpires with this collection of thesps is just over 100 minutes of cliché riddled rubbish devoid of suspense and tension.It's a pity the film is so bad because an action/cop film set on and around a river should have made for a refreshing change. Lots of boaty action mixing with a serial killer plot seemed like a good idea, but they didn't get a decent writer or director in did they? From the off all eventualities are sign posted. The killer is obvious, and this in spite of myself trying desperately not to notice the obviousness of it. I actually thought to myself that surely the makers wouldn't take the viewers for being that stupid? Even the staple requirement of a red herring jumps up and hits you on the head with a dull thud. Parker is awful, tho in fairness her character serves only to be a token bit of totty lining up to do all the same things every other badly written female cop has done in prior movies. Then there is the performance of the actor playing the villain for the film's finale. So laughable you will be forgiven for checking the DVD case to see if you picked up a Laurel & Hardy movie by mistake. The one saving grace for action junkies is a tidily constructed car chase sequence in the first quarter, but from there on in it goes downhill in quality. For the big key section set in and around a log cabin, you may find yourself stifling the laughter; such is the bad quality of the action and execution of the scenes. This is a film containing men who before this film had been in Die Hard, Midnight Run, True Romance, Red Heat, Beverly Hills Cop II & Lethal Weapon. Making the biggest crime of all involving this movie? That not one of those guys stood up during the rushes and said this is a bad action movie, lets start again. 3/10 "},{"Title":"What? No Oscar nominations?","Date":"1 October 2007","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This film is to art as Joseph Mengela is to medicine. What could be sexier than boat cops in Pittsburg? Even God was against this film being made since it was overcast in nearly all the boating scenes. Parker and Willis are at their absolute worst, but they shine compared to the screenwriter. Andre Brauer once again lends a Shakepearean tone to his part as an Internal Affairs investigator. Who knew Othello was a cop in Pittsburg? Timothy Busfield hits his one note with great aplomb. And the supporting cast all seem to know what everyone else in this waste of petroleum based celluloid knows; we're making a really bad movie. It is awesomely awful. If university profs use Chinatown and The Sting as shining examples of writing excellence, then Striking Distance must appear on the opposite end of their spectrum. I'm poring through my film books to see if there is a cliché that didn't make it into Striking KEEP YOUR Distance. "},{"Title":"Wait, there is more!","Date":"23 December 2001","Score":"8 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Bruce Willis is playing - what else - a burned out and psychologically bruised cop. And the whole world is against him. But then. against all odds....and reason....he will be - guess what?....Victorious!There is sex in it! Abducted love interest! Corrupt cops! Car chases! Boat chases! Fist-fights! Spectacular shootouts! Sexy single mom longing for her child she had to leave behind to fulfill her duties! Deception and forgiveness! Crazed murderer! Insane moral dilemmas! But wait, there is more! Or is there? Can you think of more clichés?......who am I kidding? Five minutes after I finished watching it, I already forgot the title. I had to look it up in the TV guide. It is THAT forgettable. If you want to watch crap, it's OK. Just find some better crap than this one. There is plenty out there. "},{"Title":"Striking Distance","Date":"5 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I had heard the title and who starred in somewhere, I am pretty sure it was from seeing the DVD cover, I guess I watched it just to see some reasonable action fun with the two lead stars I knew. Basically Det. Tom Hardy (Bruce Willis) comes from a generation of cops, and he is devastated when his father Vince (John Mahoney) dies during the chase of a serial killer, and after he gets himself in an argument with his partner and cousin Det. Jimmy Detillo (Robert Pastorelli). Two years later Tom is working as part of the river rescue police, but is pulled back into action with new partner Jo Christman (Sarah Jessica Parker) when possibly the same killer, nicknamed the Polish Hill strangler, is on the loose again. The victims seem to be women that Tom knew, making him a prime suspect, and no-one apart from maybe Jo believes it is the same killer from the past, and he will have to find the right clues to prove his innocence. Keeping an eye on him is Capt. Nick Detillo (Dennis Farina), an acquaintance from two years ago, and Tom and Jo and do come across some small clues, it is obvious that they are slowly falling for each other. Eventually when trapped, Tom finally gets the truth from Nick, that Jimmy was the killer, he has been copycatting the crimes, and he was the one who killed his father, but in the end of course the guilty are caught and the good guys go back to the better life. Also starring Tom Sizemore as Det. Danny Detillo, Brion James as Det. Eddie Eiler, Timothy Busfield as Tony Sacco and Poseidon's Andre Braugher as Dist. Atty. Frank Morris. The acting was a little flat in parts, and they could have been a few more explosive and gun filled chase and action sequences, I will admit as well I didn't exactly pay the fullest attention while watching, but I guess as a cop looking for a serial killer story is is okay, an alright crime thriller. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Glum","Date":"29 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  SpoilersIn one of his many anti-Die Hard films, Bruce plays a glum, haunted river patrol cop trying to catch a man murdering his old girlfriends while contending with new partner Sarah Jessica Parker, prior to her Sex & The City success. Bruce is also greatly disliked by his fellow police officers and doesn't get along well with partners, that is until Sarah jumps in the sack with him. Are we surprised to learn that the killer is a deranged ex-cop and an associate of Bruce's?The film kind of looks like it was made for TV instead of a live action film. Long and weary, but not bad.Bruce gives it a decent performance. Then 28 years old (or 27, given the amount of time it takes to make a film, edit it and release it), Sarah is okay and fan boys get to see her stripped down to her angelic, virgin white panties and bra (and a close up of Bruce sneaking his hand under panties to feel her derriere). Worth a rental just to see Sarah not wearing her clothes  "},{"Title":"This is an excellent movie","Date":"18 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Unlike some of Bruce Willis' movies that do not have any plot what soever this one is one plot twist after another. I really enjoyed this flick. Tom Sizemore who is the greatest actor of all time puts in another great performance. Even though he is great in all of his movies. Another great under rated actor in this movie is Dennis Farina he is hilarious as always. He adds a touch of humor when the movie is in a gloomy state. Overall it is one of Bruce Willis' finest movies that he has ever made since Pulp Fiction. "}{"Title":"bad script weak action make a bore","Date":"22 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This films major problem isn't the actors it's the script it could have been written better. The best point would be the fact that they didn't need the twist of Sarah Jessica Parker as a Internal Affairs  officer. The roles are also written weak there wasn't enough back story to help understand why Jimmy needs to be the best cop but I guess they thought that the act(yawn)ion was enough. "},{"Title":"Absolutely horrible!","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This movie has to be the worse movie I have ever seen. Predictable from beginning to end. Well shot but what a waste of film when there are so many other directors out there that could have put the celluloid to better use. "},{"Title":"Full of holes, clichés, emoting, but a decent car chase","Date":"4 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" We see Bruce Willis develop his 2-dimensional acting chops in this, one of his earliest action flicks. He basically has 3 emotions the overly subdued I'm to cool to care tone, the aloof/smug tone, and the yelling tone. The facial contortions he exhibits when he shoots a gun is so ham and often repeated throughout his career. ( Don't get me wrong, some of his films, if not his work, I am very fond of). You either love Sarah J, Parker or not. But it strikes me odd that she has been in SO many love scenes and starred in the Sex & The City shows and movies, yet she obviously takes herself too serious as their must be a no-nip clause in all of her contracts. I guess whats good enough for serious actresses like Helen Mirren, Susan Sarandon, Kate Winslet, and Julianne Moore isn't good enough for her. The film This is a 19 year old movie, so I am going to assume the plot has been well covered here. But I couldn't get passed a couple of things Great opening car chase scene, highly frenetic, however father and son are having a completely sedate personal conversation. Its one thing to be in control of your emotions, its another being inhuman. So they get in this rolling car crash, its the middle of the day and apparently they all just sat there for hours and hours because its dark when the other cops ( some involved in the pursuit) arrive at the scene. Second big thing, you have our villain, a cop. He's on the bridge for the longest time. All of his relatives are cops, his dad is a cop. There's is the omnipotent river patrol, who our protagonist joins later in the film. Yet, when the villain jumps in, the river patrol cant immediately find him? After all, all of the other dead bodies are found, and apparently the river is pretty clean ( of course not) because we see night-time underwater sequences. Wouldn't they want his body recovered? They certainly had the resources. Minor things Why was the guy who dumped a throw-rug so anxious to risk life&limb and his car ( which explodes) over it? Was this our villain? Never explained. The worst things for me had to be Sarah's mushy court-room testimony, and Brion James ( who I like in other films) who is so over-the-top angry about everything its just plain humorous, or his diatribe in the end when he eats crow and ego strokes Bruce. Really cheesy. "},{"Title":"Bruce is not at his best here","Date":"23 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" STRIKING DISTANCE has Bruce Willis playing an alcoholic Pennsylvania river cop, who was busted down from detective two years before over flubbing a serial killer case that ended in the deaths of his father and a cousin, both cops. Sarah Parker joins Willis on his patrol boat, and we're off and running as the elusive serial killer has apparently returned -- or so Bruce thinks. No one else agrees with him, except maybe Parker. The movie has some solid action sequences and several unexpected twists, but it is clearly one of Willis' lesser efforts from the early 1990s. He low-keys it throughout, taking the drinking and depression thing too far. And seeing him in shorts doesn't exactly help, even if they are part of his new uniform. Parker does her best against overwhelming odds, and is joined in her efforts by veteran character players Dennis Farina, Brion James and John Mahoney. The film is just too dour, although it is worth watching for the wholly unnerving torture room sequence near the end. One thing it cannot be criticized for is its R-rated violence, which helps keep the movie floating along. "},{"Title":"THRILLERS DO NOT COME ANY BETTER THEN THIS!!!!","Date":"16 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  This is undoubtedly Bruce Willis's finest film. I think that some scenes in this film could have been directed by Alfred Hitchcock. I guess that is the greatest compliment that you could pay a film like this. People think of Willis mainly as an action star who really doesn't act, this film proves he is a fine actor as well. I have heard so many critics trash this film and I cannot understand why. It is a white knuckle, high wire through hell from beginning to end. Sarah Jessica Parker gives a wonderful dramatic performance and is perfectly believeable as a cop. The speedboat chase is the best part of the film and is simply a delight and a thrill to watch. Seldom have so many fine character actors been in one film, I would particularly like to mention John Mahoney and Dennis Farina (who really was a detective with the Chicago police department). Watching these professionals at work is a delight. Not to take anything away from Parker or Willis, but the best performance in this film belongs to Robert Pastorelli. He is chilling as the bad guy. This man portrays evil in such a way you will spend many nightmares trying to forget it. Simply put, it is one of the most chilling portrayals of a psychotic killer ever committed to screen. I wanted to kill him with my bare hands! This movie has got one of the most shocking finales that you will ever see in a motion picture. It will literally take your breath away.  "},{"Title":"this movie was one of Bruce Willis's best ones !!","Date":"22 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  this movie was GREAT !!! action and suspence all thru it. .not knowing who the killer was and then finding out at the end of it.. it caught me totally off- guard !!! Bruce did a Fantastic job in this picture, i thoroughly enjoyed every minute of it .. ive been a fan of Bruce's since he starred in Moonlighting .. he is one terrific actor thats for sure, hes done his fair share of crappy movies but Striking Distance was super ..  "},{"Title":"This was at first predictable and then ridiculous","Date":"4 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  290 votes were made before mine and none of them thought the film was worth a comment, what does that tell you? This film stars Bruce Willis, I liked him in Die Hard, forgave him in the sequel and felt saddened by With A Vengence, in Mercury Rising he almost made me cry, this guy cannot act as proven by his repetitive angry rebel policeman role, it's not typecasting, it is all he can do. This film is bad, I saw few redeeming or original features, the only good point is Fraisers dad is in it and I like him and Fraiser. "},{"Title":"How are movies like this made?","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  So this script comes from two writers, one of whom did nothing special, the other helped adapt a play for the big screen and did A Distinguished Gentleman.  The director has done nothing special.  So how do they get to be the core creative force behind a movie?  Why not get somebody with talent to at least oversee the project?  Do they drag people off the street to write screenplays now?  This is extremely frustrating, how many talented people are ignored so that high-school drop-outs can write for the big screen?The film starts off being a dated, cliched police thriller.  And that's as good as it gets.  It says something about the careers of all the actors involved - they must either be desperate, or they'll do *anything* for money.If you're the kind of person who still can't work out how sundials work, or if you're *really* drunk, then you may enjoy this predictable, unthinking movie.  However, if you like a little imagination and plausibility in a production, avoid this like the plague! "},{"Title":"Waste of time","Date":"14 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" So full of flaws it's almost funny. A chase scene that has either bullet holes in the windshield, or doesn't. When it does they are different than the scene seconds before. Willis has a shotgun, and then it vanishes without a trace. I am pretty sure that the cops don't stand on both sides of a car and blast away, they would shoot each other if that happened. Guys get shot but there is no trace of blood or bullet holes. Plot? Yea, right. This was two hours of my life I will never get back! If it wasn't for the visual of Sarah Parker in her tight shorts I would have turned it off. Tom Sizmore still can't act. It's too bad, there was a lot of individual talent in this movie that it could have been good. Not great mind you but good. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable But Lazy","Date":"18 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" There are two mysteries to Striking Distance (1993) which drive this movie and provide the character motivation; as things build toward a climax (and only ten minutes remain to wrap everything up) you know that two has to be one-that the same thing will be the answer to both questions because not enough time remains to untangle two different sets of misdirection. Of course first-time viewers applying first-class logical reasoning skills will never guess the answer, because someone (presumably the writers) cheats at the end and introduces the deus ex machina device. Dating back to Greek tragedy, deus ex machina is when an artificial character is suddenly introduced to untangle a hopelessly contrived plot. Looking back for clues to the involvement of this character you realize that there are none and that the writers have intentionally kept the audience ignorant, a cheap way to surprise the viewer, the drawback being that the technique makes it impossible to inject even the tiniest bit of suspense into the viewing process. What clues there are were inserted just to jerk the viewer around. They cheat again with another of those stupid villain resurrection fight sequences at the very end. You know this tired stuff, show evidence that the villain could not possibly have escaped then have him Jason-like magically surface alive and kicking. The sad part being that it doesn't work (which must have been obvious during the editing process), it is totally unnecessary, and it could have been seamlessly trimmed out during post-production. Lose those moronic 20 seconds and you could add about 10 IQ points to the target audience. That said, it is otherwise an entertaining film. Bruce Willis plays a trouble-making Pittsburgh cop named Hardy and.... big surprise.... he's unpopular with the department brass. He is demoted and paired with Sarah Jessica Parker patrolling the three rivers for the River Rescue Squad. Their romance is predictable but the chemistry is good and the relationship has a nice low-key charm. The river patrol provides an opportunity to stage some nice 1940's style action and chase scenes. Hardy is very easy to identify with so you can get a nice vicarious rush from his point-of-view. Handy is unpopular because he testified against his first partner in a police brutality case, because he insists that a serial killer is still at large, and that only someone on the force could be the serial killer. So mystery #1 is the identity of the serial killer. Mystery #2 is who killed Hardy's father (a police Captain) about the same time as the first round of serial killings. . His uncle (Dennis Farina) is on the force, and at one time so were two of his uncle's sons, Hardy's cousins and childhood friends. Not much is revealed about them because doing so would require a much more intelligent screenplay. One seems to be a violent nut case so you know he could not possibly be involved in the killings. Roger Ebert summed it all up nicely in a template A rebel cop stirs up trouble and is disciplined, but determines to stay on the trail of a serial killer, while meanwhile he is assigned a partner that first he hates and then he likes, while the killer cleverly tries to frame him. Add several chase scenes and a deadly confrontation in which all of the key characters magically congregate at the same time. Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child. "}{"Title":"They tried, and failed miserably....","Date":"7 May 2008","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" What could have been something with so many good character actors assisting a bona fide star, just deteriorates into a mishmash of unbelievable circumstances and plot holes. With a cast this good, it takes a colossal effort to make a film this bad. Police officer with what seems his entire extended family also on the force, gets caught up in the case of a homicidal maniac known as the Polish Heights strangler in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In the course of the pursuit of the suspect, (unseen at this point, so why they suspect him of the crimes we don't know, nor are we given any answer), the cops' father dies of a gunshot wound, supposedly at the hands of the Killer. After some hectic times when the cop testifies against his partner (who also happens to be his cousin) in a brutality lawsuit (guess there isn't a blue shield), and the subsequent suicide of the cousin, whilst jumping from a Bridge into the River (although they fail to realize there are three major rivers in Pittsburgh, Monongahela the Allegany and the Ohio) the cop is sent to the River POlice. Don't quite understand why they'd put a flawed cop on a river beat, especially since most characters see him as a raging alcoholic, not exactly the type of person you want to see driving a boat. Years later, some killings occur that closely resemble the murders from years before. Lots of dumb red herrings fill the movie, as well as an unlikely pairing of Willis and Parker, plus a ridiculous ending where a handcuffed Willis beats a homicidal maniac while swimming. Just hands down a terrible film. Writing stinks, the direction stinks, and overall the performances are just mailed in. "},{"Title":"Very contrived action movie with not much going for it besides Willis and Sizemore.","Date":"21 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I'm a big proponent of guilty pleasures, I'm referencing now specifically to the buddy-cop action movies. We all know them...Lethal Weapon, The Last Boyscout, Bad Boys, etc.All these movies are chock full of clichés. The evil guys are all sadistic bastards with a bad sense of humor, every time a thug gets shot one of the 'good guys' makes a witty comment, the cops always have issues with their bosses ('you're a loose cannon'), there's always some divorce or other major personal issue inter-weaved in the storyline and that situation is resolved in the end, after a spectacular shoot-out. Specifically true for Bruce Willis movies is the fact that he's always hungover, divorced, and always muttering in himself complaining about all the crap he gets to deal with. Now...I love those aspects. They bring up a certain sense of nostalgia. But there's got to be more than just the clichés. In really good action movies you have in addition a semi-intelligent storyline, sufficient acting and original action-sequences. And now we get to the point...Striking Distance lacks them all. Everything 'The Last Boy Scout' (which I happen to have viewed last night) does right, goes wrong here. The humor isn't funny, the acting is mediocre to poor and the whole story is painfully contrived. Are we supposed to believe that Jimmy has spent two years waiting (for no good reason) doing God knows what until he can get his revenge. Even the song used during the killings didn't send chills up and down my spine like it ought to. Don't even get me started about the horrible supporting cast. The only cast members who deserve to walk away from this movie without shame are Dennis Farina, Tom Sizemore (who was good IMO) and Bruce Willis. And the script...how did that ever get produced? One of the poorest ones I've seen in a long time. I can go on and on but I think I made my point. I guess if you line up SD against all other action movies it makes for a more than average action movie. But comparing it with other Bruce Willis flics is painful. Seeing his name on the poster usually sets a high expectation for me, I'm sure the same applies for most people. In the end SD only barely rises up from mediocrity, and therefore it disappoints (being a Willis flic). "},{"Title":"It's Been Done Before, and About Ten Times Better...","Date":"9 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  Striking Distance is one of those Bruce Willis movies that had no thought put into the dialogue (Hudson Hawk), the script (Mercury Rising) nor the cast (Pulp Fiction--NO, just kidding). The plot has Bruce Willis as an ex-cop. His father (John Mahoney) was killed in a car accident while Brucey and Daddy were chasing a madman strangler. Now, years later, as Brucey works boat duty on a river, all of Bruce's (ex?)-girlfriends are being killed off by a strangler. Or, as Brucey himself puts it, He's killing them and dumping them in the water so I'll find the bodies. This film is a lot like another Brucey-no-brainer, Mercury Rising, which had a decent beginning but got screwed up a quarter of the way in due to extremely bad dialogue, a boring pace, and extremely bad plot twists (like no one saw the ending here?). Speaking of the ending, that's another thing about this film The ending is absolutely typical and predictable. I've seen it done a million times before. Different faces, same story.The on-the-side romance with Sex and the City's dog-ugly actress (not to mention Matthew Broderick's wife) Sarah Jessica Parker is very typical, also. Hard to get girl is hard to get until she sees the guy's inner beauty, sleeps with him, and then is held hostage by the killer at the end so he/she has some sort of collateral against the Hero of the Story (in this case, our man--or his own man--Brucey). I didn't see it coming. (Not.)I was looking forward to a nice co-star role by John Mahoney when I saw this film (better known as Frasier's dad on the NBC television show Frasier), but you don't find out he dies in the first five minutes of the film until you rent the *darn*ed thing. Arghh! No wonder they put his name last on the casting bill without an and John Mahoney or with John Mahoney as Brucey's Dad. Another arghh!I won't say that Striking Distance isn't easy to watch--when it's on TV I (somehow) find myself half-paying attention to it (if nothing else is on). But even the guilty pleasure of it is hard to accept, because it's so darn lousy. Only worth seeing if there is absolutely nothing--and I mean nothing--on TV. I'd much rather watch Mercury Rising again than have to sit through this load-a-tripe (well, maybe not, but you get the picture).2/5 stars (it deserves lower, but I gave that much to Mercury Rising, and they're on the same level of lousiness) -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Poor plot, awful twist and no tension. Only a big name star and good support cast makes it stand out from all the dross that fills the late night cable stations and bottom shelf thrillers","Date":"16 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":"  A killer is on the loose in Pittsburgh. Nicknamed Little Red Hiding Hood, the killer kidnaps and murders women before dumping their bodies. Police Officers Vincent and Tom Hardy are father and son and on their way to a policeman's' ball (despite Tom being considered a 'rat' within the precinct) when the call comes in that the killer has been located. A chase ensues that ends with the killer escaping and Vincent dead. When Tom accuses the police department of brushing over the investigation by arresting a man who Tom believes is innocent and, when he puts forward his theory that the killer is a cop, he is busted down to River Patrol as punishment. Years later bodies start showing up in the river, Tom starts to investigate, adamant that the killer is still out there and is mocking him.Before Pulp Fiction, 12 Monkeys showed that he could act and Die Hard 3 also returned his box office clout, Bruce Willis seemed to be headed to a ruined career. He was making pretty poor films and he made a run of films between 1991-94 that, frankly, were bad. Colour of Money, Last Boy Scout, Hudson Hawk and Bonfire Of The Vanities were pretty poor and whatever value they may have had was ruled out by the bad business they did at the box office. Here is one of his films that would barely be considered for a low budget video thriller were it not for Willis being in the cast. The plot is really thin and far from special. It opens up with an enjoyable car chase but after that it gets poor and stays that way. The film wanders for a bit while introducing Willis' new partner (a woman &#150; he hates her but I wonder if they'll hit it off at any point?!) but then gets down to the business of the killer. It isn't really ever exciting or gripping and the final twist is laughably bad &#150; it's like they had a contest to come up with the stupidest twist they could, although, having said that, it is also depressingly obvious after 15 minutes of the film if you have seen some of this genre.The cast are not terrible, just stuck with bad material. Willis is sleeping walking which is why he started making such average films - even Die Hard 2 suffered from his laziness. Here he shows everything that is bad about him as an actor, he is lazy, uncharismatic and just lacking in any of the unique touch and wit that made me fall in love with him in the original Die Hard. However the support cast are actually quite good on the whole and make the film feel better than it is simply due to the number of faces on screen. Parker is pretty poor but the rest do OK because they aren't stuck with a cr*p love-interest role. Farina is fun, Sizemore has little to do but is a familiar face. Mahoney has a very small role but is worth it and it's cool to see Braugher, Busfield and James even if Pastorelli is just laughably stupid!Overall this is a video thriller with a poor plot, awful twist and no real tension or excitement despite the promise posed by the opening car chase. The only thing that makes it stand out from those is the fact that it fluked a handful of big names in the cast &#150; however, their presence alone cannot lift the material off the bottom shelf of your video store or the midnight slot on your cable station where it rightly deserves to be.  "},{"Title":"Putrid","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"3 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" This movie makes me wanna take a bowel movement on the case it came in. i would rather watch from Justin to Kelly then this horrible movie. the people who green lighted this movie should be disgusted with their lives and dis owned by their families. don't get me wrong i enjoy Bruce Willis but this movie is so terrible i actually had to get rid of all my die hard movies. the only people who can like this movie are small brained cavemen who then even have to be forced to watch this. someone please destroy every copy of this movie ever made. this movie is the reason Demi Moore is with Ashton Kutcher........... Ashton's movies are Oscar worthy compared to this movie. the united states army should use this movie as a torture device. "},{"Title":"OMG this has to be the most horrible movie in history.","Date":"8 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" I would rather watch reruns of the Smother's brothers. This movie is beyond pathetic. SJP is hideous, i wouldn't sleep with her for $5000. I actually met Demi and her mother during the filming of this movie, I served her lunch. They were both beautiful and delightful. If this (SJP) bitch could be more annoying and ugly it would be difficult, I would rather sleep with Oprah. Hideous, ugly, nasty, no-talent Pig.Behind that is the bad, really bad acting of the rest of the 'cast. No plot, bad acting, predictable scenes, it's like Woody Allen decided to make another bad movie that wasn't supposed to be funny. It is so contrived and horrid it's ridiculous, I want to vomit when i SEE HER. If I could break her face with a hammer I would be the happiest man on Earth. She can't act, she is ugly, she is pathetic. F>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> I hate her guts. "},{"Title":"Another candidate for worst movie ever...","Date":"28 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Mystery","Review":" One of these days, someone will write a honest history of American movies and it won't be Martin Scorsese. This history will show that US movies died in the late sixties and were replaced by what seemed at first a more personal cinema that quickly degenerated into the glorification of the criminal lifestyle (Bonnie and Clyde, The Godfather) and raising the violent content every year. Personal became formula and the formula was = sadistic violence + unidimensional action anti-hero + comic book plot with extremely well delineated villains who commit repulsive crimes + kaboom! + possibility of a sequel. Striking Distance is the epitome of that formula, except for the fact that it was so bad on every level and the clichés were so transparent no one ever considered making a sequel. If you take into account the number of plot clichés in the film, it can already be considered a sequel to a thousand other films, one that is so degenerate they didn't even bother to give it the name of the preceding piece of trash. The funny thing is this was considered mainstream film-making in the 90's and all the actors are, if not brilliant, at least famous and expensive. On an appearance in May 2004 on On the Record with Bob Costas (2001), Bruce Willis actually apologized to the movie-going public for this film, saying that it sucked. He might as well have apologized for most of the American films of the 70's, 80's and 90's. "}]