[{"Title":"Once upon a time, evil was a cool distraction","Date":"18 October 2003","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  It had been years since I had watched this film, but watching it recently, I was reminded of how much I enjoyed this sequel to the original warlock.  The characters weren't near as annoying as that girl who lost her bracelet in the original, and the Warlock was actually given some pretty cool lines and parts.  I don't know, maybe it was the plot, but the Warlock just seemed so much more evil in the sequel.   Is it cheesey?  Yes, because the early nineties were a cheesey time, but sometimes it's fun to look back at the past and smile.If you like cheap, cheesey horror films, this one might make you grin. "},{"Title":"An equally good sequel","Date":"16 February 2010","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" First off, let me say that you can watch Warlock The Armageddon without having seen the first Warlock movie. Of course you will have more depth to the warlock character, if you have seen it, but you will not miss out on anything if you haven't.This sequel is as good as the first movie in the series.Again, the role of the sinister warlock is portrayed by the charismatic Julian Sands. And in this movie the character is much more dark and evil, far more twisted than the warlock portrayed in the first movie. Julian Sands is so perfect for the role of the warlock.The cast is good, and the roles of the druids are good, both for the young druids and the elderly druids.The movie has a bunch of cool effects and wicked magics, something that have to be seen. However, it is not all good though, the scene with the knife went horribly wrong. That knife is perhaps the worst CGI effect I have seen to date.For fans of adventure genres or for people who like to play D&D games, this movie provides good entertainment. And like the first Warlock movie, this also have enough entertainment for more than one watching. I never grow tired of it, at least! "},{"Title":"A more gruesome movie than the first, but not as good.","Date":"13 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Julian Sands returns here, but I don't know if he is supposed to be the same guy are not.  The rules are all changed around here and in many ways it is almost an entirely different movie.  The Warlock in this movie seems nearly indestructible than in the first, and instead of the puritan types that were the ones to try and stop him in the first one, here he must be stopped by druids.  This time the Warlock makes a most memorable first appearance, and then he goes after these magic stones so he can release Satan into the world.  This makes the druid angle seem rather dumb as I don't think they believe in such things.  However, it still is a rather good movie, just not as good as the first...in fact this movie might have seemed better if the first one never happened.  The movie though does follow a certain pattern.  You see scenes of this kids coming into terms with their special powers to stop the Warlock, then a scene of the Warlock finding one of the stones, finally whoever has the stone is killed in an unusual way, and then repeat.  This happens till the end and the big showdown occurs.  I do so enjoy the shotgun scene.  That is about all there is too it, but then the Warlock does kill people in vastly different and interesting ways.  Not a great movie, but it is okay and worth checking out, though it is rather gruesome at times. "},{"Title":"Simultaneously More Fun and Less Satisfying then the First","Date":"3 April 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Back in the late eighties/early nineties, when the horror genre was being fed consistent revenue from a still-growing home video market, just about any scare film could spawn a franchise. The original Warlock was only a modest success but that was still enough to justify a sequel two years later. Warlock The Armageddon has a more ambitious story then the original, a more comedic tone, and is simultaneously more fun and less satisfying then the first.Only loosely connected to the first film, Warlock II builds a wildly different mythology around the titular villain. There's some typical nonsense about lunar and solar eclipse and how the wall between Earth and Hell is thin during this time. This is a opportune moment for the Warlock, upgraded from merely a powerful witch to the literal son of Satan, to reemerge. A sect of druids protect the five rune stones the villain needs to bring about Hell on Earth. A prophecy marks two of their children as the true warriors that will prevent the end of days. The film follows the druids training their youngest members for battle while the Warlock travels across the country, collecting the remaining stones and committing magically-assisted murders.Warlock The Armageddon is essentially two movies stapled together. One is campy but incredibly entertaining while the other is campy and boring. The Warlock's killing spree provides the trashy thrills horror-fans are likely looking for. The film beings with the evil witch being reborn, in a sick and twisted moment, and continues in similarly outrageous fashion. The Warlock comes across each owner of the stones, offing them in ways related to their personality. The death scenes are high-pitched and ridiculous. A gas station attendant has his eye torn out, a snooty art collector is bent into a piece of modern art, a hooker gets scalped, not to mention a lengthy stop at a carnival sideshow. Julian Sands is having a ball. He hams it up, digging into each cheesy one liner the script gives. Sands never winks, maintaining the seriousness of the Warlock character, while letting the audience know what a good time he's having. Gory, silly quasi-slasher thrills like this are probably what you'd expect from an underachieving sequel to a sorta-popular eighties horror movie.The other movie Warlock 2 also is doesn't entertain in the same way. The tale of the druids raising two new warriors is snore-inducing. The audience certainly doesn't care about Chris Young's protagonist, a gee-shucks young kid named Kenny. His romance with Samantha, played by a wooden Paula Marshall, is of no interest at all. The storyline, involving rune stones and ancient prophecies, is horribly clichéd. It's the kind of mythological story we've heard hundreds of times before in horror and fantasy films. Any time the movie focuses on this plot line, the audience really wishes it would be back to the Warlock killing people.Director Anthony Hickox had previously directed the Waxwork films, Sundown The Vampires in Retreat, and, most pressingly, Hellraiser III Hell on Earth. Like Hellraiser III, Hickox has made a movie about a formally serious villain suddenly performing over-the-top kills and cracking wise about it. Luckily for us, the Warlock is a far better fit for this style then Pinhead. Hickox's direction is energetic, with multiple tracking shots of bodies flying through the air. His creativity, which has always been fun but undisciplined, is best displayed during the final fight. The Warlock explodes a building, walking back to Earth on an invisible staircase. He dismembers enemies with his hands and shoots them down with his finger. However, the climax proves a bit underwhelming. Not only is the bland hero pitted against the far more charismatic Sands, the way the villain is defeated comes out of nowhere.I've never gotten around to seeing Warlock III but the lack of Julian Sands doesn't make me quick to check it out. Warlock The Armageddon probably wouldn't be half as much as it is without Sands' camping it up. It's a fairly undemanding flick for horror geeks and certainly would have prospered from a more balanced and creative script. But, then again, what can you expect from an in-name-only sequel to a sort-of obscure movie. "},{"Title":"I don't know what it is....","Date":"21 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" But I absolutely loved this movie. I mean loved it. I don't know why but I did. Starts out so cheesy with the Druids doing their thing and then we go whisking off to the our time whenever he is given birth. With the training of the 'Warriors' and him traveling across country to find the rest of the stones. So stupid, but I catch myself watching it on airplanes, and whenever I am traveling. Then Netflix got it, oh man, stop now.The special effects are horrible to todays standards, and then the acting is great, but I think its one of the most entertaining B horror films ever made. I would highly recommend it to anyone. Trust me, you will be entertained. "},{"Title":"Lots of blood, little story.","Date":"31 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I thought the sequel to Warlock was okay. The first relied heavily on the story, which was a about a unfortunate 90's working girl who is tormented by the son of the devil when a witchhunter chases him through time to the present day. It sounds far fetched, but it is surprisingly well-written. This one is about the return of the Warlock, this time he's trying to collect 7 coveted runestones that, once collected, will spell out the true name of his demon father and ultimately destroy the world (hence the title, The Armageddon). This one is much campier and much, much gorier than the first. I love Anthony Hickox though, I just can't help it. He's like Brian Yuzna, crazy, far-fetched stories, campy dialogue, tongue-in-cheek humor (check out Waxwork 2) and lots of over-the-top (but tasteful enough to usually avoid being unrated) gore. A boy learns that he is a descendant of a long line of druids, a group who has been covertly fighting the evil and superhuman for centuries. Instead of brawn, he must strengthen his mental power in order to face a final showdown of good and evil. Julian Sands once again hams it up and makes you hate him, while unleashing his unholy rage in some of the most creative kill scenes ever. I won't give much away, but he is reborn through a beautiful woman in a very painful manner, and the folks possessing the runestones get put through hell, let me tell you. The deaths are very gory, SFX-filled and creative, just watch what happens to the art collector. He becomes part of his own collection, so to speak.If you liked Children of the Corn 3, Hellraiser 3, the Waxwork series and can take campy dialogue with a grain of tolerant salt, then rent this movie for solid entertainment (for 85 minutes or so.) "},{"Title":"Pretty good, could've been a  lot better","Date":"18 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" 'Warlock The Armageddon' is a more than capable sequel to the original film.**SPOILERS**A druid ceremony is interrupted and five sacred stones are stolen and buried, hoping to never be used again. Today, high school teen and future warlock Kenny Travis (Chris Young) is having a series of problems involving his girlfriend Samantha (Paula Marshall) and the school bully Andy. (Craig Hurley) Kenny's father Will (Steve Kahan) tells him of his destiny, but he would rather get along with Samantha. The Warlock (Julian Sands) is reborn and goes off in search of the five sacred stones that are needed to bring his father back to Earth. One of the stones is held by fashionista Paula Dare (Joanna Pacula) and acquires it forcefully. Kenny learns that he comes from a long line of druids who protect the world instead of destroying it and that only he can defeat the Warlock. Will and his Warlock friend Franks (R.G. Armstrong) teach him to learn the ways of the druids to fight the Warlock, who continues on a bloodbathed path to find the stones. With Samantha coming along to help, Kenny takes on the Warlock for the fight of mankind.The Good News I'm really glad this one is a bloodbath. The first one was a very decent effort that featured very few gore effects, but this one contained several impressive kills. Being impaled on a series of spikes from a torture chamber, having an eye ripped out, having more than twenty slash marks all over their body, and being dropped over thirty feet onto a skylight, then falling trough with blood splattering on the onlookers are just some of the scenes which are more violent in here than in the first one. The elevator scene, with the stabbing, was the real killing highlight because of the suspense it involved. Because there was a couple false movements where something didn't happen when it was believed to have been, then it suddenly happens does shock the first time viewer. However, than is the only main jump in the movie. Sands really seems to have fun in the role as he actually kills people in this movie. He almost becomes a sort of Freddy-ish killer in this movie, as he does have a few pretty funny comments to his victims, but they just don't seem as good as Freddy's lines. He does kill with abandon, so it does come as a surprise when he kills them. The actual method of killing the Warlock was pretty creative, with the whole scene carrying out pretty entertaining way. The battle shifts back and forth as no one has a clear-cut advantage over the other and it never loses your interest.The Bad News There was a serious lack of jumps in this movie compared to the first one. The first one was pretty clever in how it build up suspense in it through the use of camera, scene layout, lighting, etc. This one simply abandoned that in favor of simply showing images that could've been scarier, but instead seems rather dull. If you get used to the violence, this becomes a very shock-less movie over time. The Freddy lines do need some work, as only a few are actually pretty funny. If only they would've taken the same approach, then part three would've been the laugh-fest it could been.The Final Verdict It could've been a whole better than what it was, but as it stands, this is a very entertaining film. It has a lot more blood and gore than the first one, so gore hounds will love this one. Seek it out if you like the first one or if supernatural films about witches and warlocks are up your alley.Rated R Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Brief Nudity, and a brief sex scene. "},{"Title":"A worthy sequel to the excellent original","Date":"16 October 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" A supremely wicked and powerful warlock (Julian Sands in peak sinister and sardonic form) gets reborn and plans on unleashing Satan's wrath upon the world. Two virtuous teenagers blessed with supernatural abilities have to stop the warlock before it's too late. Director Anthony Hickox, working from a grim and harsh script by Kevin Rock and Sam Bernard, handles the extremely macabre subject matter with real flair and style Hickox relates the twisted story at a constant brisk pace, sustains a properly dark and ominous mood throughout, and tackles the grisly gore set pieces with lip-smacking nasty brio (gruesome highlights include the warlock's truly vile and revolting rebirth and the warlock ripping a woman's scalp off). Chris Young as the nice, reluctant Kenny Travis and the lovely Paula Marshall as the sweet Samantha Ellison make for engaging protagonists. The veteran cast of seasoned professional thespians helps a lot R.G. Armstrong as the crusty Franks, Steve Kahan as Kenny's amiable dad Will, Bruce Glover as sensible priest Ted Ellison, Charles Hallahan as the foolhardy Ethan Larson, Joanna Pacula as snobby fashion designer Paula Dare, and David Gaines as obnoxious businessman Nathan Sinclair. Ferdy Mayne, Zach Gilligan, and George Buck Flower pop up in cool bit parts. The special effects are pretty gnarly, with the best moment occurring when the warlock turns Sinclair into a living piece of modern art. Another great scene happens when the warlock shoots two men with his fingers. The climactic battle between the forces of good and evil is lively and exciting. Mark McKenzie's spirited shuddery score hits the bull's eye. Ditto Gerry Lively's polished cinematography. An immensely enjoyable horror movie. "},{"Title":"Absoloute Epic!","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film upon first glance was a one of a string of films i have recently seen, that looks, in the TV guide, like it could be pathetic to the point that it is funny to watch due to the year it was made and by the description. The words used horror sequel, son of devil and made in 1993, simply branded it a must see film between me and my mate Mark.This film turned into one of the funniest films I have ever seen and to say it is a horror would be a mockery to all horror films. However place it within the genre of comedy, and it is up there challenging with the best of comedy films.The basic storyline made it easy to understand i.e. did not have to concentrate, which is good because i was crying with laughter too much.It follows the old theme of the evil being lead back to the main characters at the end, via the collection of 6 stones, randomly placed around the world, from Circuses to museums.Excellent acting from the son of the devil, made me believe that he actually was the son of the devil and his ways of murdering the stone holders was humorous to say the least, except for the one in the circus where that brought genuine fear to my mind.A well written script with such instances as rabbits being run over and hair being pulled off makes for an exciting and humorous viewing of one of my favouritist films of all time.Simply an 8.5/10 due to effective blood ridden moments, great acting and funny moments.Hail the guy that created this masterpiece  "},{"Title":"MORE VIOLENT MORE EVIL!!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Okay this wasn't a great movie but Julian Sands is great as the warlock. more violent that the original, Part 2 shows the Warlock as a much eviler being which I liked. The story is Every six hundred years, a great evil has the opportunity to escape and unleash Armageddon. A group of five stones has the power to either free the evil, or banish it for another six hundred years. An order of Druids battles with a Warlock determined to unleash his father upon the world.  I do admit that the first one concentrated on the plot and the atmospher and the second one was lets do a sequel and kill some people but I didn't mind that. I thought it was a good watch, funny at times. "}{"Title":"This sequel surpasses the original, but only by a very small margin.","Date":"24 September 2003","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Anthony Hickox is only about a light year ahead of Steve Miner in his vision of modern-day witches and magick users, but he still gets it wrong. The narrative begins as such 'Throughout time, people known as Druids have used their mystical powers to protect the Earth from evil. Once every millennium, when the sun aligns with the moon, these guardians summon the magic of their sacred rune stones in the quest to prevent the birth of Satan's son...' Druids would be working hard to prevent untoward events, yes. But the birth of Satan's son is not a concern to the Druids, who also realize and understand that Satan is a Christian heresy and invention, and not one that any pagan would hold in high regard. Therefore, the entire plot of this movie is moot and negated, as far as learning or 'getting' anything from this movie.However, it is an entertaining thriller with a few surprises, turns and even a twist or two. Classic 'B' movie horror, again starring Julian Sands, and as sequels go, I find this one to be a more entertaining endeavor than the flick from which it spawned. The idea of the Druid Stones is ancient, though they had nothing to do with the birth of Satan's son. As legend has it, the Druid Stones were the only keys to the seven World Gates, leading to seven different areas within the three dimensions of this World; IE Primordial, Psychic, and Ethereal planes. Therefore, the signs and omens utilized within the context of this movie are quite good and well used. The story centers around two young people, Kenny (played by Chris Young *Buck of Candy/Aykroyd's 'The Great Outdoors'*) and Samantha (Paula Marshall, who's had a rather...obscure acting career, so far). Both are children of Druid heritage and blood, and although neither have been trained, taught, nor raised within the magickal system, now they must realize their powers and abilities in order to prevent the end of the world. A bit far-fetched, if you ask me. What's also a bit far-fetched is the very idea that a Druid's power comes from 'God.' Druids were here thousands of years before christians and the Hebrew god YWYH. That was just stupid. Outright ignorant. A small listing of well-seasoned actors makes this movie quite enjoyable, regardless of the puerility of story line/plot. This production is full of 'B' movie effects and classic horror fare. The mirror scene with the carny has a very strong 'Dean Koontz' feel to it with the end of that scene finishing out in an almost Hellraiser style. All in all, not a bad way to kill ninety minutes.This movie rates a 6.7/10 from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"A Letdown after the original...","Date":"11 September 1998","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Like so many sequels, this one is somewhat of a disappointment.  It's nowhere as interesting as the first, and the Warlock is more of a kickass supernatural type,  a Freddy or Jason, then the subtly nuanced character of the first movie.  Here he's basically a unstoppable juggernaut.  The movie also goes for more gross-out F/X than plot development, although the hapless druidic types (as played by R.G. Armstrong, Charles Hallahan, and eventually Bruce Glover) are kind of interesting.  It's not bad, but just a so-so effort that could have been far better. "},{"Title":"an okay movie very short birth scene","Date":"25 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I think that the movie was great and all however I only find the belly expansion and birth much better that the whole movie since they worked that part much better however if it was a belly expansion it should have more belly expansion time that just seeing her face. Also on the DVD it cut the slime running down the woman's legs just before the warlock comes out of her. If there was something to improve on I would let the woman live instead of killing her off like that or the warlock could impregnate her and force her to give birth to his demon army so that he can find the rune stones not alone . After the birth the movie became sloppy and dull and that was the sad thing about the movie. Also the effects except on the birth scene, were not as good as I thought they would when I fist saw it "},{"Title":"Nice, but Warlock 1 iz better","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Once again Warlock mayhem with Warlock Julian Sands, he is tha bomb 4 a warlock. Though once again in the genre horror it was not 2 me, more of a comedy actually. Had fun while watching it .... "},{"Title":"Julian Sands is the perfect Son of Satan","Date":"8 September 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Although for me Julian Sands is now typecast as an evil, evil man, it is a role I think he will have no problem filling. I tend to gravitate towards the bad guy, and Julian is one I wouldn't mind meeting. The lack of any remorse through all the mutilations and sacrifices adds a great suspense to the character, because without a possibility of reason, anything can happen and probably will as does with Warlock II. "},{"Title":"A nice fantasy movie!!!","Date":"6 January 2010","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" This is one of my favourite movie. Actually, it's not a horror movie because there's not much gory thing inside. But it's a nice fantasy movie with battle against God and Satan. I'm not a believer of any religion and this is why I enjoy movie like God VS Satan.This movie have good visual effect (for that time) and like almost people here said, Julian Sand play well the son of Satan. The way that Satan's son die (truck lights) can be arguable but in general the way that this movie goes is very nice. For me, the only sad thing, finally, what is the old name of God????!!?!?So, if you like fantasy movie with a bit of horror, witchcraft and God vs Satan, I highly recommend this one. The first Warlock was very nice too but this one appear to me a little bit more serious. If you read other reviews, you'll see only bad comments about this movie but no one have suggestions for another movie in that kind. "},{"Title":"Fine Story, Bad Movie","Date":"25 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Hmm Great Story..actors, not bad at all...music and light good...still.. it is a bad movie, Why? Well i must tell you that I loved the first Warlock, so i bought this one at once when it came, but it was just another. Lets do a sequel and make some money movie Julian Sands is performing rather well but the feeling and mystery is gone. This story COULD have been great but ..hmm some transparent evil thing is climbing up to our world..hello..no my opinion is that its a fine story but a bad movie "},{"Title":"A much more livelier and bloody warlock, makes for a great night's viewing","Date":"17 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I must confess, I only saw half of the first Warlock, and found it quite boring. This I didn't. It's a much more energized and exciting sequel, that I love to videe, now and again. I can't believe people enjoyed the first one more, like my brother, for starters, which has left me quite quizzed. W2 is much more gorier if going by the first half of the original, with some real over the top blood spilliages, like Ms Pacula's demise. This time our evil warlock, the great Mr Sands, who I must say was born to play this role, is here for much more evil purposes, like bringing the world to an end, where the only hope to end him, is a young lad Kenny (an older and much taller looking Chris Young, from The Great Outdoors) who possesses a telekinetic, talent, but is a bit rusty. He's infatuated with a girl, Sam (Paula Marshall) acting in a Romeo and Juliet play, who also possesses the same talent. What I liked too about this one, was the humour, caused mostly by Sands, delivering some killer lines, while also looking cool spewing black blood. Him breaking out of his mother's vagina, near the start (very icky) has him saying, the most memorable line, where you have to hear it for yourself. Director, Hickox, still fresh off the heals of Hellraiser 3, which also starred Marshall, makes a name for himself with these super entertaining flicks (the sexual psychological C Thomas Howell thriller, Payback came next) with some nice ECU shots, like one involving a smiling, and very much in love Marshall. The battle to the death between good and evil is very suspenseful, and I guess was a but overlong, but I couldn't go back to ever watching the original, as this is super entertaining, with a lot of yucky blood, and great effects, and that great warlock humour. "},{"Title":"Pretty good...except...","Date":"27 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Not bad, WARLOCK THE ARMAGEDDON does seem better than the first. Even though there are many body counts, and we do see some improvements in the special effects, something still seemed to be wrong......There are still scenes that reveal a load of cheesy effects such as the scene where the receptionist's lips are sealed (VERY obvious stop-motion). But in this sequel, some REALLY cool action takes place, scenes where the Warlock meets the people against him. My personal favorite was the scene where Julian Sands shot down two old magic dudes with his hand gun. This sequel does contain creepier scenes that prophecizes the reborn (?)Warlock, and scenes that hints an upcoming bodycount. Overall, this sequel is worth watching. 9.5/10    -0.5 for cheesy level, but  only half the points are removed due to the other cool scenes. "},{"Title":"Warlock returns in style","Date":"17 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Although cheaply made, and most people don't like it, if you watched 1st movie, you surely won't be too much disappointed with this one.While not a sequel at all to a 1st movie, while it can be debated, since same actor plays Warlock, and story can be merged, since in 1st movie Warlock failed to uncreate the life as he was killed in his human form, but promised by Satan that he will become son of Satan if he manages to bring together the lost pages of Grand Grimoire, which he did. So basically Warlock (human) didn't fail in his quest, to which comes debate if this movie is a sequel as Warlock is now more of Demon and not human at all...But intro story is now different, and again debatable, why would Satan stop at only one plan to destroy humanity... Thus we are greeted with Druids, their sacred stones and rituals to stop the evil. And again Warlock comes to play to take something and bring back to Earth the very evil that was stopped in 1st movie...Unfortunately as story is not that bad at all but actors and visual effects are, with Blu-ray version out you can clearly see many defects of visuals, mostly when Warlock is steeping down the invisible stairs, when he is burning with badly rendered pixel fire and when Kenny (the 1st warrior) is thrown onto some sort of pipe that magically isn't static in the concrete but moves while he's breathing.But overall if you like sadistic movies where bad guy tortures his victims with supernatural powers and cannot be stopped easily, you will enjoy this B class Horror flick. "}{"Title":"Mr Anthony Hickox misses badly but...","Date":"25 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Mr Anthony Hickox misses badly, though delivering a bunch of very imaginative scenes. It is sad. If only the following scenes had been squeezed into the original Warlock movie... or just into any other classic horror flick...OK, here we go in no particular order. You can insert the definite article in each scene's callout.Air walking. Cool and memorable &#x96; looks fantastic even now, in 2013 AD.Finger gunning. Funny but somehow not childish.Pikasso death. Outstanding and artistic.Stage glassy falling. Bloody and tongue-in-cheek.Gas station black blood death. Very tongue-in-cheek.Elevator blood bath. Suspense at its best.Scalping on the go. Outrageous and wickedly ridiculous.But everything impressive and stylish stops here. No, the birth scene is not on the list because it's a weak and awkward rip-off of the famous scene by Mr Davenport, whose crew was stoned (please, Mr Harry Davenport, correct me if it's not true and accept my apologies) and still pulled off a genuinely horrific extravaganza back in the 1980s.If you want to appreciate the visuals, just have a look at the scenes mentioned above (the Pikasso death scene is simply the best). Everything else is a stinking bomb the over-melodramatic Romeo-Juliet love story, the phony characters who are supposed to be tough (or is it just bad acting?), the ridiculous jedi, oh, sorry, druid training, etc. Such flicks are a disgrace if you are into thought-provoking kick-ass horror films (the original Warlock and Wishmaster are good examples). But if you don't have anything against kidstuff, incomprehensive plot twists, and pathos spiced up with distorted cry-baby faces of the leading heroes on screen, give it a go...Not more than a brainless teen movie. Alas. More tweaking and effort would have made a reliable horror classic out of this mess.Just a 3 out of 10. Thanks for attention. "},{"Title":"End of the world theme","Date":"16 February 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" I was going to give this movie less but considering it is horror/fantasy I put five instead. I recognize most of the older character actors but other than Julian Sands that was it. I thought they all did a great job considering the story line. I like to play with twisting myth myself in my own stories but they could have at least called him a Sorcerer or Necromancer, evil magician and not a Warlock which is a totally wrong word to use starting with the first movie and instead of making these people Druids, make them some secret society that fights evil.The word warlock does NOT mean a male witch. It means an oath breaker, liar, someone who cannot be trusted and can apply to either a male or female. Considering the subject matter it would have more appropriately been a female but if using the other terms a male was fine. The Druids as someone else stated had no beliefs even remotely akin to Christianity at all. Neither did those who practiced witchcraft at any time. Therefore I consider the movie a campy one and without much merit. That isn't the fault of the actors but of the writers that wrote such hokey material. BUT taken on it's own and liberally with the storyline it's not too bad. I wouldn't recommend it unless you are a fan of the first movie which is pretty bad as well. "},{"Title":"A good horror movie!","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" An ancient Warlock (Once again played by JULIAN SANDS) is reborn in modern day, his quest this time is for some magical stones that can let Satan on earth. The only ones to stop him is a couple of teenagers who must use their magical powers against him to save mankind, meanwhile the Warlock goes about killing the unsuspecting victims that just happen to cross his path, in rather twisted & gross ways. Despite the fact that the title & Julian himself is really the only thing connecting this with the first, WARLOCK THE Armageddon does not miss by too much, there's lots of fine acting, neat, but gross & inventive kills & awesome special effects all of which makes this a fun watch for horror fans. The story keeps you hooked in & the film always has something going on so it's never boring. Director ANTHONY HICKOX once again does a fantastic job! Followed by WARLOCK III THE END OF INNOCENCE *** stars "},{"Title":"Warlock still Rocks!!","Date":"23 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I have seen this movie like the same amount as the first one.  Julian Sands, still the king of horror.  He's better than Sting and Bruce Payne.  I was kind of sad because he wasn't in the 3rd Warlock film.  I kind of missed Julian Sands in the 3rd.  I really wish I would the copies of Warlock, Warlock  The Armageddon, and Warlock III  The End of Innocence on vhs and dvds.  I love to watcht them all the time if nobody else would mind letting me know on where I could find them somewhere in America and some other users would just write me an email about this.  The 2nd one rocks, I have to admit, Julian really had a hot body and being covered with blue ooze while he was walking towards to the false creator.  Julian still is really cute about the whole thing.  It was kind of funny when he was dancing around and then splattering the place with black blood.  I think Julian has the greatest taste for this film.  Another thing I love the movie was when Kenny and Samantha were fighting against the warlock at the same time.  Julian really looked pretty damn good with an earring in his ear, but his smile still rocks to me.  He's a super hot babe.  If he reads this thing, he might go out of his mind.  That's all I wrote about this film's comments.Crystal Weideman "},{"Title":"I love certain scenes.","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I voted a 10 on this movie because there were several scenes that gave me a bone-shattering chill down my spine. I wish I could say what scenes but I don't want to give away parts of the movie. *grins* You are gonna have to watch it and see for yourself. This movie will definitely be worth your time. "},{"Title":"One name, Julian Sands","Date":"9 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok, iam from austria and my English is not very good but, when i saw this movie at the first time i was overhelmed of julian Sands. he plays the Warlock so excellent!! Ok, the plot is not very good, but no bad! All in all is Warlock The Armageddon a verny nice horror film, but one person makes this movie immortal, Julian Sands!!!! "},{"Title":"Better than the first.","Date":"16 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Ok, so this isn't the greatest story ever told, but It's good for a hollywood horror movie.  I could have done without the cheesy special effects (which were cheesy even by 1993 standards), but it was still a good movie.  Julian Sands doesn't disappoint and looks even better than in the first one (it that's possible). "},{"Title":"Talk about a ONE MAN show!!!!","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Warlock The Armageddon (1993) would be a total waste of space if it wasn't for Julian Sands as the Warlock, his scenes are great fun to watch, all the other characters in this film are awful and boring.Julian Sands is the Warlock who is on a mission to get hold of 6 magical runestones that will enable Satan to raise hell on earth, Only 2 people have the power to stop him, 2 teenagers who have inherited druid warrior power!!! The boy who plays the main hero is such a geeky wimp, it's an insult that this dweeb would have this power to stop the mighty Warlock!!! Like i said before, this film is a one man show, the scenes with Julian Sands are funny, entertaining and the way he kills off various people with lots of clever special effects makes it great fun to watch.But overall i give this movie 5/10, coz all the other scenes were so dull. "},{"Title":"Not quite the original, but almost as good.","Date":"3 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Julian Sands again stands out as the evil oozing, soft spoken disciple/ son of Satan in this slightly less well done sequel to Warlock. The problem is mostly one of a script that could have been a little more exciting and with a few more thrills. The level of gore just was not as necessary to the story line. Given all that it was still a very watchable film. I have noted one error in the listed credits. Charles Hallahan is listed as Ted Ellinson, the father of the female lead in the story. Actually that part was played by Bruce Glover(best known from Diamonds are Forever.) Hallahan actually played Ethan Larson. The opening scene was somewhat confusing. SInce the Druids were supposed to stop the birth of the Warlock, why were they the ones at the birth, and who were the others that slaughtered most of them? "},{"Title":"Far Worse Than I Expected","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was doing a bit of channel hopping and came across the opening credits of some movie that was starting . When I say  Movie  I was convinced it was one of those made for television movies ( TVM ) since everything was so brightly lit and plastic looking . Unsure what I was getting I picked up the TV guide which informed me the movie was WARLOCK THE ARMAGEDDON . I`d seen the original WARLOCK and found it disappointing but after seeing the sequel the original was some kind of masterwork in comparisonThe first problem is with Anthony Hickox directing . After seeing HELLRAISER 3  HELL ON EARTH I had some reservations about Hickox ability as a director and after seeing this I do hold the view that he`s not much cop as a director . As I said everything about this movie is far too brightly lit and plastic looking just like you`d see in a TVM while the cast are either poor actors or they`ve been poorly directed . Hickox also insists on filming sequences in slow motion for no other reason than it seemed like a good idea at the time . I also think we could have done without blood splashing everywhere The script too is very bad with the characters being nothing more than cyphers . It lacks any type of idiosyncratic dialogue too . Take this scene for example where the warlock approaches a New York taxi driverWarlock  I want you to transport me to Chicago Taxi driver  Get the f*ck outta my face buddy So there you go the only written scene that features anything resembling characterisation revolves around a stereotypical view of NYC cab drivers . But my major problem with the script involves the plot - I`m not sure it actually has one . What happens is that the Warlock is born ( From a scene stolen from XTRO ) and he goes on a journey which involves him killing people in a bloody way every five minutes . I criticised the original movie for not using its great potential but this sequel had no potential to start with I suppose gore hounds might like it but anyone expecting a coherent story and good acting should give this a wide berth   "}{"Title":"What does the Warlock and the biblical Samson have in common?","Date":"27 March 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" The original &#x84;Warlock-movie had much going for it it had a compelling storyline that seemed to have jumped straight out of a comic book. Director and crew were obviously enthusiastic, producing a film that had all the best traits of cheap, yet dedicated horror-flick. And last but not least, it had an excellent cast, the chemistry being near perfect. Especially Julian Sands as evil incarnated had a charm and presence that one couldn't help but to root for him, despite all his mischief.Indeed, Warlock has the stuff that made it a cult-movie. Sadly, same cannot be said about its sequel. First, apart from Julian Sands, none of the original cast has returned. The well-worn though charming time-travel aspects (works almost every time, doesn't it?) are not present, the warlock has even lost his ponytail! It's almost like we're watching a similar, though not the same character as the super-smooth male-witch of the first part. It's not that the rest of the cast is bad either &#x96; having veterans like R.G Armstrong, Joanna Pacula and Zach Galligan &#x96; but Lori Singer and Richard E. Grant are missed greatly.Same goes for the special effects true, Warlock II is slightly gorier than its predecessor and, true, the effects where still pre-CGI and hence had a more natural feel than 99 percent of the SFX today, but none of the scenes could match the magic that the original Warlock had.Speaking of Zach Galligan, compare Gremlins to Gremlins 2 yes, the sequel was disappointing because it couldn't live up to the first part, but in the end, alright, it wasn't a bad movie. In the end, what saved the movie is the direction of Anthony Hickox who is in the same league with Miner; a veteran of cheap, straight-to-video horror flicks with a heart (minor trash-gems like Waxworks, Full Eclipse and Spaceshift are testament to that).In retrospect, it's not even a bad movie if it had stood on its own. Especially if compared to the horrid Warlock III which, if you're a Warlock-fan and haven't seen it yet, I can only recommend avoid it like&#x85; well, like a warlock avoids salt! I'll join the general consensus (of the time of writing &#x96; things may look different if you happen to read this in a hundred years or so), and give the film five points from five &#x96; and if I'll watch a few more contemporary horror flicks, infested with CGI and lifeless actors, I may even give it six or seven. "},{"Title":"Decidedly more low rent than the low rent original.","Date":"24 September 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Warlock 2 on the other hand eschews any semblance of care and attention in favour of ramping up the gore quotient and introducing a little nudity to the mix, and while neither of those things are bad in isolation the fact is that this is considerably more low rent that its predecessor.Julie Sands returns as the Warlock in spectacular fashion. How about this when a woman dons the wrong necklace during an eclipse the usual process of impregnation, gestation and delivery are amalgamated and fast tracked to a 40 second process &#x96; I wouldn't be surprised if the Japanese were involved, they make everything run more smoothly &#x96; imagine her surprise (if all that wasn't shock enough!) that her new child is immediately adult sized and can speak.In a further miraculous turn she instantly regains her pre-baby body (Hollywood stars = JEALOUS!!), only to have the unfortunate news that she is about to die and have her own skin turned into a map.The upshot of W2 is that once again the Warlock is trying to bring about naughty things, this time the birth of Satan's son. He has but 6 days after his 'rebirth' to collect 6 precious stones in between eclipses while God ain't looking.Of course he can't have it all his way, two I know that guy from somewhere character actors and an old guy turn out to be modern day druids hellbent on stopping the Warlock from succeeding, only they can't do it alone so they conscript two young teens named Kenny and Samantha to be Druid-Warriors (what a combo that must be in Dungeons and Dragons) to do most of the leg work for them.So again we have a situation where the Warlock fangs around collecting things while the good guys prep his downfall from a remote location. This is because realistically there is no way known that two kids could take on a Warlock, so they must keep the two sides apart until the finale, by which time the audience no longer cares and will believe anything if it helps end the movie.Training for the young witch-fighting duo consists of learning to deal with dodgy CGI &#x96; seriously this was made in the 90s and Star Wars puts it in the shade as far as FX go &#x96; and tension is created by them repeatedly being told the same facts about the Warlock&#x85; he's dangerous, he'll kill you, blah-blah-blah.The amusement on the other hand is created unintentionally by a Reverend and father of Samantha, through his overacting and hamming up every scene that he appears in. I know this was never going to be a serious drama but surely someone better than him was around? Final Rating &#x96; 4.5 / 10. All that aside if there is one thing to take from this review it is don't watch Warlock 2 The Armageddon. It is less than not very good. "},{"Title":"Okay follow-up","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Not as good as the first installment. It lacks the chase element, which bogs down the plot. The magical Druid theme is also a bit too cheesy. This film probably had a slightly bigger budget than the first, so the special effects are a bit better. Also, the magical scenarios are really interesting and fun. The acting is acceptable, and the script is alright.It's kind of funny how the premise of this movie has the Warlock moving from east to the west coast, opposite of the first film. But there was no interaction between the lead heroes and the warlock until the vary end. That is where this film falls short. The audience gets no sense of desperation, no tension between the heroes and the villain.An acceptable follow up to the first, but somewhat disappointing. Still worth watching after the first one though. "},{"Title":"Slick, yet oh so painful.","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" Let us now take a journey back in time, all the way to the early nineties.In the early nineties, we saw the proliferation of bad CG effects showing up ad nauseum in every freaking film that came out. Gone where the rubber reality movies from the eighties, we now had wacky morphing shots and lame digital back drops in every other movie. Good bye `Videodrome', hello `Lawnmower Man'.`Warlock 2', (also gone were the roman numerals after the sequel's title, because whoa the shame of being a crappy part two) has these really bad CG effects that used to look so amazing and fresh when you where a teenager raised on rubber, but now, man oh man are they dated and corny. Personal favorite CG moment the morph into art sculpture. Hilarious.There are also some early nineties keystones. For one thing this is a Trimark film, and Trimark really produced some bad movies back in the day. `Death Wish V' was garbage, as was `Leprechaun Episode 1'. Also notice the lead wearing flannel in the middle of summer in southern California. Yes, people did that, I did that.This reminds me of why Scream took off as it did. From '88 on all we had where campy Nightmare on Elm Street rip offs that had no horror or suspense and only offered hokey effects and surreal death scenes. `Scream' at least put things back into a reality teens could identify, and didn't bog the plot down with pointless mumbo-jumbo.I can say this about the film. Anthony Hickox is a slick director that is better then his movies allow him to be. He makes interesting choices with camera movement and performances. I love his style, very polished. Most of his movies suffer from the lazy scripts he's handcuffed with. You can only paint a turd so much, and Hickox is a great painter, but this script is so bad, he can't razzle dazzle his way above it. It sinks his ship as he shoots off fireworks.I give this movie at east 2 out of 10 for Anthony's kinetic style, but the rest of it is a laughable bore. Sands is not scary, the hero is a wimp that does nothing but complain, the girlfriend is too old for him, and the druid angle did nothing but pad the action out with some half baked plot conveniences.Besides the above, I can't recommend this movie because it has a magic dagger in it, and once you put that in your movie, all is lost. Never put a magic dagger in your film. Bad Bad Bad.FHTEVL "},{"Title":"Thinking Caps off??.... Good.... Lets Go!!! )","Date":"6 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Most reviews of Warlock Armageddon use words and phrases like Dreadful and Pathetic and as a former Film Student who spent much time in Cinematic Film Circles, I can understand these slanderous remarks.I would, however, like to point out that Warlock Armegeddon does not quite earn such a distinguished title.When watching this film one must leave their intellectual minds at the door and slip into a more mellow and 'fantastic' mind frame. Obviously the original Warlock was nothing less than a great example of it's genre.We all agree on that... good... moving on....Armageddon, while it may not live up to the original, is still a great concept. He's already tried one method of ending the world.... and failed! So now it's time to look at some different options...... such as having a slug-like conception having druids hunt him down.DRUIDS PEOPLE!! ... Any movie with Druids is alright by me. lol. .... Look people, dont take yourselves so seriously. Warlock Armegeddon is a fun movie. Take off your thinking caps and let yourself go to some good ol' classic fake-gore special fx.Is this film really worth the while trashing?   6 out of 10! "},{"Title":"* *1/2 out of 4.","Date":"23 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Improved sequel finds the son of Satan (Julian Sands) in search of some stones that will bring Satan back to earth. He kills anyone he has to in order to get the stones, but two teens try to put a stop to Sands before Satan is resurrected. Nifty, inventive special effects, some wicked humor, a commanding performance by Julian Sands and a fast pace make this one heck of a ride. In between however, there is some really bad (almost laughable) dialogue.Rated R; Sexual Situations, Graphic Violence, Profanity, and Nudity. "},{"Title":"I don't usually rag on movies, but...","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I was moved by this movie to tell everyone I know that it sucks major cajones. I couldn't believe how bad it was, but like eating Doritos I couldn't stop watching it. Now, normally I don't like to bash other writers' work, but this script was so obviously bad and without thought save cashing in on the popularity of the original Warlock, that I wanted to spank the writer and director and say, Bad writer! Bad director! Save your money and re-rent the original. God, I even enjoyed MKAnnihilation better than this dreck.  "},{"Title":"Astonishingly bad movie","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This film is beyond inept in virtually every way; the writing, directing, acting, special effects and music are all way below par.  The first Warlock movie was a clever, inventive film with respect for its own internal mythology; this film is just full of ichor, blood and slime to no end whatsoever.  Warlock the Armageddon is truly one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  Films like this give horror a bad name and make you realize why you have fast forward and ultimately eject on your remote control. "},{"Title":"Totally adorable!","Date":"11 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I love this movie, and Julian Sands is so... gorgeous. It is really a b-movie, but it has got so much charm, but it's all because of Julian. I don't really like any of the scenes where he doesn't participate. Since they can't have spent very much money on the film, I think they've done a pretty good job! "},{"Title":"Repugnant.....","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  The son of Satan is born and has 5 days to capture 5 sacred stones to open the gateway for Satan to return to earth and rule forever.  Only a pair of warriors can stand in his way.This is a stupid, pointless horrible sequel that is merely an attempt to make more money rather than make an entertaining horror movie.  First the plot is dumb.  These sacred stones are the only way to open a gateway to hell....so you'd assume that they would be pretty well protected, or at least a group of zealots would be hunting for them?  No - the warlock finds them at a fashion show, in a businessman's office and in a circus freak show.  No explanation of how they got there or how the warlock finds them so precisely in such a short time.  Also the warriors are of course teenagers who die and come back to life.  The whole thing is just stupid and without merit.The horror is also lazy.  There's no tension and no suspense - just gory effects.  And poor ones at that, all the effects are very cheap and unconvincing.  Also the murders are lazy and just gory for the sake of it, each time the warlock collects a stone he kills the owner in a twisted gory way.  At one point he picks up at hitchhiker just to scalp her and then kill her 30 seconds later.  It's all done with so little ceremony that it just feels tired.This drags down the whole film.  Add to that terrible performances by Sands (has he ever been good?) and the two teenage warriors (Young and Marshall) and the whole thing stinks.There is no yeah it's bad, but.... - it's just bad.  The most terrifying moment in this horror is the final shot that leaves it open for another sequel. God save us..... "}{"Title":"Warlocking all way through the USA","Date":"12 January 2007","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":" How the hell do they come up with this stuff? Dig this Once every 600 years, for five days following the solar eclipse, God is actually powerless. During this short period of time, the Devil has the chance to take over the earth if &#150; and only IF &#150; his son, the Warlock, manages to bring together five magical stones and involve them in some sort of satanic ritual. The only individuals that are able to prevent the Warlock from raising the Armageddon are carefully selected druids; people that have to die in their human form and get reborn as Godly warriors. What the hell?!? The biggest advantage of low-brained cheese horror is that you never require seeing the original in order to enjoy the sequels. I recall seeing Warlock long time ago, but I don't remember much, except that the basic plot outline was entirely different than the events featuring in Warlock The Armageddon. Julian Sands (still a regretfully underrated actor) once again stars as the Warlock, and he emerges &#150; fully-grown &#150; from the womb of poor woman just because she disposes of the first stone. His journey starts in New York, and our anti-hero has to travel all across the USA for gathering all the stones before he's expected in sunny California for the actual showdown. Warlock Armageddon is a surprisingly entertaining B-movie, mainly because it's fast-paced and featuring quite a large amount of gory killing sequences. Julian Sands' performance also contributes a lot to the fun-factor of this movie, as he portrays his Warlock character as a truly obnoxious bastard who walks up the catwalk in the middle of fashion shows and deliberately runs his fast car over cute innocent bunnies. Naturally the script contains a lot of stupid dialogs and absurdly grotesque situations, but still one particular sequence is effectively eerie and disturbing, namely when the Warlock enters the traveling freak show to collect his third stone. In the House of Wonders he encounters a creepy midget and some genuine medieval torture devices. The 'heroic' characters are pretty lame and their extended druid-trainings (reminiscent to the Jedi-Knight training) are the least interesting moments of the entire film. Okay entertainment for undemanding horror fans. "},{"Title":"decent sequel","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  decent sequel has great acting by Julian Sands and Paula Marshall (who i always thought was underrated it has lots of gore a decent and creative plot and script and some cool battle sequences  of gore to satisfy the gore hounds Julian Sands eyes and always serious looks  highlight this sequel it has great gore effects a really neat finale interesting characters and a gory birth this is slightly better then the first because it is faster paced even though the first one was fairly fast paced so overall i give this a **1/2 out of 5 only flaws slow beginning and some lame dialog and couple of non amiable characters  but overall a fun little flick so rent this it is a good time waster "},{"Title":"Totally dreadful","Date":"3 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  I find it absolutely astonishing that anyone would regard this film as anything other than categorically abysmal.Normally I wouldn't bother commenting on this level of celluloid excrement, but I find it rather disturbing that people make a case for it being anything other than atrocious on every level (incidentally, being better than the first - and I'm less than certain it is - does not constitute high praise).I luckily managed to avoid this film until now, but having just seen it can I just assure any doubters that this is a truly pitiful movie - although I was, kind of, mesmerized by its utter awfulness. "},{"Title":"What a disaster","Date":"9 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  A sequel in name only, clearly made just for the money and clearly intended to go straight to video. Julian Sands is the film's only redeeming aspect, and here he plays a sort of super-warlock, with powers way beyond what he possessed in the original. Here he is simply unstoppable, which drains any suspense from the proceedings. No scares, either, but plenty of gore and some clunky but effective FX. No CGI in this baby but lots of stop motion and green screening plus several physical gags, including the hero falling on a broken pipe protruding from the ground. The best scene the funhouse mirror segment, which was reminiscent of the infinitely superior WAXWORK by the same director. This is one of those slow-Saturday-night-type flicks, like RUNESTONE. "},{"Title":"How to use your VCR as a tool of torture ...","Date":"26 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  Well, after setting the cause of CGI graphics back years, this woeful film has to be the first time Satan has been defeated by a set of truck headlights... "},{"Title":"Much ado about nothing","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  We witness the birth and training of a druid warrior as the title warlock is closing in, collecting a series of stones that together has the power to unleash Satan on mother Earth. The build up is somewhat entertaining, but then the so-called grand finale is over us and the battle itself over before you know it! Despite Julian Sands showing of his levitation tricks and literally going through the roof, the whole thing felt like a glorified fist fight. What a letdown.Now I wasn't the biggest fan of the original movie, but at least it had some sense of momentum and not to mention David Twohy's script and Steve Miner's direction.In this sequel i did however enjoy seeing the late Charles Hallahan as a druid warrior, all though his appearance can only be considered a minor cameo, and Bruce Glover (the memorable Mr Wint in Diamonds Are Forever) as a priest. "},{"Title":"Bollex","Date":"2 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Fantasy, Horror","Review":"  This Movie was Bollex, plain and simple. Whilest I will agree with my esteemed  forebears who have commented before that it was bad, I will also agree that it did have some good moments as well, but, on a whole, it was still all Bollex. I did like, however, that Julian Sands was in it. He is pretty much grand in anything he is in, but that still did not save this movie. He has good lines, but, I do not think that Sands heart was in the role. He did, however, look pretty tight in his ever clean black get-up.  As stated in earlier comments, Sands plays a super Warlock who is neigh indestructible, which takes away from the movie, at least to me.  I would like to know if he is playing the same character as from the first movie, or another one entirely, which never gets answered. Sands has some good lines, but, since the Warlock could not be killed, he just kinda hung out, killed some poor shmoo, took his trippy rock, and continued on his merry way. The heros were both annoying, and the plotline about druids and God and saving the world from an imprisoned Satan are all rubbish. What self respecting lord of all evil get's imprisoned by frelling druids in the first place? The part where the guy get's turned into a sculpture was cool, as was the secondary character played by the dude from Friday the Thirteenth The series. It is good to see him play a hero type for one. Also, it was funny to see Zack Galliger in it from Gremlins. I hope I spelled his name right. Joanna Pacula must have need the cash, as she was in this movie for all of five minutes before she got axed. The deaths in the movie, and there were many, were rather novel, but it did not save it from being Bollex.  "}]