[{"Title":"Awesome Monkey","Date":"1 May 2005","Score":"23 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Version Universal Studios / Hong Kong Legends R4 DVD release. Cantonese / English subtitles.I first saw 'Iron Monkey' on an old, poor-quality VHS release with dodgy English subtitles placed underneath really big and bright Chinese subtitles that took up half of the screen space. You know the type I'm talking about. Even then, my immediate reaction was AWESOME WOW AWESOME.The corrupt officials of a Chinese province find themselves the target of Iron Monkey (Rongguang Yu), a sort of Chinese Robin Hood. When Wong Kei Ying (Donnie Yen) and a young Wong Fei Hung (Sze-Man Tsang) arrive in town, Kei Ying is forced to help the corrupt authorities track down Iron Monkey. Naturally, things get complicated when a group of Shaolin rebels arrive in town. Led by Hin Hung (Yee Kwan Yan) these evil Shaolin Monks and Nuns have been paid take out our heroes, leaving Iron Monkey, Kei Ying, Fei Hung, and Miss Orchid (Jean Wang) to kick many an evil-doers arse.The story in 'Iron Monkey' serves only as a device to allow for more fighting. Things that might usually be kept secret are revealed nearly straight away, just to avoid any major plot twists and allow for more kung-fu time. In fact, in 'Iron Monkey', kung-fu time occurs much more frequently then plot-development time, and whenever a plot-development moment comes along, it usually accompanied by kung-fu time. Awesome.We all know that Donnie Yen and Rongguang Yu are awesome. They spend a good deal of time putting on some awesome fight scenes. Jean Wang and Sze-Man Tsang (who, in Monkey Magic style, is actually a girl) pull of some really cool action sequences. Granted, most of it is grounded in fantasy, much like 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon' and friends, but it still looks really cool, and a few of these fights are easily some of my favourite fight-scenes ever. Also, the technique names rule. I wish I could perform a no-shadow kick or a King Kong palm.'Iron Monkey' is nearly nothing but martial arts fantasy. Fans of Hong Kong wuxia movies will get a kick out of this, as will action fans in general. Fans of 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon', 'Hero', and 'House of Flying Daggers' should see this to see how wuxia should be done, but they may not like it. Fantastic action movie - 9/10 "},{"Title":"Great Entertainment","Date":"19 January 2004","Score":"17 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is by far one of the top 10 martial art movies of all time.This movie has beautiful scenery and atmosphere.  It transport me back to a place long ago and far away where life is cruel and government officials are corrupt but all is not forsaken for heroes are out there with heart of pure goodness, body of iron armor, and spirit of courage and valor. This movie made me believe in this world where human can train their body and mind to do inhuman feats like leaping onto roof tops and shattering cement blocks two feet thick.  It invoked memories of my childhood dream of becoming a martial art master able to kick butt but also the restraint and pathos for helping those less fortunate.  Both  Dr Yang and  Wong Kei-Ying plays a martial art hero that possess these traits.  They are well rounded individuals that posses other admirable skills.  Dr Yang for example is a highly skilled doctor, a flashy cook, and a musician.  I love one of the breath taking scenery in which he was playing this Chinese instrument out in the court yard on a golden autumn day.  It's very nostalgic for me for some reason.  Orchid, Dr Yang's assistant is wonderful in this movie as well. She brought beauty and depth to this movie.  The young Wong Fei-hung character was great as well.  These wonderful characters on top of the amazing fight sequences makes this movie transcend martial art movies and rival any movies genre ever produced in terms of sheer entertainment value. I have read review about the bad/simple plot or fake wire-fu in this movie. That's not the point, the mastery of mood and texture in this movie is sheer enjoyment.  How much plot can one develop in a 90 minute martial art movie?...or any movie really...it's all about the human conditions some more complex than other often recycled over and over through the years and placed in a different setting and different context.  Great movies capture the human imagination and touches a spectrum of human emotions.  Great movies also flow smoothly and do not go into a lull. For me this movie did that and more.   Hopefully you'll want to watch it again and again like I did.  "},{"Title":"Yuen Woo Ping on speed","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"19 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have three words for this movie Yuen Woo Ping.This movie is action packed with Ping's trademark unique fighting sequences.  Whether it's bodies slamming through tables, hopping from roof to rooftop, there's so much action, then story, then more action!!! Donnie Yen's martial arts is impressive and his character is very straight to the point, but very noble.  Guang as Dr. Yang is heroic as well and plays his dual role very well.  Most of best battles have both men sharing the screen with lightning speed quickness!!  Tsang is good as young Wong Fei Hung and the beautiful Jean Wang is visually pleasing to watch as Miss Ho (who can also whoop butt).  Master Fox provides  funny moments too.Overall, the main emphasis here is the martial arts.  The bad guys are very bad (including one deadly renegade monk) and the action is intense.  Besides shadowless kicks and King Kong fists, weapons used vary from staffs & swords to umbrellas, benches, and very sharp tacks (OUCH!)  The finale is mind-blowing and is like nothing I've ever seen before.  "},{"Title":"It is THE martial arts film to see -- it is about young Wong Fei-hung, before Tsui Hark-Jet Li's Once Upon A Time In China period.","Date":"4 November 2001","Score":"11 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Hong Kong film director and martial arts expert Yuen Woo-ping is absolutely outstanding. In Iron Monkey, one scene I admire most is the poetically quiet, beautiful interaction of fluid movements in graceful progression as Dr. Yang and Miss Orchid close shop (the clinic), a whiff of wind blows the papers (written prescriptions) up in the air, and Yang (who's actually Iron Monkey) elevates himself up into the air to catch the flying papers, while Orchid, with a few agile movements and glides, catches the balance of the flying papers. It's like a short interlude - a silent romantic song with punctuated accents - with a slight kick from Miss Orchid, a stool plops into place upside down as it should be on another neatly ends the piece. I actually relish this quiet segment much more than the awe-struck extensive finale scene, which is truly an amazing display of exquisitely choreographed martial art movements of three masters (two good forces tenaciously team up against one skillful evil monk) on multiple wooden poles with inferno-like fire a-dancing below. Fantastic performances from Donnie Yen as Wong Kei-ying, father of Wong Fei-hung, who's deftly portrayed by a young girl Tsang Sze-man, and Yu Rongguang as Dr. Yang/Iron Monkey, with Jean Wang as Miss Orchid, to the upstanding police chief, the devastating evil monk and all.Iron Monkey is essentially a film about the legendary Shaolin kung-fu master (also known as drunken master) Wong Fei-hung when he was young. In fact, the alternate title is Siunin Wong Fei-hung tsi titmalau, literally Young Wong Fei-hung's iron monkey. Follow this up with Jet Li's Once Upon A Time In China 2 (Wong Fei-hung ji yi Naam yi dong ji keung 1992, literally Wong Fei-hung #2 - young man should be self-sufficiently strong) and the adult Wong Fei-hung portrayal will be better understood why he's so good at his knowledge and practice of Chinese medicine, why he acted so restrained and coy with Aunt Yee, whom he very much loves but won't express so - all due to the austere teachings from his father as noted in Iron Monkey. We also learn that he lost his mother at a tender young age - though from Jackie Chan's The Legend of Drunken Master (2000 USA, Jui Kuen 2 1994, literally Drunken fist 2), we can see he has quite a wonderful stepmother - smart and wittily portrayed by Anita Mui! See it if you want another excitingly fun, martial arts action-packed drama about the adult Wong Fei-hung. "},{"Title":"Fancy Kung Fu Robin Hood","Date":"20 December 1999","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I really loved this flick.  A Kung Fu Robin Hood fights corruption in officialdom whilst providing for the poor and needy.  Kung Fu skills go from fancy kicks and hand work, to wok skills, balancing on poles and beating up bullies with an umbrella.  Once the visiting doctor realises his mistake in wanting to defeat our hero, a dynamic team up results against the evil foes from Shaolin who misuse their art to the obligatory Kung Fu bad guys (and girls).  The characters are quite good, even the little kid didn't irritate me (good skills).  This movie has some padding, with the father-son routine.  It worked ok, adding some plot and human interest to the movie.  Even one of the corrupt officials (Master Fox) moves beyond 1D, though the Shaolin monk is truly the 1D bad guy.  Well done Tsui Hark. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest martial arts movies in the world","Date":"5 September 2000","Score":"19 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yuen Woo-Ping and Donnie Yen, in yet another collaboration together, have brought forth one of the greatest kung fu movies in existence. The story involves a Robin Hood-esque martial artist named the Iron Monkey teaming up w/ Wong Kei Ying to battle government corruption. The movie itself is a prequel to the OUATIC series, and in many ways is better than most of the entries in it. Thematically, this film deals with friendship, greed, corruption, and family relationships.However, this is a martial arts movie. The fight scenes are choreographed by Yuen Woo Ping. He was nominated for the Best Choreography award and it's a shame he didn't win. Donnie Yen, Yu Rong Gwong, and the rest of the supporting cast show off a vast display of martial arts. My favourite fight is when Donnie Yen battles the evil monks and the nun. His footwork is simply awesome, one of the best kickers in the business. All leads up to an impressive finale, where Donnie Yen and Yu Rong Gwong battle their foe on the top of a forest of burning poles. It must be seen to believe.Excellent film. There's a story. There are themes and morals. And there's some of the greatest fights one will witness. A true classic.  "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"15 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Note that this movie's subtitle is The Young Wong Fei-Hong. This isn't so much a movie about a Chinese Robin Hood/Zorro figure, or a strict martial arts hero - it's a movie about a young boy and the people who influence who he will become. It's poignant in parts - such as when Fei Hong tries to grab his father's hand and is scolded for it - and hilarious in others - My kung-fu is pretty good! exclaims a surprised Fei Hong in one scene.While much of the movie is focused on the concerns of the adults around him, Fei Hong is also the audience's conduit to the subtle messages of the movie as a whole. It's not all about kick-ass fight scenes - that's just how they keep our attention. The world portrayed in IRON MONKEY admires intellect and wit as much as martial arts ability. Woven into the whole is a lesson in honor, the balance between discipline and recklessness, and the need for affection and love.Fans of CROUCHING TIGER, HIDDEN DRAGON will love this movie because of one simple fact - the plot is linear, with short flashback sequences as needed, and despite its intricacy, it's not too involved. CTHD would be like riding in a Rolls-Royce beautiful to look at, enjoyable to drive; but IRON MONKEY is like a Porche, fast, sleek and dangerous. CTHD may be visually superior as far as cinematography goes - and in a lot of ways, it is - but IRON MONKEY moves along in ways that CTHD does not. Also look for Tsang Sze Man, who had the potential to be what Haley Joel Osment is here in America. Pity Man didn't do any more martial arts films. Film fans must see this movie; kung fu fans probably should see this movie. But if subtitles scare you (the dubbed version isn't quite as good) and guys in robes and braids are gay, keep away. Go rent DUMB AND DUMBER or something.  "},{"Title":"Good Stuff","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  For all you people who've only seen the matrix, CTHD, and think fight club features the best fighting ever, you ain't seen nothing yet.  Iron Monkey features Hong Kong movie making at one of its best.  For those of you who couldn't find a plot, I don't know what kind of movie you saw or how well you pay attention to a movie but I found the plot to be about a good doctor who helps the poor, and the oppressive govt official that's after him.  And it gets complicated by Donnie Yen's character.  And sorry, for those of you who don't know, there's no literal Monkey made out of Iron in this movie just like there are no crouching tigers or hidden dragons in that movie. But Iron Monkey is a martial arts classic. "},{"Title":"Miramax butchers very enjoyable film!","Date":"1 February 2005","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" After watching films like Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and Shaolin Soccer and immensely falling for them, I had some hesitancy with this film. With Tarantino's name attached to the previews, I had this growing concern that Hollywood had gripped this film a bit too hard, thus squeezing out any remaining value or originality. I had heard of the stories of Harvey Scissorhands and his ability to really do a number on these Asian films that find their way into our cinemas. I have heard that if you ever really want to fully enjoy one of these films, do not touch those with the name Miramax stamped anywhere. With this in mind, I believe you can see where the hesitancy was coming from, but I need to be honest, this wasn't a horrible film. Using a pre-Wachowski brothers technique of wires instead of bullet-time effects, Iron Monkey quickly transformed from your average Shaolin film (if there is such a thing), to a very humorous, creative, and original film.For some strange reason this film caught my eye and never let go. The strong blend between action and comedy rivals that of most modern Hollywood big-budget features. The impeccable timing of the actors, the perfection of each of the dance-like fights, and its ability to transcend from one genre to another is what really gave this film a big boost in my eyes. While I was expecting a notorious film full of girth and power, I was not in any way expecting this prize-winning, genre-jumping, symposium of pleasure. Everything from the balloonish characters to the simple, yet structured, story pushed this film beyond others of similar nature. I cannot express how impressed that I was with Iron Monkey and how it helped bring the martial arts film back into American homes.Another element that I enjoyed immensely in this film was the mystic forces behind the characters. The different Shaolin techniques impressed me and helped give the characters a masked depth to them. Being relatively new to this genre, I am constantly impressed by the power, creativity, and ingenuity of the basic moves that Shaolin implies while in battle. In this film, it was the Buddha Palm that made me utter the infamous Keanu line, Whoa. While this film wasn't perfection in a nutshell, it was enjoyable to go back to some of these classics and see where our now-modern films are borrowing their style. It is good to see the strength and ability of someone fresh instead of Hollywood Jackie Chan in these roles. Asian cinema is one of the most impressive genres in film, and continually it proves that it can break old molds and stereotypes by revamping them while still paying homage to the originals. It is a genre, unlike Hollywood, that actually pays honest respect to the proceeding films that gave them this opportunity, and while Iron Monkey isn't Criterion-esquire, it does provide several hours of countless fun and mind-challenging action.Finally, you cannot talk about a film like this without mentioning the action. I grew up in a house that prided itself on the popularity of the action film, and while my tastes have changed considerably over the years, it is always a pleasure to revisit in my mind those childhood days. Now, when I go back to visit my family, I take films like Iron Monkey and Shaolin Soccer to bring a new style of action into the home. It continues to be an instant hit. This film was no different. From the quick hand and leg combat, to the creative use of nearly every random inanimate object around, to the different elements of nature that are brought in to bring more thrill to the table, this film had everything and kept the enjoyment level high. That says a lot for a little Asian film that found itself corrupted by America.Overall, I was very impressed with this film. With my growing infatuation with this genre of film, I cannot wait to get my hands on more. While I wish that Miramax would not try to take these films to the butcher's block, they still provide several hours of enjoyment and plenty of action. In intensity and insanity of the actors help create a world where you believe in the impossible kung-fu move and allow even more punches to follow. This was a great film that should be enjoyed with subtitles (never dubbing) and without the Tarantino introduction. Check it out, I do not think it will bring disappointment.Grade **** out of ***** "},{"Title":"One of the greatest martial arts movie ever !!","Date":"19 April 1999","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Donnie Yen and Yuen-woo ping team up again to bring us one of the best kung fu movies ever. The fight choreography is perfect and the fighting style includes the animal styles such as the crane and the snake. Donnie Yen plays Wong-kai-ying, the father of Wong-fei-hong(who is curiously played by a girl!!), and they have to face in their adventure villains such as the witch, who has powerful hand grip and great double sword of lo-han style of fighting, and the governor who possesses his famous king-kong palm and his flying sleeves. But Wong-kai-ying also has a powerful move it is the no-shadow kick (style that we can see in the once upon a time in china series  of movies). The end fight is the one of the three best I have ever seen!! A must see. 10/10 "}{"Title":"Flight Assembly","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I am not a student of Hong Kong martial arts movies, just someone who dips into the accessible ones.My interest is in the cinematic experience, and that depends to a large extent on how the camera is choreographed. It doesn't matter to me how elaborate the effects of the people and objects on screen if I am not part of the dance.This project is pretty exhilarating in that regard. It is not as thrilling as `Crouching Tiger' because that camera actually entered the fight at times. This camera is always an observer, never a participant. `Tiger' allowed us to personally enter the tradition where the fights aren't between the people in them, but between the masters that trained them, people who may be dead.Nonetheless, this one is definitely worth your time, especially if you can have a friend explain how it fits within legends, history and styles of martial `arts.' That's because of the sheer dimensionality of how we interact with the space. The camera does move in space, often in odd and interesting ways.My favorite part is near the beginning. A pile of paper documents (the history we are seeing?) is blown helter-skelter into three-d. The Doctor and his Orchid perform a dance in the air recovering them - in order, as if they are dancing gods writing history. If they are gods, we are metagods and our dance assembles them. Watch how the camera moves in this. It is magnificent.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"21 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The amazing Iron Monkey! This movie has a legendary status amongst martial arts fans, and for good reason!Iron Monkey is the Chinese robin hood and he owns in this totally cool martial arts flick directed by Yuen Woo Ping. The action is super fast paced (again, it's like a Donnie Yen movie trademark) and filled with wires and unrealistic stuff like that. But Donnie and Rongguang excel and shows true ass kicking moves. T he story is not really special or anything, but it suffices and the acting is good. I think about 70 % of the movie consists of fight scenes, 25% dialogue and acting and 5% classic Chinese actors making funny face at the camera. If you like unrealistic and speedy martial arts flicks, then this is the movie for you. "},{"Title":"Action Filled High Flying Masterpiece","Date":"20 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I saw the title of the video, I didn't know what to expect. Maybe someone that would fight like a monkey or maybe some gorilla? What I saw was a masterpiece of action. The dialog was limited because of the subtitles but then the less speaking the more action. Dr Yang and Miss Orchid are physician and nurse respectively in a very corrupt town. Common people are starved and beaten by a corrupt government. The Iron Monkey turns up to rob from the corrupt officials and business people and give to the poor and homeless. Iron Monkey is really Dr Yang hidden beneath a mask. Wong Kei-Ying is forced by blackmail to find this Iron Monkey and kill or capture him. Kei-Ying is also a very skillful master of Kung-Fu. This film features many battles between evil monks, a witch, a disfigured man and the most powerful of all, an evil type of Emperor with deadly hands, feet and head. The final flaming battle is a fight scene that you will want to see many times as Iron Monkey and Kei-Ying seemingly are so overmatched.  "},{"Title":"Two kung-fu styles which just conflict...","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have forever been a fan of the old Wu-Tang and Shaolin kung fu movies.  They relied on incredible martial arts and flashy moves, and achieved greatness in their simplicity.  Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon captivated audiences with its involving and meaningful story line, while also backing it with aeronautic kung-fu.  Iron Monkey tries SO hard to mix these two movie styles, but falls short...way short.  Take the kung-fu by itself and you have a terrific movie.  Rongguang Yu has feet faster than any I have ever seen, which made for exciting battles.  However, even though the storylines of the old Wu-Tang/Shaolin movies weren't rock solid, the dialogue was intense!  Iron Monkey's dialogue was cheesy as best, and the plot of a pseudo-Robin Hood hero is lost after the first 20 minutes, from then on its just a free-for-all.  Iron Monkey is a decent kung-fu movie if you want to see some leg-action, but if you want a true old style kung-fu movie, I suggest The Mystery of Chessboxing! "},{"Title":"Amazing, Slightly Comedic, Killer Kung Fu Good Fun","Date":"11 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I finally saw this movie, after years of wanting to see it, and I'm glad I finally watched it. It wasn't what I was expecting, which was another martial arts epic along the lines of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, but in spite of missing my expectations, it was still a FANTASTIC movie.Reminiscent of the classic martial arts films of the past, the movie has a slightly fast-forward manic pace that ends up being rather fun. The English dubbed dialogue at first seems to have a large cheese factor, but it ends up being a good cheese, like a nice Gouda. The over-the-top laughter of the villains is GREAT! The story is good, with a bit of a Robin Hood twist, and of course, the martial arts are AMAZING. Their Kung Fu is strong.If a martial arts movie doesn't end up being a Crouching Tiger, or Hero, then THIS is what it should be. "},{"Title":"excellent movie","Date":"10 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Loved the movie. Good fighting scenes. Very funny. Definitely recommend. 1st time seeing this movie. Never a dull scene. Not disappointing. Very good story. One of the best martial arts movies. Loved the movie. Good fighting scenes. Very funny. Definitely recommend. 1st time seeing this movie. Never a dull scene. Not disappointing. Very good story. One of the best martial arts movies. Loved the movie. Good fighting scenes. Very funny. Definitely recommend. 1st time seeing this movie. Never a dull scene. Not disappointing. Very good story. One of the best martial arts movies. Loved the movie. Good fighting scenes. Very funny. Definitely recommend. 1st time seeing this movie. Never a dull scene. Not disappointing. Very good story. One of the best martial arts movies. "},{"Title":"Kung Fu Festival","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you liked Crouching Tiger for the (few) action sequences, this is the film for you. Almost continuous action, using every imaginable tool as weapon (minuscule spoiler even sleeves). Throw in a healthy dose of parody on the Confucian government system (or rather its decline into corrupt decadence), a pinch of Traditional Chinese Medicine and top with the ever popular Robin Hood story.Great Kung Fu cinema!P.S. Even the characters are quite well defined, it is always easy to remember who is who, not a small feat considering there must be at least ten different fighting stars, not counting the numerous extras.  "},{"Title":"Great performance!","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie because I wanted to see more martial arts films that inspired Quentin Tarantino's Kill Bill.  Even Tarantino states this is one of his favorites, and I must say that I agree.  Although I liked Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, I have to say I enjoyed this one a little bit more.  Somehow, the action, the characters and the storytelling is weaved together in perfect harmony. I'm not a huge fan of martial arts movies, but if Hollywood made more action films like this - where the action is such a part of the storytelling - I would definitely see more of them. Another strong point of the film is that you quickly get attached to the characters, something typical action movies rarely achieve in such short time. "},{"Title":"Wong Fei Young","Date":"8 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After watching this film it took me a second time to watch to realise the kid was Wong Fei-Hung. All the fight scenes were crafted beautifully and reminded me of the Shaw Brothers camera work.  The story was also real life to that era.  The way Wong Kay-Ying (Wong Fei-Hungs Dad) tought the rights and wrongs of life and the true meaning of martial arts that it is for protection and self defence not just to see who's style is better than who's, threw this you realise why Wong Fei-Hung was so disciplined in telling all students not too fight in all films, that all the famous kung fu stars have starred in when portraying the Sifu(master) of all King Fu films. The thing that got me the most was the end battle scene, it was one of the most imaginative and best fight scenes i've scene for a while it brought back memories of my first Kung Fu film Fist Of Legend and the opening scene. i would recommend this film for any Kung Fu enthusiast. "},{"Title":"The movie I watch again, again, again","Date":"10 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Iron Monkey (Siunin Wong Fei-Hung tsi titmalau), released in North America on the coat-tails of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, was actually made in Hong Kong in 1993.  Plenty of special effects augment the fight choreography, which brings to mind Matrix and Crouching Tiger, but this film, in its simplicity, is more enjoyable to me than either of these.I didn't realize how much I liked this movie until it came on digital cable and I watched it every chance I could get.  This movie is eye candy.  It's not bothersome or preachy or heavy.  It's just fun to watch.  And the utter absence of Hollywood is like a cool breeze on a hot summer day.   "}{"Title":"Top Notch All The Way","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Iron Monkey (Siunin Wong Fei-hung tsi titmalau). Made in 1993, but released in America last year by Quentin Tarantino's Rolling Thunder Productions. Most of the idiots on IMDB consider this to be a rip-off of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. But, of course, it's an inspiration for that vastly inferior film. Directed by Woo-ping Yeun (choreographer for Crouching Tiger, The Matrix, as well as director of numerous Hong Kong lensed kung fu classics), Iron Monkey is ridiculously entertaining, fast paced, comical, and at a mere 80 minutes it's almost as if it ends before it starts. The fight atop the bamboo poles at the end is worth the price of the rental. I give it a solid 4.  "},{"Title":"The real deal!","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I sit down to watch a kung-fu flick, I don't really want to see a long drawn out love story. I also have no desire to see the characters fight each other for 25 minutes to no clear victory. Crouching Tiger fails in these respects, but Iron Monkey is something else entirely.If you want to see great kung-fu with a story basic enough to drive the action, then this is the one. I rank this right up there with the best genre movies ever made. I think of it as a kind of kung-fu Robin Hood.If you liked Crouching Tiger, give this one a chance and you'll see what I mean.10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"An astounding movie","Date":"27 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was more than impressed with this film. It is told with humor and grace, as well as incredible action.  Not your typical dumb kung-fu movie. It has the same appeal as Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.The direction is excellent and the acting is actually good.  Two things you don't see in a lot of these films.  In many ways it is simply another version of the Robin Hood or Zoro.  But it is a great theme to base a story upon and it works here admirably. "},{"Title":"Even With English Dubbing, A Very Satisfying Movie","Date":"23 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a martial arts movie based on the story of The Iron Monkey, a disguised Robin Hood or Zorro like character who stands up for the poor in a province under the corrupt boot heel of the province governer.  The martial arts action in this movie is seemlessly woven into a superb story with many rich characters and contexts.  The acting may be a little different for people unused to Asian films, but if you make sure you get dubbed version, you are not likely to be too alienated.  For those who are old fans like myself, try and find one with subtitles.  If not, check it out anyway, it's very good. The martial arts is exciting, but not too graphic and so the movie might be considered suitable for some children (with English dubbing). "},{"Title":"A true classic...a gem amongst martial arts films!","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  5 star film....yes....FIVE stars.  Put aside 'Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon', put aside 'Enter the Dragon' and all the other martial arts films that are more well known than this one is. I was floored by this film. The direction, the sound track, the incredible fight scenes, the sweet story of 'Robin Hood', the doctor who takes from the greedy and gives to the poor and who heals body and soul, too.  Action is the buzz word for this film. Get ready for some of the best kung fu scenes you've ever witnessed! The Kung Fu used in the movie is of the fantasy style but quite believable. You will be astounded but the fight scenes that contain some of the most incredible moves you've ever seen. The action in non-stop.    The acting is surprisingly good. The main 'good' characters are well portrayed and quite believable. The archetypical 'bad-guy' is about as evil as you could imagine.   Sit back...enjoy the ride. This is a film you'll wish to view over and over again!!   (Lovers of this film will want to see 'Twin Warriors'. Same director with Jet Li and Michelle Yeogh.)    "},{"Title":"Perfect","Date":"14 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Iron Monkey is the finest film i've seen in a long time.  I enjoyed Crouching Tiger, but this one is even better.  I hope that some of the people who typically look to Pearl Harbor, Armageddon or (enter any recent Arnold film here) as the best examples of action films give this one a look.  It was a thrill to watch, and is a credit to the genre. "},{"Title":"A great action flick definitely worth checking out in the theaters!","Date":"12 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The fact that `Iron Monkey' originally came out in 1993 makes this great movie even more respectable. In what seemed like a `Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon' knock-off, this proves to be several years ahead of last year's immensely popular fantasy/martial arts film. This is a Robin Hood-style action flick that follows Dr. Yang, the town doctor by day and the `Iron Monkey' by night, who steals from the rich, corrupt government and gives their gold and food to the poor. A combination of Hung Gar (kung fu) and choreography makes for the most exciting and amazing action sequences seen on the silver screen in quite some time.Like a Jackie Chan movie, there are very funny moments within the action sequences, but like `Crouching Tiger', the fantasy feel of the film is very appealing. In fact, director Yuen Wo Ping was the martial arts choreographer for `The Matrix', if that gives you an indication of what the fight scenes are like. Every character in this movie is amazing at what they do. Especially impressive is 10-year-old Tsang Sze-man, who could put many fighters twice his age and size to shame. While most martial arts movies are poorly translated and tend to make the movie funny, this one does it on purpose. Some of the lines are so offbeat, that they were obviously put there for a laugh.This is a perfectly good escapist action film that, while not completely original, is fun to watch and very well made. Surprisingly, this is quite possibly the best action film of the year. If you liked `The Matrix' and `Crouching Tiger', go see this in the theater.   "},{"Title":"state of the art martial art movie","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the best kung fu movie (and movie) I have ever seen! Brilliant action and good comedy. This is an epic. Can be compared to the Once upon a time in China movies, only better. All the leading acts are spectacular. The young Wong Fei Hung allso appears, and kicks ass! Excellent stuff! "},{"Title":"Iron Chef, Ugly Virgin","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe how hard I laughed during this movie.  I think it's one of the funniest movies I've ever seen.  The corny dialogue is only part of the charm of Monkey; at least half the fun is the hammy acting.The humor of this movie had to be intentional, it's clear.  The wonderful scene with the fake beard, the laughable wives, and the cooking scenes?  I mean, it's pure silliness.Just a warning  If you don't eat right before you see this film, or, preferably, during the film itself, you will be starving afterwards.  Be prepared to find a good Cantonese place near you, because practically every scene in Monkey has food in it.I think a lot of people didn't understand the humor in this piece and didn't like it for that reason.  It's... very broad and obvious, kind of like a cartoon for grownups.Watch for a few particularly silly lines ugly virgin is only one of them. Even the first few lines of the film are a gas.  It tells us the province had been plagued by floods and warlords.If you don't laugh at the idea of kayaking warlords, you really need a new sense of humor. "},{"Title":"Tons of Fun","Date":"20 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an entertaining, action packed masterfully choreographed, and, at times incredibly funny, kung fu picture, or whatever they are called. The final battle sequence is especially memorable if, a bit unfair, but it's, at times, a little bit too violent (I much rather preferred the suppressed violence of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon and the Legend of Drunken Master). It's tons of fun though and, most surprising of all, it has quite a decent story. Enjoy!  "}{"Title":"I have longed for this.","Date":"5 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How I longed for this movie!  Not specifically this movie, but a movie with a simple plot.  I have longed for the plot that makes a clear line between the good and the evil.  And 'Iron Monkey' is it.  Besides all the special effects and amazing movements of martial arts, at the end of the movie, I was truly moved by the simple plot.  Yes, the good should defeat the evil, and that is what we need to learn(?) from the movie.  Nowadays, we see a few movies where the evil is sometimes understood and the good can be sacrificed for the sake of the evil.  Not a good plot.  The movie with such a plot could be applauded for other components of the film besides the plot. However, we have to consider great impacts that movies bring to people. We need concern what people absorb from the movies.  Considering that, 'Iron Monkey' is the true winner.  Applaud!  "},{"Title":"Crouching who?????","Date":"17 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I could give this film a one word review.....Mind-blowing! Really, forget Crouching Tiger. Don't get me wrong, Chow-Yun-Fat is my fave actor and I liked that film a lot. Thing is, at the end of the day seeing them as two martial arts movies, Iron Monkey simply beats the crap out of CTHD. Okay, so it may not have the stunning locations and deep spiritual storyline of that film, but it more than makes up for that with raw action, possibly the best kung-fu ever committed to celluloid.....and in my opinion, great comedy, a half decent plot, a painfully beautiful leading lady.....the film's filled with fabulous themes like friendship, honour, love, hate, redemption blah blah. It's definitely taken the number 3 slot in my all time HK top ten (After A Better Tomorrow and the Killer, so you know what kinda taste I have) I could be biased so don't just take my word for it. If you're a true blue martial arts fan go rent it out, and if your jaw doesn't hit the floor at least twice when u watch it....I'll pay you for the video, I'm that sure! If you'll excuse me now I've gotta go watch Wong-Kei-Ying, Iron Monkey, Miss Orchid and Wong-Fei-Hong beat the crap out of the Royal investigator for the fifth time since yesterday...... "},{"Title":"I enjoyed this movie!!!!!!","Date":"2 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw this movie in an old movie theatre in Taiping, Malaysia.  Mostly everyone who saw it was Malaysian Chinese.  This movie was very entertaining, incorporating elements of Chinese Mythology with a good story and the good guy with high morality and great martial arts skills.  Many Chinese movies incorporate these themes and I find them appealing. "},{"Title":"Mess with this Monkey and you will get spanked","Date":"31 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is an awesome piece of cinema.  I couldn't believe how well done the fight choreography was.  I have not seen a martial arts like this before. It is comparable to Enter The Dragon.  Dr. Yang is like Maximus in Gladiator, he knows how to kick it when it comes to dealing with the enemy. I give it a 10 out of 10!  Don't mess with the Iron Monkey or you will get spanked. "},{"Title":"Excellent King-Fu movie","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is a dazzling Kung-Fu movie, and yes, the plot does have a few holes. The biggest one being at the end, but, eh, why split hairs. The action sequences were excellent, especially when they were battling over the flames. There were also a few very funny moments, many of them being the banter between the father and the son. "},{"Title":"Action for the sake of action, Woo Ping's finest","Date":"27 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  You want a better plot? You get sub-par action. You want action? You get a sub-par plot. Very few movies can have both. The more time characters spend talking, the less time they spend kicking ass.Every kung fu movie i've seen that was known for it's storyline had fight sequences that were either too short or no good. THE DUEL is a good example. It had a decent storyline, with 5-10 minutes of fighting at most. Not my kind of movie.IRON MONKEY has a decent plot with decent dialog. Compared to other kung fu flicks, it has an incredibly easy-to-follow plot, which is why it's considered Woo Ping's best. And it's got just enough storyline to carry the movie between fight scenes. This movie is the sole reason i am addicted to kung fu movies, and Woo Ping's movies in particular.This movie is action for the sake of action, and it's some of the BEST action ever made.If you liked this flick, check out TWIN WARRIORS (aka Tai Chi) with Jet Li. It's one of Woo Ping's other great flicks and is ALMOST better than IRON MONKEY. Don't bother with IRON MONKEY 2 however, it's unfortunatly one of the worst i've ever seen and had little to do with the original. I don't know why Woo Ping bothered helping make it. "},{"Title":"Amazing!","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's like Crouching Tiger without all the artsy crapI don't know who's quote that is, but it fits the bill (not that I minded the crap in Crouching Tiger).  The movie starts, shortly thereafter the action sequences start, the action sequences finally end, then the movie ends.  Then you breath and say Holy S**tGo watch this movie!  "},{"Title":"Time to kick some butt....","Date":"24 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I've own this title on DVD for awhile now...I was very surprised and excited earlier this year to find out it was going to be released in the US...and sub-titled at that. The audience I watched the movie with enjoyed it immensely as have I over the months. Having watched it on DVD I noted that even the US sub-titling is different than the DVD sub-titling...and the US release sub-titling actually has portions of the dialogue removed...but the basic story is intact which is fine for what this movie is about...kicking butt. This movie is and continues to be one of my favorite movies for the energy that each fight sequences brings with it.Don't go to Iron Monkey for a long, deep, drawn-out, intricate storyline. This is Robin Hood...kicking butt..like it should be. "},{"Title":"Great Kung Fu Movie","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Do not compare it to Crouching Tiger. It does not have the story, artistic features and great music score. However, it is highly entertaining. It is real Kung Fu - Michelle Y. is the only one in Crouching Tiger that knows Kung Fu. It is a simple story so you do not have to read sub title that much (or too much thinking). I hope they could make a lot of money in the film and open the flood gate of other great Hong Kong movies. Those that already in cable may not do too well. Some may require English dubbing. They are Once Upon in China I, II, III, Chinese Ghost Story, Bullet on the Head, Killer, God of Gamblers, God of Cookery... Shaolin Soccer and Wu will be released next year and Hollywood would make good money with the right marketing. Besides Kung Fu movies, HK has a lot to offer but most comedies are hard to translate without losing a lot. "},{"Title":"Movie to remember","Date":"21 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  What a thrill after coming out of the movie! The sensation of beauty was splashing everywhere! The eyes became a believer and the story was a legend. One of the best movie u can ever witness. This is how a kung-fu movie is suppose to look like. The martial skills were spectacular...everything was just so perfect. CAN NOT BE COMPARE W/ CROUCHING TIGERS HIDDEN DRAGON. THIS MOVIE IS WAY AWESOME AND BETTER GRAPHIC THEN THAT BORING OLD MOVIE.you got to see it to believe! It's hilarious and breath taking. You sees moves that u never seen before. The fight scenes were fast and clean and even more thrilling then ever!  "}{"Title":"crouching dragon, hidden bruce","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is the movie to end all the martial arts mayhem. I know, I KNOW, it has sequels, but I haven't seen them, so all I can do is comment on this and look forward to the rest.  What makes this movie work are all the things that were right about silly martial arts movies in the past - and all the things Jackie Chan used to care about before he had to lug Chris Tucker along behind him - the humour, the pathos, the story, the actors, the acting, the FX, the martial arts and its cinematic offspring - this movie got them all right. A tad overlong, but still immensely enjoyable for action fans and where-is-the-story-there-must-be-a-story afficionados alike. "},{"Title":"Wonderful!","Date":"15 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is a great film about so many things family relationships, chinese history, class systems, loyalty, and kung-fu (of course).  It's very subtle on some levels, and I highly recommend it to everyone.  If you liked Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, you'll like this one too. "},{"Title":"Kicking Evil into Next Week","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Ah, the eternal charms of Saturday Afternoon Kung-Fu Theater, a tradition with a long history in America, and a far longer one in Asia.  A hero, maybe noble, maybe not, wanders into a troubled land, good and evil clash, great rivalries are settled, but only after a great many extras get smacked around to sound effects that resemble someone taking a blackjack to the produce section. If that's all we expect, we are rarely disappointed.  So it's just icing on the cake when, in addition to the kung-fu smackdown, we get a story that makes sense, characters that compel, and a director who lavishes attention on each scene, even when someone ISN'T getting their f****y kicked.  That's why Iron Monkey (for simplicity's sake, I'm just going to use the Westernized title; purists can go get stuffed) is such a welcome treat. After the stunning success last year of Ang Lee's Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, perhaps it was realized at last that American megaplexites might finally be able to appreciate a kung-fu movie done as quality  cinema. Woo Ping Yulen, who made his mark in Hollywood as a fight choreographer, is the main guy on this one, and it is apparent that while he certainly knows how to run a fight, he also can direct a movie as well.  Too often, when stunt or special-effects gurus take to directing, they run out of patience during scenes that don't reflect their speciality, but Woo Ping is not one of these.  Some of the best moments in this movie take place when no one is fighting at all particularly memorable is a scene in which a couple of Shaolin super-pugilists cook dinner. Not to say the action scenes aren't up to snuff; they are.  The energy never flags, even during extended melees, and while the brawls often involve the same elements, you never feel as though they are repetitive.  The fighting is bone-crunching hard and dirty too.  The combatants in Crouching Tiger soared through the air like graceful birds, whizzing and turning in artful patterns as they pursued one another across rooftops, but the fighters in Iron Monkey collide, crash, and mix it up, re-assembling their shattered hands and bleeding more than a little bit.  Rarely a moment goes by when someone isn't hurtling through a splintering bamboo wall.  Woo Ping also makes good use of my personal favorite kung-fu convention the hero, just  having laid waste to four or five malefactors in rapid succession, lands back to earth, often atop a table, coiling like a snake, with just the hint of a smirk, before the battle is rejoined. The story is simple and familiar an itinerant monk/physician/five-fingers-of-death  type wanders into a satellite Chinese province ruled by brutal, corrupt officials (hmm, some things haven't changed much), who are bedeviled by the mysterious Iron Monkey, a masked vigilante who rips off the overlords and distributes gold nuggets to the poor and desperate.  The newly arrived wanderer, who devastates bands of ruffians with only an umbrella, is strong-armed by the corrupt governor into hunting down Iron Monkey, lest his young son be killed.  But the script is good, the dialogue and translation make sense (it is also subtitled, which helps a lot), and the actors give such life to the characters, you'd swear you haven't seen their ilk in every other kung-fu movie ever made.  The stars, Rongguang Yu as Iron Monkey, and Donnie Yen as the archetypical good man forced to do wrong, display the type of solemn magnetism that raises stuff like this above the ordinary.  Also memorable are Jean Wang as the lovely but formidable Miss Orchid, and Shun-Yee Yuen as Chief Fox, a sort of Ching Dynasty version of Claude Rains in Casablanca. Many people may dismiss this movie as a second-rate import clunker riding the coattails of Crouching Tiger, and it would be a shame to do so.  While it certainly lacks Tiger's epic sweep, it is also less determined to be philosophically inscrutable, for which I think I liked it a little more.  In any event, Iron Monkey at least softens the blow caused by the postponing of Windtalkers.  As the saying goes, if this is the sort of thing you like, you'll really, really like this. "},{"Title":"One of the most craziest action movies ever created","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The Iron Monkey has a similar plot to Robin Hood.  A doctor who disguises himself as The Iron Monkey goes around getting gold for the poor.  The action scenes aren't like any other movies you have seen before.  Compared to Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, The Iron Monkey contains more and impressive action.  There were some parts in the movie where my friend and I were laughing, but it was because of the crazy kung fu.This is like a Hong Kong version of Robin Hood except with high flying kung fu action that will just blow you away. "},{"Title":"Whoa...Fu Overload","Date":"14 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I just saw this film today, and the heading says it all.  Even though it was under 90 minutes long, it packed enough good fu for two movies.  There was so much good fu that I can't remember a single move.  If you like kung fu movies, you'll absolutely love them after seeing this.  If you don't like kung fu movies, then you will learn to like them after seeing this.  In other words, see this movie!!! "},{"Title":"One best martial arts film ever.","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I am a rabid martial arts fan. I love Once Upon a Time in China, Drunken Master, etc. But this beats them all. The action is better then both those movies and Crouching Tiger as well. The reviews that say this has no plot are wrong. This has a plot and character development as well. This is one that should not be missed. "},{"Title":"Quite possibly the greatest martial arts movie ever made","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Iron Monkey is in my opinion quite possibly the greatest martial arts film ever made. The plot is a Hong Kong variation on Robin Hood. The corrupt officials of a Chinese village are continually robbed by a masked bandit know as Iron Monkey named after a benevolent deity. When all else fails, the Govenor forces a traveling physician (Donnie Yen) into finding the bandit. The arrival of an evil Shaolin monk, brings the Physician and Iron Monkey together to battle the corrupt government. This movie had 3 great things 1. Acting 2. Good plot and 3. Great fight sequences. I recommend this movie mainly to martial arts fans because they would really prefer this movie. "},{"Title":"Proper way to do a prequel.","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  After spending four months trying to find Iron Monkey on VHS and wondering why it was only available as a DVD (and sporadically at that), I learned last week Iron Monkey would be in theaters starting yesterday.  So, I went and watched it last night.It was very good, although Yuen Woo Ping did go over the top with the wires - towards the end, several women were flying through the airs more like thrown dolls than actual humans.Nonetheless, it was a great movie.  And, more important, the perfect prequel to Once Upon a Time in China.  I was particularly impressed with Sze-Man Tsang's portrayal of Wong Fei-hung.  It meshed perfectly with Jet Li's Wong Fei-hung in OUTIC, even down to details like back posture.  As well, the writers gave lovely tidbits for people who had seen OUTIC.  For instance (although it figured too heavily), I doubt I would have enjoyed the numerous scenes with the Wong family umbrella had I not previously seen OUTIC.As I said, it was an excellent prequel.  George Lucas should take a lesson from it. "},{"Title":"Awesome stuff","Date":"14 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is awesome!! The fighting in this movie is pure, clean and very pulse pumping. Donnie Yen is amazing. I remembered seeing him in a lot of Jet Li movies and he really stands out. This guy can break bamboo poles with a wet towel! I'm scared to see what he can do with a bamboo pole. There was a decent plot and good acting but you can throw all that out the window because when somebody wants to see a fight movie this movie is right on! The movie has better fighting in it than Wo hu zang long but CTHD has Zhang Ziyi so it balances out. I give this movie 9/10.   "},{"Title":"Fantastic and hilarious","Date":"13 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A couple of spoilers in here somewhere, but nothing major given away, afterall this is a kung fu movie and is naturally entirely predictable. Anyway I first watched this film with the subtitles on, I thought it was excellent. I then watched the cheesy English dubbed version, absolutely classic is all I can say. The fighting is fantastic but practically every review says that, so you know all about the wire work already.What I really want to say is how hilarious this film is. I laughed myself to tears towards the end just before the finale when the shaolin 'evil type' guy used some woman as a shield, then kicked the woman across the room, then she got kicked back, and as she was crying at his feet he kicked her out the room. This is all speeded up on the film so it looks hilarious! As well as the visual comedy it has some of the most classic lines in cinema history, for example in the 'court room' the servant speaking to the 'judge',......'Govenar....the monkey is showing his ass'.... hahahahahah..... Although the best line comes towards the very end of the film. Just as the kids' Father and the Iron Monkey have defeated the baddie they run over to their son and partner to hug and celebrate, the camera then zooms to a lonely security guard, who thinks to himself, 'Why does nobody care about me?'. hahahaha!This review refers to the Region 2 dvd release so I can't be sure that all I've mentioned is contained within all versions of the film since I know they are edited quite differently for various areas of the world to suit the audiences' taste. But I'm sure whatever version you see, you won't be disappointed, an absolute classic. "}{"Title":"Donnie Yen is cool","Date":"31 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Yuen Woo Ping agains brings a classic movie.Set in the Ching Dynasty  Iron Monkey is about a 19th century Robin Hood who steals from the rich and gives to the poor.At the beginning I thought that it was going to be a drag but after the fight with the monks it is just magnificent.The fight scenes are related to The Matrix and are heavy on wire fu, I have never seen a movie with such wire fu and they are unbeliviable.Also Wong Fei Hung stars as a kid in the movie and the end fight is the grand finale of them all.  "},{"Title":"This is truly a spectacular example of the genre.","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Iron Monkey is a fantastic movie. This is truely a spectacular example of the genre. Yuen Woo Ping is the master of wire work. His choreography has a way of making the fight scenes, as outlandish as they may seem, seem almost possible. If you have never seen wire work before then you will be surprised. It may seem quite amusing at first, but as Iron Monkey proves, by the end of the movie you will be shaking your head in awe. The story is not a new concept, but it doesn't really seem to matter. Whether you watch it for the fight scenes, the plot, or because you like the genre, you will not be disappointed. Iron Monkey is true a phenomenal movie.  "},{"Title":"The Fist Of Legend of Kung-Fu type action. THE BEST OF THE GENRE","Date":"12 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This movie is amazing.  If you like wire cable martial arts with a little bit of fantasy thrown in (wire cables are used to show extreme strength (jumping all over and powerful kicks 0r antigravity kung fu) then this has to be the best martial arts movie to date.  It parallels The Fist of Legend (more realistic martial arts movie, incredible) as a must see.  Yuen Woo Ping says it all. "},{"Title":"If God made a movie, this would be it.","Date":"3 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can honestly say that I laughed so hard I cried when I watched this movie. The English dubbing on this movie combined with ridiculous/bizare/jaw-dropping kung fu make this the greatest movie of all time.  Better than Citizen Kane.  Better than Ghandi.  The flying sleeves at the end of the movie deserve an Academy award and a Nobel prize. "},{"Title":"Excellent! Ten Stars!","Date":"6 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is THE BEST martial arts movie EVER MADE! The citizens of a small town suffer from failed crops and corrupt officials. Their salvation comes in the form of a Robin Hood figure, the Iron Monkey(Yu Rong-guang).  When martial arts master Wong Kay-ying(Donnie Yen) arrives, all HECK breaks loose! "},{"Title":"Best Movie EVER!!!!!","Date":"20 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This is simply the best movie that looks just like an anime! The fighting is the best I have ever seen! The end fight is worth the price of the movie. Yun Wo Ping is the best director ever!This and Twin Warriors are the best kung fu movies ever! "},{"Title":"Cheese Kung-Fu at its best!","Date":"19 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you grew up watching cheesy Kung-Fu movies like I did, then this movie is for you!  It takes those late night B-Kung-Fu movies to a new level.  The acrobatics are so hilariously outrageous, you'll be laughing yourself right out of your seat.  A must see for anyone who is in to the not-so-serious martial arts flicks.  (Do I hear any Jackie Chan fans out there?)Oh, and the actor who portrays the Iron Monkey also happens to be in Chan's Shanghai Noon as one of the Imperial Guards sent to America. "},{"Title":"A great historic epic with some good wirework fighting and acting.","Date":"23 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Iron Monkey is the Chinese Robin Hood-story and makes a perfect background for this movie starring a young Wong Fei-Hung. The movie centers on his father, Wong Kei-Ying (Donnie Yen), and the Iron Monkey, an elusive thief that steals from the rich and gives to the poor (heard that one before?). I think this is one of the best historical costume epics to come from Hong Kong, ever. It has good actors, good photography, excellent story and great fighting, especially if you like wireworks and super-hero kung fu. Yu Rong Guang and Donnie Yen shows some really good acting and Tsang Sae Man is perfect as a young Wong Fei Hung. Besides, I am a sucker for Robin Hood-storys... "},{"Title":"A ROLLICKING GOOD TIME","Date":"11 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The great Yuen Woo-Ping does it again with this consistently entertaining and sometimes dazzling film. He is in top form, creating one of his better films, alongside the action of Drunken Master 1&2, Fist of Legend, Tai Chi Master, Last Hero in China, and Wing Chun.The Iron Monkey is one part Robin Hood, one part Batman, and all kick butt Chinese folk hero, hiding under the guise of a kind doctor by day. The oppressive and corrupt local government wants his stealing from the rich and redistributing the wealth to end. In a haphazard way, Donnie Yen arrives with his son (The legendary Wong Fei Hung of Drunken Master fame. Here, portrayed as a youth, by a girl. Shes good, not quite as good as the little kid from New Legend of Shaolin, but good)and is duped into catching the elusive Iron Monkey, witch of course never happens, because the two forces of good, Yen and Monkey, end up forming an alliance. Good thing too, because soon they both have to deal with a renegade group of former Shaolin monks, who have an interesting array of facial scars and demonstrate such techniques as the Virgin Sword and Wonder Palm (aka. Poison Palm). Of course, in the world of kung fu, good claims the victory.Iron Monkey boasts all the elaborate fight sequences one comes to expect from Woo-Ping, and he does not disappoint. His use of wirework and tricky, outlandish choreography rarely looks clumsy and is smooth and impressive, particularly when Iron Monkey is fighting. The movie moves well, never drags, and a few of the humorous gags provide a good chuckle or two without, as Woo-Ping can sometimes do, stretching the humor for too long. Highly Recommended. "},{"Title":"a surreal kung-fu masterpiece","Date":"26 January 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  The typical American action fan, raised on Arnold, Sylvester and the rest of the tired crop of heroes might find the surreal fighting in Iron Monkey kind of campy.  But, realism is boring and Iron Monkey is not.  The wire-stunts and acrobatics are a perfect relief to anyone who's bored to death of traditional American gunfights.  Plus, there is plenty of pathos...which is what separates the run-of-the-mill testosterone-soaked snoozefest from truly wonderful movies like Iron Monkey. "}{"Title":"What more could a kung fu fan want?","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  This has to go down as one of if not the best kung fu movie of all time! What more could you want? The good guys consist of a kung fu master, his son (Wong Fei Hung!), the iron monkey and his wife (both of whom are superb). The bad guys have an evil monk (who's hard as nails), two evil henchmen and 4 shaolin monks. And to top it off the film is directed by Yuen woo-ping! The possibilities are amazing and the fights do not dissapoint with both hand-to-hand and weapon styles. The story is interesting and fast paced and the final fight on top of burning poles will take your breath away. See this film! "},{"Title":"A must see for MARTIAL ARTS fans","Date":"23 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A true fight of the Kung-fu Masters. When you thought you've seen it all, it's just the beginning.In typical Robin Hood doctor (steal from rich, give to poor)versed in the arts of the Iron Monkey meets up with a desperate father (expert also), who is very demanding on his little son. They square up after a bounty is put on the head of the Iron Monkey.Just when you think you have seen enough, The GOVERNER arrives. With his spectacular appearance, you know your heroes are in trouble. The SHOWDOWN on the polls is just magnificent. Too bad these movies don't make splashes in the US; the ripples are felt all over. "},{"Title":"One of the best martial arts movie of all time","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I have seen this movie about 10 times.  It is one of the best martial arts action movie of all time.  I am a big fan of Jet Li and I must admit this movie is even better than his famous Once Upon A Time In China.  I highly recommend this movie not only for the outstanding action sequence but the story of love of father and son, husband and wife and fellow colleages. "},{"Title":"Excellent Kung-Fu action film, with a bit of Asian 'Robin Hood' and 'Zorro' mixed in.","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I had purchased the 'Crouching Tiger' DVD when it came out, it had received so much praise, and I admit I was a bit disappointed the two times I viewed it. 'Iron Monkey' however is an excellent movie from beginning to end. The title character is a Chinese doctor who 'moonlights' as the Iron Monkey, showing up when peasants are in need, and distributing wealth to the poor. Not too different from Robin Hood or Zorro.  Each of the martial arts fighting scenes have something different to offer and are fun to watch. The dialog (I watched the English dubbed version, which was done very well) was funny much of the time.  The big final fight scene on poles and over fire is very gripping. Overall an excellent movie for action fans. "},{"Title":"Very enjoyable, well done action fest with a few laughs as well.","Date":"27 September 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Now before I start praising this movie I would like to say that although there are a few things in common, Crouching tiger and Iron monkey are very different. OK now to get to the praising. The character Iron Monkey is a very cool and heroic character that is very convincing helping all these poor people get the money and shelter that they rightfully deserve. Donnie yen who us Americans most likely only know as Snowman from Blade 2 also stars in this great film. The action and fights that everyone is most likely seeing the movie for are everything you would expect from China or Japan (not sure where this is from) The fights are a little far-fetched but movies are not supposed to be realistic and those far-fetched things add to the fun of this very very stylish and entertaining movie. Aside from the action there is a few laughs along the way that again add to the fun of this extraneously cool film. The action is spread out at the beginning but as time presses on it becomes non-stop and it is all good. Now I must say one thing.....Some of the fights kind of get monotonous. Let me say this the repetitive nature of 2 things (kicking objects back and forth at each other and throwing stuff and kicking it before it hits them) would have DOOMED any other film but not Iron Monkey the repetitive moves are not a negative thing since it is still cool and they do kick and throw different objects each time. My GradeA it is just another example of how China and/or Japan KNOW HOW TO MAKE GREAT MOVIES  "},{"Title":"A Clich, But.....You Have To See To Believe It!","Date":"11 October 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This was a surprise, being more entertaining than I expected. Like most Hong Kong action films, this mixes comedy in with all the martial arts violence. When I saw this in 2002, I could safely say no film - among the thousands I have seen - has action scenes quite like this! It was the wildest kung-fu/Crouching Tiger- type action I had ever seen....and plenty of it. In fact, too much. At least the film was short at 85 minutes but, man, it still needed some lulls in here.This is so cartoon-like, it could have been labeled such, especially with the dubbed in version in which the voices and dialog just don't seem to add up. It's so corny, so bad, that it's hilarious! And those action scenes? Well, you just have to see them to believe it. "},{"Title":"Chinese Robin Hood","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Iron Monkey steals from Governor Cheng and gives to the poor. He roams the night helping the defenseless. Bumbling police chief Fox is good-hearted and obsessed with catching him. Dr. Yang treats the poor for free helped by his assistant Miss Orchid. They're both skilled in the martial arts. Yang is secretly the Iron Monkey. Wong Kei-Ying (Donnie Yen) is a principled doctor passing through town with his son. The governor takes his son prisoner until he catches the bandit Iron Monkey. As news spread, Wong is rejected by everybody in town. Only Dr. Yang and Miss Orchid are willing to help him. The arrival of the corrupt Imperial Investigator and his evil minions put everyone in danger.Iron Monkey is reminiscent of Robin Hood. The twist is Dr. Wong and his son. Donnie Yen is terrific. The boy is precocious, acrobatic and surprisingly played by a girl. It's got loads of fun, comedy and action. It is one of the best kung fu action comedy around. "},{"Title":"Donnie Yen!","Date":"20 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A martial artist/doctor steals from the corrupt authorities as a masked thief to give to the poor while another martial artist/doctor is forced to hunt him down. But a major threat unites them as a powerful and traitorous shaolin monk takes over the authorities.The film was given a wide release in the United States by Miramax Films, backed by director Quentin Tarantino, well-known for his love of kung fu and cult cinema. It opened in October 2001 on 1,225 screens earning just over $6 million in its opening weekend and more than $14 million overall.Sadly, the American version has the politics toned down, and the soundtrack changed. It comes across as much more of a comedy. This does not make it a bad film, perhaps, but changes the tone of what was originally intended. Can the original be seen on DVD in America? I do not know. "},{"Title":"Iron Ape.","Date":"14 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" The Iron Monkey (1993) Dir Yuen Wo / Cast Yu Rongguang, Donnie Yen, Jean Wang, James Wong, Angie Tsang Typical Hong Kong cinema that isn't too deep yet very funny. The title regards an assailant who robs from the rich and gives to the poor just as he does the greedy Governor while in the midst of an orgy with his nine wives. The Governor orders that anyone suspected as the Iron Monkey be arrested, which leads to numerous hilarious encounters. Among the suspects are a father and son duo skilled at martial arts. This leads to predictable circumstances and a misfire laughable conclusion. Director Yuen Wo Ping does a fine job at combining martial arts action and comedy. The Iron monkey is a medicine expert assisted by Miss Orchard whom he sheltered after the death of her baby. Fine cast includes Yu Rong Gheung as the hero who will eventually get reduced to a laughable climax. Donnie Yen plays the father who is given a proposition that will have him unknowingly assisted by his target. Jean Wang plays Miss Orchard whom finds shelter in the physician who is the Iron Monkey himself. James Wong brings a lot of humour as the Governor. Angie Tsang plays the son of the duo who knows his stuff and takes after his father in the realms of ass kicking. While sometimes predictable and corny, the film is a technically well made Hong Kong satire symbolizing the good Samaritan. Score 6 / 10 "},{"Title":"Has a Robin Hood Theme Going For It","Date":"7 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not the greatest expert when it comes to Chinese folklore or whether such incidents depicted here ever existed. If so the issues faced are quite convincing and may hold a place in the annals of Chinese history and literature. The history goes back to mid 1850's when the rich kept getting richer and the poor were become more deprived of any financial gain. To me it the story has a Asian equivalent to the greatest English character in ancient folklore, Robin Hood. The time period was different, but the motives between Robin Hood and Iron Monkey are very similar as both rebels try to outsmart a corrupt government by committing criminal acts for a good cause.In a rather poor slum in China, refugees in the area are being overruled by corrupt governor (James Wong). An incognito hero donning a mask who only goes by the name Iron Monkey (Rongguang Yu) is willing to overthrow this Governor by robbing from him and all the other rich people to give to the impoverished villagers. Governor Cheng lines up possible suspects who may be this mysterious anti-hero. In the middle of this conundrum include a monk Wong Kei-Ying (Donnie Yen) and his young son Wong Fei-Hung (Sze-Man Tsang). Cheng demands Wong to search for Iron Monkey while he holds his young son hostage. Through trials and tribulations, father and son lead themselves to the abode of Dr. Yang (Rongguang Yu) and his assistant Nurse Orchid (Jean Wang). It's quite clear that Dr. Yang is indeed Iron Monkey. This clearly pointed out once the character is introduced.The story is simple and easy to follow through. However it skips through scenes at times which makes the movie feel a bit awkward at times. One minute there's bickering if or if not Fei-Hung may have a roast duck and segues to Dr. Yang and Kei-Ying joining forces to bring down Shaolin Monk Hiu Hing (Shi Kwan Yen) We're familiar with this character and lengths he went through so there's nothing new to inform us about here.Sure the story might be thin and there's a lot of fighting, but that's what you expect to see in an action film. Aside from that the plot of the story actually stands out pretty well. The legend of Iron Monkey has been mentioned in many stories and folklore as he fights corruptions from the Governor who's trying to gather enough money to support his nine wives. The corrupt Monk does unorthodox tricks up his sleeves (literally) that can break through anything. You wonder if these individuals are insured. Like in superhero and police dramas, there will be a lot of property damage and it affects innocent bystanders. One provocation and we all suffer. In a rare occurrence one bystander gets some restitution while the antagonists get what's given to them. The refugees won't expect much left after watching stuff getting destroyed.To me, I felt a little bit of Jackie Chan and Jet Li folded into one package. On the visual format, it's vintage Li. But action wise it has a Jackie Chan flare to it. Sure there's wirework involved and Chan (with the exception of the crappy The Medallion) refrains from using cheap wirework to his advantage. The set pieces at the end will really set your souls on fire. Knowing that this is a fictional period piece film, that's classic Jet Li. The little girl in the film was adorable, but I'll just stay out of her way when it comes to battle. Let her have her duck. "}{"Title":"The Masters' Masterpiece","Date":"13 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I was so impressed with Donnie Yen's performance in Ip Man, so I started tracking down his filmography. Along that path I realized I had already seen him in Hero, and, to my content, I also came across Iron Monkey. This film is a true delight to any fan of this genre! This is one of THE most impressive Kung Fu movies I have ever seen to- date. It has the right mix of comedy, seriousness and top-notch fighting scenes. The actors alongside Donnie Yen are amazingly skillful, and the presence of such professional women martial-artists just lifts the whole experience up even more. This is a non-stop action movie with a tasteful sense of humor and true wow! fighting scenes. Totally highly recommended - satisfaction guaranteed. "},{"Title":"Outrageously good Robin Hood-style story","Date":"30 March 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I'm not usually a fan of '90s-era Hong Kong action cinema, which is inevitably over-reliant on wirework and over the top style, but I can make an exception for IRON MONKEY, which is in itself an exceptional film. It's a retelling of the Wong Fei Hung story with a twist this time around, Fei Hung is a child who plays a supporting role to the central thrust of the storyline which is about a Robin Hood-style freedom fighter battling corrupt politicians.The great thing about IRON MONKEY is the action, of which there is plenty. It's ably directed by Yuen Woo Ping and, put simply, it kicks ass &#x96; despite the plentiful wirework. Donnie Yen is a past master at this kind of material and delivers an action-oriented performance that never lets you down, while the real surprise is Rongguang Yu, a very familiar face in Hong Kong cinema who proves his worth in the kung fu stakes.The narrative is fast-paced and fuelled with conflict and action and the whole film has a colourful, old-fashioned vibe that keeps it moving merrily along. There's humour in spades, some truly devious villains, a decent script and quality performances. But it always comes back to the action, and for once IRON MONKEY deserves the hype. It's a keeper. "},{"Title":"Robin Hood meets Zorro...","Date":"15 April 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" While IRON MONKEY boasts some outstanding production values, it's this budgetary largesse that seems most to blame for the film's shortcomings. Well laid out (in the fashion of ROBIN HOOD or ZORRO or THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL, et al), with some beautiful cinematography and special effects, IRON MONKEY nonetheless falters when it comes to its very reason for being- the martial arts sequences themselves. Reality never rears its ugly head (it rarely even comes close) the mechanically-enhanced martial arts mayhem blatantly defies the laws of physics to an astonishing degree. This undermines the solid all-around performances by the actors. The final battle, for instance, reminded me of the lyrics from a song They swing through the air with the greatest of ease- those daring young men on the flying trapeze. Instead of a realistic, nail-biting hand-to-hand battle, we end up with cgi-enhanced acrobatics. Again. (I saw this one first on DVD, then again during its theatrical run- but it wasn't until I saw it again just recently that the over-the-top action called to mind The Big Top itself.) Had the martial arts sequences been better done, I would've had no compunctions about rating IRON MONKEY a ten. "},{"Title":"a short and fun exponent","Date":"14 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" excerpt, full review at my location - Tales of folk heroes and legends saturate the fabric of Chinese history and culture. Re-released and discovered by a wider audience after Yuen Woo-ping's astonishing success choreographing Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon, Iron Monkey is a notable addition to the extensive list of historical legends committed to film. Directed by The Matrix choreographer and action master, and featuring Hong Kong and China's most vaunted action star of the moment, Donnie Yen, Iron Monkey proves to be a short but well-crafted story.Iron Monkey may not be amongst the best of Yuen Woo-ping's enviable filmography, nor of the ever-growing list of historical hero endeavours, but it is a short and fun exponent of the historical hero genre. "},{"Title":"Pretty awesome","Date":"20 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What could possibly be a cheesier name than Iron monkey. One could argue that it is the only thing wrong with this otherwise, flawless piece of entertainment. Flawless entertainment isn't the same of course as a flawless movie. While Iron Monkey is not all that well scripted, no film delivers martial arts combat as skillful and inventive as this film which is essentially Zorro in Ching Dynasty China (late 19th century)So why does Iron Monkey work so well? For the obvious reason it is directed and staged by the world's greatest choreographer of combat. It helps of course that much of the movie is shot at 48 frames per second, but it's fluid. In too many movies, speed equals chaos, but not here. It also helps that the film has a great sense of slapstick humour. The ways in which people get their butts kicked by everyday objects such as sliding cafe tables, medicine bowls, umbrella's and even pieces of food, is very clever. Iron Monkey is a great film to show your friends, certainly much more honourable than most of the American junk, that pilfers from these film (Quentin Tarantino, not included of course). Even when it's over, you may find yourself eager for more "},{"Title":"Fast and ferociously fun wire-work heavy period action sweetness from Yuen Woo Ping","Date":"4 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Though Asian wire-worked action films only started to gain significant notice in the West after the success of Ang Lee's wuxia gem Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, that was just a notable newer entry in an old and splendid genre, of which this is one of the best from semi recent times. It tells of the mysterious fighter of corruption and helper of the poor, Iron Monkey, using his awesome martial arts abilities to take from the greedy rich and help out those in trouble. As the authorities grow more zealous and oppressive in their hunt for him the travelling Wong Kei Ying and his son Wong Fei Hung become involved, as Kei Ying pledges to catch Iron Monkey, thinking the authorities are in the right on the issue. Of course, the general developments of things are easily guessable, but what really gives this one its fabulous entertainment value is the frequent jaw-dropping fighting, not quite non stop but still deployed in quite a wild stream, enough to sate even the hungriest of action fans. Director/choreographer Yuen Woo Ping goes heavy on the wire-work, adding delightful impact to the many blows but also constructing elaborate and thrilling displays of fantastical acrobatic prowess, not just flying but all kinds of spinning and leaping shenanigans. Wrought with intricacy and sometimes interwoven with more traditional and ground based fighting to create an ever surprising and breakneck paced spectacle, the action scenes in this one are really quite terrific. The stars of the film all do pretty great jobs, Rongguang Yu is decently heroic and chivalrous as Iron Monkey, whilst Donnie Yen comes off nicely noble as Wong Kei-Ying. The beautiful Jean Wang lights the screen as Iron Monkeys lady companion, whilst Tsang Sze Man is lively and amusing as the young Wong Fei Hung. Good villainy is provided by Fai Li, Yee Kwan Yang and others countering the derring do of the heroes with suitably cunning and mean displays. The film really is splendidly entertaining, it loses out just a little though in not providing more regular martial arts amongst the wire-work. The stars are all so talented that it would have been really nice to see more regular work, perhaps a few simple traditional fights without even any undercranking would have lifted this one to perfection. The abundance of wire-work also slightly reduces the dramatic impact of the film, as the viewer quickly loses a sense of realism and the chances for real connection with the characters as people rather than just roles in a stock plot line are a little slim. There is also, as with many of these films thematic interest in the plot line that is somewhat subsumed by all the fighting. Still, these are just minor complaints in what is, for the most part tremendous entertainment. Anyone who likes Hong Kong action and has a taste for wild wire-worked shenanigans should check this one out pronto, it really is an absolute ripsnorter. "},{"Title":"My take on Iron Monkey","Date":"9 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I saw this movie a couple of years ago and just watched it again. With 14 years since its release, I think it's safe to start calling this a classic of martial arts cinema. Granted, the plot is very simple, there's no real surprises. And it doesn't have the visual beauty of a film like Hero or Seven Swords but it is entertaining from start to finish with some really fantastic kung fu action (Donnie Yen coupled with martial arts director Yuen Wo-Ping - need I say more??). And it's not just Donnie Yen - the kid who plays the young Wong Fei-Hung, Miss Orchid, and the Iron Monkey are all fantastic and really showcase the beauty of the art form known as kung fu.My only real complaint is that with Donnie Yen's skill, they didn't need to speed up some of the fight scenes the way they did.Also really interesting is the importance that food plays throughout the whole movie - rice, steamed buns, stewed mutton, peking duck... I wonder if this as some special significance in the Wong Fei-Hung stories?? Humour is sprinkled throughout which adds to the entertainment. There are some really great one-liners that are probably more elegant in Cantonese, but in English they are hokey and I love it... for example You will die soon as you have been hit by my King Kong Fist!, and You, failure! Come try that again!. You gotta love it!! My only warning is that if you aren't a martial arts film fan and are expecting Crouching Tiger, you will probably be disappointed. This is straight-up 1970's and 80's style kung fu cinema. "},{"Title":"Splendid","Date":"7 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Films like this I can watch again and again, unlike an over inflated Hollywood blockbuster. There is a continuing trend for far eastern film makers to work in the west, like Jet Li, Tsui Hark and Yuen Woo Ping but their best work was done in Hong Kong and China. This film is a good example.With gorgeous photography, lively martial arts and a great cast this can't help pleasing. Yu Rong Guang is relaxed and charming as Dr Yang and Jean Wang as Orchid Ho is sublime and spirited. Donnie Yen brings his usual intensity to contrast with the other two. It is that ancient story of the mysterious hero robbing the rich and giving to the poor but the plot keeps one interested while the action goes on.My favourite scene is not a martial one but when a sheaf of papers is blown about and Dr Yang and Orchid collect the sheets up. It is a short scene but full of grace and beauty and quiet humour, a million miles away from Hollywood. Nothing in 'Matrix Reloaded' sticks in my mind like that scene.A splendid film! "},{"Title":"Brilliant Entertainment","Date":"20 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Iron Monkey, much like The Green Hornet series, can be taken one of two ways. Its either a story about a chinese Robin Hood, who goes around trying to right wrongs or it's a story about the youth of the amazingly popular wong fei hung character from the once upon a time series and countless other films.In a nutshell, the titular Iron Monkey is causing grief for the corrupt magistrates of a chinese province. He keeps pinching the Magistrates ill gotten gains and distributing the wealth among the poor and needy. The magistrates attempts to capture the Iron monkey always fail, laregely due to his supreme Kung-Fu skills. One day a young wong fei hung and his father (peoples favourite, Donnie Yen) are making their way through the town. The magistrates are rounding up anyone likely to be Iron Monkey and discover that Donnie Yen is a renowned Kung-Fu master. They send him after Iron Monkey, while holding Wong Fei Hung as insurance that he will finish the job. They also are sent some government officials to check out whats going on in the province. Who just happen to be ruthless Kung-Fu mercenaries.In this story we learn why Wong Fei Hung is so compassionate and resolute. He is thoroughly disciplined by his father, but learns compassion for all people from the Iron Monkey. And a former prostitute (what is it about china and prostitutes?).Iron Monkey is a really fun film, which I thoroughly enjoyed. The Kung Fu is great, the story is enjoyable and the characters are really interesting. And the big bad baddie, a former Shoalin Monk, uses the funkiest moves ever. The King Kong palm. Class.  "},{"Title":"A classic tale with great martial arts","Date":"29 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I saw the new release in 2001 and it was a martial arts gem.  2001 was a good year for martial arts movies, with this, The Legend of Drunken Master, and of course, Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.  If you're a fan of those other two, you'll love this one. A-, 8/10 "}{"Title":"Comicbook martial arts fun...","Date":"8 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Iron Monkey, first I'd like to say that this is a Comicbook Martial Arts movie, in the tradition of movies like 'Jet Li's Black Mask. This is NOT Crouching Tiger, they are completely different genres (the former a comicbook martial arts film, the latter a fantasy/drama martial arts film..)..What you should expect; A high flying comicbook brought to life, with corny dialogue, and thank god, no english dubbing.Dialogue; Cheesy and sometimes humourous, but you don't come to a movie like this for dialogue.Plot; Simplistic, one of two elements may resemble Crouching Tiger, like the Doctor and his girl resembling Chow Yung Fat and his wannabe mate, but overall, its typical comicbook fare. Oppression, hero spawned from both that and the fact that his father was murdered by a sect of shaolin monks. In some ways, its a supped up set in china Batman, but with more of a Robin Hood flavour to him. So, the govener of the province is trying to catch the hero at all costs, so he rounds up any suspicious characters around town, including a new arrival and his son. When the new arrival reveals who he is, a famous warrior from the North, the govener takes his son hostage and tells him to go hunt down the hero.Martial Arts; for the most part, this is top level, and the reason to see the film. There are a few too many slow downs in some parts, like the final battle scene, but overall, I was very satisfied with the result.FINAL WORD; If you are a fan of cool martial arts, and don't mind it exaggerated some for a more comicbook like effect, this is one of the better productions out there. Camera work's decent, story moves at a fair pace, and there's plenty of action, so if the above sounds like something you'd appreciate, go see it, but don't look for something more than it is, otherwise you won't enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Appreciate it for what it is","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Many argue and complain that films like this are dumb and no one can really like it when all the characters are flying around and punching through walls, etc...Appreciate kung fu movies like this for what they are - they're KUNG FU movies. Not sci-fi, not romance, not drama. I treat it almost like a Picasso - its not like his pictures looked realistic - they weren't meant to be. Thats Cubism for you. This movie isn't trying to make you believe its characters can really fly and balance on firey poles while fighting a bad guy who can poison you with his Budda Palm. Thats Kung Fu for you.As far as kung fu flicks go, I'm no authority, but this has the best fight scenes I've seen in a non-Chan film. This film boasts not one, not two, not three, but FOUR main characters who are (as kung fu films must have) phenomenal at martial arts. Fights abound (I lost count of how many lengthy ones there are) at the drop of the hat, and take place in such backdrops as a market, a doctors office, rooftops, alleys, etc...As in all films of this genre, the entire backdrop seems to be composed of balsa wood as protagonists and antagonists alike punch (and grab) wood into splinters. Props for fighting include bowls of water, alcohol (flammable, always a good accessory to any fight flick), umbrellas, tables, swords, daggers, chains, sleeves (see the movie and you'll understand), big sticks, small sticks, big sticks broken in half, big sticks on fire, etc...Fans of the genre will find this comment about the film useless - they'll have probably rushed out to rent/buy it as soon as they read about the poisoned Buddha Palm. As for the non-fans - if you can buy the flying around stuff, you'll enjoy it. No, seriously - its a good flick, and one I wouldn't mind watching again or even buying. Happy renting! "},{"Title":"It's utter stupidity that not many people see how great this film is.","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Iron Monkey was originally released in Hong Kong almost10 yrs (1993), but it's until now, with America's loveaffair with Martial Arts films, has it come to the USA.It's original title was Iron Monkey The Young Wong Fei Hong.Directed by Yuen Wo Ping who choreographed a couple ofthe exciting battle scenes. It's one of the first martialarts films to use elements of eastern and western culture.For example, the music has been redone with a James Venable score. Even Quentin Tarantino was overlooking the movie before it was released.The story is set in China 1858, when corrupt officialstook advantage of poor refugees. In the city of Chekian, a greedy and low life governor namedChen (James Wong)is stealing food supplies and spends mostof his time having sex with 9 wives!!! Yes nine wives!!!Well the people of Chekia are sick of this jerk and theywant someone to take him out. That's where the Iron Monkey (Yu Rong-Guang) comes in.He is a just a master at martial arts and his appearence in black cast a fear over his enemies. In fact at one point in the movie, he shaves of the governor's eyebrows (talk about a close shave). The security chief (Yuen Shun-Yi) tries to captures theIron Monkey but can't. What I loved about the movie, besides the breathtaking action scenes is the story itself revolving corruption and the need for a hero to rid the city of evil and bad individuals.Also I loved the fact that Iron Monkey has a secret identitylike Spiderman and Superman. No one suspects his real identity which is that of a herbalist. However, the movie further gets intriguing as another herbalist comes into town with his son. The evil governorkidnaps the herbalist's son and won't release him until someone captures the Iron Monkey. To complicate matters, an evil monk comes into the picturesand plans to take the Iron Monkey out. One other thing I loved about the movie, is the arsenalof moves every fighting character has. One has a Shaolinfist, while another has a flying sleeve move. Of course, the stunts are tremendous including the duel at the end, which would make even Jackie Chan pleased. Released by Miramax, Iron Monkey is a good sign that more great Martial Arts films will be released in the USfor us action fans to appreciate. The movie is still in theaters, but when it comes in onDVD, you can bet your watch that I'll be in line to check itout. It most certainly come with extra features that will make it a great DVD!!!      "},{"Title":"A pleasant surprise, amazing choreography","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My friends suggested I come see this movie, and I did, without really knowing what I was getting into.  What a pleasant surprise!Our showing was subtitled in English, and was difficult to read and watch at the same time.  But I would prefer this over the voice-dubbing that is often done.A simple plot, but amazing choreography.  The scenes were intriguing to watch, and even more so with the added humour from the characters as they were fighting.  I would recommend this film to anyone interested in martial arts films.  Definitely better without all the overdone computer special effects.  This proves that Jackie Chan isn't the only martial artist who injects humour into his fighting scenes.  "},{"Title":"It's no Crouching Tiger...and that's a good thing","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  My subject line about sums up my feeling for this movie...and that guy who had the 'artsy crap' quote below hit the nail on the head also.  CTHD was amazing, but its rather mundane plot was stretched out and drawn out so much that much of the energy was lost, leaving a movie tending to wallow in its own pretentiousness.  Iron Monkey, however, doesn't know the meaning of the word pretentious.  It does know the meaning of kung-fu.That kung fu has a long line of greatness and cheeziness before it in many Hong Kong actioners, one that Iron Monkey stands proudly with.  Yes, the action is amazing, but more what caught me off guard is the humor, like the 'cleansing the palate' scene...it's all built up perfectly.  Its robin-hood-esqe storyline is pared down to the basics, but still comes across clearly and somewhat freshly.Anyhoo, it all comes down to the kung fu.  If you watch it for the plot alone you may be disappointed, but as a whole it's one of the best I've ever seen.  As the kid said, in a line repeated in most of these movies, My kung-fu is very powerful! "},{"Title":"Hard to pronounce, but worth the watching","Date":"29 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Great movie. Some of the best wire fighting sequences I've ever seen. If you like Crouching Tiger but thought that things like plot and dialogue took too much time away  from the fighting, you'll probably like this one much better. I know I did. "},{"Title":"Pure thrill ride, lots of laughs too!!","Date":"13 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Directed by Woo-Ping Yuen, martial arts choreographer for other notable films, comes Iron Monkey a simple robin hood tale of a secret hero who robs from the corrupt rich officials and gives to the downtrodden refugee poor in 18th century China.  For the most part it seems like a very formula martial arts picture, but it's use of choreography and more importantly its humour separates it from being just an ordinary chop-socky.I saw this in a packed house on Friday and all I can say is this movie is 100% fun and enjoyment.  Everyone got into it massively, whooping and hollering.  Some people couldn't even sit still trying to contain their enjoyment!  Like most martial arts films you know that the story only suits to create fight scenes which you highly anticipate (and done brilliantly might I add).  But what separates it more is the constant gags and humour used in the film.  The corrupt governor is a bufoon, at one point he orders his henchmen to arrest everyone and anyone who might be the iron monkey.  This creates some hillarious scenes such as when a group arrest an old man who sneezes proclaiming 'You Sneeze like a monkey!! you're coming with us!'.  The real hero though is a doctor who keeps a low profile with a female assistant that he rescued from some corrupt pimps.  We even see them after they close the clinic, going into their second identity fliying and jumping around to chase papers blown in the air.  It's like seeing Batman and Robin transform in the batcave.And like any martial arts film, there is no large amount of profanity, no sex, it's comic book violence and you know who the badguys are.  The main boss villan has one of the best on screen intro appearances I have seen in a long time. For the most part the acting is so over the top in that martial arts B movie dialogue, 'Shadow Kick,  Your kick is no match for my poison buddha palm, Your corrupt sect destroyed my father! etc.. etc..  but you love it none the less and it really gets good when the insults start flying during the fight scenes Ah YOU the ugly virgin again  WHAP WHAP SMACK!!!  The actors in this film you can tell are having so much fun.Much has been said about the astonishing use of the final fight scene involving 3 people jostling over a flaming pit on wodden poles.  While spectacular the idea is, I honestly found it sometimes hard to follow and even some of the fight scenes have that over the top hyperkinetic feel to them where it seems like overkill.  Certain scenes are definatly sped up, and people are twisting in mid air, balancing themselves on cloth, implausable?  of course, but this movie is all a fantasy.  Perhaps my jadedness is getting tired of all the matrix-wire pulling fight scenes, but for the most part this movie is an absolute joy!  It was one of the rare times in the theatre people were yelling, laughing HARD, and applauding and cheering when the villan was killed.  That is what going to the movies is all about and make sure you see this in a packed house.This should have been the movie for the summer, and this IS one of the greatest martial arts movies every made.Martial arts rating 10 out of 10Overall Rating 8 out of 10  "},{"Title":"A Kung-Fu Joy Ride!","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It definitely takes a little bit of 'orientation' when watching a Hong Kong Flick. The characters can be a bit cartooney, the performances are over the top, and the stories, well... a bit foreign. But once you get past this, you'll be hard pressed to find films with more breath-taking action and excitement. One of the crown jewels of Hong Kong Action Films is Iron Monkey, directed by Woo-ping Yuen, who also did all the action choreography for The Matrix.Originally released in 1993, Buena Vista has gone back and completely restored Iron Monkey with fantastic results. The print of the re-release has deep rich colors and very little imperfections (only a few shots look as if the color timing is a little off). In addition to restoring the picture, they've refined the audio including an update to the score. The end result is an Iron Monkey which is on par with current Hollywood theatrical releases. Before seeing Iron Monkey I read a lot of concern from DVD Talk Members in The DVD Talk Forum about the re-release being dubbed. I'm happy to report that it ISN'T dubbed! Iron Monkey is presented in its original Cantonese audio with really excellent new subtitles.But the reason to see Iron Monkey isn't for its great picture and sound. Iron Monkey has some of the best martial arts action you'll see on film. If you liked the action and swordplay of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon or enjoy the action of stars like Jackie Chan or Jet Li, do yourself a favor and see Iron Monkey. It's a complex Kung-fu joy ride from beginning to end! Geoffrey Kleinman, DVDTalk.com  "},{"Title":"Fantastic kung-fu fun","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Starring Donnie Yen, produced by Tsui Hark, directed by Yuen Woo Ping. What more could you possibly need to make a great kung-fu movie?Yen is Wong Kei Ying, father to a youthful Fei Hung, who stumbles into a town ruled by an evil and greedy Governor. Luckily for the townspeople, their hero Iron Monkey (kind of a Chinese Robin Hood) is robbing from the rich to give to the poor, hopping around rooftops and kicking the crap out of  dozens of hapless guards in the process. When the Governor imprisons his son, Kei Ying is forced to try and capture Iron Monkey.Okay, so the plot is no great shakes, but when the action is this spectacular and well performed, who cares? This film has some of the best wirework fight sequences I've ever seen, the action is seldom allowed to slacken off, and the climactic fight atop poles in a sea of flames is great. If you haven't seen this yet and have even a passing interest in kung-fu movies, do yourself a favour.  "},{"Title":"Full on ridiculous-mode wire-fighting finale that blows anything I've seen out of the water.","Date":"2 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  It's a bit tedious until the ending which is some incredible wire fighting craziness.  You haven't seen anything until you've witnessed the power of Flying Sleeves. "}{"Title":"The second best kung fu movie ever.","Date":"10 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" Depending on your tastes of course. The best Kung fu movie would be The Prodigal Son or Bai ga Tai. This movie is comparably more commercial, colorful and with somewhat higher production values. The kung fu choreography is of course, brilliant, with the slight exception of the final climatic fight. They also used objects for fights during this movie, didn't always fight empty handed. The emphasis seemed to be more on the situation rather than the kung fu itself. The way that the final boss was defeated was slightly disappointing and anti-climatic. Otherwise, you have a brilliant story, kickass action, plenty of humor and fantastic acting. Iron Monkey is a must watch film for both action and martial arts fans everywhere. "},{"Title":"The Chinese Robin Hood","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" No disrespect to Bruce Lee, Jackie Chan, and Jet Li, but Iron Monkey is my all time favorite. Iron Monkey should be the standard for martial arts movies. It was a perfect mixture of true martial arts, great choreography, and wire stunts. I've watched the subtitled version and the English dubbed version both with equal attention and enthusiasm. It was classic battle after classic battle. All characters, from the kid to the Iron Monkey, displayed extraordinary skills with weapons and without. The movie had fast paced fighting, old fashioned heroism, and even a bit of comedy. Iron Monkey is a masterpiece that I'll watch again and again. "},{"Title":"Most THRILLING movie ever","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This movie made me rend my shirt the first time I saw it.It was so thrilling I just couldn't contain myself.The wonderful action scenes sent my head spinning.Though there was some use of wires the ground fights were also the best I've seen(till date).Throughout it's length you're blown away by hilarious comic scenes and the best martial arts any movie has to offer.This movie also provides an insight into Wong Fei Hungs' childhood and his relationship with his father,a feature that adds some more flavour to the story. The storyline is simple and easy to follow thus forming a platform for showcasing all the thrills it has to offer.This is the ONLY MOVIE in my highschool cinema history to be shown twice in one night due to popular request.Still the ONLY one to be applauded after the credits started to roll and obviously throughout its' duration.Your collection of action films is half complete without Iron Monkey.It's good for drama-lovers as well;my mother hates action movies but she loved this one.In short I can assure you it is the best martial arts movie ever made. "},{"Title":"Wonderful Martial Arts Film, That's Now Become One Of My Favorites, With A Fantastic Story, And Some Of The Best Fight Scenes I Have Ever Seen!","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" This is a wonderful martial arts film, that's now become one of my favorites,with a fantastic story, and some of the best fight scenes i have ever seen!.All the characters are wonderful, and, it's also quite funny and imaginative, plus Rongguang Yu and Donnie Yen are simply amazing in this!. It had the feel of a Jet Li film, and all the characters were extremely likable!, plus James Wong is great as the Govenor!. The dubbing is actually some of the best i have seen, and i thought Donnie Yen and Rongguang Yu had great chemistry together, plus the fight choreography is incredible!. I found the whole poisonous palm sequence to be fascinating and the scenes involving Donnie Yen and Wong Fei-Hung were great, plus The stunts were absolutely fantastic!.The main fight is incredible, and, i was extremely impressed by Sze-Man Tsang(Young Wong Fei-hung)'s fight skills for a young kid, plus The finale was just awesome!. This is a wonderful martial arts film, that's now become one of my favorites, with a fantastic story and some of the best fight scenes i have ever seen!, Go see it right this instant you won't regret it!. The Direction is amazing!. Woo-ping Yuen does an amazing job here, with incredible camera work, awesome angles, lots of other amazing shots and he kept the film at an incredibly fast pace!. The Acting is wonderful!. Rongguang Yu is AMAZING as the Iron monkey, he is extremely likable, had a great sense of humor, is a wonderful martial artist, played an extremely likable character had great chemistry with Donnie Yen and Jean Wang, is a great unknown find, and just did an amazing job overall!. (Yu Rules!). Donnie Yen is also AMAZING here, while his character may seem like an asshole, i found him extremely likable and like Yu's character found myself rooting for him all the way, he also has tons of charisma, he was amazing!. (Donnie Rules!). Jean Wang is fantastic as Miss Orchard, she is beautiful, was very convincing, and had great chemistry with Rongguang Yu!, she is also a great martial artist. Yee Kwan Yan is fantastic in his role, and did a fantastic job!. James Wong is extremely menacing as the Govenor, and had a great evil laugh. Sze-Man Tsang is wonderful as young Wong Fei-Hung, she did an incredible job, for a young martial artist, did fantastic in her emotional scenes, and was very funny at times!. Rest of the cast do great. Overall Go see it right this instant you won't regret it!, it's one of the best martial art films ever in my opinion. ***** out of 5 "},{"Title":"Monkey See, Monkey Do","Date":"24 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I don't have enough experience with Kung-Fu to tell you what kind of martial arts is used in this film, what significance the characters have in Chinese folklore, or even how to pronounce their names. All I know is this Iron Monkey made me laugh. Not a There's Something about Mary kind of laugh--those laughs that are sometimes uncomfortable (both because you laughed so hard, and because the scenes were so vile that you had a hard time stomaching it). The kind of laughs that Iron Monkey provokes start as a seedling idea, and spread from the brain to pull at the corners of the mouth. At some point, the laughs are no longer recognized as individual, but rather a collection of pure enjoyment as you wait for the next trap, the next slap, the next vase in the face.Let's begin with the director (since he is the one part of the movie that most of us have experience with). By now, Woo-Ping Yuen is legendary, and you might even have one of his movies in your collection. He began his career as an actor in the 1960's, and moved on to director and fight choreography. He has become most famous for the latter. In the last 10 years, Yuen made a name for himself in America by choreographing the fight sequences in The Matrix trilogy, Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon, and most recently Kill Bill (Vol. 1&2). If you liked any of those fights, with high flying effects and lots of quick reflexes, you'll be sure to enjoy this one.What about the plot? It's really quite straight forward. A doctor (Rongguang Yu) doubles as a Robin Hood known as Iron Monkey, taking money from corrupt Chinese leaders and re-distributing it to the peasants. He catches the attentions of high ranking Governor Cheng, who wishes to catch and kill the good doctor. When young Wong Fei-Hung is captured by the governor, his father (Donnie Yen) must track down Iron Monkey in order to have the boy released. It is up to Iron Monkey, his assistant Miss Orchid, and the boy's father to save the child from certain doom. In the process they must teach the governor a very valuable lesson about abusing power.And then there is the fighting. Because the filmmaker is a martial arts choreographer, the fights are phenomenal. There are some pretty impressive scenes involving staffs, swords, umbrellas, benches, and very sharp tacks. One of the more exciting scenes occurs when a pile of papers is blown from a table and Iron Monkey and Miss Orchid must retrieve the papers from midair. The dance that follows is a truly beautiful piece of camera-work.Though there has been discussion that the story was changed for the American release of the film (presented by Quentin Tarantino), it really doesn't make much of a difference. People in the know will talk about the historical significance of the characters, the edits made by Miramax in the American release, and the improper translation from Cantonese to English. But really, who cares? Since most people in these parts probably couldn't tell the difference between Mandarin, Cantonese, Shiatsu, Hibachi, Mitsubishi, or Moo Shoo Pork, I'm not going to pretend like it matters that some dialogue has been cut or mistranslated. If you've never seen the original edit, then you won't even notice these differences. The movie rings in at around 90 minutes, and assumedly most of the edits were made to hit that valuable cut-off time.Make no mistake; the fights are where this film shines. But Iron Monkey is as much about family values, government corruption, and the indomitable human spirit (*sigh&#133;a tear) as it is about a swift kicks to the midsection and beautiful camera work. I would go so far as to say it is a family film, aimed at anyone who wants to recapture the enjoyment that can be found in the great fantasy films of America (Star Wars, LOTR, Dunston Checks In). At the very least, you can sit back and laugh at the crazy dialogue and surprised looks on the character's faces as they get hit with random objects. "},{"Title":"After you see this, you won't want to go back to Crouching Tiger, Hero, or the rest.","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" What can I say? This movie is amazing. Probably the best thing about Iron Monkey is that it doesn't try to disguise itself as something it isn't, like some of the recent Chinese movies that have entered American theaters. It isn't a suspense thriller, which is why it gets the Iron Monkey's identity (Dr. Yang) out of the way early, which keeps the plot moving.The movie is all about the action, and it has some of the most amazing fight scenes you will ever see. Yuen Woo-Ping, six years before he became famous with his groundbreaking special effects in The Matrix, does a mastery of kung-fu fighting here. The final battle, where the two protagonists go up against the evil Hin-Hung will leave you breathless, and it is still amazing for me five times after I saw it the first time.That said, the plot is good enough, and considering that about half of the movie is people fighting, it tells a pretty good story about how young Wong Fei-Hong, a Chinese hero as an adult, got inspired by his father and the Iron Monkey defeating the evil Royal Minister Hin-Hung and making the city less corrupt.Not really as popular as Crouching Tiger, Hero, or House of Flying Daggers, which is a shame because it's twice as good as Tiger, 10 times as good as Hero, and 100 times better than the pathetic House. Give it some justice and watch it, and prepare to be amazed. "},{"Title":"A true masterpiece!","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I got the hong kong dvd of this movie and i think i saw this movie like ten times,and i just came from the theater from seeing the miramax re-release of this film and i just enjoyed this film like the first time i saw it.This movie it's one of my favorite films ever.Only a movie this good can come back to the cinemas 8 years later from it's original release and amaze everyone like the first time.This simply one of the bests martial arts movies ever made in this whole world!watch and be amazed! "},{"Title":"low historic concern, but that's what we like action, fantasy and decent cinematography","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Supposedly the prequel to Once Upon A Time In China, but with (even) less historic concern and much more action featuring King Kong Fist, Shadow Kick, Shaolin Hit and a fabulous 'pole-fight' that made me rewind the tape immediately to watch it again.  Only the dialogues and scenes in between the action are a bit dull and uninspired.  There is not even a lovestory (not necessary of course, believe me) and almost no humour that is something I usually adore in this genre, right after decent action and good cinematography.  But Iron Monkey (1993) is actionwise greater than Once Upon A Time In China (1991), storywise greater than Wo Hu Cang Long (2000), but cinematographic (Arthur Wong) less interesting than Chinese Ghost Story (1987), which I still consider (with my humble knowledge of the genre) unsurpassed.9/10 "},{"Title":"A Chinese Zoro!","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  If you are fan of Kung Fu movies, this movie probably offers nothing ground breakingly new. But it does have some nice fight scenes and some decent comic relief to make this movie an enjoyable watch.If you're not  Kung Fu movies, it might make for a good introduction to the genre as it is very much like the more Western theme of Zorro. Both films feature a corrupt, but stupid goverment, a upstanding citizen secretly defying the system and plenty of gratuitous fight scenes as the powers that be seek to capture the rebelous saboteur.Once you get you head around the genre's convention that studying Kung Fu can grant people ability to perform super human feats, you kind of realize that, except for the subtitles, this movie could be Zorro or Schwatzenegger or the Matrix.As one last note, this movie actually brings together some characters from Chinese folklore, so there is little introduction to them, much as a Western movie wouldn't spend much time introducing Zorro or Robin Hood. "},{"Title":"Pure pulp goodness","Date":"13 February 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" You pay to see a movie to be entertained, and this movie delivers. The so-called wire fu isn't anywhere as obnoxious as in other movies. There is a decent amount of character development spread among the action sequences. There are some pacing problems and subplots that don't execute well, but no major defects. This works as both a date movie and a family film.There is a prologue, First Act, Second Act, Third Act with Climax, and an epilogue. No more no less. I certainly enjoyed it more than Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, so thank you Mr. Tarintino for getting this distributed in a wide release. Please continue to do so. "}{"Title":"excellent martial arts movie","Date":"24 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" A really well done lung fu movie. A keeper. Technique is excellent, not gory. There is a Robin Hood plot that makes reasonable sense, two subplots around relationships (Orchid and Monkey; the Other Guy and his son), and as a final touch, a lovable bad guy wrestling with his good side (Fox the policeman, as played by a Chinese Nigel Bruce). But make sure you get the uncut original Hong Kong version. This is a resubmission of a comment that I originally submitted erroneously to the 1997 version of this novel, and at that time, there was no ten line minimum requirement. Nevertheless, I believe that this comment conveys useful information and should be retained. "},{"Title":"Poor dialogue but great kung fu scenes and photography","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Okay so i'm a bit of a fan of good kung fu movies so Iron Monkey is poor on dialogue and the comic parts with the governor etc are crap and overplayed but the photography,the detail to costumes and most of the fight scenes are really impressive(save for the ott wire-work at times)Most impressive are the kung fu skills when fighting on the ground by Rongguang Yuthe iron monkey and donnie yen to the extent that i'd say they can rivalise in technique with Jet Li be it with bare fist or trad weapons pole etc. Overall a curio a blueprint for the much better Once upon a time in China 1 and 2 directed by iron monkey producer Tsui Hark. triviathe famous Uoatic main music and opening theme appear for the first time in Iron Monkey when the kid does his display of kung fu in the street to collect money. "},{"Title":"Real men shed blood before they shed tears.","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Gosh, this explains how Wong-Fei Hung became such the hero! Further (and careful) attempts to tell the story of his childhood are excellently done in IRON MONKEY, yet another crazy martial arts movie dug up by Quentin Tarantino. But this movie does not stray far from the obvious.The poor folk in one Chinese province have a hero. When a herbalist and his son kick some butt, they think he is the IRON MONKEY! When proven he is not, Wong Kei-Ying must find this IRON MONKEY(!) so he can get his young son out of jail.Great fighting, some good morals and a solid, if plain, plot. But that is where it ends. The true story is how the young Wong-Fei Hung became the hero he was. And sadly there is nothing more special to it. But if you love wire fighting, look no further. "},{"Title":"More wires than an episode of ThunderBirds","Date":"12 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Whilst the crouching tiger phenoumen sweeps asia, HK audiences and fans of the kung fu action genre will have known of other films which are of equal quality and probably argue that CTHD has a distintive lack of credible kung fu fights when comparing it to other period kung fu films.Whilst that is true, CTHD was never about the kung fu, it was a love film that was beautfully shot and directed, in comparison Iron Monkey is well made - but is more of a kung fu film more than anything.Taking its ideas from Robin Hood and The Green Hornet, a doctor fights injustice and terror to feed and clothe the poor and homeless, but he is a wanted man by the sherrif of nottingham type guy who wants to clean up the city before the emperor comes to visit him.Wong Fei Hung's father, played by Donnie Yen is hired to capture the Iron Monkey but soon joins him fighting injustice, then both together they fight the corrupt and all powerful emperor.Whilst the fights have more wires than an episode of thunderbirds, the slick direction makes it wonderful to watch.  I couldn't stand some of the more stupid wire-fu moves, maybe I'm just a pursist...I dunno.Overall, its enjoyable - but not brilliant.Rating 5/10 "},{"Title":"East BEATS West!!","Date":"15 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Like a page right out of the 60's `Batman and Robin' series, the masked vigilante Iron Monkey, possessing the modus operandi of Batman and the heart of Robin Hood, is the champion of justice in a small town in 19th century China. Like Batman, he has a dual identity, battling evil and corruption at night while masquerading as a law-abiding citizen by day, he has a bag full of gimmicks, and he has a sidekick.In this episode/movie of the exciting adventures of the eastern Dark Knight and Miss Orchid, the Girl Wonder, corrupted town governor Cheng, the &#145;Sheriff of Nottingham', with his assistant Chief Fox, a homage to Chief O'Hara, called upon a visiting pugilist warrior and his much-more-famous partner/son (think Green Hornet and Kato) to capture the Dark Knight. Just when the home hero and his visiting counterpart are about to clash in grand spectacle, they joined forces against an evil threat in the form of a renegade Shaolin monk.It does not take a genius to realize that this is no `Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon', and the differences do not stop with the action scenes. While `Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon' is a magnificent work in many respects, `Iron Monkey' is not. Aside from the action scenes, there is nothing of substance about the film. Direction and cinematography are lackluster. The storyline is grossly thin, as well as far-fetched and unbelivable. It is unrealistic to think that a pre-teen kid can not only fight but also be able to beat up adults single-handedly; or a villainous monk ascending to a government position despite his checkered past and current ignoble accomplishments, without any opposition whatsoever. Adding to the negatives is bad dubbing. The characters are often heard speaking without moving their lips. Horrible editing of sound and picture only makes matters worse.Yet the only gold mine of this movie, which makes it entertaining despite its many flaws, is the action sequences. They are abundant in quality and quantity. This undoubtedly establishes the standard in which all martial arts films will be judged, which American martial arts action flicks should follow but do not. American martial arts films rely on machismo and natural charisma of the actors to carry the film, an approach that often dies of boredom especially since their fight scenes are frequently one-sided. Chinese martial arts films have breathtaking fight choreographies that emphasize on creativity and improvisation, so even if the same style is utilized the approach makes it look fresh and original. Besides the actors' expressing themselves beautifully in their own unique martial arts background, their repertoire of weapons include ladders, umbrellas, chains, metal balls, wooden benches and &#133; flaming bamboo poles (you have to see it to believe it!). Not only do all of the main characters participated in the fighting, they were also defined by their own styles on-screen Iron Monkey being acrobatically-inclined; the Girl Wonder dancing her movements like a ballerina; &#145;Green Hornet' excessive use of his legs including drawing an arc with the tip of his toes as a pre-fight stance; &#145;Kato's cockiness and use of bamboo pole; and the Villain being hands and claws for the most part.One can fault an action film for its lack of everything else, but `Iron Monkey' does put films of van Damme and Rothrock's to shame, or to the level of slow-motion tai-ji, or better yet to oblivion. Definitely enjoyable, even if its only for the fight sequences.Spellcaster's Level 6 "},{"Title":"great martial arts, poor dialogue","Date":"23 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Perhaps in its native language this film doesn't have lines as silly and hokey, but you can't use that excuse for some of the foolishness of the plot. I was hoping for another great story with fantastic dialogue and amazing martial arts (like Crouching Tiger, The Sword, etc). I didn't get it. The martial arts were astounding, don't get me wrong, it's worth seeing just for that, if you like that sort of thing (which I do). However, the &#145;bad guys' were more like bumbling idiots (I was, several times, reminded of Schultz from Hogans Heroes) and as I said the dialogue made me cringe in parts it was so bad. The &#145;good guys' had average dialogue, it didn't make me cringe, but I didn't walk out impressed with it. If you are looking for martial arts and great fight scenes GO, if you want a good story and intelligent dialogue, you can still go if you don't mind the fact that this movie won't have it. I'm not sorry I saw it, but I won't be watching it again. I gave it a 7 for the outstanding martial arts. "},{"Title":"Heart throbbing kungfu movie","Date":"22 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I already watch this movie when it first came out on 1993, but it's still entertaining me even to day. The story is not good like Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon ( I think it's a bit cliche), but the fight sequence is still superb, a very Yuen Woo  Ping. I really recommended it to watch.7/10 "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" I love this movie! Don't ask me why, just see it. And you will understand. The fights are most spectacular I've ever seen. The story is almost perfect, it's better than most of the Hollywood action movies. I have seen so many kung-fu movies but this is one of my favorites. If there is a god of kung-fu movies, it should be Yuen Wo Ping. See this movie and you will know why. If you like great fights and great movies, you will like this one. Well, if you expect to see something like Hero or Crouching Tiger Hidden Drgaon, you will be disappointed. You will be disappointed not because Hero and Crouching Tiger... are better than Iron Monkey but because the movies are too different. Iron Monkey is a great martial arts action but the other two movies are more dramatic, they are not action movies. Well, that's it. What else could I say? "},{"Title":"Good for its martial arts","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Given that is was made in 1993, its martial arts is impressive.  Its story line is simple, yet effective, providing humor, fun and suspense all at once, which is not atypical of movies from Hong Kong.  It cannot be compared to Crouching Tiger since the directing is so different and the martial arts has progressed quite a bit.Some people thinks the martial art is over the top, but there are so many disciplines of martial art, including some that emphasize their ability to be light on their feet.  Whether they could perform such acts, I cannot answer, but many of those incredible stuff they did have roots in Kung Fu.Anyway, it is still a fun film. "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"3 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Iron Monkey was a typical martial arts type movie.  The plot was reminiscent of Zorro or Robin Hood, that is, the good guy steals from the rich and powerful and gives to the poor.  As is usual for these movies the plot was almost childish and silly in places and interspersed with scenes of violence.  You must understand what type of movie you're getting involved in when you see it or you'll be disappointed.  It was fun and paced well and as deep as a dew.  Good mindless entertainment. "}{"Title":"Excellent martial arts sequences but not much else","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Iron Monkey's marketing has positioned it in the same ballpark as Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, but it's not even in the same league.  Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, a fairy tale resonating with poetry, mysticism, and poignance, captures natural settings with glorious cinematography and shows us martial arts sequences that defy gravity and other laws of physics. Iron Monkey has the martial arts.In Iron Monkey, a doctor in a town plagued by poverty disguises himself with all the believable effectiveness of Clark Kent to rob the corrupt governor by night as Iron Monkey and maintain a clinic by day as Dr. Yang.  Iron Monkey easily evades the authorities until the governor forces a skilled fighter, Wong Kei-Ying, to hunt Iron Monkey to ensure his son's release from prison.  Soon, though, Dr. Yang effects the boy's release and Iron Monkey and Wong Kei-Ying are fighting side-by-side to rescue the town from the reign of the corrupt governor and an even more corrupt Shaolin monk gone bad.None of this really matters, though.  The story is formulaic and the characters are stock.  The meat of the movie is its action.  The fight scenes are masterfully-choreographed and inventive, polished and stylized. If you like well-done martial arts sequences for their own sake, the fights in this film are enough reason to see it.  If you require a meaningful story and well-drawn characters, too, stay away.  "},{"Title":"Worth a watch or two","Date":"22 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  A surprisingly well-executed tale of a Chinese Robin Hood or Zorro, with action sequences that look straight out of CROUCHING TIGER, but clearly executed without CT's big budget. For real film fans, notice how the plot borrows rather strongly from Hitchcock's TO CATCH A THIEF. Nothing wrong with that. "},{"Title":"it's much funnier even if it is of slightly poorer quality","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  In 1993, Golden Harvest released a dubbed version of Iron Monkey onto video in America. The version is hysterical goofy dialogue, goofier sound effects, and great over-the-top fight choreography. Now Quentin Tarantino and Miramax Films has re-translated, re-scored, subtitled, and released Iron Monkey into American theatres. The goofy dubbed dialogue has been replaced with historical references and righteous hero-speak. The sound effects are entirely gone. BUT the fight choreography remains fanciful, creative and the ultimate example of silly wire-fu. Knowledge of the plot is completely unnecessary. It's basically good outlaw, bad governor, noble traveler, a wise beautiful woman and a well meaning but spineless lawman battle each other. Add a sprinkling of greedy wives, brothel owners, poor people, and corrupt monks, and you have the story.The added prologue and subtitles make the story easier to follow, but the fighting and humor is really the point of this movie. Sometimes the serious subtitles seem at odds with the crazy fight choreography. This is not a realistic martial arts movie. Not only do the characters fly through the air and defy gravity while fighting, one character attacks his enemies with a giant flying sleeve. Silly stuff, but the Tarantino and Miramax version seems to be fighting the silly side of the film. They also tack an American-style happy ending onto the film. At the close of the movie, printed titles let us know that Iron Monkey (Yu Rongguang) and Orchid (Jean Wang) get married rather than just continuing to live together in admiration and sexual repression for the rest of their lives. I don't really know which version is more true to the original spirit of the movie. The version in theatres right now is highly enjoyable and probably preferable for those who like wire-fu but aren't crazy about cheese. For those of you who appreciate campy humor, rent the Golden Harvest version; it's much funnier even if it is of slightly poorer quality. "},{"Title":"A little puzzled","Date":"20 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Iron Monkey, re-released after being released in China in 1993, comes to America to amaze audiences (er).  The story, a typical Robin Hood type one that isn't needed to be expanded on here, is really a base-line for a number of well stage fight scenes (the best with poles above fire).  The performances are decent and I suppose people that are really hardcore in the genre will be delighted.  However, I have my squables with the film I want to get off my chest.I'm not sure if everyone will agree with me on this notion, but I'm not sure if the direction martial arts movies seem to be taking is the greatest thing since CGI came about.  Am I the only guy who enjoys classic Bruce Lee and Jackie Chan films where the guys fight without jumping on roofs and hopping like Ninja Turtles, without fighting at a speed a bullet wouldn't catch up with, and without having to divert your attention from the action because of subtitles (say what you will about dubbing, but it is effective in these movies in the most part)?  I'm not saying that the new type of stylizing (shown here in Iron Monkey and also in last years smash Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon) is a really bad thing, a good amount of the time the martial arts scenes are exciting and cool.  But it might be prudent to not forget the originality and awesomeness that came with people like Lee and Chan and go forever into the abyss of visual effects and subtitles.That being said, I definately didn't mind seeing Iron Monkey in giving some decently entertaining 90 minutes of film, but just remember for those entering not familiar to proceed with some form of caution (maybe in knowing Chinese maybe).  B- "},{"Title":"Siunin Wong Fei-hungingly Horrible!","Date":"11 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Every so often a wonderful foreign film will arise and take the United States by storm, this is great and all - but it opens up the flood gates. Yep, crappy copy-cats, and horrible mice in drag show up. Once such film is Iron Monkey, which the word 'best' should only be paired with while describing it as the 'best plagerizin' hunk of junk.'Seriously, folks, don't go see this. If you have any taste, or even love for any kind of art form. This is just a senseless crap festival in your mouth, and everyone's invited. It's horrible. It's some of the worst stuff I've ever seen. Tear-jerkingly terrible.If you like movies - don't go see this, you'll cry. "},{"Title":"Far to wire happy for my taste","Date":"9 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  First off let me state that I love martial arts films.  They are packed for pure enjoyment and films by Jet Li and Jackie Chan leave you with your jaw on the floor.  My favorite would be Once Upon A Time In China.As for Iron Monkey.  I have to disagree with the majority.  Yes, there are lots of action scenes.  Yes, it does relate to the Once Upon A Time In China series.  Yes, there are some good martial arts scenes in this.  But the over use of wires takes away from the full merit that this film could of had.  I liked a lot of the fighters in this picture but every one of them would fly through the air doing god knows what.  I am aware that just about every Jet Li film has wires used in it and I wasn't pleased with the use of special effects in Romeo Must Die, but the amount of wires in this is completely absurd.  I do realize there is a thing called suspension of disbelief but when it comes to this I just can't help it.  And the flying sleaves to top it off made me wish this was an anime so not only did it have an excuse, but only then would it look good.A large disappointment for me.  Advice to those that see it - if you thought Once Upon A Time In China II got a little to far fetched, you ain't seen nothing. "},{"Title":"Misleading...","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  When I went to see this film, I had expected to see, well, an Iron Monkey. You can imagine, my imagination was brimming over at the utter expectation for a film with a plot that surrounded the epic tales of some sort of Iron corrugated monkey. I can't say for certain, but when I sat down and witnessed the atrocity of mundane action scenes which numbed away any feeling of a plot, I felt as though I had been robbed of my human decency. There have been some other movies with the word monkey in them, and they had nothing to do with monkeys. This is becoming an increasingly annoying tradition in Hollywood blockbusters and Foreign Films. There are of course some redeeming qualities, like the credits that closed the film, they were good. The visuals are abhorrently typical, something I could have witnessed while half-conscious without having missed a thing. The plot, there is no plot. I don't think it's so difficult to develop a plot; I don't understand why the writers of these scripts, if there are scripts, think that a ridiculous number of action scenes interrupted by boring dialogue makes for a good movie. The character development? Who are we kidding? In an action film of this caliber, the characters are more like paper cut outs, fashioned and molded to be of a specific make, lacking entirely any nuances of a real person. This whole film was a waste of my time, and it was a waste of my effort to keep my eyes open for the duration of the film. If they could just make a movie about a monkey with some sort of iron chasse capable of doing incredible things, it would have been more original and the monkey would probably have been a better actor than the idiots they gather for these martial arts films. I used to enjoy this genre. But now, it's become too commercial, and no one is chosen on the basis of any skill save their capability to kick really high. Would it be so much to ask for a film where Martial Arts action scenes are just the icing on the cake and not the majority of the movie? I guess it is... "},{"Title":"I can't believe it.","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I can't believe how anyone could actually like this movie. I almost walked out within the first 15 minutes but figured it had to get better. It didn't.The acting was ridiculous. Too over the top. At one scene I couldn't breath because I was laughing so hard at what had happened on screen. Some of the fight scenes were obviously sped up. The evil guys were too stereotypical as were the good guys.Thank God I didn't pay to see it but I would like to talk to someone about getting back the ninety something minutes I wasted while watching this film "},{"Title":"The plot is a bit poorly structured during the middle but generally it is an exciting and enjoyable film with good action and the usual humour","Date":"29 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":" During the day, Dr Yang is a vital part of the community to all around him &#150; poor and rich alike. However during the night he becomes the masked and mysterious Iron Monkey &#150; robbing from corrupt government officials and giving to the poor and oppressed. In a typical knee-jerk reaction, Governor Cheng arrests anyone associated with the word monkey, men who look like monkeys and, just to be sure, actual monkeys. Among those arrested is hero and martial arts expert Kei-Ying Wong and his young son Fei-Hung. To protect the innocents Kei-Ying fights Iron Monkey but the fight is broken up by Iron's escape. Seeing the potential, Cheng throws Fei-Hung in jail until Kei-Ying can capture Iron Monkey; Kei-Ying reluctantly accepts. On his quest he befriends Yang who helps him out &#150; unaware that he is the man he must capture. However when a Government Investigator arrives with a troupe of rebelling Shaolin monks things are only going to become more complex for both Yang and Kei-Wong.Having recently seen Western audiences go ga-ga for pretty martial arts without any humour or real emotional involvement, I felt it was time to go back and watch some films that are fun to watch &#150; hence me sitting back down to Iron Monkey. For fans of the first three 'Once Upon A Time in China' movies, Iron Monkey will be a great addition to the collection because it not only has similar action and humour but also features a young Fei-Hung in a supporting role. The film starts with a relatively simple Robin Hood style story and then adds Kei-Ying into the mix. At this point it starts to find it difficult to manage the material and we lose sight of Kei-Ying for quite a while, during which time the plot doesn't really advance. This is not a major criticism because, while it lingers it does still entertain however you can't help feeling that the material is not managing to keep its threads together. However it does pull it together (albeit in a rather hasty fashion) for the finale and it still works. The humour is never really laugh out loud funny but I found it consistently amusing in the acting, script and delivery.Of course the vast majority of the viewers will be here for the action and I'm pleased to confirm that it is all pretty great. The wire work looks natural (well &#150; as natural as it can look I suppose) and all the leading actors are actually good at what they are being asked to do. Of course many Western audiences asked about Woo-Ping will start quoting modern films at you but it is important to remember that, long before the American dollar took any interest, he was making this stuff look easy. Having a talented cast helps, although not all of them really cut the mustard in the actual acting front. Rongguang is an unknown quantity to me but he does OK in the lead role. At times he floats close to being a bit bland but generally he is behind a mask and it isn't really his fault. Yen is a great martial artist and he comes close to stealing the film and, if his character had been a bit warmer, he would have done. He has the screen presence but not the charisma of Jet Li and I always feel he is better at bad guys &#150; here his action is great but his performance is too harsh for my liking. Wang is very pretty and does the action very well but the best female role is actually from Sze-Man Tsang (albeit playing a boy). She is a nicely human character and she also is physically very impressive. The comedy is a big part of the film and as such it is important to note the work from Wong and, more specifically, Yuen's Master Fox (whose final line is very funny); they may be clowns but lets not forget that the clown is as important as the action hero in making a well-rounded film.Overall, with the rather ponderous Hero just leaving our cinemas, now is the time to look back at this film and others like it to remember why this genre is increasingly popular. Iron Monkey is a fun film, it is as simple as that &#150; the plot may not be the most moving and involving story ever told but it is entertainingly told. The action is great and will keep your eyes on the screen, while the constant tone of amusement helps to lighten the film and cover the lack of real human involvement in the characters. There are better films around but this did what I wanted it to do &#150; it entertained me on many levels. "},{"Title":"Not a fan of the martial arts movies.","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Why do people like these movies?  They are so friggin' stupid!  Sure, there's a few good things here and there, but the stories are so thin and uninteresting.  ...And on top of that, the fights are laughable, they really are hilarious!  I find it impossible to take any of the fight scenes seriously, with them flying all over the place, jumping on each other's shoulders and doing all kinds of unbelievably impossible things.  The fights are choreographed well though, I gotta give 'em some credit there.What was with that whole end scene with the poles and the fire and all that?  Good lord!!!  Can was say Over the top?  I couldn't stop laughing during that scene.  That's almost a dumb as the scene in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon where they're fighting in the bamboo trees.If you're a fan of martial arts movies, then go ahead, take a peak at this film.  Otherwise, I wouldn't recommend going out of your way to see this film.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "}{"Title":"Dung Fooey!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  Bruce Lee was cool...no shirt, ripped, sweaty, doing all his own tricks. Jackie Chan is cool like Bruce, not ripped but funny and inventive. Crouching Tiger... was cool (even though no one understood it) because of the lyric beauty and Peter Pan Fu. Iron Monkey, however, is a state-of-the-art regurgitation of all the bad Chinese Kung Fu flicks to ever come out of Hong Kong with some of the Crouching Tiger... flying Ninja stuff tossed in. Hmmm...what a bad idea. Another brain fart from the T-man. Pass on this lame one unless you're a total martial arts freak.  "},{"Title":"The fact someone would release this garbage scares me","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  How can this movie be described?  Oh yeah I've got it wretched!!!I'm not big on chop socky, but this is just plain garbage.  Anyone who would waste their money to pay to see it, is just too sad for words. "},{"Title":"Absolute utter stupidity","Date":"20 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Crime, Drama","Review":"  I was ready for a Crouching Tiger style movie and all I got was the worst movie i've seen in years.  It was almost as bad as Baron Von Munchhuasen.  Dead script. Dead acting. Dead everything. Granted there was some good fight scenes but the positive side ends there.  If this movie arrives in your house run screming to a phone and dial 911 and say, Please help there is a movie in my house meant to force people to commit suicide  "}]