[{"Title":"A quiet, simple moving film","Date":"26 July 2002","Score":"18 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I cannot begin to describe how amazing this movie is. Suffice it to say, anytime I'm depressed about how unfair or futile things seem, this is the movie I go rent to put me in the right frame of mind. The background music makes you realize the easiness of existence and how simplicity provides for the greatest happiness. The Indian girl that sings is but one example of a character in this film who does not try hard, and is happy as a result. Persifina, the laundry co-worker of Ruby's (Ashley Judd) is another=-her eyes and smile could make the hardest person's day. I watch this movie and I dream of better days to come or of a good conversation with friends, and I realize that being alone--Ruby is alone quite often--isn't the same as being lonely. Recommended for anyone who enjoys a thoughtful lull of a movie. "},{"Title":"Interesting, slice-of-life indie film","Date":"22 April 2005","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Very slow-paced, but intricately structured and ultimately very touching. A nice, very true-to-life look at a small Florida beach town in the dead of winter -- I've been there, and this is absolutely accurate.It's also the debut feature of actress Ashley Judd, and she makes a big impression here. It's hard to believe this film is 12 years old -- I remember seeing it in theaters, and I recently rented Ruby again. Except for the 80's looking clothes, it has held up very nicely. Ashely is so radiant and touching here, that it's hard to think of her subsequent career without wincing. Boy, talk about failing to fulfill your early promise! Anyone seeing Ashley here in Ruby In Paradise would assume this elegant, natural beauty went on to all kinds of interesting art films and serious acting -- instead she has become the go to girl for dumb action films and slasher movies! Very disappointing, but at least we have this lovely performance preserved to showcase her early promise.As some other commenter's say, this is not for everyone as it's very slow paced. This is not an action film, nor is it really a romance. The director (Victor Nunez, Ulees Gold, another excellent character study) treats this ordinary young woman's life with deep respect, allowing her story to build slowly and with a lot of detail. In that way, I think this is one of the most moving and respectful coming-of-age stories about young women that I can recall -- it's not about Ruby's sexual awakening or how she lost her virginity, but about her life choices and her growing maturity.A lovely film, if you take the time to watch it...I think it would be a really excellent film to show teens and young girls (or boys for that matter) and give them a chance to think about and discuss it.Particular kudos to director Nunez, who also wrote the script, which is so realistic and nicely detailed that I assumed all through the movie that it was based on a female-written novel or memoir, but in fact it's Mr. Nunez's original work. Rated 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Great Life Affirming Film","Date":"26 February 2004","Score":"14 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I remember 1993 as a year of great female performances.  You had Angela Bassetts striking interpretation as Tina Turner in What's Love Got to Do With It; Debra Winger as the dying American Joy Gresham in Shadowlands; Winona Ryder manipulative as May Welland in The Age of Innocence; and the silent power in Holly Hunters performance in The Piano.  But as great as these performances were, no performance was better than Ashley Judds, Ruby Lee Gissing in Ruby In Paradise.What a GREAT film.There are scenes in this film that ring a sense of truth to what we say and act on, in human nature, as real people and not of what Hollywood synthesizes the fake emotions of what human nature should be like.  Take for example in the scenes where Ruby trying to be employed and make an existence for herself; trying to work for living.  If this was a big Hollywood studio film, her character would be receiving monthly support payments from God. Ashley Judd, and director Victor Nunez, do a great dance of allowing the character to make choices that are truthful and not false.Other film recommendations on similar themes see Erick Zonka's Dreamlife of Angels.  "},{"Title":"Artful coming-of-age story starring Ashley Judd, by the director of Ulee's Gold","Date":"6 January 2007","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ruby in Paradise is a beautiful, coming-of-age story about a young woman, Ruby Lee Gissing, escaping her stifling roots to become herself. Although the title character is played artfully by the gorgeous Ashley Judd -- in likely her first movie role, albeit one to be quite proud of -- the emphasis is not upon becoming somebody, a la the next Madonna (whether Jesus' mother or the lurid, attention-hungry singer).It instead emphasizes following ones' instincts and being somewhat introspective about them, to grow into one's ideal, adult self. NOTE This isn't an action movie!!! It uses an occasional voice-over narration (by Ms. Judd) while writing in her journal -- and oh, I see I've just lost the male half of the readers out there. But be patient with this beautiful movie, where we learn that one's bliss can be discovered in -- oh, I dunno, carrying water and chopping wood.Actor/director/writer Todd Field, who played Nick Nightingale in Eyes Wide Shut, co-stars as Ruby Lee's noble love interest, one who helps her heal her idea of relationships implanted from youth.But not even his character is the answer for Ruby Lee There's no external hero imposed upon her. The ultimate message is that we are responsible for ourselves. Writer/director Victor Nunez, who also wrote/directed Ulee's Gold, did an amazing job showing a young woman growing into herself -- confronting age-old challenges of good v. evil along the way.The supporting cast is also stellar, and the music used, particularly the cuts by chanteuse Sam Phillips (whom I hear is the wife of T. Bone Burnett), is right on -- most especially Trying to Hold on to the Earth. Now, when I hear the first few chords of that song, tears spring to my eyes, Pavlovian and unbidden -- not sure if it's the music, or the indelible connection to the movie's quiet, charming message of empowerment.This movie is highly recommended for any young person trying to find his/her way. For any woman of any age, it is a must see! The downside It is NOT on DVD, except in Spanish. (We learned, however, that it is legal to make one copy of a VHS version, which can be readily found online. My beloved husband found someone with a VHS copy and got a DVD copy made for me.) Although this treasure of a movie occasionally pops up on-air &#150; on an indie channel, usually &#150; you can't count on that when you might need it most as a tonic to soothe the pressures of the world. So buy a copy for yourself.This movie should have a major re-release, and it would, if I were Queen of Hollywood.-- Figgy Jones "},{"Title":"The Best Coming-Of-Age Movie I Have Ever Seen !","Date":"14 September 2003","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This was the first movie I ever saw Ashley Judd in and the first film of Victor Nunez' that I ever say, and boy am I glad I did. Its' quiet tone, its' relaxed pace, its' realistic depiction of a young woman just starting out in life, its' fine depiction of the struggles she has to go through to make her mark in life, the decisions she makes based on real things, the people she meets - there is nothing wrong with this movie. It is as close to movie magic as I have ever seen outside of the  Star Wars  movies, and, given what those films are like, that means this film deserves a high rating indeed. Ashley Judds' acting, Mr. Nunez'writing, and its' great simple worthwhile story make this a fine coming-of-age story and a wonderful movie. "},{"Title":"Great story, true to life","Date":"17 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Though this film may seem slow and lacking situational problems that perk up any other drama, this is as close to life as it gets. This film looks inward on the character of Ruby... as a woman trying to get by with what little she has in education and work experience.People do leave the hollars of eastern Kentucky and Tennessee to head for the Florida panhandle, a paradise to people from the two states mentioned. The people, like Ruby (Judd), find only a change of scenery, weather, and new people with their own similar problems. Judd discovers her life is not instantly changed. She finds herself needing a man when she wants to make it on her own. No matter the man she chooses to be with, they're not enough for her to progress in her goals.Judd is a superb actress in this film and it would have been hard for another actress in 1993 to play this role in a film that would not be a blockbuster. "},{"Title":"A Hidden Gem Worth Seeing","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" In the sea of crap that Hollywood (and others) continue to put out, this is one of those diamonds in the rough. A small, simple movie that is very entertaining and leaves you with the feeling that you didn't just waste an hour and a half of your life.Ashley Judd is really quite amazing in this movie. I had never really been a fan or had noticed her before but going back and seeing this early performance of hers convinced me she's extremely talented.Watching this film was an assignment in a college course for me so I was skeptical I would even care. I thought, Oh boy, some dumb chic flick or feminist male-bashing indie crap... I was pleasantly surprised. Without analyzing the many relevant themes, I'll just say, if you haven't seen it, do yourself a favor and check it out. Sometimes the down-to-earth, slice-of-life movies are the best, and this is a great one. "},{"Title":"Ruby in Paradise is the story of a young woman who moves south to Florida in the hopes of improving her life.","Date":"28 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" I totally agree with the main points of those who have already reviewed Ruby in Paradise. After having spent time living in Florida, I would just like to add that this movie does a fantastic job in creating the mood and atmosphere of living in Florida. Businesses such as Chamber's Emporium are everywhere. The invasion of tourists from spring breakers to Canadian snowbirds is perfectly captured. The contrast between Ruby's two boyfriends made the movie more realistic. Ruby's first boyfriend was easily a mismatch considering he was more like the boyfriend that Ruby fled from at the beginning of the movie. The brainy boyfriend who looked down upon commercial businesses such as Chamber's Emporium captured a feeling that many students expressed during the Vietnam War Era of the 1960s. It was easily apparent that Ruby was well above that type of attitude. I especially enjoyed this movie because it did so vividly bring back memories of my time living in Florida. Of course my stay in Florida would have been much better if I could have spent time with Ashley Judd as her third boyfriend. Ha! Ha! "},{"Title":"Panama City in the winter.","Date":"28 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" This will be a different kind of review. I've seen this movie twice on TV and would like to have a copy because it talks about Panama City and the beach in the winter time which is my favorite time to be there. It was the first movie I'd seen by Ashley Judd and she was great and I've enjoyed every other thing I've seen her in. Sundance's reaction made an impression on me too, as did the director, Victor Nunez, who has directed and written several movies about Florida. This movie speaks to me and I've seen nothing with which to compare it. The plot speaks less to me than the surroundings. Well, I told you it would be a different kind of review. "},{"Title":"Not for everyone","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Victor Nunez imbues this unsentimental tale of a young woman's emotional journey with a sense of poetry seldom seen in cinema. By poetry I mean the sense in which the literary and the cinematic come into play. There is something very literary about the film, almost as if a novel has been adapted page by page to screen. In this sense, the film achieves depths many cannot; but it is also rather slow at other times, undercutting the depths it once achieved in favor of ennui. The film's star Ashley Judd has not yet made a better film than her debut here. She fits the role of lead Ruby like a glove, almost as if she didn't have to act. She has true movie star presence in the film, and hasn't really managed to convey the same allure in her later films, although she was impressive in Normal Life. "}{"Title":"Unexpected Diamond","Date":"30 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  My brother brought this movie home from the rental store and I remember expecting it to be such a bore.  I think the title especially put me off. I can't ever remember starting a movie with such low expectations and being so completely won over.  I watched the movie twice before I let my brother take it back to the store.  It is very infrequent that a movie speaks to me the way this one did.  I was completely caught up in Ruby's situation as she tries to make her way through her life.  The  bad thing about this movie is that it seems to end so quickly.  I could have kept watching for hours. Another downside is that I have been unsatisfied with everything Ashley Judd has done since.  She is so perfect in this movie.  This film is easily in my top ten favorites  of all time. "},{"Title":"And what a woman she is...","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ruby Gissing is a twenty-something young woman who makes her escape from what we assume is an unfulfilling existence in small-town Tennessee. As a child she holidayed once in Panmana City Beach, Florida, and from that time has dreamt of that idyllic experience, and longed to translate those childhood memories into her contemporary adult life. It's obvious from the moment she arrives that PC is no paradise but just another seedy beachside resort of souvenir shops and sleazy topless bars. Kids have a tendency to see the good side of everything. But Ruby has made a commitment to a new life and sets about establishing some sort of meaningful life in her own brand of &#145;paradise'. And what a woman Ruby is. She's prepared to give life a go and chance her arm. Sure, she occasionally does foolish things but she's no fool and she learns from her mistakes. Ruby's journey is a rocky one at times and when the film reaches its conclusion the journey is nowhere near over, but you get the impression that Ruby has turned the corner and taken control of her own life.  Ruby in Paradise is a meditation on one woman's path to self-realization. It's the story of a woman and not just a woman's film. Ashley Judd's performance as Ruby is very understated but from that restraint emerges a tremendously powerful characterisation. She gets into the role of Ruby and makes her a believable person, not some Hollywood creation. This is her best performance and should have established her a star in the first rank. But it takes more than just talent to get ahead in this world. Although the recent Double Jeopardy will no doubt bring Judd more fame and better parts, she'll not play a more complex and rewarding role than Ruby Gissing. By IMDb's system of rating, 9 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"great understated performance","Date":"12 May 2015","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ruby Lee Gissing (Ashley Judd) leaves behind her man in Tennessee to start anew in Panama City, Florida. It's off-season and she pleads for a sales clerk job from Mildred Chambers. She's befriended by Rochelle Bridges. Mildred forbids her to go out with her arrogant womanizing son Ricky. She secretly sleeps with him nevertheless. She struggles to figure out life. She gets involved with opinionated liberal greenhouse grower Mike McCaslin (Todd Field) while Ricky keeps hounding her.It's a great understated performance from Ashley Judd. Ruby is searching for meaning and her place in the world. There is a loneliness in her life that she's trying to fill. The movie is effectively laid back. The narration adds to the feeling of searching. It puts in words her internal struggles as defined by her relationships to men. "},{"Title":"Slow moving, but definitely not slow...","Date":"4 April 2001","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I first watched this movie, I found it a little strange. I think i was new to independents at the time, and I was surprised at how you can have a movie so down to earth and about real people without the glamour, glitz, and perfection of hollywood movies! I don't know about others, but sometimes I want to see a movie where the characters aren't perfect, and things don't always work out the way we want them to. I thought Ashley Judd did great as a strong, sensitive woman, who didn't need to have a lot of lines to show what she was thinking or what was going on. I definitely recommend it to those who have the patience to watch movies without a lot of action. But, there is definitely a lot there to watch. ) "},{"Title":"Refreshingly honest","Date":"3 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Another one of those films you hear about from friends (...or read about on IMDb). Not many false notes in this one. I could see just about everything here actually happening to a young girl fleeing from a dead-end home town in Tennessee to Florida, with all her worldly possessions in an old beaten-up car.The heroine, Ruby, makes some false starts, but learns from them. I found myself wondering why, why didn't she lean a bit more on Mike's shoulder, but...she has her reasons, as it turns out.Just a fine film. The only thing I don't much like about it, I think, is the title. "},{"Title":"Indie gem; Judd's best performance prior to 'going Hollywood'","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  RUBY IN PARADISE (1993) ***1/2 Ashley Judd, Todd Field, Dorothy Lyman, Bentley Mitchum.  Delightful coming of age story about a young woman discovering her independence in a small Florida resort town.  Outstanding breakthrough performance by newcomer Judd and heart-felt narrative that never loses interest. "},{"Title":"This is my new all-time favorite","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  If there are words that are up to the task of describing this movie, I don't  know what they are. Victor Nunez's understanding of what it's like to be a  young, single woman trying to carve out a life for herself totally blows  the idea that men and women are from different worlds out of the water.  Watching Ruby in Paradise is like tailing along behind this woman as she  goes through life, experiencing the mundane and profound moments mixed  together and trying to figure out which is which. Ruby is wonderfully  strong, brave, kind, and imperfect, and just the kind of woman that I want  to be. "},{"Title":"All I can say is Run it again","Date":"9 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've watched this film a dozen times at least. Victor Nunez has created a wonderful work of art, and Ashley Judd is an amazing actor. This movie has tremendous substance in so many ways, I'm mesmerized each time I see it. I would recommend this movie to anyone interested in substantive films. "},{"Title":"a jewel","Date":"12 May 2001","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Ashley Judd in a career-making performance as a young woman trying to create a decent life for herself in a world full of lies, false values, empty commercialism, and ultimate boredom. The dialogue and editing are superb. One of the best American films of the 90s. "},{"Title":"The Only Good Movie Ashley's Ever Been In...","Date":"24 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" ...and her only extraordinary acting job, too. I had high hopes for Judd when I saw this character study film ten years ago. In a movie that was about not much more than being able to read what was behind the main character's eyes, her performance was amazing. You could see everything on her face, in depth and detail. Should have garnered her an Oscar. But, this was a very, very subtle film, and until this year's Lost in Translation, Oscar didn't really care for that kinda European-y thing. So, it's not for everyone, but this is a treat for those who love true film acting. Now Judd's just the girl that does all those lame thrillers and the occasional romantic comedy rejected by Julia Roberts. "}{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"14 May 2000","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is an intimate movie of a sincere girl in the real world out of Hollywood's cheap fantasy is a very good piece of its class, and Ashley Judd fills the role impeccably. It may appear slow for thrill seekers though.  Cool movie for a calm night. "},{"Title":"Allison Dean is great.","Date":"27 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  Allison Dean's performance is what stands out in my mind watching this film. She balances out the melancholy tone of the film with an iridescent energy. I would like to see more of her. "},{"Title":"One of Ashley's best movies","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  I love Ashley Judd and think all of her movies are great.  Rubyin Paradise is one of her best.  It is a very understated movie that you really have to watch close to appreciate it.  A story of a woman trying to make it on her own and refusing to give in to temptations that would make her life easy.  Some of her movies such as Kiss The Girls and Time to Kill probably did better at the box office and video rentals.  They were very good moviesalso, but take the time to really look at Ruby and I think you will agree it is one of Ashley's Best. "},{"Title":"a poignant story of a girl becoming a woman","Date":"28 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie captures the essence of growing up in smalltown America for a young girl on her own. The realism and subtle nuances, offered to Ashley Judd's character, Ruby, by the storyline, capture what can only be described as a true to life setting in the panhandle of Florida. From the slam of a screen door, to the lack of work, the echoes of what life is really like on the red-neck riviera provide rough choices for the young girl. Paradise did not come easy. But she slowly overcomes obstacles and deceit, and learns to be her own woman, with a strength that flows from within. Ashley Judd's winning smile, and infectious gait exude warmth and command respect and admiration. The careful pace of the character development resembles that of Ulee's Gold in 1997, starring Peter Fonda, and also directed by Victor Nunez.  "},{"Title":"As an independent film enthusiast I picked the movie because of Sundance.","Date":"21 September 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was directed by Victor Nunez who also wrote the screenplay (Ulee's Gold). Nice and straightforward writing, that was nominated for the Independent Spirit Award,   looking at  Ruby's day to day life. What we see is a slice in the life of the young woman Ruby.  Ashley Judd (Sisters) won the Independent Spirit Award Best Female Lead for this role. Ruby is starting to live on her own and establishing her own identity. She explores jobs, friendships, boy friends, sex, a typical young adult search. The movie won Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival. As an independent film enthusiast I picked the movie because of Sundance. I appreciate this type of movie, because it does not carry the Hollywood baggage.Although the stories are completely different this reminded me of Nobody's Fool, staring Paul Newman. The later movie is a slice of the daily life of a common  man. I like that. The story is very nicely told, and all we had to do was sit and enjoy the story. The only thing I am not sure about is the title. I am sure that there are not that many bugs, and flies in paradise as there are in Florida. As I am allergic to mosquitos, Florida is no paradise to me, I itch all over thinking about Florida. I turn into a complete red boil. I recommend this movie! Favorite scenes Ruby and her friend Rochelle Bridges, played by Allison Dean walking at the beach of Panama City, Florida. Indeed the sand is very white.  I have been there.   Favorite Quotes Necessity has always been a good excuse. All that fuss over finding a man is not at all different now, who is going to be and when and why.   "},{"Title":"Like watching paint dry.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  First, let me state that I am a big fan of Ashley Judd;  that's why I was curious to check out this, her debut role.  No argument that her talent is apparent and her performance excellent.  I guess I can also see how the professional critics liked the aesthetic content of the story.  However, I like to think that movies are meant to entertain us and that is where this movie fails.By the halfway point, I found myself thinking, How much longer do we have to watch a bored shop girl, idly standing around a deserted souvenir shop, rearranging the merchandise?  It seemed to go on forever!Then, I thought, maybe this is one of those movies where the director tries to lull the audience into a relaxed state before hitting them with some dynamic event.  No such luck.  The movie continues it's bland, boring, uneventful story all the way to the end.I'm not saying this because I'm an action-junkie.  I like all kinds of movies, especially romantic-comedies.  But I expect to be entertained.Add the fact that the cinematography and sound quality are comparable to your neighbor's bad home movies.   Depressing!I just don't get how anyone could like this movie.  Zero-entertainment value.  The longest 114 minutes of my life. "},{"Title":"Overly Feminist Agenda","Date":"17 November 2006","Score":"11 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":" Ashley Judd, in an early role and I think her first starring role, shows her real-life rebellious nature in this slow-moving feminist soap opera. Wow, is this a vehicle for political correctness and extreme Liberalism or what?Being a staunch feminist in real life, she must have cherished this script. No wonder Left Wing critic Roger Ebert loved this movie; it's right up his political alley, too.Unlike the reviewers here, I am glad Judd elevated herself from this moronic fluff to better roles in movies that entertained, not preached the heavy-handed Liberal agenda. "},{"Title":"Zzzzzz...","Date":"4 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is without a doubt the most boring movie I have ever seen.  Ashley Judd does a really good acting job, but the script and directing are terrible. Were they trying to bore us to death? This movie plods on and on monotonously. There is no buildup, no climax; in fact there is no plot at all. By the time it was halfway through, I began to pray that it would end. But it didn't. It just kept going, one pointless scene followed by another equally pointless scene. Why I kept watching it, I do not know. Maybe, deep down, I thought that it would get more interesting towards the end. Maybe I was waiting for some kind of point or moral to be made. If so, I was waiting in vain, for there is no point to this movie.I don't expect every movie I watch to be filled with action and suspense. However, I do expect to find something interesting or engaging. Is that too much to hope for?No offense to you if you like this movie, but Ruby in Paradise is dull, boring, pointless, and mind-numbing. Anyone who views it in its entirety without going bonkers should get a T-shirt that says I survived 'Ruby in Paradise'. "}]