[{"Title":"A true mile stone of animation","Date":"11 March 2001","Score":"30 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  Nick Park's hysterical plasticine duo Wallace and Gromit are back in this, their second outing, pitting themselves against the plotting penguine whose devious nature is taking advantage of Wallace's niavity.  However, the ever suspicious Gromit is seeing through the Penguine's frosty exterior and sets out to uncover his secret scheming shadowy plan. The Wrong Trousers is the best so far from Peter Lord and Nick Park, putting even the outstanding Chicken Run and Close Shave in it's shadow.  The characterisation is simply electrical.  The ever suffering but mute Gromit and the clumsy well meaning Wallace muddle their way to stopping a truely outstanding criminal genius penguine (whose pesona is portrayed with such subtlety and effect that the cute bird becomes the very essence of evil). Park and Lord's pace and cinematography in this animation medium are truely world leading, climaxing in the mad mayhem of a train-set chase through their house. The plot is simple yet full of nuances and details (check out the headline's on Wallace's newspaper and the wall paper in Gromit's bedroom)raising this above even the best that that big studios can produce. A film almost without fault which pays homage to the greatest and most farciscal works of the great Ealing comedy era (there is something sinister happening but, it isn't that sinister really).  Watch this film and let the quality and clarity of the humour seep into your soul. A true mile-stone of animation which deserved it's oscar like no other animation ever will.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful &#150; Gromit steals the show and the penguin is superbly sinister!","Date":"28 September 2002","Score":"22 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  In order to help make ends meet Wallace decides to rent out their spare room.  However the new lodger takes Gromit's room and puts him out in the dog house.  Meanwhile Wallace continues work on a pair of remote controlled trousers.  But is the new lodger as innocent a chicken as he appears?  Wallace finds himself part of a major jewel robbery &#150; can Gromit return in time to save him?The second of the adventures of Wallace & Gromit sees the animation greatly improve and the comedy oh so very sharp and funny.  The basic plot is a little silly but very well crafted considering this is a short film &#150; I wish many `proper' films had plots this clever and imaginative.  It is also absolutely a wonder to watch &#150; even when I wasn't laughing I was easily charmed by the wit and imagination of the whole thing.The animation is superb, Wallace is as good as ever and Gromit is much more fully developed and is easily the star.  The penguin however threatens to steal the show as well as the jewel.  How can a plastercine penguin with a glove on it's head that likes listening to organ music be threatening?  Well it can &#150; here he snaps his head round and stares with such menace that it's frightening!  They all work well together but Gromit takes the film by a nose.With all those  brain dead kids cartoons around on TV this should be treasured.  Adults will love it as there is plenty of detail for them to enjoy and kids will totally fall for the rich comedy and well animated characters.  A wonderful little gem. "},{"Title":"The Wrong Trousers is filmmaking history that may never be paralleled","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"23 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  Wallace & Gromit The Wrong Trousers (1993) Calling this delightful and hilarious Oscar-winning masterpiece (brought to us by Nick Park, co-director of Chicken Run, one of my all-time favorite films) the best claymation short ever is a lot like saying that someone just bought the best vehicle from a used car lot, so I'll go ahead and call this the best animated short ever, which it definitely is. No questions asked. It's brilliantly shot, paced, scripted, directed...to paraphrase Mary Poppins, it's practically perfect in every way.  You can't help but fall in love with every single character on the screen, from our always-lovable cheese-loving inventor and his loyal canine companion to even the devious jewel-thieving penguin Feathers McGraw (the subject of the bestselling Have You Seen This Chicken? T-shirts). They are so well-rounded that Feathers nearly steals the show; it's impossible to keep a straight face at the sight of a penguin nervously wiping sweat from his brow, disguising himself as a chicken and firing a revolver, all while wearing the same stolid expression in his little peppercorn-black eyes. The wild train ride near the conclusion is a breathtaking segment that will never be topped by any other animation studio in this millennium or the next. I cannot recommend this work of genius enough. If you find anything whatsoever to dislike about it, I suggest seeking professional help immediately. Otherwise, pop this into your video or DVD player, put your feet up and watch this piece of animated history unfold before your very eyes. 10/10 "},{"Title":"cracking good story","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  The best film of the Wallace and Gromit trilogy, and one of the greatest films, period. Nick Park and the animators at Aardman are some true talents and gifted storytellers. Nick Park has made some great clay stop motion cartoons before, such as Creature Comforts, but with The Wrong Trousers he really topped himself. The technical aspects of the movie are amazing. The noirish lighting, the attention to detail, the small jokes in the background, the camera compositions and the fluid animation (it doesn't have that herky-jerky look of most clay animated films) are awe-inspiring by themselves, but combined with such a witty story and appealing characters the result is something that truly deserves to be called a classic.  "},{"Title":"Fantastic, entertaining work of art, with no Hollywood smut","Date":"23 May 2001","Score":"24 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  This is a clever picture that gets better the more times you watch it. The attention to detail is amazing. It makes you wonder over and over again - How did they do that?I have this on DVD and enjoy taking time to check some segments out frame by frame to catch all the background details like book titles on the shelf and news paper headlines. It's enjoyable for youth and adults alike. "},{"Title":"The short that proves one shouldn't let one's spare room to unfamiliar penguins without excellent references!","Date":"18 December 2001","Score":"20 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  This marvelous short won the Academy Award and is the best of the series, though all so far have been delightful!  The praise heaped on Wallace and Gromit has been vast and well-deserved, so my additions are gilding the lily, but I'll still say something.  The Wrong Trousers is funny, sad, insightful and just plain mad, frequently all at once.  If there's any justice, they will remain in print in perpetuity.  Most recommended. "},{"Title":"Claymation Spectacular","Date":"5 December 2002","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  A prodigy of animation, The Wrong Trousers won the Oscar for best animated short. Nick Park is at fine shape here, as he displays not only the skill of his craft but also a narrative coherence and care that nearly overpasses the artistic talent. It's the advantage of stop-motion animation each shot is carefully studied and considered, and the story moves forward having Gromit the dog as the main character, and he succeeds all the way in convincing us of his acting skills, even though he doesn't say one word or make one sound. The film has a great plot Wallace and Gromit are forced to let a room, and a grim penguin applies for it. Soon, the intruder takes over the house and replaces Gromit as Wallace's best friend. But there is more than meets the eye, and the rest of the story is too good to be spoiled. Constructing suspense to the very end, with hair-raising sequences until the last spectacular showdown and applying all the formulae that make a god movie, this is animation on the top of its game, and a great opportunity to see just how much you can raise the bar on claymation short features. Talent has never been so evident.  "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"22 January 2004","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  Together with 'Wallace & Gromit A Close Shave' and 'Wallace & Gromit A Grand Day Out' this is one of the funniest things I have seen. The clay animation looks great, the stories are very ingenious and the jokes are great. If you get a chance to see this, please do so. You will have a great time.I guess this one is the best from the three, although 'A Close Shave' comes close. You must see all three of them anyway, so it doesn't really matter. "},{"Title":"Superb Entertainment","Date":"28 March 2005","Score":"16 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" This is a touching story . When Gromit found himself second to Wallace's affection I thought my heart would break . Poor Gromit , poor poor Gromit as he packs his bags and leaves the house my heart was breaking and the tears were flowing down my cheeks .Did I mention that Gromit is a plasticine dog in an animated movie ? No ? Believe me I'm not some bleeding heart animal loving do gooder - I'm a very prolific IMDb reviewer perhaps the most cynical one on this site and I was totally moved and entertained by this animated film . If I enjoyed it how can anyone else not enjoy it ? THE WRONG TROUSERS is the second and best of the Wallace & Gromit shorts . As with Nick Parks other work the animation where animals have idiosyncratic humanized personalities is superb but its the script co- written by Park and former DOCTOR WHO scriptwriter Bob Baker that is so enjoyable . The plotting and character interaction makes it touching and exciting and even this childless cynic enjoyed every single moment of it If you're a parent and are wondering how to keep the kids quiet for over an hour maybe you should show them an episode from the new DOCTOR WHO series followed by THE WRONG TROUSERS . If that doesn't work as family entertainment nothing will "},{"Title":"Tenants, Trousers & Trains!","Date":"1 February 2007","Score":"13 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" This was the second in a series of three short BBC programs featuring a man and his dog. With a full-length feature film that came out a dozen years later (just recently in 2005). Wallace & Gromit is now far better-known. But, to those of us who discovered W&G back in the mid-to-late '90s, they were a fun pair we enjoyed in these three 30-minute shows.The Wrong Trousers is best at the end with a very funny chase scene inside a toy train set. Earlier, Wallace, the inventor, is trying to invent a pair of remote-controlled trousers. He's a bit short on money so he rents out a room in house. The lodger prefer Gromit's room. Gromit is Wallace's pet dog. The dog is literally put out in the dog house, and is not happy about this.In a crazy series of events, the tenant - an evil penguin - gets Wallace inadvertently involved in a jewel heist and Gromit has to come to the rescue. It's very silly but the unique animated cinematography helps make this a winner. "}{"Title":"a modern classic","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" In my opinion, Wallace & Gromit are to modern animation what Bugs Bunny was to classic cartoons they truly set the standards. Following Creature Comforts, Nick Park made The Wrong Trousers. W&G take in a penguin as a boarder, and the little guy soon becomes Wallace's favorite. Gromit decides to leave, but then it turns out that this is no ordinary penguin.I think that my favorite scene was Wallace walking around in the trousers; they must have had fun filming that scene. Watching these cartoons, one can see that Chicken Run was coming eventually. All in all, this is a cartoon that you can't afford to miss. Perfect. "},{"Title":"highly enjoyable","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" 'Wallace and Gromit The Wrong Trousers' is a highly enjoyable claymation tale about an inventor man and his dog companion, who happens to be smarter than the man himself. This tale involves a rogue penguin with an evil plan involving Wallace and Gromit and his inventions.This is a warming tale about friendship and realistic characters, and children are sure to enjoy the imagination behind the story and the claymation and humour. Adults are also sure to love the same on a higher level. It's rare in a film to find a tale enjoyable to both children and adults, but 'The Wrong Trousers' succeeds in this.This is a charming little short film, and it should be watched and enjoyed by all. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Forget CGI. Claymation is the best!!!","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Wallace and Gromit are great! Fact! And eccentric inventor, that looks like Prince Charles if he were bald, and a very clever dog whose eyebrows express his feeling more than words, makes for very enjoyable bank holiday viewing. The first 'film' (I put it like this because they are only about 30mins long) saw the duo fly to the moon. The third saw a cyborg dog. But this one, the second, surly wins it. A penguin disguised as a chicken, giant robotic trousers, a diamond robbery, and the greatest chase sequence ever, make this the best claymation film ever. Lets star at the beginning. Its Gromits birthday. He gets given a giant pair of mechanical trousers that Wallace makes to help take Gromit for his walkies. Bills are too expensive so they have to rent out the spare room. A small penguin takes the room, however in the process kicking Gromit out the house, and stealing the trousers for a robbery. The only one who can stop him is Gromit. I wont give too much away, but its worth watching the first 20, very enjoyable, minutes just for the train chase at the end. I have these on DVD and i will never tire of that sequence. Its just brilliant!! "},{"Title":"Who knew?","Date":"13 March 2000","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  If you had told me that sitting for 30 minutes watching bits of clay would be entertaining, I would have said you were mad.But you would have been right.Thanks, Nick Park, for making this old man feel like a kid again. "},{"Title":"No more lodgers - more trouble than they're worth","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" There's no use prevaricating about the bush, 'Wallace & Gromit in The Wrong Trousers (1993)' is a whole heap of fun! Having not seen the film in years, I'd almost forgotten that it was so uproariously entertaining. It was 'Creature Comforts (1989)' that took home the Oscar in 1991, but Nick Park instead planned a sequel to 'A Grand Day Out with Wallace and Gromit (1989),' a short film that, in my estimation, showed far more promise. This next effort sees the pair with their feet firmly on terra firma, but in an adventure that is no less wacky than the last. Despite economic woes, Wallace has built a impressive contraption for Gromit's birthday &#150; a pair of mechanical trousers. To offset his financial losses, Wallace opens up his home to lodgers, attracting the business of a creepy and silent penguin named Feathers McGraw. The sinister flightless avian soon sets about systematically severing the immortal bond between master and pet, in preparation for a devilishly cunning heist scheme.Nick Park's films are held in reverence by the animation community, and with good cause. Rarely before had the claymation medium been utilised to create such rich animated characters; even previous successes like 'Closed Mondays (1974)' couldn't evade the fact that they were produced using shifting masses of clay. 'The Wrong Trousers' boasts but three characters &#150; only one of which can speak &#150; and yet the relationship between the three is superbly authentic. Maybe it's the personal touch of recognising the animators' thumb-prints on every character, but somehow Park manages to capture every nuance of their behaviour, every tiny inflection of emotion. In half an hour, Gromit doesn't utter a single word, and yet he communicates his sadness, anger and excitement through an affectionate glance or downcast eye. Likewise, the sinister Feathers McGraw attains creepiness precisely through his silence. That he doesn't speak keeps his motives veiled in secrecy, and those beady, ominous eyes are probably enough to give young children nightmares.Of course, most people love 'The Wrong Trousers' for its humour, and there's plenty of it. That sparkling British humour is truly allowed to shine, and the gentle voice-acting of Peter Sallis has the sheer sincerity to carry the frequently-offbeat jokes. Whereas 'A Grand Day Out' was a homage of sorts to the science-fiction genre, probably more in line with Georges Méliès than anyone else, this effort is an affectionate satire of the British crime films of the 1950s and 1960s. The evil penguin has the eccentric malevolence of Alec Guinness in 'The Ladykillers (1955),' though without the fondness for articulate speech. The object of the villainous heist scheme resembles the titular jewel in 'The Pink Panther (1964).' With mock seriousness, amateur sleuth Gromit paces his way through the clichés of the genre, culminating in a hilarious madcap locomotive chase along miniature train-tracks, which our hero must lay down as he goes. This sort of impeccable entertainment deserves to run for far longer than thirty minutes. "},{"Title":"The Citizen Kane of animated shorts?","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  I'm not the only one who thinks Citizen Kane is a great film because Orson Welles and his collaborators thoroughly exploited the potential of the sound film in telling their story, combining fine acting, intricate plotting and editing, and well-composed visuals and sounds in ways that just NAIL the viewer.  Very few films have ever juggled so many filmmaking resources so well, but one of the few to do so, in my opinion, is the English clay-animated short The Wrong Trousers.As in Kane, Nick Park and his crew of animators expertly combine a variety of methods in telling their story.  The acting, or rather the character animation, is wonderful, more so for the dog Gromit than for the goofy-looking human Wallace; Gromit's subtle expressions conveying everything we need to know about what he's thinking.  Even more subtle is the penguin lodger, with a deliberately bland face but expressive gestures and body language.  The plot is ingenious, with hardly an ounce of fat, and perfectly paced, starting slowly and gaining momentum almost imperceptibly until the climax.The visual storytelling is excellent, especially since so much has to be conveyed without dialogue, and the clarity of the climactic sequence at the end marks a high point for film editing.  The staging includes dramatic lighting and other bits of visual texture with which few animators bother.  Finally, the music is one of Trousers's most overlooked features--the sequence in which Gromit leaves in the rain while the penguin watches from the window offers a neat demonstration of music's effectiveness as a storytelling tool.I don't really think The Wrong Trousers is really BETTER than Citizen Kane, in an artistic sense.  Of course, Orson Welles didn't try to make Kane as a 30-minute animated film with only three characters (two of whom are silent), either.  As with Kane, however, I get more out of The Wrong Trousers every time I watch it. "},{"Title":"It doesn't get better than this","Date":"28 December 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Wallace and Gromit first came to my attention about ten years ago when I saw the film A Grand Day Out on TV. An excellent short which I gave a 9/10. The Wrong Trousers is even better.Wallace is an English inventor with a love for cheese, crackers and his cup of tea. Gromit is his dog, and the star of the shorts. He doesn't talk at all, but he doesn't have to, all is said through facial expressions and body language, and done perfectly so. Gromit is the work of a comedy genius.In this short Wallace is short of money, so he puts up a room in his house for rent. Soon after a penguin, yes a penguin, turns up at his door. Like Gromit, he doesn't talk at all. The penguin takes great interest in Wallaces new invention, a pair of remote controlled metallic trousers.I won't tell anymore, you'll have to see for yourself, but all the thirty minutes we are served very clever comedic details, you'll find more and more the each time you see it, generally a lot of craziness and especially the train-scene which will make you laugh your head of. A must see. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Too Good To Miss","Date":"6 January 2008","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" This cartoon is not just wonderfully created, it is hilarious. How can anyone get such emotional and behavioural subtleties out of plasticine? They make a lot of human actors seem less animate.The comedy elements allied to Sallis's voice are amongst the best imaginable, and all done with stop-go animation. What makes a perfectly ordinary penguin with a rubber glove on its head - or a 'chicken' as it's called - look so menacing by simply turning its head? I just don't know. Remember; this isn't CGI. And then there's the jam-flinging gadget that gets unexpectedly out of kilter. The result could have been lifted from the best of Tom & Jerry. Techno-Trousers - ex NASA, just the thing for walkies. Gromit is yanked off without ceremony, just a stifled yelp of surprise. When that faithful but rejected dog decided it was finally time to leave home and the musical pathos welled-up, I saw a grown man wipe his own eye.The devil's in the detail, and Nick Park misses very little. What is also extremely imaginative is the sound track. Heard on a good system, it's really quite amazing. The echoey slap, slap, slappity-slap of little penguin feet in a lonely side-street, or the booming clamour of the air-conditioning plenum on the museum roof as Gromit's Techno-Trousers blunder about; all have a genuinely believable stamp. There's even the sound of wind blowing up there.And finally, check-out the chase around the house on a toy train-set. It really does begin to look like magic. I love the little 'foop' as the pilfering penguin drops conveniently into a milk bottle. Witty and hilarious in equal measure.Later, more sophisticated offerings like 'Chicken Run' seem to be just a little overblown and contrived. For me, 'The Wrong Trousers' will always be Nick Park's masterpiece.Has anyone else noticed how similar his and Wallis's expressions are? Methinks he found his inspiration in a mirror. "},{"Title":"Charming, brilliant - for kids and adults alike.","Date":"15 June 2005","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" In order to help make ends meet Wallace decides to rent out their spare room. However the new lodger takes Gromit's room and puts him out in the doghouse. Meanwhile Wallace continues work on a pair of remote controlled trousers. But is the new lodger as innocent a chicken as he appears? Wallace finds himself part of a major jewel robbery &#150; can Gromit return in time to save him? The second of the adventures of Wallace & Gromit sees the animation greatly improve from the brilliant but very amateurish 'A grand day out' and the comedy extremely sharp and funny. The basic plot is a little silly but very well crafted considering this is a short film &#150; I wish that all those other 'proper' films that have been a complete waste of time to watch had plots this clever and imaginative. It is also absolutely a wonder to watch &#150; even when I wasn't laughing I was easily charmed by the wit and imagination of the whole thing. The animation is superb, Wallace is as good as ever and Gromit is much more fully developed and is easily the star. His physical comedy is brilliant, with the slightest twitch animated so well that we fall about laughing. The penguin however threatens to steal the show as well as the jewel. How can a Plasticine penguin with a glove on its head that likes listening to organ music be threatening? Well it can &#150; here he snaps his head round and stares with such menace that it's actually frightening! They all work well together but Gromit takes the film by a nose. With all those brain dead kids cartoons around on TV this should be treasured. Adults will love it as there is plenty of detail for them to enjoy and kids will totally fall for the rich comedy and well-animated characters. A wonderful little gem, and something that all animators should look to as a reference for what really good animation is like. "},{"Title":"The best Wallace & Grommit","Date":"9 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  This is my favorite of the three Wallace & Grommit cartoons.  Nick Parks is just brilliant.  The animation is fantastic and Grommit's facial expressions are priceless.  Everyone in my family - from my 7 year old niece to my 57 year old father - has seen it and loved it.  I recommend this video to everyone I know. "}{"Title":"An absolute delight!","Date":"15 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Words fail me. My advice is to rent this little gem, gather all your friends in a home with a big screen TV (bring the kids too!) and enjoy. Absolutely everything is poignant and funny, from the dog reading Pluto's Republic at the breakfast table to the evil penguin who listens to Muzak.The only -- and I stress, ONLY -- drawback is that it should be labeled Warning Choking Hazard! Do not consume food or beverages during this film. Sudden uncontrolled laughter could cause substances to be inhaled. But hey, it's only 30 minutes -- you can live that long without pizza and Coke. "},{"Title":"Funny, orignal, animation was invented for this","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  'The Wrong Trousers' is an ingenious bit of filmmaking/cartoon making...whatever you want to call it. It combines lovable characters with cute personalities and a humorous plot to make an enjoyable film. I can watch this again and again and again, and it's still good. Why? Well, maybe it's the writing. It's witty enough to humour you, but not too clever to confuse those little kids which this would probably attract, yet the catchphrases and gimmicks assigned to each character are good enough to make me fall on the floor with laughter. If this was played out real life, it would be a monty python style caper woth elements of Mr Nielson in there..he's make a good Gromit. The lip sync is perfect and and the voices are sooo good. PeterSalis is sooooo Gromit i can't belive it. This is how REAL animation should be done, Walt, eat your heart out (and have some wensleydale and crackers to wash it down ). Cracking. "},{"Title":"Who couldn't love Wallace & Gromit?!","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" This is the second Wallace & Gromit film and unlike the last one, which was only nominated for the Best Animated Short Oscar, this one was this prestigious award. While it is pretty much more of the same type entertainment from the first, it is a bit more polished and fun--plus it's still Wallace & Gromit and who couldn't like this?! Wallace, ever the tinkerer, builds Gromit a strange robotic device. It looks like the lower half of a person (hence 'trousers') and was designed to take Grmoit walkies whenever he wanted. Around this same time, a strange penguin comes to board with them. Little did they suspect that the penguin is evil and will ultimately use Gromit's new trousers for evil! The film, like all Wallace & Gromit films has a lovely and gentle sense of humor and a certain likability that captivates people who watch it. Top animation, voice acting and direction make this a big winner. "},{"Title":"'It's the wrong trousers Gromit, and they've gone all wrong!'","Date":"11 June 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  This is my first experience with the clay animated Wallace and Gromit series, and for sure it's not going to be my last, as this must be the hardest I laughed at a movie for years!Wallace and Gromits quiet lifes come to an end when Wallace, who seriously needs the money, rents Gromits room to a penguin. Gromit immediately thinks something's going on when this penguin leaves his light and music on all night, but sneaks out of the house himself. Wallace however finds the little penguin a great treat, as he brings him the newspaper and his slippers.Gromit thinks he's of no use anymore and leaves the house, right after his birthday on which he got a pair of mechanical trousers, which are playing a large role in this 30 minute comedy. You see, anyone with the remote can do with the trousers what they want, and the evil penguin is making a use of that.So one day he lets Wallace slip into these trousers, makes him tired so he will fall asleep in the trousers. That way he can rob a diamond from a museum, and he succeeds. But Gromit was onto the little guy and when both come back to the house he's waiting for them to stop the penguin. A hilarious chase on little trains is the result.So much for the story, let's start with the praise.The animation is fantastic. The story is entertaining, compelling and even has some scary moments. The side gags are endless(ly funny). My favorite while shadowing the penguin Gromit is watching him behind his newspaper. In the newspaper there's a story about 'Dog reading paper'. I love that. And what about the scene when Gromit slips from the bed into the chair, and there isn't any toast ready. You know what's coming next, and Gromit as well... it's just fantastic!But the end scene on the trains is the best part IMO. I don't know if anything can ever match that... it must've been the funniest thing I ever witnessed.I would have written more, but I can't wait to watch 'Cracking Contraptions' next, so I'll just leave you with this if you don't see in the fun in this, you're a lost cause. 10/10!!! "},{"Title":"Probably my favorite Wallace And Gromit Short.","Date":"22 August 2002","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  Nick Park and his crew really out-did themselves with this film!  I thought this installment was even better than A Grand Day Out, the story is more interesting and even funnier.  The little penguin guy is hilarious!  And the entire scene with the toy train is superb!If you liked A Grand Day Out then you should definitely check this film out as well.  If you like claymation, then you should also definitely check this film out.  This film is great, and I hope you like it too.  Thanks for reading,-Chris "},{"Title":"Amazing. The best Wallace and Gromit short.","Date":"16 June 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" I'm a big fan of Aardman Studio. Their shorts are easily the greatest stop-motion animations of all time. And my favorite characters of theirs are Wallace and Gromit! The Wrong Trousers is the 2nd Wallace and Gromit short, and also the best.The story is Wallace creates a giant robotic pair of trousers which he gives to Gromit for his birthday. Later on a penguin comes in. The penguin seems nice and cute when Wallace is around, but he's actually a criminal, and is planning to steal a diamond with the help of Wallace's mechanical trousers.The Wrong Trousers is truly an animated masterpiece. The animation is vastly superior to that of this short's predecessor A Grand Day Out. The evil penguin, Feathers McGraw is actually quite creepy, and yet he doesn't say a word. The story is actually much better and more clever than the first one, which also had a creative story, but this one is still much better. Also the humor displayed in this short is hilarious.If you've never seen The Wrong Trousers I highly suggest you to do so. It's truly a masterpiece in animation, and not only is it the best Aardman production, the best Wallace and Gromit short, or the best thing Nick Park ever directed, but it's also one of the best animated shorts, period. It would easily be in the top 5.It's clever, funny, exciting, and highly enjoyable. The voice acting by Peter Sallis as Wallace, is great. The animation is amazing, and there isn't a dull moment in the whole short. The Wrong Trousers is just amazing. I can't put it any other way. Amazing is the best word to describe this wonderful clay-animated short film.Rating 10/10 Amazing "},{"Title":"Hilarious, and I loved that penguin!","Date":"6 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" This is considered the best offering from Wallace and Gromit, and although I love Close Shave just as much, I cannot disagree. Gromit steals the show with his facial expressions and his attempts to foil the plans of that cute but evil penguin. Peter Sallis again does a superlative job, and I must say he sounds more confident than he did in Grand Day Out, while the visuals especially the character designs have more finesse and the music is rousing. I loved the scenes in the museum, and my favourite scene was the train scene, towards the end. The trousers idea was a great idea, and it worked to an advantage. In conclusion, a hilarious short, and my advice to anybody who hasn't yet seen it, is do so now, because you'll never regret it! 10/10 Bethany Cox. "},{"Title":"Hitchcock would have been proud.","Date":"1 March 2009","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" I have to imagine that fellow-Brit Alfred Hitchcock would have been absolutely delighted by this little claymation comedy about a mysterious lodger. Hitchcock began his career with a film about a Lodger (recently made into a Luke-warm remake), so surely he would have gotten a kick out of Wallace & Gromit's run-in with a mysterious lodger of their own. Wallace has been perfecting his work on a pair of robotic trousers that he plans to use to take Gromit for walks so he doesn't have to, until he notices that his expenses are running a little high and he and Gromit will have to take in a lodger to help make ends meet. They take in the first one they meet, who turns out to be a curiously Far Side-looking penguin who seems to prefer Gromit's room. They really need the money, so the penguin moves into Gromit' room and Gromit moves into the doghouse in the backyard. Wallace and the penguin develop a close friendship (made even closer by Wallace's delight that he's getting money out of him), while Gromit sits outside in the rain stewing. Something doesn't seem right about the penguin, but he's not sure what it is. One day, Wallace is woken up by his automatic bed, which this time drops him into a pair of modified robotic trousers and he becomes the perpetrator of a major diamond theft. The animation is roundly superb, as always, and the attention to detail is as wonderful as ever. There are plenty of cool gadgets around the house that make for some wonderful sight gags, but the real jewel of the movie is not the stolen diamond but the thrilling train chase at the end, which is just as well-planned and executed as the most thrilling Hollywood action movie. The final ten minutes of the movie are a spectacular achievement alone, but with the rest of the movie it all comes together as a short animated film that should be treasured. Don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"A Classic of any genre.","Date":"30 December 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Forget that you are watching an animation (not at all difficult with this masterpiece.) What would you like to see in a film? A great story? You got it. Action, suspense, emotion? You get that too. How about a liberal dose of comedy but also some pathos? No worries! First rate acting? Fear not, Gromit can 'act' the socks off half of Hollywood. This film never ceases, from the build up to the not one but *two* set-piece classic scenes and an array of sight-gags that simply delight. This is half an hour of pure genius, unlikely to be matched ever unless Mr. Park and his gang can do it. Awarding a perfect 10 is not always easy (for me) I tend to have niggling doubts but with this gem it was always a no-brainer. "},{"Title":"About as good as you can get.","Date":"9 February 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Wallace and Gromit's first short, A Grand Day Out was very impressive in it's looks, but short on plot and dialogue. This one is better in every department. Both Wallace and Gromit are better developed, and this felt like it could've been a full length feature, though it worked perfectly well at it's 30 minute length.To get some extra money, Wallace rents out one of his rooms to a burglar penguin. Wallace's newest invention might be needed for the penguin's maniacal plan. The scenes with Wallace are fun, but the ones with Gromit are even better. Gromit is a dog, and manages to show amazing emotion and through motions is extremely amusing, as is the silent penguin. The music perfectly accentuates the action, and this is a really an animated masterpiece, and definitely the best of Wallace and Gromit's movies.My rating **** out of ****. 30 mins. "}{"Title":"Wallace and Gromit RULE!!","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" I agree with you dsl3001, this is my favourite Aardman film ever too (apart from maybe Chicken Run). It is fun, exciting and it's a spy film too! I prefer it to the other WAG's because of the five following pointsOne The baddie never speaks. This makes him more interesting for me. Two The baddie is a penguin. At first he seems cute and cuddly - but don't be deceived by appearances! Three The trousers thing is a new idea and it works with a WAG film like butter on bread. Four You don't have to keep remembering the characters (a little problem in WAG number 4). Five Gromit is perfect in this film!I recommend this for those amazed by the art of plasticene, dogs more clever than their owners, unusual baddies and not too much dialogue in a film! Enjoy! )One problem with this film is that Gromit is bullied by the baddie quite a lot. If it weren't for this point I would probably rate this 9 or 10 out of 10! "},{"Title":"best Aardman film ever","Date":"20 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" I think this is the greatest Aardman film ever.I have not yet seen a single Aardman film that I liked more than this.The plot was great.Gromit has to stop the evil penguin from stealing a diamond that belongs to a museum.At the end there is a 2 minute train chase at the end.I thought it was too short 2 minutes a lot of ending battles would be longer than that but it still had plenty of detail in it.Youhave to watch this and all the Wallace and Gromit films. you are going to love them all. After all a lot of other Aardman films are also really good. really they are after all the penguin is a great villain and I really like him I have never ever seen a clay animated penguin before until i watched this great and wonderful film "},{"Title":"Wallace and Gromit at their top!","Date":"8 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Although Nick Park and colleagues have done great things since, this one stays my favorite plasticine animation movie! Story, animation, pacing, music, lighting, gags... EVERYTHING works fine, very tightly! I also had the chance to have a look at some of the original decors, at the Brussels animation movie festival, at the time of the (Belgian)première... Yes! The audience was great too once the familiar oompah-tune was heard, and the three souvenir rockets on the wall were seen, a roaring applause burst out. Nice to see a story work on different levels, which makes it new and more entertaining each time you view it. Especially the dark mood, with a nod to Tim Burton's Batman movies, comes over greatly. This is partially due to the Aardman principle of treating animation film and characters as live action film and characters. Great job, difficult to top. "},{"Title":"Highly recommended","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" I am a self-confessed huge fan of the Wallace and Gromit characters, especially Gromit the dog. The Wrong Trousers is about a penguin lodger taken in by Wallace and a pair of mechanical trousers that Wallace has invented. I don't know how Nick Park does it but he manages to make Gromit the dog a very expressive character without having him say a word, since he can't since he has no mouth. But you always know exactly what Gromit is thinking from his facial expressions. Gromit is everything a loyal dog should be even though his master, Wallace, is rather a scatter-brained, cheese-loving inventor/nitwit and doesn't always act with Gromit's best interests in mind. The Wrong Trousers features a wonderful ending on a toy train. This feature is on a DVD with two other shorts A Grand Day Out and A Close Shave. Adults as well as children will love Wallace and Gromit. "},{"Title":"Most excellent!","Date":"28 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" This is my favorite Wallace and Gromit yet, if for nothing more than Wallace's expression when he gets caught in the machine... Gromit, you've gotten the wrong trousers! Funny, funny voice acting compliments a very good animated short about an evil penguin (or is it?) that tries to deplace Gromit as the favored household pet in order to have a building place for its diabolical schemes! The creativity of these shorts are astounding. The stop-motion animation is not only flawless in movement, but rife with specific detail and very well-done facial expressions. Even the eyes of the characters have their own depth. It's a work of patience and skill that is amazing to behold, and all of it for some good family laughs! --PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"Really good","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" I enjoyed this one and it was the best one so far. I haven't seen the Curse Of The Were-Rabbit yet but i want to see it. This is the second clay spectacular from the creator of W&G, Aardman. In this it is Gromit's birthday and Wallace is out of money to pay for his bills. Wallace gets Gromit a collar (So he looks like somebody's dog now) and a pair of robotic trousers, Techno Trousers AKA the wrong trousers. And as it is taking Gromit to walkie he decides to let people stay at the house to pay off the debt that they're having and then the Penguin comes. He is not a cute, cuddly penguin he is actually a scheming penguin he plans to get rid of Gromit forever and by catching Wallace's attention he does just that. Gromit leaves for a new home and he spends a night living in the smelly garbage just as the penguin plots to use the trousers for robbery. And he takes Wallace and he climbs up the side of the museum to steal the diamond and when he gets it after he had triggered the alarm and escaped. He locks Wallace & Gromit in the cupboard with the Techno Trousers and then, after they had escaped and had a death-defying match in the kitchen which includes a train chase, a gun and a bottle, they catch him and he's locked up in the zoo till now. The day had been saved and they could finally have a rest until of course The Close Shave. It is absolutely brilliant and is really cool. "},{"Title":"My personal favourite","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" STAR RATING ***** The Works **** Just Misses the Mark *** That Little Bit In Between ** Lagging Behind * The Pits In my youth, before my mind became desensitized to the likes of Chubby Brown, Little Britain and soforth, stuff like this could really amuse me. And, to a large extent, it very much still does.In this second TV outing for the lovable plasticine pair, Gromit receives an extraordinary birthday present- a pair of ex-NASA, giant mechanical trousers! But the pair have hit hard times financially, with large bills to pay and so the only solution, seemingly, is to hire out a lodger. Enter a small tiny penguin, the biggest menace of such a creature to hit a screen since Batman, a seemingly innocent guy who is kind to Wallace and forces poor Gromit out the way. But his real plans are far more sinister he means to pull off a diamond heist from a local museum and use Wallace and his extraordinary trousers to do it. Gromit discovers this while snooping around, and sets out to stop it.Of all the shorts, as I said, this one is my personal favourite. The story just flows along the smoothest and is the most engaging, even if Wallace is the only speaking presence. But this is not a problem, as Gromit's facial expressions are more impressive than anything he'd say ever could be. Without saying anything, he pulls off the film's most funny and even endearing and touching parts. The penguin is a marvellously sly and cold villain, never humorous and always with an air of menace about him.Nick Park and Steve Box have here created the best of their weird and wonderful world where humans and animals seem to amiably and inexplicably co-exist. The dog's bol1ocks, not to put too fine a pun on it. ***** "},{"Title":"A great animation for all.","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" IF there is a Goood British short animation worth watching its Wallace and Gromit. The Wrong Trousers is a brilliant sequel to a Grand Day Out and far superior in terms of animation and plot. In this outing we see the brilliant inventor Wallace invent some techno trousers for Gromit to take him for a walk, but all this inventing is costly and Walace decides he must take on a lodger in order to pay the rent.However when the new tenant penguin moves in his presence is felt and gromits nose is pushed out as wallace becomes closer and closer to the new paying guest thus forcing him to leave but what exactly is the interest of the techno trousers to the new tenant? Watch the film and find out!This is one of the most clever and well produced stock motion short film ever made and is fun for all the family. "},{"Title":"Claymation Crime Caper","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" This short film was the second to feature dumb, cheese-loving Wallace (evocatively voiced by Last of the Summer Wine's Peter Sallis), and his intelligent dog, Gromit.In this feature, Gromit (who reads newspapers and is definitely more clued-up than his owner) is ousted from his place as Wallace's best friend by a mysterious Penguin. The penguin gets Gromit's room (which is papered with dog bone wallpaper when first we see it) and starts to plot on how it can best use Wallace's new invention - 'the wrong trousers'.As is usual in Nick Park's superior Claymation output, 'The Wrong Trousers' is extremely well-made, and has knowing references to other media, especially films. It is also a lot of fun and makes the most of its half-hour running time. "},{"Title":"The best of the bunch","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  For me, this is the best of the W&G films.  Nice easy plot, a fantastically evil penguin (who ever thought that a lovable penguin could be a villain?), quality humour for both the young and old, and THAT scene with the train-set.  The quality of animation and attention to detail is amazing.  Anyone can watch this and enjoy it immensely, many times over.  Now you can't say that about most films can you?.10/10 "}{"Title":"A cheeeeesy masterpiece","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  Is it any wonder that this short is in the IMDB user's top rated 50 films of all time? If you justifiably believe that Chicken Run was among the best films of 2000, this earlier work by Nick Parker and Bob Baker should be just your cup of tea.This has everything. Technically amazing plasticene claymation. A storyline that is a brilliant send-up of well-worn Hollywood themes. An ingeniuous but addled Rube Goldberg-esqeue inventor of such gadgets as the Knit-o-matic, the Techno-trousers, and a pot-iron and plywood moonrocket, and whose mouth just wraps around the word cheeeese. A dog with no visible mouth who solves crimes and reads newspapers. An evil penguin boarder disguised as a chicken. And lots and lots of cheese (including Wensleydale!). "},{"Title":"A comedic masterpiece","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  As a casual fan of cinema, I can say the world inhabited by Wallace (talkative sometimes inventor) and Gromit (his quiet, intellectual dog) is one of the most detailed and interesting committed to film.  Everything just fits together in such a way that you are transported to another world.  This attention to detail is only the first sign of the genius on display. The characters are quite lively and expressive.  Wallace and Gromit have large eyes and can convey a surprising amount of emotion using just their brows.  This is, in fact, the only way Gromit can emote since he can't talk.  He doesn't even bark, but never at any time are you left wondering what he's feeling.  An evil penguin plays an important role, and once again everything (music, setting, lighting) just comes together to let you know this is not a character to be trusted.What really makes this a gem of a film, however, is the comedy.  The chase scene at the end is one of the funniest things I have ever watched, and it's one of those things that I watch time and again and laugh at even knowing what the gag will be.  This easily ranks right up there with anything ever done by Jones or Disney as far as humor is concerned.The Wrong Trousers is probably the most well paced of the Wallace and Gromit trilogy, hence its place on the IMDB Top 250, but I highly recommend all three to anyone who wants a good laugh.  There's not a violent moment in sight, and so much of what makes the flim great is visual that children can watch and enjoy this great film with you.   "},{"Title":"Brilliantly funny and entertaining...","Date":"28 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  Wow, what can you say ? A masterpiece.... I have never laughed so hard at anything. Without giving anything away this movie has some of the most amazing laughs you will see in a movie. It makes you appreciate what both subtle, and over the top humour can and should be. From the incredible Gromit, who is the gentle soul in all of us. A dog smarter than most of us, and who registers every emotion in such a way that talking is not needed. Wallace, a somewhat eccentric but likeable man who we all wish we had as a neighbour. And the Penguin, Feathers Mcgraw. Pure evil.... Buy it, You will love it !! "},{"Title":"Smashing!","Date":"11 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  Nick Park has created a masterpiece.  It's not often where a film gets it all right.  There is wonderful animation an enjoyable story, charming characters and lots of laughs.  This is among my favorite movies of all time.  My thumb is up! "},{"Title":"More!  More!","Date":"10 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  When I first saw this feature at an animation festival, it was the last entry after an hour and a half of brilliant short subjects.  THE CROWD STOOD AND CHEERED after Trousers!This absolutely marvelous bit of film is just right.  The scenes between Gromit and Feathers are stunning -- and neither of them has a mouth!If this wasn't good news enough, then Chicken Run will probably inspire more people to see Wallace, Gromit and the gang.  There is hope, folks. Give this a 10. "},{"Title":"A hilarious, well-done classic for ALL ages.","Date":"23 June 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  The only problem with this film was that it only lasts half an hour!And that half an hour is brilliant. The Wrong Trousers was the second of Nick Park's Wallace & Gromit trilogy, and, in my opinion, certainly the best. I don't think I've ever met ANYBODY, from age 2 to 92, who didn't really like this short film!In A Grand Day Out (the first of the three), Nick Park hadn't yet hit his stride, either with quality of animation, or with plot and direction.The third (A Close Shave) was just simply TOO over-the-top.But The Wrong Trousers, like Baby Bear's chair, was JUST RIGHT. Because of this film, I was sad to hear there were to be no more Wallace & Gromit movies.Ah, BUT -- as I write this, Park is at it again. I learned earlier this evening that JUST TODAY he's released an 80-minute clay animation movie called Chicken Run! If it's as good as The Wrong Trousers, it'll be a classic of the genre.Tomorrow's Saturday, and you can bet I'll be looking for any possible matinee tickets. "},{"Title":"An All-Time Classic!","Date":"19 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  The Wrong Trousers is up there with the classics of comic animation - including the Holy Trinity of Chuck Jones classics, One Froggy Evening, What's Opera, Doc? and Duck Amuck.  The inventiveness of it, the timing of the gags, and especially the incredible amount of character demonstrated by lumps of clay (especially Gromit and the Penguin, who have no dialogue)...it's really amazing what Nick Park has created here.  The Wrong Trousers deserves a place in the top ten of any list of the great animated films of all time. "},{"Title":"A Comedy Miracle","Date":"15 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  Nick Park's concepts for animated shorts may appear deceptively simple  A man and his dog visit the moon.  A man takes in a boarder, who turns out to be a penguin.  A man and his dog uncover a dastardly sheep rustling ring.  One would expect animation which is cute -- but not nearly so clever as Nick Park's team have been in THE WRONG TROUSERS.Using only their hands and tiny tools to mold and shape the clay from shot to shot, Wallace and Gromit's creators gave them life, personality, style, quirks, and sympathy.  Gromit is eloquent without speech.  Even the Penguin communicates deviousness and evil without facial expression or vocalization.  In THE WRONG TROUSERS, this villainous Penguin is even frightening when he appears to have caught Gromit spying on him.  Of course the highlight of this half hour comedy miracle is a chase scene on a model train set which runs on a track through Wallace & Gromit's home.  This unlikely transport forces improvisation to delight and amaze any viewer.  A complete 10! "},{"Title":"evil penguin","Date":"8 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  I once read an article about true evil in a magazine; it said that Feathers McGraw was one truly evil creature... Although it's been several years since I saw the film, I still often find myself laughing just by thinking of some of the hilarious scenes.  "},{"Title":"The Wrong Trousers, but the right combination!","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  This animated short is just about perfect. I've watched it with everyone from my young nephews and nieces to my grandmother, and it is not hyperbole to say it has entertained every single one of them. There are plot elements that appeal to just about everyone--mystery, comedy, suspense--and humor elements from subtle non-verbal exchanges between Wallace and Gromit to pure physical comedy.I recall that there was much ado about the animation techniques used in Antz (human facial muscle computer models that mimicked human expression). Sorry, folks--Nick Park did it better with clay, vision and pure talent.  "}{"Title":"Buy this video and share it.","Date":"13 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  I never buy videos, but I must have bought at least 5 copies of this amazing work. It is a total delight to introduce kids to this series -- no one is immune to its charm! "},{"Title":"Clever, innovative and funny.","Date":"30 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  What more can you ask of from a short film- or any film? It can be enjoyed on many levels by anyone and everyone. One of the few Oscars that made sense. "},{"Title":"Brilliantly silly and I want a Grommit for myself!","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  The Wrong Trousers is only one of Nick Park's creations - and it's difficult to know which is best, but Grommit has to be one of the greatest characters ever created in animated form, proving that animals regard all humans as pets.Saw a wonderful documentary (by the BBC) on Nick Park and I suspect he is a Wallace, wishing to be a Grommit!  Whatever!  Cracking films Nick - pass the cheez pleez! "},{"Title":"This is the funnest movie you will ever see!","Date":"6 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  Nick Park is awesome.  He has actually created his own realistic world out of clay.  And we all wish we could live in that world, just because it's so much fun.  See this movie, it's only 30 min. "},{"Title":"This is clay?","Date":"23 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  A fast pace, fully rounded characters, and one of the most remarkable chase seens of any movie I've ever seen are the reasons that my children and I watch this (as well the other Nick Park films) endlessly.  The attention to detail keeps us constantly finding something new every time that we watch it. The plot is clever, even the bad guy is lovable, and watch out for Wallace's British smile.I also recommend 'A Grand Day Out' and 'A Close Shave'. "},{"Title":"partners in crime","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  Imagine&#133; A moon of cheese A penguin disguised  as a'rooster' only to steal a diamond Imagine a dog named GROMIT who reads `the republic by Pluto' and CRIME AND PUNISHMENT By  DOG-STOIEVSKY!(while he is in prison, of course) NOW IMAGINE that Wallace and Gromit are FLESH AND BONE!The best parts of the trilogy are the `train chasing scene'.it's just brilliant(Buster Keaton eat your heart out!) in the `wrong trousers' we see `the techno trousers',how cool its name is!Thanks Mr Park you are a genious!                                                            10/10  "},{"Title":"Synthetic Actors","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I've been writing IMDB comments for about a year and a half now. I started with an interest in exploring how directors deal with the uniqueness of their vision, especially when self-aware or self-referential. (Self-aware is when the film shows how it is made, like the obvious effects in `Beetlejuice.' Self-referential is when the film comments on itself, like when the story is about a filmmaker (or writer) who is worried about a technique that one can see in the film.)Over time, I've become aware of what some directors call the actor problem. The public thinks of films first in terms of the people they see, the actors. And those actors drive the business. The problem is that actors have somewhat different goals than filmmakers, and often a strong actor will ruin the effect intended by a gifted director.So I've been studying the various techniques and instances where each party succeeds in a solution that works. They are few, it seems.Here is the ultimate solution invent the actors. Shucks, invent their whole world. Invent their reason to be. Walt Disney shocked the whole system when he first did this. He created the actor, but not their world Micky and later Donald and the others belong more or less in the ordinary world. However, the roadrunner and coyote belong in different world, one where the emotional physics comes from the mind of the filmmaker. We come to know just how that world works. Both the actors and their world come from a single mind.Now with claymation comes a particularly unique development the actor is created, the world is created. But the camera and lighting is `real,' and modern notions of camera movement are used, just as in a `real' film. The technique is self-aware one can see that the characters are clay, see the thumbprints.And it works, largely because one man's mind can be coherently presented in the context of real movies.`The Wrong Trousers' is the peak of this man's mind though. The first film was better in the sense of literally exploring the possibilities of another world and its physics. The claycraft was more primitive and appealing, but the story was weak and the actors hadn't really learned how to use their faces.The film after this `Shave,' necessarily involved many collaborators, which diluted the vision. And more people meant more costs which means lowered risks which means vanilla story. That ultimately led to the slightly clever but wholly mainstream `Chicken Run.'So this film is a peak of sorts. A couple things make it uniquely fine the strong self-reference and the cinematic expression.The `Wallace' world is fully Hitchcockian here, moreso than before or after. Hitch's innovation was to advance the drama by making the camera act, in subliminal but powerful ways. Nick has studied and mastered this -- it is the real power of `trousers.' The technique is as much a matter of the camera humor as anything else.And the story is self-referential as well the basic problem of the filmmaker is that each film cements the future of films that follow. There is a straitjacket of expectations from the viewer that you cannot escape. One example if you have a spaceship battle, it must rumble and flash like the movies before or it will not seem real, though the actual behavior of such a battle could never really appear so.All film -- down to the smallest detail -- is so constrained. It is something deeper than formula.In his natural state, Wallace's `clothing' is unconstrained, only the manner in which he has to put it on. So here we have Wallace dressed by mechanical means. That's the normal state, Nick and Wallace tinker with those mechanics to have fun.But now comes the real challenge how to put Wallace in a fully Hitchcock world with all the plot formula that entails. It is mostly mechanical, that. Well, in a self-referential way, you put Wallace in some automatic, mechanical pants, that literally walk him through the plot, that literally drag him through all the stuff you need to have a `real' Hitchcock film. It's a brilliant notion, one that ranks as the most successful in the history of film.But Nick is already creatively worn out or more likely compromised by the system. The torch passes to Pixar. "},{"Title":"love the addition of Feathers McGraw","Date":"27 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Wallace has bought a pair of ex-NASA robotic Techno-Trousers to walk his dog Gromit. Gromit is not too happy with the new gadget. They are actually low on cash and need to rent out a room. A penguin comes to rent the room but instead takes over Gromit's room. He starts doing things to push Gromit out and eventually Gromit runs away. The penguin reprograms the Techno-Trousers and trap Wallace in them. It's an elaborate plan to steal a giant diamond. It turns out that the penguin is actually the infamous thief Feathers McGraw and Gromit has to stop him and rescue Wallace.I like the comedy of Wallace and Gromit. I love the addition of the criminal penguin. He is funny, cute and villainous all at the same type. It's such a great character and should be their nemesis as much as possible. I find that's what's missing from some of the Wallace and Gromit fare. They need a good constant evil nemesis like Feathers McGraw. "},{"Title":"Diamonds are a bird's best friend.","Date":"4 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" This little gem has its 20th birthday this year and man has it aged fine. While Wallace serves mostly as a tool (in the truest sense of the word), it's all about the face-off between Gromit and a criminal mastermind. It starts off with Gromit receiving the most curious birthday gift a pair of remote-controlled mechanical trousers to take him out for a walk, so Wallace can stay at home and do whatever he likes. (Whose birthday is it anyway???) Neither particularly interested in the trousers, nor in being kept on a leash, Gromit just enjoys the day out. Upon return home, he finds Wallace having rented a room to a penguin named Feathers McGraw. This one quickly expresses much more interest in the new trousers than the actual presentee.Right when this film approaches the end and you feel you've never seen crime portrayed better in animation (the chicken comb disguise idea is as simple as it's genius), Park includes a great train chase scene that ought to serve as a lesson to every animator on how to use the western genre in animation. The score is unspectacular, but works wonders from start to finish and it was particularly entertaining to see Gromit metaphorically as Wallace's aged wife during the knitting and rolling pin scenes. My favorite scene that made me break into laughter was the moment Wallace wakes up at the museum and keeps rambling about how he's a respectable citizen. Here it was particularly nice to see him screaming not for his canine pal and not for his feathered friend, with whom he bonded increasingly early on on Gromit's expense.This film is the most frequently and one of the highest rated IMDb short films for good reason. As of now, it's my favorite W&G piece (mainly because of one of the finest villain performances in animation history) and everybody should see it. "},{"Title":"The Best Wallace and Gromit","Date":"7 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Wallace (Peter Sallis) is used by a shady, criminal penguin in a robbery involving mechanical trousers.Nick Park has said this was his favorite of the Wallace and Gromit films, and I have to agree with him. Whether I have seen all of them or not is not clear to me, but of those I have, this one definitely stands out as the masterwork -- how do you top a villain played by a shady, snaky penguin? The animation is incredible, especially when we see the way the outside of the buildings are crafted. The clay of the main characters may be relatively simplistic, but this is not because the animators lack talent. "}{"Title":"Another Nostalgic Classic!","Date":"9 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Like the previous Wallace And Gromit short film Wallace And Gromit In A Grand Day Out and the Aardman's short film after the one I am reviewing Wallace And Gromit In A Close Shave, this classic escapade is one of the gems of my childhood. It is Gromit's Birthday and Wallace gives him a pair of robotic trousers. However, a penguin mastermind finds out about the trousers, so he uses them to steel a diamond from The National Museum. Gromit is worried about his friendship with Wallace when the penguin makes himself comfortable living in the same house as him. The film has a solid plot and has its own wonderful music. The short ends with Feathers McGraw (The Penguin) being locked up in the zoo and the trousers (with a dustbin over it!) walk out over the horizon where the sun goes down ending this hilarious film. A must see for anyone who likes animation.Overall Rating 10/10! "},{"Title":"It might just be the best!","Date":"17 June 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Wallace and gromit have had some amazing great adventures with some of the best short films ever! This just reaches No.1 of there best even if a grand day out and a close shave are masterpieces of their own. The story is well done with the most funniest animated villain in years (my opinion) and really good claymation (the rain is top notch and were talking about clay) its just great!The humour is really improved from a grand day out not because the previous short was not funny but this got me choking at one point. Some of the best humour but what surprises me is the sadness with the scene with gromit running awayI recommend this one the most, I would hate someone who hates it but It would be worse if you never seen it. It got the mood and drama perfect A MUST!!!!! "},{"Title":"A great animation that everybody should watch","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" It is hard to believe that this classic short is almost twenty years old and it is as good now as when I first saw it. Wallace and Gromit first appeared in 'A Grand Day Out' and that was a fine story but this, their second outing, is better! The story opens on Gromit's birthday and he is not impressed with his present; a pair of techno-trousers that will take him for a walk while Wallace is free to stay indoors. As the bills are piling up Wallace decides to take in a paying lodger; this lodger turns out to be a rather sinister penguin who wastes no time taking over Gromit's position in the household. It soon becomes apparent that the penguin is even worse than we suspected; he reprograms the techno-trousers and replaces the control panel with a remote control so he can send Wallace to steal a priceless diamond while he is fast asleep! Untimately it will be up to Gromit to save the day! Nick Park and Aardman animation have become bywords for quality stop go animation and this is largely down to films like this; it packs a full story into thirty minutes and the plasticine figures have more character than many real actors. Of course it helps that they have the wonderful Peter Sallis to provide the voice of Wallace. The story is told in a way that is funny, exciting and even a little bit tense at times! The final chase scene on the model train is a classic which belongs in any list of top chase scenes. If you haven't seen this yet you really should the next chance you get whatever your age... it is great for adults and children alike without relying on in-jokes that only adults will get. "},{"Title":"The Wallace & Gromit movie all others are measured against","Date":"26 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Wallace and Gromit exploded onto TV screens in 1989 with A Grand Day Out. Although a little rough around the edges, it was consistently charming, and left us breathless with anticipation for the next adventure. And four years later, Aardman delivered with The Wrong Trousers.The Wrong Trousers is by far Aardman's masterpiece, and the best adventure we've seen with Wallace & Gromit to date. Where the first film had some obvious kinks to work out, The Wrong Trousers is all that A Grand Day Out should have been.Nick Park has polished his craft immeasurably in the years since. Everything about The Wrong Trousers works. It gives us many things A Grand Day Out didn't have. It pays more attention to plot. The characterisation is deeper. The writing is tighter. Every scene adds something. The animation is flawless. Its the perfect Wallace & Gromit movie.Wallace and Gromit are a bit strapped for cash. And to make ends meet, Wallace has to take in a lodger. A penguin called Feathers McGraw. Feathers doesn't waste any time at all making himself at home, in Gromit's bedroom no less. Feeling neglected, Gromit decides to move on, but not before he discovers that Feathers is really an escaped jailbird. And he plans to use Wallace to pull off a diamond heist, with Wallace's latest invention, the Techno-Trousers.Nick Park has made a conscious effort not to repeat the mistakes of A Grand Day Out. Although charming, the film was let down by a slightly skinny storyline driving it all. But with The Wrong Trousers, Park depends on a more substantial plot to spur the film on. Park has ironed out all the deficiencies, and turns in a tightly scripted, slickly directed stop-motion feature.One of the things that strikes you about The Wrong Trousers is the far darker tone. A Grand Day Out was made with a light exuberance. But The Wrong Trousers, right from the very beginning, is a more sinister story, that takes the characters of Wallace & Gromit into some very dark areas. This is surely indicative of the opening title sequence where we see the Techno-Trousers in harsh silhouette, and Julian Nott's playful musical score rushes to an abrupt halt.The film begins innocently enough, with Nick Park showing Wallace & Gromit doing they're usual routine. This film sees the debut of Wallace's outlandish way of getting up in the morning. Full of chutes, mechanical arms, and ready-made long-johns. But as soon as Feathers McGraw comes into the picture, there's a palpable sense of tension. Right away we take an instant dislike to him. And its hard not to feel for Gromit as Feathers slowly ousts him from Wallace's home.The film begins to resemble nothing so much as a classic noir movie. When Gromit gets wise to Feathers, he trails him through dark alleyways to a museum, where Feathers is sizing the heist. I love the part when Gromit keeps him under surveillance, by cutting a pair of eye-holes through a box, not realising the box has a picture of a dog on it, and he cut the holes where the eyes should go. Who in the audience didn't jump when Feathers sees someone (from Gromit's POV) peering at him?If you ran A Grand Day Out and The Wrong Trousers side by side, the differences are clearer. The former is light, escapist entertainment. The latter pushes the envelope far more than stop-motion had ever gone before. When watching the film prior to writing my review, it was inescapable how serious it was. Nick Park doesn't have as much time for the witty sideswipes of the first film. The Wrong Trousers is a film carried almost entirely by plot.Every time you think the film is about to do something funny Park subverts it. The sight of Wallace in the Techno-Trousers is funny by itself, but when it comes to the robbery, instead of playing it for slapstick, Park milks the scene for suspense. Feathers remote controls an unsuspecting Wallace, getting him to scale the museum, hang from the ceiling, and try and grab the diamond in a claw like one of those grabbing games. It could rival anything in the Oceans 11 series.Park pulls out all the stops in the last ten minutes. Just because its animated doesn't mean it will patronise the audience. When Gromit threatens Feathers with a rolling pin, who could have predicted that the bird would respond by producing a gun? And one that fires real bullets too? What kind of a film are we in here?The highlights of the Wallace & Gromit movies are almost certainly the frenetic action sequences and the climax is a thrilling chase around the living room on a model train set with the Techno-Trousers running wild and Gromit frantically trying to keep up with Feathers without running out of track all at the same time. The Wrong Trousers is a triumph, in every possible way. The 30 minutes are over before you know it. It holds up in all the right places, even in repeat viewings. And who didn't cheer when Feathers gets his comeuppance? The film won a well deserved Oscar, and although I love all of the subsequent movies, The Wrong Trousers is still unsurpassed, and remains Wallace & Gromit's, and Aardman's finest hour. "},{"Title":"very good","Date":"18 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" The wrong trousers is the second claymation from nick park. It is wonderful. It is longer than the first outing 'a grand day out' and it has a much more detailed and composed well written story. it is unique and was nominated for an Oscar. the wrong trousers has great humour from wallaces jokes to the inventions within the film like wallaces bed, a special train set and gromits prompt evasure of being found out by jumping into a handy cardboard box. there's also a new great character in this film - the evil penguin. he comes to stay as a guest in wallace's house but soon he's up to no good. the foiling of his devious little schemes by wallace and gromit is great to watch. the film's music is great and peter sallis is great as voice of wallace "},{"Title":"Claymation Spectacular !","Date":"19 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Superbly done ! Wonderful delight !The story goes that Wallace rented a room in their house to make ends meet. A penguin took up the rented room. But Gromit had a feeling that something was amiss with their new housemate. Things was smelling fishy.So Gromit went to spy on the penguin, surprised to find that the penguin was a criminal who was recently release from a jail and that 'he' (or rather 'it') was planning to steal a precious jewel.I gotta say that the quality of this movie is absolutely outstanding. The characters and the scenery was done with meticulous details. And with the brain dead TV cartoon shows that's been shown on nowadays, this movie is a precious gems that appeals to both adults and kids alike. "},{"Title":"Trousers Syndrome","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" This is the fruition of Park's movie-making paradigm...a fully developed self-referential world of cinematic ideas.Again, Park the inventor creates the movie's mechanics by having Wallace, the inventor within, create the movie's mechanics this time, by constructing the 'Techo-Trousers'. The noir twist is, another inventor within steals and co-opts the mechanics of the movie to toy with the protagonist...a brilliant derivation from Hitchcock, and other movies in Hitch's tradition such as Pacific Heights (the renter moves in and takes over the 'mechanics' by taking over the house).Layered onto this, we have the first full use of Gromit as the detective who 'discovers' the narrative for us as we go along. He is the comic relief and the source of the movie's own self-awareness, this time by being fully aware of and acknowledging the camera's existence.The ending borrows from forerunners such as The Great Train Robbery, The Great Escape, and Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome.See this right after the foundational A Grand Day Out&#133; to appreciate Park's construction of this world. "},{"Title":"A delight!","Date":"22 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  What a delightful movie! When I first saw this movie i was amazed. It combines laughter and ingenuity all into one movie. The claymation work was excellent. I especially enjoyed the plot. Although it seems like a child's movie, it is an excellent movie for all ages.  "},{"Title":"The perfect pick-me-up half hour.","Date":"14 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  Whenever you need a good giggle watch this perfect half hour - the ultimate repeatable viewing. I have seen it numerous times and I am still picking up new little details. To quote one journalist - 'Gromit has the most expressionate on-screen eyes since RUDOLPH VALENTINO'. "},{"Title":"The most diabolical penguin ever!","Date":"29 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  I watched this on DVD with my brother's kids and I was completely blown away. Definitely something adults will appreciate along with the young'uns. Great production, clever humour, and an evil penguin. Loved it! "}{"Title":"Excellent, What a classic.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  When you think about excellent animation the thoughts usually go towards Disney however, here we see that all is not predictable. This movie moves onto a level where adults and children can watch animation together without feeling the story is simple and predictable. A gem..... "},{"Title":"Awesome animation","Date":"11 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  It's difficult to describe just how good this short film is.The world Nick Park creates is so real and believable that you entirely forget these are only pieces of clay plasticine. Its a truly family film, (not in the Disney style!) but it will appeal to anyone from kids to grandparents.One of the most worthy Oscar winners ever. "},{"Title":"Brilliant animation! Superb!","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  Great story and very creative animation. Love this one! Funny and cute!  "},{"Title":"One of the best in this category...","Date":"13 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  If you have not watched this Plasticine animation, certainly you are missing and original,funny and smart, film. I think that Wallace and Gromit are the best young partners in this short film category. "},{"Title":"Capturing the rare","Date":"20 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  Nick Parks manages to capture and explore the subtleties in his characters, and every viewer will relate to them in this magnificent piece of animation. You will not find any better animated entertainment than this. "},{"Title":"You gotta love the writing.","Date":"3 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  This animated film is wonderfully written, and is very funny.  "},{"Title":"A cracking good film.","Date":"26 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  Nick Park is a genius!  What a wonderful, charming piece of animation, bursting with humor, suspense, and character.  Possibly one of the most original animated shorts I've ever seen.   "},{"Title":"the second Wallace and Gromit short film.","Date":"8 October 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" This here is another great Wallace and Gromit short film.This time it's taken place in their neighborhood and not the moon. And it has a main villain which will be a surprise to you once you see it.It's mostly focused on a Mechanical Techno Trousers given to Gromti as a Gift for his Walks.The animation style is more improved than the previous one. The characters look more smoother and has nice detail in the backgrounds.The ending is the best part too.Those who like the first one will like this one even more.It's my favorite of all 3 Wallace and Gromit short films. "},{"Title":"Wallace & Gromit The Wrong Trousers","Date":"23 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" This sequel to the original 1993 adventure where the man and the dog go to the moon is even funnier than ever. It is Gromit the dog's birthday and Wallace, the inventor, has a big surprise for him. The only problem that Wallace is having before giving presents is money. He has bought Gromit a new collar, and a pair of Techno Trousers. These trousers can walk on ground, walls and ceilings. One day they have a lodger wanting to rent a room at the house, but this lodger, a penguin, instead takes Gromit's room. Wallace doesn't know it, but he is the victim to stay in the trousers and help this evil and scary looking penguin steal a diamond. The train sequence is just classic comedy. The quality of this animation is obviously the fact that everything moving is made of Plastercine! It won the Oscar for Best Short Animated Film, and it won the BAFTA for Best Animated Film. Wallace and Gromit were number 11 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters, and they were number 15 on The 100 Greatest Kid's TV Shows, and as part of Aardman Animations, they was number 15 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons. Outstanding! "},{"Title":"The best W&G short.","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" In the second Wallace and Gromit short, Wallace invents remote controlled trousers to walk Gromit.Soon after that he realizes he needs money to pay the bills so he decides to rent out a room.A shady penguin moves in and takes over Gromit's room.Wallace likes the penguin and doesn't know that he's plotting to use our stars in a big jewel heist.Everything about this is better than Grand Day Out.The jokes are better, the story is better and the penguin is a great character.In one scene Gromit reads a newspaper and the headline says Dogs Reads Newspaper!, that actually made me laugh.This is definitely something adults will like just as much as kids do.See it. "}{"Title":"Robotrousers and the Sinister Penguin.","Date":"6 April 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" The Wrong Trousers is directed by Nick Park who also co-writes the story with Bob Baker. Out of Aardman Animations and featuring the voice of Peter Sallis, the story sees Wallace & Gromit up to their necks in trouble when they take in a mysterious penguin lodger.The second animated feature outing for Wallace & Gromit is that type of animated feature that the kids roar at and the adults nod appreciatively towards. With its low key sense of humour, crime movie homage and scorching attention to detail, it's as good as claymation gets. Structured in simple three tier movie format, Park enjoys dallying with noir like visuals as Julian Nott's music rumbles away like it was a Karloff movie. Then it's into the final quarter where the story hits its menacing peak and Park unleashes a thrilling finale as our illustrious Northerners hurtle around the house on a model train. Brilliant. 9/10 "},{"Title":"Excellent stuff from Aardman!...","Date":"9 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Again brilliantly animated with all the little subtle touches that make Aardman films so great! Of course Peter Sallis does his usual excellent job of voicing Wallace. The plot is more complicated than the first film and it shows the ambition of the studio to progress. Some of the ideas are really crazy, but they work so well in this medium. For me, not quite as good as 'A Grand Day Out', but a very close second&#x85; HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.My Score 9.2/10IMDb Score 8.5/10 (based on 27,036 votes at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Tomatometer' Score 100/100 (based on 25 reviews counted at the time of going to press).Rotten Tomatoes 'Audience' Score 89/100 (based on 19,727 user ratings counted at the time of going to press).You can find an expanded version of this review on my blog Thoughts of a SteelMonster. "},{"Title":"A good movie worth watching","Date":"26 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Wallace and Grommit The Wrong Trousers The Good, the Bad, and the UglyWallace and Grommit make a great team when they star in Nick Park's Claymation short The Wrong Trousers. But, as in most movies, this one has the Good, the Bad, and the Ugly.The Good A great plot. A pair of techno-trousers. A sinister penguin. A diamond robbery. An amazing train chase scene. And, of course, cheese. Every one of these things alone makes this short definitely worthy of the 1993 Academy Award for the Best Animated Short. The Bad Why do the techno-trousers walk away at the end of the movie? Is it because Feathers McGraw got away? Do the wrong trousers have another evil controller? The Ugly There were three mistakes that I caught while watching the movie. The first was when Feathers is making Grommit wait for the bathroom. Wallace passes Grommit fully dressed. The next scene shows Wallace in a bathrobe&#151;not dressed in everyday clothes like he was a few seconds earlier. The next shows Grommit when he cut out a piece of cardboard to spy on Feathers McGraw. We don't see that little piece when we should. The last is right before the chase scene. Grommit is dangling from a light fixture with a light bulb in it, which Feathers shoots down. Next it shows Grommit with the fixture on his head. No crash of the bulb.Overall, it is a movie worth watching&#151;great for kids and adults alike. "},{"Title":"Wallace & Gromit and the penguin from hell.","Date":"10 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Wallace & Gromit really face a dark and sinister villain this time; a penguin. The penguin never speaks and he hardly does anything but it's this same subtlety that makes him such an evil sinister- and therefore at the same time also hilarious and amusing villain. I don't know what it is about penguins but they always work out as such superb and amusing characters in animated movies.The story is however of course far from likely. I mean, how did the penguin even knew Wallace had mechanical trousers that he could use for his heist. And why at all would you use the tall and sluggish, sleeping Wallace to do a robbery for you. It's just too risky and doesn't really sound like the right suiting master-plan for the criminal genius the penguin is.But oh well, this of course doesn't make this Oscar-winning short animated movie any less fun to watch. In this modern day and age of technology claymation doesn't seem like the best weapon of choice to deliver a good, entertaining and convincing looking movie with. However with Wallace & Gromit, Aardman Animations have never failed at it to bring a good, entertaining and convincing looking movie. It's pretty amazing what you can do with just some simple pieces of clay. Characters are given a real personalities and sequences are looking very well done and detailed, as if it comes straight from a multi-million dollar budget movie.Wallace & Gromit however are not part of multi-million dollar budget productions. It's always kept small and simple and that's the charm of it. It's all kept simple, yet it's done in an incredibly professional way. This is also always a part of the movie its comedy. The movie features many crazy and also unlikely situations, that are being shot in such an incredible serious way that they tend to become hilarious. Just like at the mini-train chase sequence at the end.Quality entertainment from Aardman Animations.8/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"There is a goof in this short.","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Which is kind of strange since Nick Park is known for the pains-taken effort that he puts into detail. I can't take credit for finding it--my wife pointed it out.Anyway, there is a shot where Wallace passes Gromit and says, Good Morning, Gromit and you barely see him enough to see that he is fully-clothed. Then, as Gromit goes downstairs he sees Wallace in his robe with Feathers McGurk.It's still a great short and seems to be the favorite of kids, despite a little gun-play. It seems that A Grand Day Out is a little obscure for them and A Close Shave is a little scary for younger ones. "},{"Title":"#5th Best Movie of all time, was it not for its painfully short running time","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Wallace and Gromit movies belong to the few movies that actually deserved being called masterpieces. Lots of time and effort went into the claymation, and it looks better than ever! Wallace, the kind of stupid but very good-hearted, balded inventor, and his fateful, very smart dog, Gromit, are two of my all-time favorites. And the rest of the character gallery! Feathers McGraw, the penguin without a conscience! Wendolene, the wool saleswoman who falls in love with Wallace but -alas!- is allergic to cheese! And Preston, the evil dog, who is more than he appears! Anyway, the plot for this too short story is Wallace needs money, so he rents out Gromit's room for visitors. A penguin up to no good takes the room, and Gromit gets jealous when Wallace becomes a great pal with the penguin and seems to forget his dog. So Gromit leaves to stay on the street, and this is indeed very tragic. Meanwhile something is planning stealing a diamond from the city museum. The great plot twist in this movie is when we find out who, or what, the chicken really is...Watch it! W&G are the best animated movies of all time and Finding Nemo can ******* up its ***'***** with ***'** ******* '*******! 10/10 stars!! "},{"Title":"A big improvement over A Grand Day Out!","Date":"20 September 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Wallace and GromitThe Wrong Trousers is another great Wallace and gromit movie and has to be my second favourite out of all four of the Wallace and gromit movies and it was one of the funniest if the the funniest Wallace and gromit films.The movie is about Wallace has a lot of bills and he can't afford to pay all of them off so he leases/rents out his spare room and the penguin that rents it out isn't to be trusted!I won't tell you anymore because it will spoil the whole film I thought this Wallace and Gromit film was a big improvement over the other film A Grand Day Out because the clay animation looks a lot better, it has a great and interesting story that makes it worth watching not like A Grand Day Out which didn't really have a story.Overall this is a great Wallace and Gromit that can be watched over again I highly recommend this movie! "},{"Title":"My number 158 movie","Date":"24 January 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":"  Wallace & Gromit - the wrong trousers is my number 158 movie, because it is very funny and has good ideas. I do not think that it is as funny or as good as A close shave, but it is good. It is about a trousers that can move alone. A rooster starts to misuse it, and Gromit ( the dog ) has to solve this problem. All in all, I rated this movie 8/10, because it is funny, and original. After The Close Shave it is the best movie of these guys having made them. "},{"Title":"What The Wrong Trousers is really about  the supreme irony","Date":"13 August 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Animation, Short, Comedy","Review":" Most reviewers have noted that The Wrong Trousers is strewn with in-jokes, puns etc, but none have realised that this work is actually a brilliant political satire and allegory on post-war Britain, the welfare state, multiculturalism and political correctness. So profound and relevant is this aspect of the work that it deserves to be hailed as the new Animal Farm. And if that is indeed the case, this masterpiece should feature on the curriculum of high school and university students all over the world, as it is not only a unique blend of art and politics but also because its themes and the questions that it raises have universal contemporary relevance. What we need to ask ourselves is if and why this aspect of this masterpiece was somehow hushed up. And perhaps, more relevantly, why no authoritative film commentators have yet to notice. Look at The Wrong Trousers and pay close attention to the symbols, the puns, the plot, the music, and also the allusion to Hans Christian Andersen's The Emperor's New Clothes, Orwell's Animal Farm and even Shakespeare. Go to Wikepedia's entry on The Wrong Trousers and follow the trail yourself (view the discussion page as well). Ten out of ten for animation - that goes without saying, or rather the Oscar has already said it. Ten out of ten for profundity - this is a work that can be viewed over and over again and yet which always seems to offer something new. But what should we award it for honesty? Zero - if the satire aspect was hushed up for commercial reasons (the racial undertones would alone engender monied interests' grave fears of a backlash). And what should we award it for irony? Eleven out of ten - it is surely the supreme irony that a political satire on political correctness ends up being suppressed by political correctness itself. "}]