[{"Title":"Great movie... people should stop being so serious and enjoy it","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"142 out of 236 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" First off.... I absolutely love this movie. It's such a treat to a fan with a good imagination.Secondly, why would anyone in their right mind take this kind of movie seriously, to the point of bashing it for things like being to fake and not sticking to the Mario bro's storyline. People, in the games all Mario did was jump around, bop things on the head, throw fireballs around, and fly. If they would have made movies about that people would be asleep before the first 5 minutes. This movie was meant to entertain and captivate, and it certainly does the trick.They took the classic game and adapted it to a fantasy reality that parallels our own and for that, it was simply brilliant. The rendition of koopa-manhattan was great and is not something that people should criticize. The city adds life the the movie, it makes it real in it's own fantastic way. It makes the city so crazy it works. And boy oh boy did those goomba's make me laugh.I love this movie for everything it relates to the game and everything it added to make it a more fun-filled ride. If you love the games and have an open minded imagination, this is a must watch movie "},{"Title":"Why is everyone taking this so seriously?","Date":"29 July 2003","Score":"110 out of 178 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a cheesy movie for people who play video games.  I don't understand why some people adamantly insist this movie should never have been made.  It's cute and entertaining.  It doesn't stay completely loyal to the game storyline, but Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo are perfect for these two roles.  Worth watching if you see it on TV. "},{"Title":"Too harsh, by far","Date":"7 April 2004","Score":"57 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Yes, this no classic, but it's not that bad. And yes it bears no resemblance to the video games that inspired it except for the jumpsuits that look like the heroes overalls, but it's not bad.Mario & Luigi (Bob Hoskins & John Leguizamo) are the two down on their luck brother plumbers who get involved with a college student named Daisy (Samantha Mathis) who turns out to be a princess from an alternate dimension. Once transported there themselves, they must fight the evil King Koopa (Dennis Hopper) and save their world from being merged with Koopa's and the human race from being turned into monkeys.It may be hard to believe that John Leguizamo is Bob Hoskins brother, but the two have good chemistry and John has a convincing Brooklyn accent (although Tom Selleck would have been a more convincing Luigi in some respects). Bob reprises his gruff detective persona from Who Framed Roger Rabbit to great effect. Samantha Mathis is cute as the princess and manages to feel less shallow than most heroines in these situations. Dennis Hopper hams it up as the film's villain. Lots of gags and good natured humor, and a beautiful song from Roxette, Almost Unreal. Worth a rental. "},{"Title":"one of my favorite movies of all time","Date":"18 June 2005","Score":"123 out of 225 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Let me start off by saying that this is a great movie. Many people were expecting this movie to be piece for piece off of the video game which is pretty stupid considering that the Mario bros. games don't really have too much of a storyline besides just saving the princess from Koopa. The fact that they kept the basic ideas of the Mario games and added on their own take of it was great in my opinion. The actors were good and were perfect for their parts (especially Bob Hoskins). If people want to see a perfect Mario bros. movie where all there is too watch is a person jumping on monsters and going down pipes just because its true to the video game than please by all means go make one and see how many people don't fall asleep while watching it. I believe people should see it with an open mind instead of watching it hoping to see an exact replication of the game. "},{"Title":"be careful how you watch","Date":"29 January 2003","Score":"66 out of 112 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I made the mistake of watching this movie the day i had knee surgery.  So i was doped up on all kinds of pain killers and thought the movie was great.  However a few years later i remembered how much i enjoyed the movie so i watched on tv when it was run agian.  I was blown away with how horribly bad it was.  I was also amazed on how much i remembered being in the movie that wasnt.  so as the title says be careful how you watch.  As a side note this is not an endorsement to do drugs just to make bad movies better. "},{"Title":"Underrated","Date":"14 November 2004","Score":"97 out of 178 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It is clear that this film has been unfairly dismissed. OK, so it doesn't fit the criteria of a 'good film', but, it's a great kids film. It's dark and strange, things generally uncommon of kids films, and, if it wasn't for watching this film as a child, I wouldn't be into people like cronenberg, lynch and, in particular, Gilliam, whose sinister darkness I enjoy so greatly.It is self-evident that there is a lack of imagination, especially recently, in the kids film genre, and this is where Super Mario Brothers earns the 7 out of 10 that I have given it. My film collection would be much less exciting without having watched this film as a child. This is why I urge those of you who have given it a poor rating to re-evaluate, considering what I have said. "},{"Title":"Daft fun.","Date":"30 March 2002","Score":"26 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The plotTwo plumbers who are known as the Marios, meet a strange young girl that has a rock on her neck. Two idiots from another world kidnap the strange girl known as Daisy, after kidnaping other girls from Brooklyn. The two Marios decide to rescue her from the Two Idiots that have taken her to another world ruled by an evil king known as Koopa.The ViewPerformances aren't the major thing here, but the special effects and creations are to be noticed more. The movie itself isn't bad and as a comedy, will have a few(just a few)giggles. It's all really just a fun fantasy movie that just doesn't shine through and doesn't make any effort to make an historical movie, but the film is fun and you will enjoy it as a complete no-brainer. *** "},{"Title":"It's a Mario Movie. Where's the Mario?","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"14 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Super Mario Bros. is a movie based off of the Super Mario Bros. video games. Or at least, that's what they SAY it is. In reality, Super Mario Bros. is a movie that pretends to be Mario. He's what I'm talking about In the games, the main villain is Bowser, King of the Koopas who wishes to kidnap the Princess and rule the mushroom kingdom. In the movie, the main villain is Koopa, tyrant of a small city in the center of a world-wide desert who wishes to take over the world of man. In the games, a big bertha is a fish. In the movie, Big Bertha is the bouncer at the Boom Boom bar. In the games, Boom Boom is a person. The movie is just a crappy movie that takes Nintendo's names in an attempt to look better. And it fails at that. DO NOT see this movie. "},{"Title":"Classic Cult Cyberpunk, Unfairly Judged","Date":"2 January 2012","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Super Mario Bros the Movie manages several well-known things - firstly it's the first ever mainstream Video Game Movie adaption, and secondly star Bob Hoskins has stated it as the worst film he's ever made.So how can I review this film so highly, despite the main star's objections to the quality of it? The truth of the matter is that this film isn't as terrible as the hype states it is. Being the first Hollywood adaption of a video game series, and being different from it's source material, there wasn't really anything to compare it to. If you were hoping for a genuine conversion of the game's storyline into a movie, then you are going to be highly disappointed - but then you've made a rather rash assumption that the basic story of the game series would work as a film to begin with. Movies need to be like epic events, a major moment of the character's lives cataloged within an hour and a half (minimum). The game's theme of 'Bowser has the Princess, run into castle and have toad say Your Princess is in another castle 7 or 8 times before the end' doesn't make for a good film.Excuses aside, the film does succeed in the way it intends to. It is extremely fun. Unlike other films with it's reputation, the Super Mario Bros Movie is genuinely enjoyable and even more so thanks to the few downfalls in it's script. Bob Hoskins cracks me up as Mario Get Your Belt on Kid! We're going' in!, and Dennis Hopper is clearly the inspiration for Doctor Evil from Austin Powers See you later, Alligator. The movie manages to do something few films manage - it improves with age. I'm not going to state that it's as superb as Blade Runner (As stated on the box), because they're from two very different worlds. Blade Runner is a classic in terms of being a thought-provoking high-caliber sci-fi drama, Super Mario is a classic in terms of being a cheesy fun-fueled thrill-ride. The only reason these two were compared in the first place was the similarity of a run-down ugly futuristic city, both of which were furnished with surprisingly high quality set design and standards. I would love to see a full Blu-Ray restoration of this movie because there is so much intricate work done on the backgrounds and in the details that the additional quality Blu-Ray affords would allow us even more joy. There are some good jokes in here, the pace is good and never slacks, and while there are some bad script- writing problems the enjoyment should allow most people to gloss over those issues without much problem (Look at Star Trek 2009, horrific script, plot holes and some truly terrible Hollywood writing but because it was so fun and full of action, it is hailed as a great film). This makes it more closely related to being the Star Trek 09 movie of its day, with special effects that were (at the time) really impressive and a mixture of family humor and more adult action (Bob Hoskins sticking his face in a black woman's chest - golden).I would love to see a restored Blu-Ray of this movie, as it is a great fun movie. It is more fun than many more recent video game based movies (The Resident Evil series is stale, the Degeneration movie was miss-able, the Final Fantasy films were badly directed, they even got it wrong with Yakuza Like A Dragon...), most are bland (Something nobody could say about Super Mario Bros, whether they like it or not) or outright horrific, especially if made by Uwe Boll. Super Mario Bros is not the best movie ever made, but it never intended to be. It wasn't supposed to be a movie epic like Blade Runner or 2001 A Space Odyssey, nor was it supposed to be a direct translation of the game, which in itself would have been far worse and less enjoyable. It was intended to stand on its own two feet as a fun, family-oriented action movie with darker sci-fi undertones and while it never accomplishes them to perfection, it certainly succeeded well enough to continuously provide a fun and entertaining movie experience.Some ideas are quite cool, others are a little childish, but that tends to come with the territory with family-friendly Hollywood movies. Again, now more than ever, Nintendo are family-oriented and their Wii console is centered around allowed the kids in as much as the teens and adults - another sign of this film being more accurate now than it was even at the time of its release.As for possible Blu-Ray extras, I would adore an audio commentary by Bob Hoskins with him just hating on the film. You can imagine that would be a funny commentary. The Raw Deal Blu-Ray has an HD extra of a movie critic slating the movie. He-man DVDs have fan-commentaries ragging on the quality of the episodes while still speaking fondly of the series they adore. If the extras on these don't harm the sales, then the same thing for Super Mario Bros would only raise the sales of this film as people would be keen to hear what he has to say since his outbursts on the movie in the media. Other extras can include original script outlines and differences, several deleted scenes and the possibility of a re-cut.I hope to see a decent Blu-Ray release of this movie soon. They've got Blu-Ray releases of Street Fighter, Mortal Kombat and other video game movies of the era, Super Mario deserves at least the same. "},{"Title":"It's better then people give it credit.","Date":"26 July 2012","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" If you watch this movie as if it had no connections to the video game...It's not that bad. I loved the sets. The actors were great. And It's basically the same rescue the princess story but in a different setting. Like a more Modern Day Mario. Like I said it's the same Mario Brothers but in a different world. To me Bob embodies Mario perfectly. And So Does John as Luigi. All he needed was the mustache and maybe someone else's voice. It has some really cool action sequences. And I love the flame thrower thing. They could have done a better job on the goombas and koopa though. Look at it as a Mario reference movie. And not the Live Action Mario Movie. And most of all. Keep an open mind and enjoy for what is. And not what everyone thought it was suppose to be. Watch this and then watch the film again http//www.youtube.com/watch? v=od-FughI-C8 "}{"Title":"Wow","Date":"6 July 2010","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" If you are reading this review, please understand that I am 17 and love Super Mario Bros. I have several of the games, I am a total fan, and I love movie.Now, when I first heard about this movie, I thought it was going to be about as epic as I would ever see.I was wrong.It was like taking Mickey Mouse and Scooby Doo and having real people 'act' like them. And then added a retarded script. And then using terrible CG. And then having bad acting.This movie sucked. I didn't want to say it, but it did. You don't take a video game and make the movie worse. You either make the movie WANT to make you play mario, or you don't make the movie at all. Really.I rate 1/10 because they at least tried. "},{"Title":"Certainly better than its current reputation.","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"26 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is much hated practically everywhere and of course I can understand why. Basically everyone from the '70's , 80's and 90's generation grew up with playing Nintendo games and the Super Mario games in particular. However when one sees this movie, it becomes pretty obvious early on that this movie has almost nothing to do with the Super Mario video games. The atmosphere, settings and characters are totally different, which is probably the main and also only reason why this movie was and still is hated among so many all over the world.However, when one has to look at this movie with a fair and unbiased view, one has to come to the conclusion that this movie is good decent entertainment. No, it's not a GREAT movie but it does serve its purpose and that is to provide the viewer with 104 minutes of mindless, simple entertainment.Kids will most likely like this movie best. The story is wonderfully adventurous and it all is very childishly simple constructed. I mean, the story and setting all basically have very little to do with the games but when you just have to judge the story, it's a pretty good and well thought out one. If the main characters were, let's say, some average Manhattan plumbers named the William's brothers and the entire movie wasn't based on a series of video games, than perhaps the movie would had received a far better reception and would had entertained and reached a wider audience.All of the characters are pretty entertaining and work out well in the movie. This is probably mainly due to the well known cast. Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo are the Mario brothers and they form a pretty good main duo. Dennis Hopper also is in his element as the ruthless, over-the-top, stereotyped villain King Koopa. He gives the movie a certain extra fun and flair. Other well known actors in the movie are Fiona Shaw, Gianni Russo (Carlo Rizzi from the first two The Godfather movies) and Lance Henriksen in a very small cameo role.Unlike the games, the movie is a dark one. All of the sets are dark which was perhaps not the greatest atmospheric mood for the story and the entire movie in general. All of the sets are disappointing, small and unimaginative looking. Same goes for the costumes and most of the make-up effects. The movie however has some good and convincing looking early special effects. Remember folks, that it was 1993 when this movie was released.The movie however is most of the time a bit too childishly told and the dialogs are below par and too simple.The pace and editing is good but the movie severely lacks some action and real interesting moments. At moments it takes too long before something good or interesting happens again, which makes this movie perhaps a bit boring and uninteresting to watch at certain points.All in all it's a not very successful- but still yet entertaining first attempt at making a movie based on a video game. Certainly better than some of those movies based on video games, released this present day!6/10http//bobafett1138.blogspot.com/ "},{"Title":"Why did Nintendo even sell the rights?","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"26 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Nintendo, my favorite company, has betrayed me. Be then again, they didn't know that the creators of this movie would defile the game that made Nintendo an extremely successful video game company. But enough of that, let me tell you what is wrong with this movie everything.First off, Super Mario Bros. (the game) takes place in the Mushroom Kingdom, a happy place that has been taken over by King Koopa (aka Bowser) and its people forced to mindlessly obey his will. Mario has to, of course, defeat Bowser to bring peace back to the Mushroom Kingdom. We all know that. The game DID NOT have cars, skyscrapers, or any obvious technology we enjoy today. Mario was a natural high jumper, and he worked alone.The movie, however, is just a lame action movie with a few Mario allusions thrown in to attract Nintendo fans. The Mario allusion consist solely of Mario, Luigi, and Daisy's names, enemy names, and a bomb-omb. Yay. Oh, and Yoshi, in a 5-second cameo as a dinosaur too small to even consider riding on. But Mario can't jump, no, he's a Brooklyn plumber with a Columbian brother! (How'd that happen?). Their personalities aren't even right. In the games, Mario is a determined hero with a heart of gold, willing to do anything to save the day. Luigi is his shy brother, who helps Mario in any way he can, but in a minimal sort of way. In the movie, they act more like best friends than brothers, Mario is annoyed by everything, and Luigi has a temper.If you like plots quickly written up on napkins before the check comes, and complete destruction of all that Mario stands for, then see this movie. If you are under the age of 12 and have never played a Mario game in your life, then proceed with caution. If you have EVER played a Mario game in your life, take all measures NOT to see this movie. Remember, you cannot sue if this movie totally makes you cry uncontrollably for many hours, trust me, I've tried. "},{"Title":"Adaption Fail... Parody Win","Date":"21 July 2010","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Adaptation 2/10 As an adaptation of the original material, Mario Brothers was an epic fail. The creatures were actual humanoids. They cut out Princess Peach, the main princess in the Mario Brother game series. The movie basically lost the feel of the cheerful world of Mario Bro, and was rather depressing. It will likely be known, for getting the farthest away from the source material, of any movie adaptation.Parody 7/10If one looks at Mario Brothers as a parody, you get a different feel for the movie. It becomes humorous, slap stick, and enjoyable to watch. The few instances of the brothers behavior, that one wouldn't expect of the actual canon characters, gets to be actually enjoyable. As a parody, it fits into the world of Mario Brothers.Overall 5/10I personally feel, when one makes a movie adaptation, they need to stick to making an adaptation. If they wish to parody, that is fine, but the truth of the matter is, most of the time, people aren't expecting that. Also, parody is protected under copyright laws. To me, if you are going to purchase the rights of something, you make it as is.It will remain, forever, a prime example of adaptation fail. Which, isn't always a bad thing. For Super Brothers, it makes for something entertaining... but only if you take it as it is... parody. "},{"Title":"It's not as bad as anyone says, it's quite good and entertaining.","Date":"27 February 2012","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I was 12 when i was first introduced to the Super Mario Bros. movie, i instantly didn't like the film because it wasn't anything like the games, years later, i re-watched the movie with a more open mind, and learning so much about movies and what make them good, i decided to re-watch this movie and guess what? it's a really good movie!It did had character development, everything was explained really well,it didn't had plot holes and the special effects and the creatures looked pretty good!As for the accuracy of the games, it is present in this movie, and it is very subtle, except for the Bob-omb scene, the Koopa Troopas are manly those spiked police men, the Goombas are De-evolved humanoid dinosaurs, and they resemble the original goombas by wearing manly brown, having sharp teeth and being stupid, as for the power-ups, the traditional Mushroom that makes Mario grow, is shown here as an sort of shield, which makes sense, since that when you get the mushroom in the games, you can take an extra hit before dying, so that works as an shield, the fireballs are actually flame-throwers, and my favorite part, the Twomp-Stompers, which are boots that make people jump higher and it's really good, too bad people overlook this and simply bash this film for not being accurate to the games, but no one flipped when the Jackson's Lord of the Rings came and it was almost nothing like the books, right?When it comes to judge films, you have to pay attention to 1character development, that's what makes people feel for characters, 2 a good story, and yes, dinosaurs that evolved into humanoid creatures is a pretty interesting theme, along with the alternate dimension thing. Some people have recognized the film's merits and it gained a cult following manly at the Super Mario Bros. Movie Archive.Bottom line, it is a really good movie on it's on, watch it with an open mind, and don't be a Nostalgia Critic/8-12 year boy and simply enjoy this film by what it is and not what it should be.Trust The Fungus. "},{"Title":"What did you expect blue skies and butterflies?","Date":"9 October 2012","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I'll make this quick, I would personally like to tell all the people giving this movie a bad rap Shut up stupid! Like the rest of us die hard fans that actually gave it the credit it deserves I love this movie! Although it is not as good as super Mario Brothers 3 the game, it did The best it could for a live action cartoon. I loved it as a child, and I still love it. Still to this day I wouldn't change a thing about it. The cast was absolutely perfect. John Leguizamo played a perfect Luigi. Bob Hoskins played a perfect Mario. And don't get me started on Dennis Hopper as King Koopa! I honestly think the people given this movie a bad rap are just lying because they're scared that their friends would make fun of them. Watch it again you'll love it!!! "},{"Title":"I don't get why people hate this movie!!!","Date":"11 July 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I don't get why people hate this movie. A video game turned movie I thought the directors did a great job. Could it have been done better yes, but it was a awesome movie. The goombas would have been stupid and laughable when you're making a sci-fi action flick if you made them look like they do in the game. King Koopa being human-ish does kinda suck. Mario's first Princess was Lady/Pauline in 1981. Princess Daisy appeared in 1989 Super Mario Land for the Game Boy and has been a regular since then. Princess Toadstool/Peach didn't appear until 1995. King Koopa/Bowser has a wife and multiple children and he's from Dinosaur Land. Toad is in the movie he's just human. Yoshi can't talk, he mumbles and a cartoon is OK if you're doing a cartoon. And You people call yourself a true Mario fans. Mario first appeared as the Jumpman in the 1981 version of Donkey Kong as a carpenter. Mario and Lugi didn't appear as brothers and plumbers until 1983 in Mario Bros where they fought creatures in New York. I am a true Mario Bros. fan, so don't insult me by saying this movie sucks beyond comparison. "},{"Title":"Good Movie.","Date":"5 August 2010","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I love this movie. It can be a little cheesy at times but that's OK by me. Its funny, and fallows the game as closely as a movie can. A lot of items and events, IE sounds or what ever, from the game show up and the story line makes sense, as tho there could be a game that uses it from the Mario bros series. The brothers them self are well played and fit perfectly as you would think they would be. All in all its a good movie, so ignore all the nay-sayers who try comparing it to the video game or what ever, and put it down! Its definitely worth watching if you like comedy and Super Mario. And for those people that say it is a shame to a game that saved Nintendo you really should get your facts in order. After Super Mario was released for Nintendo Classic they were bankrupt. Mario was a good game but the system its self was missing a lot in all its other games and Mario did nothing to help. If you look into the history of Nintendo Final Fantasy, which was going to be there last game, hint the name, There Final Fantasy, saved the system and company not Mario. Its there face now but its just another game which happens to have a pretty good movie based off of it! Bye bye all! "},{"Title":"Less to do with SMB than pie has to do with solar-powered laser beams","Date":"20 January 2004","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The truth about this movie is that it really isn't all that bad, it's just that this movie has so little to do with Super Mario Bros. other than the characters' names, it really isn't even a Super Mario Bros. Movie. It's just a movie that has Super Mario Bros. in the title.Take Toad, in this movie. In the game, he was a cute little mushroom dude, in the movie, he's some weird guy who plays the guitar on the street and sings songs. And Bowser is not a menacing turtle-creature in this movie, he's a dude with funky ridges on his head.This movie has an interesting plot, but no one will notice because they're too busy trying to figure out where the SMB stuff is at. Where are the funny-looking mushroom guys? The turtles with wings? Is that Yoshi? Why doesn't Mario ride him while he's slurping up enemies? Where are the perilous lava pits and the green mushrooms that give you extra lives? And where the hell is Kuribo's Shoe?The movie would have been better off if they had just done away with the SMB license and released it as an original movie. So, if you want, you can see it, but try to imagine that it's not a Super Mario Bros. movie. "},{"Title":"Marred Mario Bothers...","Date":"15 January 2012","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" So, *this* is what the movie of a SMB game should've looked like Mario and Luigi, two lovable, Laurel-and-Hardy-esque plumbers from New York, take a job that involves a large, green pipe. By some unfortunate accident, they fall into the opening... only to emerge in a lush, flowering land full of verdant views and large, Alice-in-Wonderland-ish mushrooms. After meeting Toad, an ebullient native of this strange land, they learn that their princess has been kidnapped by a large, spiky-shelled creature named King Koopa. Vowing to earn their return to the home they know by rescuing this princess, Mario and Luigi overcome both the natural challenges of the environment of the Mushroom Kingdom as well as the attempts by Koopa's minions to thwart their advance. After overcoming the tests of mettle and might, and finding their way through labyrinthine castles, Koopa is defeated and the princess is found.See now, how hard was that? The game *itself* has pretty much everything you need to make a movie about it... sure, you'd need some witty dialogue and an awful lot of special effects, but it's nothing that, say, *43 MILLION DOLLARS* couldn't do.What you *don't* need are spurious and inane spring-loaded-rocket-jumping shoes, unnecessary connections to *wildly inaccurate* representations of evolutionary theory, awkward attempts to smoosh poor representations of unimportant baddies from every game into an hour and a half, or Dennis Hopper. They can jump high because it's a parallel universe, goombas are just creatures that evolved from whatever other creatures there were millions of years ago in that universe, and King Koopa is giant, spiky-shelled thing that looks *absofreakinglutely nothing* like Dennis Hopper. No, a spiky blond dye job on your head does not make you look like an evil reptilian tyrant - and it doesn't take the place of a shell.Sadly, the Super Mario Bros. Movie makes the same mistake that virtually every other video-game movie has made it flagrantly and arbitrarily makes stuff up that not only doesn't have *anything* to do with the game, but furthermore seems to perversely go so far off-course from the fun and adventurous tone of its source material as to make my childhood memories grit their teeth and softly weep. "}{"Title":"I love the video games, I like the cartoons, but I just DO NOT like this movie at all!!!","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I loved playing the video games like Mario 1, 2 and 3 especially. (3 was my absolute favorite!) I loved watching the cartoons, like Mario Bros. Super Show, Mario 3, and Mario World, but man! This movie just did cut it for me! Such a terrible disaster! A big flop in Mario history. They think they succeeded with this movie, I think they totally failed and let a die hard Mario fan like me down terribly!!! Take my advise everyone and listen carefully because I'll only say this once Play the games and watch the cartoons! Forget about this disastrous, horrible film Maybe they should try making a Mario Bros. film like with CGI animation. It might help make a better Mario film. After all, anything would be better than this horrible failure! "},{"Title":"Love it or Hate it, it's not the game...","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  but then so are alot of films. And quite alot of films that aren't accurate to the Super Mario Bros games are good, and this is one of them. Have I lost you yet? Well, I never saw this at the cinema because I saw the trailer and shots of the film and thought OMG this is fudge all like the game! I'm not seeing that! But then later I caught it on video and I have to say, if you are after a direct translation of the game, this isn't it, try the cartoons. I still thought the movie was cool, and the best part of cause was Bob Bomb that little guy is so COOL! Well anyway, the sets were cool(even if they did look like the whole film was shot in a 20'x20' warehouse) the costumes were cool(those jumping boots, cool) and the characters were cool comic book characters. Did anyone else notice that about 3/4 of the songs listed at the end of the film never actually appeared in the film?(I have the soundtrack and I've checked through the movie) Well nothing much more to add except that this film you either love it or hate it(well except my sister who thinks its okay as a saturday afternoon movie) See ya! "},{"Title":"A major glitch . . .","Date":"9 May 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Bad movies, I find, are rather easy to define because they basically all look the same, following well-trodden story lines and outdated clichés they are fairly easy to review. But I promise you, dear reader, that I am at a complete loss make any cognitive sense out of 'Super Mario Bros.' starting way back at the boardroom meetings.'Super Mario Bros.' comes from a Hollywood so bereft of ideas that it will package anything with pretty ribbons and multi-million dollar ad campaigns as long as it gets your butt in the seat. What happens after that seemingly is of no concern to them.The story I will confess that I stumbled over because it tries to push it's way through so quickly to get to the next joke, special effect or 'oh that's in the game' moment that I barely had time to grasp the grain of sand passing for a plot.Looking over a description of the plot from the one person in the world who did like this movie (we met in an underground parking garage and I'm sworn to secrecy) here's how he described it The story concerns a half dinosaur creature named Koopa (Hopper) who lives in a parallel dimension where half-human dinosaurs rule the land. Koopa plans to bring his dimension together with ours so that he can broaden his domain and his feeding ground. He needs a shard of the asteroid that killed the dinosaurs and which resides in a necklace worn by Princess Daisy (Mathis). But instead of going to get it himself he sends two knucklebeak cousins Iggy and Spike to go and get it for him. Daisy's would-be boyfriend Luigi (Leguizamo) works in a plumbing company with his brother Mario and when Daisy is kidnapped they have to cross over to the other world to rescue her.That takes care of about the first 15 minutes of the movie and takes us right up to the moment when we cross dimensions. Now, I realize that lead characters unclog drains for a living but was it really necessary to have the parallel dimension looks like a job they haven't finished yet? Everything in the dino world is rusty and slimy and dark and drab and drips slime as if King Kong sneezed all over it. The characters bounce around, talk funny and have no discernible characteristics what so ever bumbling around as dinky and listless as . . . well . . . a video game character.The is the laziest production I've seen in many a moon even starting with the ad campaign which aims at an illiterate audience by proclaiming 'This Ain't No Game!'. Then to further the lethargic campaign the studio doesn't even provide for the word 'Brothers' to be spelled out, so based on this we have Super Mario Bros (which I pronounce 'Bross') that 'Ain't No Game'. I would say that some movies destroy their credibility at the conception level &#x96; but this movie goes from the conception level all the way through the marketing and splats (literally) on the screen. In addition, the guys doing to voice over narration for the film's trailers didn't get together either because one trailer pronounced the title Super Maahrio Brothers while another pronounced it Super MARY-O Brothers.I am not so much at a loss to explain where the idea for this film came from, it is, after all a brand name and easily sold to kids who spent hour upon deadened hour in front of a video game. The movies are, let's face it, a business and a business needs to make money.What I am at a loss to explain is how names like Bob Hoskins, John Leguizamo, Dennis Hopper and Samantha Mathis got mixed up in this. Perhaps it was an easy paycheck. Maybe it was a way to . . . heck I don't know. All I know is that I always get a little depressed when I see talent wasted on this kind of celluloid toothache because it's one more good film from each of them that we will never see because of their time making this garbage.In a way I kind of break down movies like this in my mind to see where they went wrong. I can't find a single avenue of this film that went right. "},{"Title":"Not exactly good, but not terrible either.","Date":"16 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Around the late 80s and early 90s, Hollywood started to see the potential in video games, so they started off with arguably the most popular game out there, which was Super Mario Bros., and so it was that the adaptation of the beloved Nintendo game was the first major video game movie produced by Hollywood.The film had a pretty big budget of $48 million at the time, and was being heavily advertised, even in the video game magazine Nintendo Power, unfortunately, once the film was released, it received negative reviews from critics, and managed to disappoint fans of the video games, and thus, Super Mario Bros. bombed at the box-office, thus, sadly, setting the standard for the majority of video game movies to come (despite a few good or decent ones here and there). However, despite the extremely cold reception the film received upon release, the film has had somewhat of a cult following from people who either love it, or consider it to be a guilty pleasure. Is this film the disgrace fans of the games and critics pointed it out to be, or is it truly an underrated film worthy of the cult favorite status it holds? My answer is...it's sort of stuck in between those two honors, I'll explain...The biggest challenge filmmakers faced was trying to create a coherent plot and visual style that successfully emulates the video game into live-action, and as you can tell, they didn't really succeed in doing so. It does contain the basic premise of two plumbers attempting to rescue a princess from a lizard king, but the setting of the film was changed from the colorful, happy Mushroom Kingdom (as seen in the video games) to a dark, futuristic world which many viewers consider similar to Blade Runner, this was one of the primary reasons why Mario fans dismissed the film. In all fairness, the video game itself seems like a tough contender to adapt into live-action film, while they are linear in substance, the visual style, tone and elements of the games are rather strange for live-action, and seem better suited for an animated film, which is what they should have gone with in the first place. The visual design, while not really something that feels looks nor feels like Super Mario Bros., is actually rather impressive, you can tell they spent the $48 million on the screen, however, this is more of a mixed result when it comes to the special FX. The puppetry and makeup (including the Goombas and Yoshi) look pretty good, but some of the blue-screen and computer FX aren't the most impressive, despite being cleverly used in certain areas.Apparently, the original script was more in line of what you'd expect from a film based on Super Mario Bros., but once husband-wife directing team Rocky Morton and Annabel Jenkel (whom created the Max Headroom series) were hired to direct, the film was changed to a more darker film. The production faced many problems since day 1, including this directing team treating crew members like garbage, they then were booted off the set, and replaced by an uncredited Roland Joffe. Another major issue with the film is that it tries to please both kids and adults, yet, it fails to captivate both target demographics.The script is absolutely weak, despite the concept of humans evolving from dinosaurs actually being interesting. The one thing I do like about this film, besides the impressive production values, is the camaraderie between Bob Hoskins as Mario and John Leguizamo as Luigi. While it's rather odd to see them as brothers (especially since John Leguizamo is too young to be convincing as Bob Hoskins' brother, though this is rectified since Mario is supposed to be the older one, and the father figure of the two), there scenes together are admittedly fun to watch. The saddest part about this is that since the set was chaotic, both Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo had to get severely drunk in order to make it through the filming process, Bob Hoskins would later go on record by saying that starring in Super Mario Bros. was the worst thing he had ever done, and that the making of the film was a nightmare. During the 20th anniversary of the film, John Leguizamo recorded a video on YouTube expressing that he enjoyed making the movie, despite claiming in his autobiography that he didn't like it.Apart from Hoskins and Leguizamo, most of the cast is more-so a mixed bag. Dennis Hopper (RIP) gives an extremely hammy performance as Koopa, and doesn't resemble the original character (known as Bowser in the American versions of the games) the least bit. Not many of the cast stand out due to the weak script and characterizations.Super Mario Bros. may not be a good film or adaptation by any means, but I can at least give the film credit for trying to make a video game movie work, though this wasn't accomplished until the release of Mortal Kombat (which I still consider to be one of the better video game to film conversions). As far as movies based on video games go, there are certainly worse (Street Fighter and Alone in the Dark, especially). "},{"Title":"this film doesn't do justice to the video game? what video game?","Date":"7 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I am from eastern Europe. I am 44 years old. i don't know much about video games. I just found out, here, that there was a video game with the same name as this film. So, for me, there was NOTHING before seeing this film on television a few years ago. is this something bad? is, with any film we see, a bad thing that we haven't read the book or played the game, BEFORE we see the film? don't you think that this gives me a freedom to appreciate and enjoy a film just for what it is, a film? a freedom that otherwise would be hard to get? Super Mario Bros. was, as they say, a blast! for me... All made sense, it was fun to watch, the script is very good and with very good dialogues. it has good editing and good directing. it has very good costumes and set designs. it has very good visual effects. Acting is superb, especially with support characters. in fact, what is not to like? characters are not like in video game? what video game? monsters are still humans, not like in video game? what video game? jumping shoes are not like in video game? what video game? i repeat, i am 100% video game ignorant. oh, lucky me! "},{"Title":"Two Thumbs Way, Way UP!","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have heard way too many times that this was a terrible movie. You know the most reasons of this was that it didn't stick to the original story line. Well for those people, I have something to say... IT DID STICK TO THE STORY LINE!  Mario and Luigi go off and fight bad guys to save the princess. It sounds like it was like the movie. If you feel like you need to, feel free to see it again. Next time, Pay more attention to the movie itself. I am a true, blue Mario fan. I love the other characters too. such as Yoshi and Luigi. For this Reason and several others, I give this film a10 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Awesome Movie, worth a look.","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  What a great movie, what can I say. I've owned a Nintendo console all my life, and thus grown up the fat plumber since I was knee-high to a grass hopper, So I might be inclined to be biased here. While defeating the games was sometimes a challenge in it's own, I always played. After my parents bought me the movie back in '94, I watched over and over, and still do. Let's get to the specifics... All movies based on games usually won't work out (Tomb Raider was for the breasts, Final Fantasy for it's diverting story line), but yet this is no different. Sure, it's based quite loosely on the game, but it still manages to stay true to the popular video game. Without spoilers, it does contain Luigi, Mario's great brother. The comedy relief of at least some jokes show the game as a p**s-take of real life. They're in a real ditch with their business, their truck starts having problems, yet Luigi manages to meet a really nice girl. Through all this he falls in love and it becomes more of a 'Luigi saves the day' sort of thing, where Mario fails, Luigi picks it all up. The movie is great, awesome special effects for the era (sure, it was no Star Wars or Terminator, but it wasn't a multi-million dollar production either). The Movie is awesome and worth a peek. It's kind of a leave your brains at the door movie, but it's worth watching. "},{"Title":"I don't understand why so many people don't like this film!","Date":"9 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Why does this film have such a low rating?  Sure it may not be along the storylines of the Super Mario Bros. game for the NES back in '85, but in my opinion, it has to be one of the best films I have ever seen.  Some noticeable changes are in this film, such as that the princess' name is Daisy, and she's being held in a tower instead of a castle.  There's plenty of fungus and mushrooms around, but I think that the storyline is actually improved from the game, because if it were exactly like the game, it would be just running round, bashing blocks, grabbing coins and eating mushrooms all the way, which would eventually just become boring.  This film has variety, like in a real world, there are phone boxes, houses, restaurants, and much more than just pipes, flags and castles.  It just also happens that my favourite actor, Bob Hoskins, has the main role as Mario, which makes this film more appealing and exciting.  There are also things from the Mario games in the film such as Bob-Ombs (licensed by Reebok, mysteriously), and Goomba Shoes that are powered by Bullet Bills.  So to top it off, this has to be one of the best films ever made, and one of my all-time favourites. "},{"Title":"Believe it or not, I liked it.","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"   Ok, it bears almost NO resemblance to the game, but that can be good. Like hearing bleeps and bloops for 90 minutes can be kinda nerve wracking. (O_o) That was one of the main reasons some hated it... I must say GET OVER IT! NO movie based on a game is EVER accurate. Then again, it would be kinda different having a short, plumb guy dressed in overalls and a tall, skinny  guy dressed in green running around in dungeons and castles the whole time. I mean it would be a good idea for a cartoon movie, but live action? Uh uh. No way. It was good to improvise for a live action film. 8/10 "},{"Title":"The Mario Boys Are Back!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"11 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The Mario Boys are back, baby. Wow, this is an amazing film. I consider myself a connoisseur of terrible yet entertaining movies. This film definitely fits into that category. If you like fungus or an actual fan of the Mario Brothers there is no way around enjoying this film. It is a classic. "}{"Title":"Not as bad as some say!","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I actually enjoyed this movie, despite the terrible reviews and the terrible user ratings. Its plot is fair, it's effects are great, even for now, and the acting, although certainly not brilliant, is fair enough to work with the plot. I'd give it a 7/10. "},{"Title":"Eeew Gross","Date":"26 September 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Any movie that focuses as much on fungus, mushrooms and genetically altered lizard men as much as this one does has problems. Real unwholesome both morally and visually. The design of the characters and their motivations is a nightmare. It's like that movie The Pickle , a movie about making a movie where a giant pickle crashes among trendy people come to life. The whole thing is joyless and ethically bankrupt. I mean, who laughs when a person gets turned into an animal. That is not funny. It's also one of those dark movies. It's like they could not afford many lights and they shot all their locations on overcast days. The only real reason to see it is Samantha Mathis. Boy do I like her. Watch Broken Arrow too. Pluses Nothing like the video game, Princess Daisy, Bob Hoskins mastery of all accents known to man Minuses Two expressions for Goomba headsopen mouth and closed mouth, nasty villains, nasty sets, this movie is for the most part kind of like something dried and sticky and hard you find underneath your movie seat. It could just be gum but then again it could be- Eeewwww.p.s. if you think I have a problem with fungus you should hear what I have to say against Carnosaur. Dinosaurs that come from chickens. That's just wrong. "},{"Title":"What a piece of crap","Date":"31 December 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie was so awful, It look nothing like the game, the movie look retarded, and I notice one of actors said he hated the movie, and I agree with that actor, I really hate this movie, this movie should deserve a 0.0, because this movie really sucks.Here are some reasons on why I hate this movie 1. There are no Koopas, and Koopas are turtles, not humans. 2. There are no Toads, well there is one Toad in the movie, but he's not part mushroom, because Toads in the Mario game are little humans that have mushroom heads. 3. There is no Princess Toadstool, I'm like what the hell? 4. There are no castles, why in the hell did they pick a city in America? Because the director knows nothing about the game. 5. The Mario brothers are not from Brooklyn, New York, they're from Italy, because they are Italian. 6. There are no goompas, goompas are evil mushrooms that walk, and they're pretty stupid. 7. NO BOWSER!!! What!? X 8. The plot made no sense 9. The movie has a stupid script 10. I know Yoshi is a dinosaur, but Yoshi doesn't look like T-rex, In the game he's a T-rex mixed with a Brontasaurous. 11. Mario doesn't ride on Yoshi, what the hell? 12. The bombs are too tiny, and also in the game the bombs don't have winders. 13. The actors that play in the movie that played the Mario brothers look nothing like them. and 14. There are no prize boxes.This movie sucked, don't watch it at all, I watch this movie and it sucked big time. "},{"Title":"Cheesy, corny, a film a KID will like","Date":"6 June 2009","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Super Mario Bros. was one of the first games I'd ever played, and when I heard there was a movie I nearly went crazy. I looked every time I stumbled upon a BlockBuster store, and there it was. The Mario movie, waiting there for me. Two hours later, I was amazed. Luckily I was just a child, for now I look back and realize what a bad movie it really was. No Bowser , no princess Toadstool, no guy with a mushroom on his head, and no budget. It surprised me that it had such a low gross, but now I am not. Mario Mario and Luigi Mario, two plumbers sent to another dimension to stop a guy named King Koopa who ended up being nothing like the games. Quite off from them, a Mario fan will love it and the rest of us will hate. "},{"Title":"If a format works, don't change it.","Date":"11 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Okay, even though they got some great actors to be in this train wreck, that can't save it. A great cast can't do much without great material and they had nothing to work with. Why, do you ask? Being a fan of the video game series I happen to know something. Releasing a movie on a video game during the hight of it's popularity is a good idea, changing practically everything in said game is a real bad and stupid idea. Let's go through the list of what they did wrong, shall we? The Mushroom Kingdom isn't a major metropolis it's a fantasy world. King Koopa, or Bowswer which is his first name Bowswer Koopa is not a human nor a T-Rex, he is a prehistoric turtle. Shell on his back and everything. The Princess is not named Daisy it's either Peach or Toadstool. Goombas are mushroom monsters and Koopa Troopas are turtles. The mushroom makes Mario bigger and fire flowers give him the power to fire flowers. Now here's a biggie, Mario and Luigi are not that far apart in age. They both have mustaches and Princess Peach loves Mario! Man, I hate producers that think a fantasy needs to be more realistic when people fell in love with it the way it was. I'm sorry but I am going to have to give this movie the NOOSE! "},{"Title":"Game Over","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Super Mario Bros. (1993) Review Well, the mind of the young really astounds me. I remember seeing this and really looking forward to it. I barely remember it from then till I saw this again just recently and now I know why I forgot about this....Super Mario Bros. is a live action take on the classic duo. What's wrong is highly evident right away. The video games were given a sense of pure style and beauty. The mushroom kingdom was a magical place with coins, bricks, power mushrooms, and is full of life and colors. Here, the kingdom is a desolate, ugly, and depressing modern day hellhole.Also, Bowser was not a turtle. He was the king of all Koopas. Where did this descendant from dinosaurs come from? Poor Dennis hopper. They did mention princess Daisy witch was a surprise considering Daisy was not very well known in the games at this time. Mario and Luigi are BROTHERS. Hoskins was well casted as Mario, but Leguizamo looks NOTHING like Luigi. How can we believe that these two are related? The only thing here that is close to the games is the Bo-Bomb.No mushroom powers, no fire flowers, no coins and worse yet, no plot. This was the first offering of what helped usher in a swarm of awful video game movies.(The first Mortal Kombat aside) The Last Word Play the games instead. "},{"Title":"Funny on a guilty pleasure level, but hardly worthy of its source material.","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" As a longtime Nintendo junkie I have to admit that the SUPER MARIO BROS. video game series is a legendary franchise. It was this platformer involving two plumbers rescuing a princess from an army of monstrous turtles (the Koopa Troopas) that single-handedly saved the video game market in 1985. The game proved popular enough to spawn multiple sequels and even a cartoon TV series (which, admittingly, is pretty dated and formulaic, but it did do a respectable job recreating the feel of the series). Given the successful reputation of SUPER MARIO BROS. as a game series, it doesn't seem surprising that a theatrical feature would be attempted. That film version premiered in the summer of 1993, and I was among those who were eager to see it.Unfortunately, the movie turned out to be a major box office disaster and was trashed in almost every newspaper. As a matter of fact, it started the whole videogames don't make good movies craze. I hope that this argument can be proved wrong, but SUPER MARIO BROS. probably will not be a likely candidate to challenge this accusation.This movie gets so many things wrong it's almost a miracle that I can write anything nice about it. With the exception of the characters' names and a few throwaway references, SUPER MARIO BROS., the movie has absolutely nothing in common with the video game series it's based on. The production completely eschews the lighthearted, colorful atmosphere of the Mushroom Kingdom and instead slaps on a dark, fungus-covered metropolis inhabited by dinosaurs evolved (yes, I said EVOLVED) into human beings. (One figures the scriptwriters mixed up SUPER MARIO WORLD--the only game in the series to set in a dinosaur-populated environment--as the ideal atmosphere for the MARIO franchise in general.) Instead of power-up mushrooms, fireflowers, and goombas, we get a human cast of villains acting (and looking) bizarre (even the chief villain, King Koopa is disturbingly portrayed as a human), raptors, exploding flameguns, and some totally ridiculous concept called de-evolution. The nasty goombas are transformed from puny mushroom baddies into hulking lizards, and Yoshi, the beloved dinosaur sidekick of Mario, becomes a cuddly but woefully fake-looking baby T-Rex (and get this--he's Koopa's pet!). The whole atmosphere of this Dinohatten is too weird, chaotic, and cold to be engaging.This may sound bad enough, but the movie's biggest mistake is its failure to provide anything in the way of a coherent (or compelling) narrative. The plot is a jumbled mishmash about meteorites, alternate universes, and fungus that spends too much time indulging in its own stupidity rather than offering some intelligence. The movie's action sequences should provide spark and energy, but here they come across as strangely pointless and uninvolving. Despite the clamor occurring in the scenes, the viewer feels a strange sense of detachment to the whole thing. This makes the movie as a whole a major chore to sit through, as if there aren't any duller moments to bore viewers to death (such as a slow, inactive sequence where Mario and Luigi escape from a goomba-infested elevator). Matters are not helped by the ridiculously cheesy special effects, which are so fake that they come across as laughable.Even the aural aspects of the movie are displeasing; the soundtrack starts out promisingly with an electronic-sounding ditty of the classic MARIO BROS. theme, but aside from that, we got a fully-orchestral score (from Alan Silvestri) which is distressingly un-MARIO like. The same is true for the throwaway rock-and-roll songs, which were obviously slapped on for commercial reasons. The overabundance of screaming and overloud sound mixing is tempting enough to make one turn the volume down.Yet as problematic as the final result is, I do have something of a strange attraction to SUPER MARIO BROS. the movie. I admit to being crazy about the film when I was younger, even when all the critics were tearing it to pieces, and to this day I still wonder why I enjoy watching it every now and then. Perhaps because it's such a sorely misguided, warped, unimaginative mess that it ends up being a flick that can be fun to laugh at.To its benefit, however, SUPER MARIO BROS. does support a high-quality cast--which is quite surprising given that this is hardly the kind of movie that demands one. Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo work chemistry as the brothers, even if they are nothing like their video game counterparts, and Samantha Mathis holds her own ground as the pretty Princess Daisy. Dennis Hopper's portrayal of King Koopa, on the other hand, is disappointingly uncharismatic and spends more time chewing the scenery than creating a character worth rooting against; Fiona Shaw is more effective as his dastardly secretary. All seem to take on their jobs with a good-natured attitude and do what they can with the mumbo-jumbo material.But even that isn't enough to qualify a good recommendation for SUPER MARIO BROS. as a movie. It's too unfaithful a recreation for MARIO fans, too noisy even for action-buffs, and too preposterous to reach a smart audience. If there's anything that I can say about this movie, it could be that it is a guilty-pleasure time killer that evokes plenty of laughs. So if you want to sit through a convoluted, incomprehensible action-flick that blatantly disregards its source material, then this is the movie for you. Otherwise, SUPER MARIO BROS. is not an example of great film-making, much less adapting a video game into a movie. "},{"Title":"A very dark version of the light-hearted series.","Date":"26 December 2003","Score":"15 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Okay, I'll avoid everyone's usual comments of why they hated this movie and such.  My main gripe with this awful film is one reason  the setting.  In all Mario games, from Super Mario Bros. to Mario 64 to Mario Sunshine to Mario Party to Mario Tennis to Mario Golf to Mario Kart to Mario RPG to Super Mario World, and even in the 3 cartoon shows and in Smash Bros. I might add, the settings have always been happy, light-hearted, and made the person playing feel welcome to world of the Mushroom Kingdom.  However, in the motion picture, we are taken to a very cold, hi-tech, dismal metropolis.  Instead of a light-hearted, happy-go-lucky, feeling, we are now facing a dark and even depressing tone.  Nothing of this setting makes the viewer feel welcome to the world like the games and cartoons did, which is why this fails to capture the real spirit of Mario(and Luigi). "},{"Title":"Just about everything a video game-based film shouldn't be","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Since his debut on the classic Donkey Kong Arcade in the early 80s, Mario has become been the official mascot of the company Nintendo, and shines as a major cultural icon to the video game industry. Appearing in over hundreds of video games, this Italian plumber has been made a worldwide phenomenon and has contributed to being the biggest video game legacy. He is recognized as the small plumber known venturing through magical worlds in search for a princess named Peach who is often kidnapped by an evil reptile named Bowser, while avoiding obstacles such as creatures ranging from Koopas Troopas, Goombas, hammer bros, probably too many to name at the top of my head, as well as making several appearances as a kart racer. He's also made some appearances in a few cartoon shows. But how would this character turn out in a live action film adaption? This question seeks answer from directors Annabel Jankel and Rocky Morton in this astoundingly ill-fated that puts the iconic characters in the light of cinematic waste. Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo take the roles of Mario and Luigi, the two iconic brothers who run a plumbing business in the city of Brooklyn. One day, their world is turned upside when they meet the beautiful blonde Daisy (played by Samantha Mathis) -- not Peach, who Luigi falls in love with, only for her to be kidnapped two fledging criminals Iggy and Spike (played by Fisher Stevens and Richard Edson) led by the evil King Koopa (played by Dennis Hopper) of a futuristic world that is apparently supposed to the Mushroom Kingdom. Pulled into this mysterious parallel universe, Mario and Luigi must rescue Daisy and stop Bowser from his devious plan to merge his world with ours and take over the universe. What results from this film adaption is a cheesy, sloppy, poorly acted video game-based adventure that sprawls through just about every element that makes video game-based an hour and half of total disappointment. And this all begins from the opening scene showing an utterly pointless backstory of the asteroid impact that led to the mass extinction of dinosaurs. Soon, when we are introduced to the Mario brothers who work as plumbers for living and encounter Daisy who serves as a prominent character of the plot, despite being a little known character in the game series while popularly known Princess Peach is left strangely out of the picture. Daisy forms a relationship with Luigi in a chemistry that quickly flies off a laughable, particularly judging by the awkward dialogue between the two. Why Daisy is assuming the damsel in distress over Peach is anyone's guess. Before long, the plot kicks off to Mario and Luigi entering an odd futuristic city that bears no resemblance to the Mushroom Kingdom, and thats when we meet the antagonist King Koopa who is portrayed by Dennis Hopper sporting a tuxedo with fake spiky hair instead of the scary, fire breathing reptile we know him for. The worse comes when he meet the Goombas, a band of tall, creepy green-head aliens with broad shoulders and grungy smiles rather than the mushroom-shaped little critters shown in the games, definitely too tall for Mario to jump on. Then throughout the rest of the story, the film spends time lazily shoehorning vague references to the game and adding very small resemblance to the source material.Our main characters Mario and Luigi definitely mark the low points of the careers of both Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo. These two both give off performances that are simply too cheesy and laughable to bear. The chemistry between these two is only half-enjoyable and by the end, they simply don't mesh. The rest of the cast don't serve much justice either, particularly Dennis Hopper who delivers a horrendous portrayal of the main villain viewers already have a difficult time taking seriously. The biggest redeeming qualities they bring may be the occasional laugh-out humor that comes in very few scenes, but it's certainly not enough to bear how poorly written and developed their characters are. The primary excitement viewers can garner maybe the some the action scenes featuring some passable special effects. By then, the fun is short-lived. The plot certainly isn't fun, especially considering the inconsistencies that fall so frequently it leaves viewers questioning if they are even watching a Mario movie anymore. Super Mario Bros is huge cinematic mess of a movie based on a video game that shows just about every aspect a video game-based picture shouldn't be. Whether it's from the lazy acting, writing, plot development, or the overall shortage of faith to the widely popular source material; this movie is a massive disappointment. The Mario franchise are the type of video games that just too cartoonish to be emulated in a live action realm and therefore should be kept in video game format. "},{"Title":"A  Complete Waste of Time and Resources","Date":"23 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is truly awful. As a b-movie fan, I'm willing to try movies that were savaged by reviewers. However, this movie is really torturous in nature. Video game movies are almost always terrible (as are video games based on movies) however, this is the worst kind of terrible. It's not so bad that it's unintentionally funny, if you're looking for that, the first Street Fighter Movie is a blast by the way. I digress though, the best way to describe this movie is boring. This movie is incredibly boring. Mario and Luigi have to save the princess, better get going right? Wrong, it takes them almost half the movie to even GET to the Mushroom Kingdom. Do they shoot fire or jump really high? No, no they really don't, not for most of the movie. I understand that Mario is hard to adapt to live action, however this adaptation is worthy of a participation trophy and not much else. The goombas look like forwards in the National Basketball Association for crying out loud! This movie is such a departure from the games that it's not even worth it. I'm fine with the concept of evolution, however it's not discussed very much in the games at all, and it's all over the movie. As a matter of fact, this movie kind of plays like if the government borrowed the Mario universe to teach kids about evolution in one of those public education videos. It is about as entertaining as the bad educational videos that I watched as a teenager in high school. If you do watch this film, only watch it once, getting through one screening is difficult enough for this movie. "}{"Title":"Disgrace to the video games and Nintendo should be ashamed for letting this THING get released","Date":"12 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Another movie that popped up into my brain that I decided to critique, since I've finally gotten around to movie reviews, is the Super Mario Bros. movie. I have childhood memories of playing the video games and I just found out a couple of years ago that a movie was actually released based off of the video games. I watched the film and it sucked. Let me tell you why.The plot of this is sort of like the Super Mario Bros. games. It follows the basic premise of the games where there are 2 Italian plumbers and they need to go rescue a princess, but the movie does this sort of plot in a different way to what the video games did it. In the video games it had Mario jumping on goombas, parakoppers and all sorts of enemies. In the film it has stuff like the brothers being sent to jail, Mario biting a woman's chest (and yes that actually happens in the film) and instead of a huge reptilian creature capturing the princess, we have Dennis Hopper in a business suit who repeatedly says he's a lizard sort of descendant capturing descendant. So yeah the plot doesn't exactly follow the game entirely but at least it got the basic premise correct, sort of.The main problem I have with this film is that it has little to nothing to do with Super Mario Bros. The only thing it has to do with the Super Mario Bros. is that the characters have the same names as the video game characters. If you decided to change the name of the characters, it could easily pass off as a completely different movie than the Super Mario Bros. Even the actors don't look much like the video game characters and I also have a few issues with the casting choices. Bob Hoskins is playing Mario and I'm going to say that he is probably the only actor that looks sort of like the video game counterpart he was meant to be. John Leguizamo is playing Luigi. OK there are a few problems I have with Leguizamo playing Luigi. One, Bob Hoskins is a British actor so I think it should have been common sense to get another British actor and not a Latino. Two, he doesn't have a moustache. You can't deny the Mario brothers' moustaches are a pretty prominent feature and Leguizamo doesn't have one. There is also Dennis Hopper who plays koopa. I know that in the 90s Dennis Hopper was the prominent actor to get if you want a villain in the movie, but could they at least make him look like koopa? He's still a human. Last I checked, koopa was a great big huge dinosaur esque reptilian creature, not a human businessman. They don't even get the female lead correct. You know how in the games that princess peach is the female lead in the games? Well she isn't in this one as she is replaced by Princess Daisy, from the super Mario land games on game boy.If casting is bad that's one thing how is the acting. A lot of people seem to criticise the acting in Super Mario Bros. but I'm going to make an exception for one actor and that's Bob Hoskins. He is great, even if he possibly wasn't a good cast choice he still put on a relatively good performance. Everyone else gives off bad acting and every scene feels like they're awkwardly trudging through the bad writing.One thing that I will say I like in the movie is the effects. Some of the effects that were used in this still hold up well today.The cinematography is also a thing that I like about this film but I also dislike it. Let me explain. It's good cinematography, but it's not fitting for the film. I love looking at this dark world that's in this film but the whole idea of the settings in super Mario Bros. was that their worlds were bright, colourful and happy. This setting seems to have had a more dark setting to it. So for cinematography in general, it's great but for the tale it's trying to tell, it's bad.Music for this film is bland, boring and unimaginative. The only thing that I remember sticking out in the music department is the video game theme at the opening. Everything else is just dull, boring, unimaginative and forgettable.The main thing that goes wrong for this movie is that it doesn't follow it's source material that well. As well as that nearly everything else falls flat. The plot has this dark tone that kids might not really enjoy, especially to the ones that have played the video games and are used to the happy tones set by the games. The cinematography while good, isn't fitting to what sort of tale they're telling. The tone is really unnecessarily dark. The musical score is boring and forgettable. The acting given off from all of the actors is bad, with the exception of Bob Hoskins. Stay clear. "},{"Title":"it's hard to deny that the film is so bizarre, it was primed for cult status from the get-go.","Date":"28 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" it's hard to deny that the film is so bizarre, it was primed for cult status from the get-go. The new Blu-ray is one of the best releases from 2014 by Second sight, featuring a stunning new transfer (better than a depressing number of all- time classics), and a hugely enjoyable new making-of documentary. Fans in the US may be disappointed the disc is locked to Region B, but anyone with a compatible player who enjoys the movie should not hesitate to pick up a copy. Highly recommended.Rocky Morton and Annabelle Jankel's Dinohattan doesn't stray too far from dystopias like Blade Runner (in fact, production designer David L. Snyder worked on both films), but there's something infectious about seeing filmmakers allowed to reinvent source material with such wild abandon. The Goombas are no longer mushrooms but gigantic lizard men decked out in burgundy war regalia. Snyder embraces the industrial look of the film's real-life shooting locale with metal walkways, dangling power cords, and neon lighting curling around gray concrete pillars. Even the Koopahari desert is filled with strange, anonymous men in hazmat-style suits driving sludge tankers filled with garbage bags. All of these settings are also draped in the fungus, a string-cheese-like substance that occasionally offers power-ups to the heroes, including the iconic Bob-omb. A fun score by Alan Silvestri adds another layer of cohesion. The Super Mario Bros. movie is a good adaptation of the video game, it has a darker grittier slant than the game which.works better, good movie, it's certainly a memorable one, an ambitious failure that's far more inventive and interesting than 10 more faithful failed video game adaptation. "},{"Title":"A Fun, Clever Adventure","Date":"12 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Let me lay this out for you. I hadn't seen this movie in a while (years), found myself its IMDb page through the interwebs, started reading reviews of it and thought this can't be that bad! So promptly set to watch it online and it was easy to find. I don't regret an instant of it; I liked this movie more now as an adult than I did when I was a kid. Here's whyIt's like one of these marvel movies that have been coming out recently it's kind of cross between an adult's take and a children's take on a popular character. (Some other reviewer, or the trivia? had mentioned it) It's right in the middle. And the writing is great. Each scene flows logically to the next, and there's not much that's superfluous. Again it's got the fun of a children's movie mixed with the subtlety of an adult's movie. My greatest concern is why the Brooklyn girls aren't freaking out that they're in a parallel dimension. Sure when they find out Daisy is a princess they freak out, but not about the fact that they're in a PARALLEL DIMENSION. I mean if you really pay attention to the movie and get into it, just the visual aspects of this dystopian universe are worth it. You got smoke and sparks and wires and stretchy goo, people fighting, cars flipping, sheer madness. You've got the goofball pair of bad guys. You got dancing. You've got a romance between Luigi and Daisy that movies 3x as fast as Romeo and Juliet. You've got Mario knowing everything there is to know about pipes, including when to sled down them on a raft. You've got Yoshi, and at first you're disappointed, but then he turns out to be really cool. Did I mention King Koopa shooting flames out of a suspended bucket of coal? (Think Bowser in Super Mario World, and pay attention).A lot of people come away from the movie saying that was not a Mario movie, and can't come up with reasons why, except that it wasn't like the video game. I mean, crap; YOU try to write a script for Mario and make it compelling. Honestly there's not a lot to work with! Think about it. You got a guy and a kidnapped princess and an evil monster. Go write! But as much as the making of this of this film apparently sucked, I think they did a great job with what materials they had. tl;dr This movie is fun and actually clever, and I hope you watch it with an open mind! "},{"Title":"It's not bad but it's definitely not like the games...","Date":"9 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" From seeing this movie, I actually didn't mean it to be honest because it really did make me enjoy the rest of the film. The problem is really it is not like the games.Here's the changes I would like to make if I ever was involved in a film like this *Change the plumber outfits *Have Luigi grow a mustache as well *Give the plumbers superpowers *Change the music soundtrack to the original game themes *Not have Mario older and getting a girlfriend who is not princess peach *Include Yoshi more *Add better villains including the goons and the bossI have to say, it wasn't a bad film but it would've been better if it was based off the video game. It would've been better for fans to think anybody could've made a great movie but unfortunately it did go downhill! "},{"Title":"Go goomba!","Date":"13 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I watched 'Super Mario Bros' in the cinema back in 1993. I enjoyed it. Today, I still watch it from time to time on DVD and I still enjoy it. I guess I'm one of those select few who just didn't get the hate this film got.Maybe it was because, although I played a lot of video games during the eighties and nineties, I was rubbish at ALL Super Mario Bros games (and my cousin was annoyingly fantastic at them). So, perhaps I was unaware of all the hype and expectations this 'game to film' adaptation had attached to it.It's a family adventure film. Basically, there's an alternate dimension where dinosaurs evolved into humans instead of the monkeys who did over here. There, the evil dictator 'Koopa' wants to merge the two worlds and basically rule them both. Luckily, plucky New York plumbers Mario and his bother Luigi travel there to stop him. So, expect car chases, futuristic worlds and a few lasers and funky bazooka-like guns thrown into the mix.Yes, it's hardly a classic. Everything it spoon-fed to us on a plate. You won't need to exercise much brainpower to really understand what's happening here. Every scene tells us something we need to know and everyone speaks as if they're explaining the entire theory of the universe at all times.I thought it was good &#x96; just a light-hearted family, sci-fi adventure romp. But then I'm in the minority. If you've never seen it then you should be aware that 99% of people HATED it. It's largely one of the biggest cinematic flops ever. I guess it's because Super Mario Bros had such a large following that everyone of its fans had their own idea about what they wanted to see from the live-action film and they didn't get anything near. The computer Mario world is cute and colourful. The filmic version is a dark, depressing dystopia-future more akin to Bladerunner.When I watched it last, I guess one scene can sum up its failings (and not just the slightly dodgy 'goombas' masks which are blatantly just small masks stuck on tall men's bodies). It's a nightclub scene where the clientele are dressed in what I would describe as 'fetishwear' (complete with gimp masks). I guess the BDSM scene was not what most cinema goers were expecting from source material where mushrooms waddle about the screen and coins bounce up from floating blocks in the air. "},{"Title":"A messy mess","Date":"24 November 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" You know what you're getting into immediately when the first title card reads 'Brooklyn 65 million years ago.' Bob Hoskins, who hated every moment filming this troubled production and despised the finished product even more, appears to be having a good time on screen - which can probably be be chalked up to our two leads filming most of the film drunk. Mario isn't the most challenging of characters to play, but Hoskins brings enough charm to the roll. Husband and wife directing team Rocky Morton and Annabel Jankel murder suicided their careers with their reportedly abhorrent on set behavior and inability to run a production this size. Not that constant rewrites, dumbing already dumb material down, made it any easier on the two. This is one of those nightmare shoots where a misguided directing vision and an interfering studio collide and the result is a bloody mess. Why the directing duo would hire a large group of strippers for a sequence in their family film and not expect studio blowback, is one of many unanswerable questions that give this film its train wreck charm. Dennis Hopper, whose idea of quality control when choosing projects, is a check that can be cashed, even chose this as his most regrettable role. I can only imagine how badly this husband and wife team rubbed everyone, since plenty of films turn out poorly and while the actors may dismiss the final product, they don't regret the experience. Everyone involved at some point has expressed regret for stepping foot on set. The story is mostly incoherent and rewritten to death. While the simplistic story arc of rescuing the princess and defeating the villain plays out predictably, on a scene to scene basis barely anything makes a lick of sense - so there is some bizarre value in watching twisted art direction and decent puppeteering effects crash head on into juvenile gags, plot machinations that were made up on the spot while filming and a film that doesn't know if it's for children or adults. Super Mario Bros is a strange relic whose toxic reputation is still strong today and while there's little merit in defending this mess, it's hardly one of the worst films in existence. "},{"Title":"I guess I know why people hate this movie","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" First of all, as a game Super Mario Bros. have an important part of our childhood. From now on that is the most selled game ever, even today that record hasn't been broken.I guess people hate this movie because of mentioning about 'evolution' too much. Creationist groups don't like that kind dialogs. Although these Mexican brothers speak funny, especially Mario, some scenes seem so spare. And the parallel universe containing dark streets looks like old school type.But the main reason is that; movie runs in an unexpected way! OK, there is princess, there is a final level monster, there are a lot of mushrooms, but the story we know doesn't exactly exist. As I mentioned above, the parallel universe is out of the concept, so seems weird.Personally, the actors/actress performances are cool, the visual effects aren't bad. Worth to watch I guess. "},{"Title":"Blade Runner Meets Beetlejuice The Ghostbusters of the '90s","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Blade Runner Meets Beetlejuice The Ghostbusters of the '90s Super Mario Bros. The Movie - Not Actually a Bad Movie! With a strong script, strong cast and strong company heritage in the field of CGI and video games based movie making, Super Mario Bros. was a surefire winner. All it required was a crack team of production crew and success was in the bag. This was assured by several legendary artists in the movie making industry with more-than impressive resumes. First off was production designer David L. Snyder - known for his work as art director for Ridley Scott's now-legendary film, Blade Runner.Snyder seemed to be the one of the only people in the end who focused heavily on game references, building the entire city of Dinohattan inside a disused cement factory complete with Hammer Bros Tattoos, the Boom Boom Bar, Wiggler beer etc. In fact his city designs ensured a striking sci-fi look that matched the dark and adult-themed sty-lings of the original script. There was also Alan Silvestri composing the music, most famous for his soundtrack to the epic Back To The Future trilogy, giving the film a massive boost in professional quality. If it was thought that Super Mario Bros would be a surefire flop, you wouldn't get artists of this calibre working on the movie.The plot sees Mario and Luigi drawn into an alternate universe created by the meteorite that killed the dinosaurs 65 million years ago. This meteor, we learn, formed a parallel Earth where a few dinosaurs survived and evolved into cold-blooded humanoids. Princess Daisy (Samantha Mathis) is one of their reptilian number, and she's been kidnapped by Iggy and Spike (Fisher Stevens and Richard Edson respectively), the underlings of the evil King Koopa (Dennis Hopper).Koopa, who rules over the dystopia city of Dinohattan, hopes to use Princess Daisy and her meteorite fragment necklace to fuse the two parallel dimensions together, and conquer the realm of humans. Needless to say, it's up to Mario and Luigi to head into the lizard dimension to stop him.The story's actually a bit more complicated than this, and there's all sorts of stuff in here about fungus and reptiles and resources. Really, though, the movie's more about spectacle than story, with directors Rocky Morton and Annabel Jankel (previously of Max Headroom and D.O.A fame) seemingly more interested in exploring the gigantic dark sets they had constructed in a disused cement factory in North Carolina.Here, lizard women push their eggs down the street in pushchairs, street vendors sell fried salamanders in bread rolls, and neon King Koopa propaganda posters glower down from skyscrapers. It looks less Mushroom Kingdom and more Blade Runner noir. "},{"Title":"Just Mario Bros, not super.","Date":"1 April 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I guess I had too much high hopes in this movie to resemble the video game to a T. The movie's story itself is almost like the video game, with plumbers Mario and Luigi (Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo) journeying to an alternate universe where evolved dinosaurs live. They find that they are the only hope to save the Earth from invasion, and to save Princess Daisy (Samantha Mathis) from King Koopa (Dennis Hopper). However, the characters, costumes, make-up and settings hardly resemble the game itself.I would have preferred this film to have more of the video game elements; in addition to the plot points of this movie, at least put in some question mark boxes with mushrooms or fire flowers coming out, and go down a few pipes. But, what you have is a pretty boring cliché save-the-princess and save-the-world movie with limited excitement. The acting is OK, though. Don't let the Super Mario Bros. video game melody at the beginning of the movie fool you. This flick is nothing close to having the video game elements. Some people enjoy the story itself minus the game elements, but I find that the story itself is still pretty cliché and unappealing.Grade D- "},{"Title":"Famous Video game turned movie doesn't quite hit it's mark","Date":"4 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The video game is legendary. Now the film I guess is one of the better video games to movie type. It's just a case of sitting back and enjoying the ride. The Mario brothers, Hoskins perfectly suited for the role as Mario as is John Leguizamo as his younger brother, Luigi, although their many years apart in age, are just your everyday plumbers, who unwittingly become embroiled in the popular video game, when Daisy, an archaeologist and new love interest of Leguizamo is taken by some accident prone bad dudes, one being the great Fisher Stevens of Short Circuit. From here it becomes a quest to find her, where we end up in a futuristic city, preferably the Bronx where we meet all kind of weird creatures, including the dorky, goombahs which are sort of cute, but look ridiculous, with their puny melon heads, but do steal some of the scenes. The movie is a lot of fun, but in my mind, I reckon it could of been much better. One can't overlook a certain mess to it, and a director team had worked on this. I loved Matthias, great actress, as Daisy, while Fiona Shaw made a solid feminine fatale, and of course, who else, playing the master villain with a lizard tongue, than, the late great Hopper. There are some stunts and Leguizamo, is funny too as is him and Mario's plumber garb. It's a shame the first twenty or so minutes in normalville went, as preferably I liked that part of the movie better. You'll have a lot of flashes of Total Recall in this too. Stay for the end credit song, Almost unreal, by Roxette. "}{"Title":"As a Mario fan, i don't hate it.","Date":"17 February 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Mario and Luigi must save both the world and Princess Daisy from the evil King Koopa who wants to take over the world.Let me first start off by saying that I've always been a fan of the Mario franchise. Mario Kart 64 (and DS), Mario Tennis, Super Smash bros (original, Melee, Brawl), Mario Party 1 and 2, Super Mario 64 (and DS), and the original Super Mario Bros were/are all fun and great games. When I first saw this movie, it was sometime in elementary school, possibly between 2nd and 5th grade (which would range from 1999-2003). When I was young, I wasn't into critiquing movies and TV shows, I would just watch them and enjoy them. I don't remember if I liked this one or not, but I got a chance to watch it again recently to see what I think of it after all these years and let me say this I don't hate it.Let me get some of the stuff I didn't like first the characters/script definitely could've been better. Some of the stuff they said, did, etc were either dumb or so dumb it was funny. I don't want to say the acting was horrible, maybe some of it wasn't that great, but for me it's hard to tell. I wish there were a few more fight scenes, like Mario and Luigi fighting off a group of Koopa's minions or something.I'm glad Yoshi was in the film, but why didn't he talk? At least he had his long tongue, though. While I was glad to see Mario and Luigi in their suits, I wish they put them on sooner. The plot about dinosaurs and merging dimensions didn't really sound so bad, but you would think there should've been a few more dinosaurs and references to the games. The part about the goombas having arms was interesting, but they could've tried to have them without arms like in the games. The way I see it, the filmmakers were just trying to make the film a little realistic with the goombas having arms and King Koopa and the others being human-like. I don't wanna say the failed at it, but they put some effort into it.Okay now for some things I liked (that's right, I said liked). Bob Hoskins, John Leguizamo, and Dennis Hopper are actors that I like, even though I've only seen Hoskins and Hopper in a couple movies. Dennis Hopper being the bad guy was actually an okay idea, since a year later he'll play the main bad guy in Speed. Leguizamo and Hoskins being the Mario bros wasn't such a bad idea and I can't really think of anyone else who could've portrayed them. They did decent Italian-American accents. I thought the romance between Luigi and Daisy was alright. It was kinda funny how nervous he was when he and she first met, but I don't blame him.The special effects weren't that bad, some of it did look kind of cheesy. The goomba make-up/effect was interesting and I liked King Koopa's hair. There were a few spots that I laughed at, because I actually thought they were humorous. It was cool seeing a few mushrooms here and there and seeing a bomb-ob. The music didn't sound too bad and it was nice hearing the actual theme in the beginning.Overall, with its pros and cons, I actually think Super Mario Brothers is kind of a fun movie. After much thought, I give this film a C-. One more thing I don't wanna bash the filmmakers for what they did to the movie, but if another group of filmmakers decides they want to remake/revamp the film, I hope they do better. "},{"Title":"A strain to say the least.","Date":"14 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I'll be honest. I didn't grow up playing Mario Bros., and I really only know the basics about it. But everything about this is confusing, and not in a way that's worth deciphering. Instead of talking about the stupid movie, I will talk about how weird it is to see some of these actors though. Dennis Hopper becomes the villain in Speed, Fiona Shaw is Aunt Petunia in Harry Potter, Fisher Stevens goes on to be the neighbor in Early Edition, and John Leguizamo grows up and becomes Sid in Ice Age. While I can't say that all those people went on to better things, at least they all have the worst one in common. Very little of this movie was enjoyable. (Although I do love the waltzing Goombas a lot. Like, a lot.) It's a sad attempt to cash in on the Mario Bros. franchise and it's better off not existing. "},{"Title":"Super Mario Maybe","Date":"23 March 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" OK, I'm going to admit that i loved this movie when i was a kid. It had some moments that made it stand out for me. Looking back at it now, from a 22 year old perspective, i knew that it wasn't a masterpiece. In my own damn opinion, it was the story itself that did it. It wasn't the Super Mario that i don't think anyone knew. Then again, applying that to a real world adaptation is kind of tricky. How is it possible for 2 plumbers from Brooklyn to save a damsel in distress in another land that is overrun by reptiles? Quite simple, an alternate dimension. Which makes sense!!!! The explanation of how it came about is unrealistic and stupid in general. Another downside was the fact that Koopa is human not a reptile. Anyway, I do say give this movie a chance. There is some dark elements but try to look beyond that and the bad aspects and look at the bright side of this movie. "},{"Title":"20 years on, and this is still fun","Date":"22 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Almost 20 years after a live action movie about Super Mario Bros. was made, it has underwent a certain kind of revisionism and is slowly viewed more favorably than before, since the sole fact that no producer or director (not even Spielberg) in that period managed to rally a whole movie crew to make a new Mario movie shows that this was a unique enterprise, one of a kind. Believe it or not, but today Mario Bros. has surpassed some praised blockbusters as of writing this, I found out that the Super Mario Bros. ranks at #3.504 by popularity on the movie meter here at IMDb, which makes it more popular than some 1993 blockbusters (Cliffhanger ranks only #3.813, The Pelican Brief only #3.629), more popular than some classics (Gigi ranks only #6.985, Mrs. Minniver is not even it the top 10.000 list) and even more popular than some recent movies that won the Academy Award for Best Picture, mind you (Ordinary People ranks only at #3.585, Driving Miss Daisy only at #4.833 and not even The Last Emperor managed to score higher than #3.852). If we look at some of the highest grossing movies in 1993, like Cliffhanger or In the Name of the Father, we can find out that their message boards here at IMDb are dead, while the board here at Mario Bros. is still alive and active. Obviously the Mario Bros. authors must have done at least something right when the people are still talking about the movie in 2012.The movie is fun even today, despite the not so favorably viewed step to show the Mario Bros. in an edgier, darker version where the heroes find themselves in some sort of a North Korea kind of world where everything was wasted in mismanagement and plundered just to suit the maniacal demands of king Koopa, whereas the cast in fantastic, from Bob Hoskins, through Dana Kaminski up to Dennis Hopper who seems to almost match his bad guy image from Blue Velvet, and the story has so many clever references to other movies (Koopa's line about loving mud because it is so clean and dirty at the same time is an obvious reference to a similar line about the desert said by the hero in Lawrence of Arabia) or simply spoofs some mainstream clichés, such as the constant bad language in some movies (Egg-sucker!). The de-evolution chamber is still one of the most fascinating bad guy inventions ever put on screen, even more inspiring than the dip from Who Framed Roger Rabbit, and if it was used in some horror movie it would have been probably praised as the scariest thing ever, you really get the idea what kind of a joint they are running.Even the detractors have to admit that the editing was top notch, the story flows smoothly and never drags for a second, that the score was spot on and that the set-design and costumes were perfect (nominated even for the Saturn Award). The long zoom in on Daisy in the castle in the fog still gives me the chills when I see it, while so many jokes seem to be lost on the grumpy viewers who tend to ignore them (Old Lady You know, boys, this is a really rough neighborhood. You really shouldn't be wandering around without a weapon. You got one? - Luigi ...No. - Old Lady ...All right...(brandishes a cattle-prod-like weapon) Get 'em up, suckers!). I really wish someone would publish all the deleted scenes. The only thing I don't really like are the first 3 minutes and the last 3 minutes of the movie, since they seem rushed, and the fact that Mario and Luigi should have worn their overalls from the start. Yet, if you watch the movie with an open mind, you will be surprised at how it can work and how every movie works that way if you give it a chance. "},{"Title":"Unique cast and very nice visuals, but lacks the plot from the video games","Date":"24 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is one of those films I enjoyed as a child when I bought it on video from Christmas of 2004, but looking back at the Mario video games I played, this movie is a mixed bag as a young adult.First, let me point out the strongest points. The visuals are very spectacular with tremendous special effects and the costume designs including Mario's and Luigi's were amazing and looked exactly like the ones from the video games. The Alan Silvestri music score is fabulous in a Mario-esque style and the action is amusing. The cast including Bob Hoskins, John Leguizimo, Samantha Manthis and Dennis Hopper were great and their performances were very unique.There ends the positives. Now for the negatives. This film has disregarded its source material from the video games. It lacks the Mushroom Kingdom setting along King Bowser's castle and Princess Daisy's castle and all we have is New York City. Aside from that, the story is bloated with flaws (instead of brothers, Mario and Luigi are father and son, King Koopa is a human instead of a monster and the goomba didn't look exactly like the ones from the video games. The only reliable part that wasn't flawed as Yoshi the creature. Although despite him being a green-less dinosaur, he doesn't speak so I guess it's OK) and soulless dialogue, especially in the parts with King Koopa including Where's my pizza?, Sir, your pizza's here. Not now. Looks like I win. and Monkey. Although, way more tolerable than other horrible video game adaptations like Street Fighter and Double Dragon, this is a very disappointing adaptation despite it having a cult following over the years and despite its failure at the box office. Had the directors themselves try to stay faithful to the video games, we would've had an astounding film other than a mediocre film.Rating 4.8/10 "},{"Title":"It wasn't THAT bad, but... (from the message board)","Date":"27 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It wasn't THAT bad, but...people were expecting this movie to follow the game, but were easily disappointed at the fact it didn't. i wasn't. as long as it's good, i'll watch it. this movie is only on the bottom 100 because the SMB game freaks were disappointed. another thing wrong with this movie was the special effects. never have i seen worse ones. they are even better in the back to the futures than in this one. maybe if the movie was done about 10 years later and if the production crew would actually play say, super mario world, super mario 64, and SMB legend of the 7 stars, then it would be more considerable.6.5 outta 10 "},{"Title":"Um...R U bored?","Date":"16 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If you are bored, this is an Ok film. I, being a Mario fan, liked how they integrated the weapons and characters into the movie. However, the plot just plain SUCKS! It has almost nothing to do with the REAL storyline and is too dark and dirty for young children. Slightly cheesy, yet funny. It's just OK.P.S. I prefer Bowser as a rotund reptile, not a middle-aged man with a bad hairdo. "},{"Title":"It wasnt that bad....","Date":"18 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It was not good, but didnt deserve to be in the bottom 100.Funny at moments, not as predictable as thought, and John Leguizamo atleast makes this movie worth a free rental or borrow it.......Watch it for some cheesy laughs..... "},{"Title":"A decent action/comedy that could have been better","Date":"28 May 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  *POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD*Nintendo's Mario franchise has been around scince 1985, and it has scince spawned 3 or 4 live action TV programs, 2 or 3 cartoon series,  this film, and about 600 Mario games (thats only a SLIGHT exaggeration.)I have seen many movies based on video games in my time, and they almost always change things, sometimes drastically (see Resident Evil) and sometimes just a pinch (see Lara CroftTomb Raider). Super Mario Bros.has a drastic storyline change and many other inconsistencies between it and the games.Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo play Mario Mario and Luigi Mario, two citizens of Brooklyn, New York who run an independent plumbing service. Soon Luigi meets Daisy, a beautiful young woman with a complicated past she herself is not aware of completely.The movie picks off from there, and Mario and Luigi are transported into a parallel dimension where the dinosaurs still thrive in human form. This is an intriging and original plot that derives from the game and goes into a different direction entirely.Dennis Hopper plays Koopa, a ruthless dictator who despises both his world and our world and wants to invade our dimension, eraticate the human species and let his people, the dinosaurs, once again rule the entire planet.Iggy and Spike are his moronic cousins who do his biddings for him, although like most idiotic villians in movies like this, they eventually betray their evil employer and become good guys.The film has subtle references to the Mario games, for instance there is a pub called Bullet Bills. Bullet Bills were bullet-shaped monsters in early Mario games.Koopa has an army of Goombas.Goombas were strange monsters in the games, but in this film they are reptilian creatures who de-evolved from dinosaur-humans Koopa considered insolent. The character Toad from the games is i the film, as is Yoshi who is an animatronic unevolved dinosaur with a wicked tongue.Yoshi is probably the most noticable game-to-movie placement.Iggy and Spike were also Mario game characters, they are both bosses from Super Mario World. Also, Mario use a wind-up bomb in the film that looks exactly like a monster from the games called a bomb-omb.Games aside, this is a somewhat cheesy action/comedy with a very original plotline and interesting characters. The film is fast-paced and even if you don't like the film you will find it hard to take your eyes off the screen. John Leguizamo just wasn't made for this part, he puts a blandness on his character that can't be ignored.Bob Hoskins is excellent as Mario, though, he makes a believable plumber from Brooklyn and has some humorous moments in the film.One last thing, though- Why in the world would two blood-born New Yorkers have italian names?    "},{"Title":"Game Over for Super Mario Bros.","Date":"8 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  As far as platform games go the Mario series will remain a favourite to me. I've been playing the games since I was 6 and I fell in love with it's wonderfully simplistic but simultaneously complex gameplay. But when it comes to film liscences, this was probably not the best name to pull out of the hat. The film, for all intents and purposes, is poor. And when I say poor I don't just mean Barbera Streisand poor. I mean, The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle gene-spliced with Celine Deon poor.The plot is so out of touch with the games it's unbelievable - does the writer not know that the Koopas were a race of magical turtles? Also, Princess Daisy was in the GameBoy Mario Land games and none of the mainstream Mario games. So why the smeg is she in it? And when you get right down to it, Bob Hoskins, despite his talent, is not the right person to play Mario.The games are great. The film, however, isn't. "}{"Title":"Oh brother...","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I was twelve when this thing was released, and being a major video game nut I was really looking forward to seeing it. I was a bit disappointed. Bob Hoskins was great, John Leguizamo was great, but the storyline and execution of the film left a great deal to be desired. Entertaining at points, completely lame at other points, overall definitely not the best film I've seen. But it's still not the worst I've seen. Rating 4/10 "},{"Title":"its okay,but they didn't try","Date":"7 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  this movie isn't quiet like the game they didn't try hard enough or put much effort in it. mario was great koopa was ok but he should,ve stayed as the monster form.daisy was great.but luigie wasn't like the charecter or toad and yoshi wasn't.they need like real villians like mushroom monsters and those hammer throwing things,shyguys and bullet spitting snakes.if they'll ever make mario 2 then it will be better. "},{"Title":"This is no movie!","Date":"13 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Bland Special effects. Bad script. Bad jokes. Not the choice of cast. Nothing to do with the game. No one looks like anybody. Bad Tagline. What movie does all this fall under? Super Mario Bros.! I can't believe I was stupid enough to actually BUY the VHS! It is so not funny, the effects look something from the 70's, no one or nothing is in the game, Bad chouce of cast, and that includes Dennis. He can't act. Don't fall for the movie just because it's a life version of the hit game. "},{"Title":"Those who don't get it, don't like it.","Date":"1 September 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The makers of this movie had two choices Explain the video game or relish in the unexplained.If they had taken the second option, the movie would have ended up like Street Fighter.  Entertaining, yes, but, Why the heck did that flash of light come from Ryu's hands?!They explained a lot of what happens in the video game, which desperatly needed to be done.  Myself, I'm more than willing to play a game, even if it doesn't make much sense.  However, watching this movie was a blast, because it explained a lot of things.Such asMario doesn't shoot fire from his mouth, his finger tips, or his pocket. It's a small flame thrower that throws balls of fire.You see a princess but no king because the king has been transformed into fungus.There are mushrooms everywhere, because this once beautiful kingdom has been transformed into something hideous... a mushroom kingdom.  A kingdom ridden with fungus of all types.  Some with strange, positive effects, and others that are deadly (play SMBAll Stars > Lost levels and eat a green mushroom... see what happens).All of the strange creatures that you fight are former citizens of this kingdom that have been devolutionized down to their present state.  Even the Princess' royal court was transformed into Mushroom / Human hybrids (Toad, etc.)The King Koopa, Bowser, is from a neighboring kingdom ridden with a race that is a descendent of dinosaurs.  This would explain Yoshi, and the strange pre-historic nature of some of the other enemies in the game (the hammer brothers, etc.).  He's attempting to conquer other kingdoms, and he somehow found a way to transform THIS kingdom into fungus.Mario and Luigi can jump to in-human heights because of special boots. He's wearing boots, people, just look at his feet!He's a plummer.  That's why he knows how to go into pipes and make that cool Bloop-bloop-bloop sound as he does it.  It's also how he manages to navigate the sewer system.That water that he swims in is sewage.  Yuck.--There are many more things that are explained with this movie.  It gives reason for the antagonist to be evil, and reason for Mario to find the princess.  It all makes sense, really.... and you gotta love Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo. "},{"Title":"Not worthy of an Oscar, but could it be more fun?","Date":"26 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I remember very clearly how I saw this movie. I didn't wan't to see it, not at all, but my older brother was obsessed with Mario video games, so as soon as he found the movie in the video store, he took it downstairs and watched it for, like, his 10th birthday party. For some reason, I ended up watching it as well. Now, I was probably around 7, so the slime bgugged me a bit, but I had so much fun watching this outrageous movie (and cute John Leguizamo as Luigi didn't hurt either, though I pay more attention to that when I watch it now.) The characters are great representations of those in the video game, and while maybe they could have done without the slime, this is Mario! Come on, the background of the game it is based on mirrors that of the movie. Denis h=Hopper is ssooo evil in this movie (but then, what movie is he not?), and Samantha Mathis delivers a performance of Princess Daisy that stays with the character, but also stands up for herself a little more. And how could you not love little Yoshi? Sure you can slam the movie's acting, effects, and maybe plotline, but its a fun, vivid movie you won't forget!So if you are looking for the perfect, Oscar winning, beautiful movie, don't look here. But if you want fun for the whole family and a movie that will make you cheer, look here!!! "},{"Title":"This is Sad","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie had a horrible storyline with a horrible cast What else can I say it was just plain old horrible.This movie is not even like the video game from Nintendo.This story does have Mario and Luigi but get this in the movie their not brothers or at least I don't think they was.Like I said it's not like the movie in this movie The Evil King Koopa is after a Meteorite piece that he can use to cross into a world that we live since he hates the world that he lives from there he can get rid of all of the mammals.Also since when did they had guns in Mario.I mean come on like that's the only thing that makes a movie good.Well they it didn't.I just have to say that I was so glad that this movie was not video game if it was Nintendo would be doomed.This movie gets * out of 5 Stars "},{"Title":"Oh hush you whiny babies","Date":"20 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Am I the only person that realizes this script was probably sitting around Hollywood for a while before someone decided to slap the Mario Brother name on it and get it made. The movie's a good movie. Not great, but good enough. A cheap flick to watch with your friends. The idea of a parallel universe that dinosaurs lived in is cool. You all would have liked this movie better had it not had the Mario Brothers name on it. "},{"Title":"What is this? Who wrote this? BRING ME THEIR HEAD!","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie absolutely SUCKS!!! I am a Big fan of Mario Brothers, Bob Hoskins, and Dennis Hopper....but they couldn't even save it. The only right casting job was Bob Hoksins as Mario which i will say is a good job, but the rest sinks really fast. Mario's true storyline is a fantasy of a quest. It takes place in a castle world of pipes, turtles, evil mushrooms (Goombas),Monsters, and a Gammera looking Dinosaur with a bad temer and a new meaning to dragon breath. If the moive had followed Mario and Lugi's exploits as if it were a Castle Epic it would have been better, not some industrial world BS where the dinos look like humans and the koopa troopers look like pin headed rejects from a Troma film.  Watch it for the exceptional acting by Bob Hoskins, but fast forward all the restP.S Stay away from Double Dragon also, its equally as bad, and same with Tomb Raider. "},{"Title":"Mario this ain't, but it's a good film.","Date":"23 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Great movie. I loved it. It isn't much like the games, but it's got great acting. A ton of fun for everyone. I think the improvements that they could've made was the movie should have been animated and a few more SMB-related stuff. But it's good for its limitations. 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"Basically the best movie ever made.","Date":"9 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This was such a great movie It was so awesome I love this movie. It was the Mario Brothers, two of the biggest names in Video Games. But this movie wasn't so childish looking like the game was it was dark and gothic which made it that much more awesome and they didn't have some stupid mushroom playing toad they had a cool guy (Mojo Nixon). And it delved into the past on how the dinosaurs are no longer here and what they eventually became. I give this movie two thumbs up waaaaaaaaaay up! "}{"Title":"As much fun as Communism.","Date":"17 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I remember the day this film was released, I was 13 and had only been as thrilled when I heard of the concept of Super Nintendo. Like any of the others of my generation, raised on years of the original game and it's two sequels, we realized one thing upon viewing this film... It was NOTHING like the video games. The goombas were tall lizard men, Koopa was a human running for some useless public office in another dimension and *gasp* Luigi had no mustache. The sting to this movie is the production crew did no research. (or very little then ignored it) Princess Daisy? Who the heck is princess Daisy? Mario fought Koopa the tyrant reptile (who he becomes by means of an evolution ray that is nothing more than a Super Nintendo, Super Scope gun) for the love of his life, Princess Toadstool. This was poorly written and produced even worse. One would assume the example here would be set for others to know what not to do, but lo and behold Street Fighter proves American studios are dumb. I take this quote and use it where it seems it would fit, This, much like communism, may have looked like a good idea on paper. I don't know who you were that said but it seems to apply here well. "},{"Title":"If you want the movie to be a supprised than please don't read this !","Date":"9 May 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is the weirdest movie ever. Wen i saw it on T.V. (BBC), I thought now i'm going to see koopa's, goomba's, Toad, Princess enz... But wen i saw the movie it was another world! Everybody was human and did not have the same look as in the games. I was mostly supprised about 2 things King Koopa (Bowser) was human and a dinosaur that looked like a raptor was called Yoshi. It's realy a movie for kids but if you like Super Mario than this movie will change your view of the super mario brothers forever!  "},{"Title":"Whoo!  A Sinfully Guilty Pleasure...","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" ...It may be due to the fact that I'm a hormone-driven, lust-filled adolescent girl inflated with desire for John Leguizamo, but... I (trying to force the words)... like... this... movie.Ah, there.  I said it, all right.  They have released me!  Even though the script is disgusting, rude, insipid and shallow, I just have to swoon whenever that Latin Lovah opens those lovely, narrow lips of his to speak. Let's say it together  He's just plain sizzin'.(PS.  Listen for the tacky violin music in the scene where Luigi leaves his Daisy.  It always seems to induce a giggle from me and my comrades.)  "},{"Title":"No middle ground here - either you get it or you don't.","Date":"20 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  The same thing happens with a lot of cult hits - mainstream viewers can't figure out what the appeal is, and why the loyal following adores its movie with such affection.Frankly, I think those of us who do get SMB, are quite lucky as this movie is packed with imagination and originality, and is often hilariously clever and charming and sweet (just like Joe Dante's masterwork Innerspace). It's a pop-culture smorgasbord on a caffeine high to PCP-LSD-ecstasy levels. Fairy tales, science fiction, buddy-action, theme parks, and more, all rolled together into a insane other-dimensional funfest.  But as with other unfortunately botched scifi-comedies of the past, you have to look past the studio's inept presentation of SMB, in order to perceive this magic.SMB is perhaps the greatest-ever exploration of 8-year-old boys' sense of just-for-fun make-believe.  You have to watch it in that spirit in order to understand how it's supposed to work. Like Star Wars and The Matrix, but with a campier college-anarchist sense of humor.  And even better, SMB is lavishly brought to us by the set designer of Blade Runner, with an ambient-FX soundtrack that really throttled the capacity of THX and Dolby Digital (in its youth).But most people never make this discovery, since SMB's clumsy directors did a REALLY lousy job (they definitely need to go to film school, perhaps even starting at kindergarten level since they're so incompetent), and Disney really massacred the marketing, trying to make this movie look like Total Recall when really it's more like Kidd Video.I admit that the action scenes are horrible... badly-staged by the directors, who make everything wayyy too slow and phoney, not at all as vibrantly bouncy and fast as the MTV audience would expect.  The tackily tacked-on final scene, is a disgustingly contrived attempt to give this movie a Back to the Future-type finish, even before progressing into credits marred by an awfully dull Roxette love song.  (NOTE to future morons... 8-year-old boys do not want to hear such rubbish).It also doesn't help that the videogame and the movie are so extremely different from each other - sharing names and concepts but nothing more. Most multiplex patrons avoided SMB for fear of garbage, thus only a few folks bothered, and among those few even fewer saw past the poor direction to experience SMB's numerous inner pleasures.It's obvious that producer Roland Joffe (The Mission, Killing Fields) was nervous about how to merge a Nintendo concept with mainstream audience story expectations.  And it's obvious that the script's brilliance failed the communications bridge to the studio and directors.  As a result, every collaborator seemed to have a different idea about how to approach this production, and only the background details survived the ensuing mess.SMB was released on Memorial Day (up against Cliffhanger) and was an instant flop, disappearing by the time 1993's other summer-dinosaur-evolution movie debuted weeks later.  For this and this alone, SMB quickly drew a stenchy reputation alongside such memorable disasters as Howard the Duck and Dick Tracy.Too bad, since this movie was perhaps the high-water-mark in the career of screenwriter Ed Solomon (Men in Black, Bill & Ted).  His other movies were clever, but no where nearly as packed-to-the-brim with pure imagination as this one.  SMB takes his previous originality and warps a billion times higher in a far greater realms of creativity.Sadly, SMB suffers from the same problem that plagued Buckaroo Banzai a decade earlier... both movies had brilliant complicated scripts that are sabotaged by bad directors and poor studio marketing.  Most viewers are thus unable to look past the incompetent presentation of SMB, in order to perceive the treasure within.Dennis Hopper delivers his sleaziest, funniest villain since Blue Velvet's Frank Booth (luxuriating in his penthouse's decadent mudbath, insulting with such lines as You FILTHY...mammal; also listen for his nitpicky pizza demands).  Richard Edsel is even funnier here than in Ferris Bueller. Perhaps the only mis-casting is the villainess - who's played by the same irritating British redhead who plagued 1993's Undercover Blues.The sense of humor is perfect both for youngsters and Monty Python fans... it's GROSS (the police car plunging out of the fungus-tunnel looks like a big booger dropping from a nostril), it's ABSURD (the villain is conquered by a little wind-up toy wearing miniature Reeboks), it's INTELLECTUAL (watch and listen for the many jabs at 20th century political ideology) and CLASSICAL (the Goombas have a fetish for the Dr. Zhivago love-theme).PS.  No, I was not smoking marijuana or mushrooms while watching this movie. It's so much fun, that a drug-induced trip could not possible compare.  I don't even believe in the theory of evolution, yet SMB's wacky evolutionary logic had me rolling in the aisles.  "},{"Title":"Terrible","Date":"28 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This film is terrible!  The movie made zero sence.  It is nothing like the game.  This film is also extremely new age.  Any Christian is going to find this movie insulting, and I liked films that were sord of new age like Star Wars and Star Trek.  I also liked the new versions of Godzilla and Inspector Gadget.  So this film is just plain bad. "},{"Title":"Hey they copied Alien from LA!","Date":"4 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  OK, I remember this movie when I was a kid. I hated it then because they got the video game all wrong. Goombas were mushroomen not dinosaurs, ect. It wasn't until later when I realized that it reminded me of another movie, Alien from LA on MST3K. The two movies are very similar. I still did not like it as a 13 year old kid, it had dinosaurs which makes almost any movie seem good for a kid, but there was still a much better movie at the time, with much better dinosaurs. "},{"Title":"I have fond memories of this movie","Date":"2 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I remember seeing this movie when I was eight, and I loved it. I was part of the Nintendo generation, and of course thought that everything Mario was gold. For a long time, this was my favorite movie. Of course, I grew up, and other films displaced it of its title. After all, it was a kiddie movie based on a video game. However, looking back on it, I'll have to admit It's not bad. Okay, so it wasn't Citizen Kane material; it had sort of a hackneyed storyline, and Leguizamo was about the last person I'd choose as Luigi, and the plot borrows heavily from Buckaroo Banzai (remember the scene where Buckaroo goes through solid rock into a dizzying CGI vortex?). It did have some clever dialogue, cool sets, neat music, and good performances by Hoskins, Hopper, and Mojo Nixon, playing the Dylan-esque protest singer. Definite cult potential, with the whole quirky feel (I still love the elevator scene), and the presence of Dennis Hopper. An interesting sidenote This film actually gave a friend of mine night terrors (sleep-walking in a visibly panicked state) every time he saw it. I'd give the film 6.5 to 7  stars out of ten. Not perfect, but likable enough. "},{"Title":"One of the most underrated movies I have ever seen","Date":"30 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  You've probably heard someone mention this movie. Probably remember hearing about it when it came out, and like most people out there you probably thought 'A movie based on a videogame? It's gotta suck'. I've heard so many people dump on this movie, a lot of them who haven't even seen it, and even more who could not give me a reason on why it sucked. This movie had great acting. Bob Hoskins as Mario, Dennis Hopper as King Koopa. C'mon, how can you lose with a couple of names like that? It was well written, especially when you consider what it was based on. A side scrolling 8-bit game with a very simple premise. Evil lizard king named Bowser kidnaps Princess. Mario or Luigi run right for 8 levels, beat Bowser, go to the next level. This movie took that basic idea and (with a lot of creative license on the part of the writers, one of wich was the game's creator) gave it a lot more depth. It was funny, original and I had a fun time watching it. The music was great(I was dissapointed to find the sountrack CD didn't have any of the score music) and it had a nice ending wich could have led to a just as fun sequel if the movie had gotten the support it well deserved. Believe me, I'm not the only person who's seen this movie that is very upset by this sad fact. I wouldn't say it's the greatest movie in the world or a classic, but it was a fun flick and I'd give it a good 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"Oh come on people !  Open your minds !!!","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"      Oh come on people !  Open your minds !!! The movie the great !!!  People are saying It doesn't follow the games. or It doesn't have a plot.  Umm... HELLO ?!!!  First of all, it DID have a plot.  What were they trying to do ?  They were trying to get the Princess back, and Koopa wanted that rock.  Well, if I'm not mistaken... THAT'S A PLOT !!!  DUH !!!      And as far as the games go, I thought it followed them nicely.  Bowser took the Princess, and Mario & Luigi had to go save her.  I mean, sure, they could have gone through several different castles and worlds, but that would've made the movie a repeat of the games.  In this movie, instead of giving us all that, they gave us something new.  Something we hadn't seen before.  And I respected that.      Plus, I thought all the actors played their roles perfectly.  I give this movie a 10 !!!  --Ross Edward Rogers "},{"Title":"John Leguizamo!","Date":"13 February 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If you can narrow it down to only one reason to watch this movie, then that one reason would be John Leguizamo! He is by far one of the best (if not THE best) comedic actors I have ever seen! This man can play anything! From Latino to Italian to Japanese, he has every accent worked down to a science! He can play the bizzare.(like a 4-foot-tall demonic Clown in Spawn) He can play the action.(a speacial operations soldier in Executive Desicion) He can play the dramatic. (when he became Tybalt in William Shakespear's Romeo & Juliet) And, as he does best, he can play the comedic.(as the cross dressing drag queen Chi Chi in To Wong Foo,Thanks for everything! Julie Newmar) Even if it is just to see him perform, it is WELL worth it to pay a mere 5 bucks to rent any one one of his movies!    "}{"Title":"You have to be high on mushrooms if you think this movie is good! Super Mario Bros is horrible.","Date":"28 September 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The first ever full-length, theatrical, live-action motion picture, based on a video game was game over, before it even began film production. Originally planned to be released in 1991, the movie was supposed be, a Disney animated film, but things change, when a number of hand drawn animation films, tank at the box office. Since, that medium was really expensive to produced, Cinergi Pictures, Hollywood Pictures and Allied Filmmakers chose to do, a family-friendly live action version, instead. What, they didn't plan was, the directors, and a team full of screenwriters to ignore, their request; choosing instead a more adult-like dystopia film, very similar to 1982 Blade Runner or 1981 Mad Max 2 the Road Warrior. This version of the film, inspired many of the big name actors to sign onto the project. However, the producers feared it wasn't kid-friendly enough, so they forced heavy re-writes and barred the directors from contributing to them. The script was being rewritten so many times during production that the actors stopped paying attention to these daily rewrites, and instead, frequently getting drunk to go through it, knowing that it would turn out bad. This trade-off made for a very loose-adapted film that had little to no connection to the games. Not only did, this anger the Nintendo fan-base, but it also cause the general audiences, not to bother seeing this badly made film. I know, that an attempt to make a coherent narrative movie out of a series of video games was not going to be an easy task. I also know, as the movie was being written, the Super Mario Bros. video game series didn't have much story or defined personalities for the characters outside of the various cartoon series or somewhat obscure comics, but come on!!! It shouldn't be, too hard, to make a story about two Italian plumbers killing turtles in the Mushroom Kingdom. After all, there were tons of good visual fantasy films, before this with less of a story. It shouldn't be, too hard to make this movie, somewhat appealing. Instead, the movie delivered, pretty ugly grit looking film. Directed by Rocky Morton & Annabel Jankel, the film tells the story of Mario Mario (Bob Hoskins) and his younger brother Luigi Mario (John Leguizamo). They are two Italian-American plumbers trying hard to earn a living in Brooklyn, NY. However, their lives are turned upside-down when Luigi's love-interest, Princess Daisy (Samantha Mathis) is kidnapped by the evil king Koopa (Dennis Hooper) and taken through a mysterious portal that lead to another dimension, where instead of apes, dinosaurs have evolve into humans. Can the Mario Brothers save the Princess or will Koopa get his way, and conquer not only the lizard world, but the human world, as well? Watch the movie to find out if you want to! Without spoiling the movie too much, I really have to say, that the movie really misused their artistic license, way too much. I really didn't like, any of the settlings or how any of the game characters, are portrayed. First off, what happen to the Mushroom Kingdom and Princess Toadstool? What is this Dinohattan BS!! How in the hell, did an asteroid create a different dimension by its impact and how did Dinosaurs turn into human-like creatures. It makes no sense. It's also really hard to believe that the asteroid that rendered the dinosaurs extinct hit New York City, when there is lot of evidence even in 1993, that suggests that the asteroid really struck what is now the Yucatan Peninsula. Also as much, as I love the Devo guns in this film; nobody devolved scientific right in this film. Humans weren't chimpanzees in the past. Goombas are not are seven-foot-tall reptilian humanoids with tiny heads. They are a species of sentient mushrooms. They should turn back into mushrooms, not dinosaurs! Also Big Bertha is a fish; how in the hell, did she turn into a spikey large black lady. I know that the computer-generated imagery and animatronic visual effects were still in their early primitive stage, but come on! At least, they could had done make up! Anthropomorphism creatures would make more sense, than just showing random normal human looking actor pretending to be creatures. The partial cheap animation, they used in the opening, was pretty awful. Not well-drawn. Maybe, I should be, glad they didn't do, the whole film in animation, after all. Unlike, other critics, I really didn't mind, the acting. Nearly everybody did alright, despite, not enjoying working on the film. Despite, for a large portion of the movie, Mario and Luigi trade color schemes, and the fact, that Luigi having no mustache. I still have mad props to both Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo because the movie harsh stunt works, pretty much nearly killed them. Bob Hoskins was stabbed four times, broke his fingers, electrocuted and nearly drowned. Leguizamo suffer a broken leg, during the car chase. The only actors, I can say, I hate from the film was Fiona Shaw's performance as Lena & Dana Kaminski as Daniella. Both were was really hammy and not needed. They should have used Wendy Koopa & Pauline from the games, instead. I doubt, it would save the movie. This movie Bob-omb at the box office. The film obviously left room for a sequel in the ending with the cliffhanger, but any plans for a sequel were all, but cancelled due to the bad reviews and sales for the movie. So, heads up on quite a few important plot threads being still left unresolved when watching. Overall I really don't recommended watching this film. In my opinion, it's not that watchable, even when I was a kid in the 1990s. Really, I have no nostalgia feelings for it. It's pure crap. This movie deserves to go down the drain. "},{"Title":"Awful, just awful","Date":"5 March 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" As a huge Mario fan, I love the Mario franchise, but this movie sucks. Let me explain what was wrong with this movie.1. It's a Mario movie. No, it doesn't look like Mario at all. How come, I will explain in the other reasons why I despise this movie below.2. There are no koopas. Koopas are turtles, not humans.3. No Toads. In the movie, the Toad is an entire mushroom. In the games, toads are little humans with mushroom heads on.4. WHERE THE HELL IS PRINCESS TOADSTOOL?! Princess Toadstool is in the games, but not in the movie? I mean, WTF?5. In the movie, there is no castle. There is just nothing but a city in America.6. The Mario brothers are from Italy because they're Italian, not from Brooklyn, New York. 7. There are no Goompas. Goompas are evil mushrooms that walk.8. Bowser is not in the movie. Like I said, it's Koopa. 9. The plot doesn't make any sense.10. In the games, Yoshi is a dinosaur. He's a T-rex mixed with a brontosaurus. In the movie, he is a T-rex that's it. No mixture. 11. Mario doesn't ride on Yoshi in the movie, WTF? 12. The bombs are too tiny in the movie. They also have winders, and they don't have these in the games.13. There are no prize boxes.14. No mushroom powers, no fire flowers, no coins.15. In the games, there are no cars, skyscrapers, or any obvious technology we enjoy today. In the movie, there are.So, yes, this movie is terrible. There is no single good thing about this dreadful movie, everything about it sucks. This movie ruined Mario (one of my favorite video game franchises)There wasn't any good thing about this movie. It was terrible from beginning to end. Super Mario Bros. (1993) is an awful movie, without any single redeeming value. Don't watch this movie, play the games and watch the cartoons. They are 1 million times better than this crappy movie.0/10 "},{"Title":"Yep, this happened.","Date":"18 February 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Super Mario Bros is one of the most recognisable franchises in the world. It reinvented video games and is one of two reasons (the other's Zelda) why Nintendo is the greatest video games company of them all. You cannot then understand why anyone thought this was a good idea. To make some cash? That's the only reason I can see why anyone decided to give this the go-ahead but it was a financial failure so that's at least some comeuppance for this monstrosity. AVOID!Oh the IMDb minimum line limit... Let's just say this There's a very good reason why no further Nintendo creations got filmed for the silver screen. "},{"Title":"Every Bit As Bad As People Say","Date":"28 September 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Mario Brothers rush to save a princess (Samantha Mathis) from Koopa (Dennis Hopper).This movie bombed at the box office, losing $20 million. Critics did not like it, fans apparently were not thrilled (not even Mario-loving kids could fill the seats enough to break even). This reviewer saw the film when it came out on video and was not thrilled.Twenty years later (2014), I have revisited the legendary flop. Age has not improved it, not one bit. Had this script been written from scratch without being very, very loosely based on a game, it might now be considered a cult classic. In all fairness, there were some clever ideas and the effects are not bad by 1993 standards.The problem, of course, is that the source material is a game, but the fans of the game will find little to appreciate here. The movie was not geared towards kids, did not incorporate the game's music, kept almost none of the plot. If this was not appealing to fans of the source material, who was it meant to please? "},{"Title":"Could Have Been Better","Date":"5 March 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I can only describe Super Mario Bros the movie in one word.RIDICULOUS! The story is set in 90s Brooklyn - at first. The story follows the hysterical theory that the dinosaurs continue to thrive in another dimension. When Luigi Mario meets the girl of his dreams, his - and his brother Mario's - lives are turned upside down. They are sucked into this other dimension, where people eat lizards on hot dogs and buildings are consumed in fungus.The film holds many aspects of the video game series, including fungus swallowing up the kingdom, bob-ombs, bullet bills, spring loaded shoes, flame throwers, etc, with some visual gags, such as the Wiggler taxi, and the Thwomp Club. References to Mario Kart, and Super Mario 64 are also made, in high-speed car chases, and icy rides down frozen tunnels.The most disappointing thing in this film was King Koopa (Bowser now-a-days)who did not even look like the character. His acting was dry and very Mel-Brookes esq.In the end, I gave this film 5/10 stars because I liked the idea, but I did not like how it was pulled off. This film could have gone places. It's a pity, considering how many Mario fans walked away feeling cheated out of short of two hours.5/10 "},{"Title":"Better than they say...","Date":"15 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" A lot of people say Super Mario Bros. is a bad movie, because it wasn't a faithful adaptation of the video game. Well those people can go suck an egg. I loved this movie when I first saw it in theatres way back in 1993, and I love it now.As for the story, it's essentially the same as the video game; the Mario Bros. try to rescue the princess from Koopa. But instead of a brightly lit Mushroom Kingdom full of walking mushrooms and flying turtles, we have a dark and gritty dystopia.Koopa is after a piece of rock that is part of a meteorite that struck the Earth some 65 million years ago and thrust the dinosaurs into a parallel dimension, where the dinosaurs eventually took on a humanoid form, in much the same way that Earth humans evolved from apes. Uniting this piece of rock with the rest of the meteorite would unite the two dimensions, and allow Koopa to enter into our dimension, devolve humans into apes and take over, because our world is cleaner, has abundant food and clean water. And the Mario Bros. ain't having none of that and try to stop him. Throughout the movie there are references to the video games (Big Bertha, B-bomb, etc.), so it's all good.And you really can't blame the writers for wanting to try something different with the Marios, since a literal live action adaptation of the video game wouldn't translate well to film. Imagine a fat guy squashing mushrooms for an hour and a half. I rest my case. "},{"Title":"Childhood Classic - 1993 at its best!","Date":"6 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I was appalled at all the negative reviews for this movie! This is a Dennis Hopper CLASSIC!!! I remember countless days where i would be sick from school and watch this over and over again. You people need to learn to enjoy it and respect it, yes looking back on it now it does have it corny moments but it also was a CLASSIC to me that i couldn't imagine not seeing. It would be like me saying i never watched any the ninja turtle movies! It fits perfectly in that genre!! This always brings back the memories when the original Nintendo was popular! I know some of you remember the original Super Mario Brothers because i played it countless hours. This movie will always be dear to my heart. I recommend anyone that has kids as a must see film. I guarantee they will love it.1990's at its best!!! "},{"Title":"Incredibly underrated, wish for an extended, HD version!","Date":"24 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" With Pretty nice characters, a good story and nice special effects, Super Mario Bros. Has become one of the, if not only, most hated video game movie ever, it's not because of the acting, it's not because of the plot, it's not because of anything this movie tries to do it right, it's just because of how it doesn't look like the games, or they are just dumb, or lazy, because this film does have a complicated plot.And when i say look, i don't really mind it, if i did, i would hate my guts off the Lord of the Rings trilogy for not being anything like the books, at all.If there is flaws on the movie, i can accept it, it's because of this that Snow White can be considered one of the best animated films,right? But it's nothing too heavy that completely destroys the plot for that matter.Plus, this is the reduced cut, pray for Disney to release an 2 hour extended cut, i believe that putting back a lot of missing scenes will improve the film.This movie has fans, i'm one of them, and id you still don't like the film, check the Super Mario Bros. Movie archive, they have all kinds of good stuff that shows that they were going for something awesome, unfortunately, Hollywood Pictures is owned by Disney.... "},{"Title":"What?","Date":"6 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The reason why Hollywood make's video-game adaptations is because they want to make money and they are running out of ideas. If you thought Uwe Boll's video-game adaptations were bad, there's another video-game adaptation that will make you say, Why?. The video-game adaptation i'm talking about is, Super Mario Bros..This...Movie...Is...Bad. The special effects were bad, the movie has nothing to do with the game, and the acting was bad. Why have the late and great, Dennis Hopper, play the villain? The only thing I like about this movie is that they were able to stay a bit true to the Mario and Luigi costumes.This is a sign that Hollywood can't make a decent video-game adaptation. "},{"Title":"Artificial but cute","Date":"8 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I'll give credit to the Mario Bros. movie where credit is due. It is cute and quirky, but not for a moment does this feel like the game which became a revolution. In fact one could easily argue that the makers of the Super Mario Bros. movie are using the names, Mario, Luigi, and Daisy, and Koopa, as a loop hole to get a green light on this otherwise, irrelevant, cartoonish story which only an idiot would want to sponsor. In the end, it's not bad, but it might help to treat this as something else, that way there is no frustration over the fact that the bros. have Brooklyn Accents, Yoshi is a real dinosaur, and Mario is old enough to be Luigi's dad practically.For a low budget film, the art department did a good job of building fantasy world of funny faces, places, props and visual effects (both digital and mechanical). We are used to seeing Mario in the great outdoors, hopping mushrooms, giant venus flytraps or clouds, against a blue sky. You won't see any of that here. The movie goes for something a bit more...urbanized.Bob Hoskins and John Leguizmo are a very mixed matched couple. Hoskins looks right for the part, but Leguizamo looks and behaves more like his son than his brother. It is curious why the decision was made not to give Leguizmo a moustache. It would've helped age him a bit it think.As it stands, the movie may be amateurish and too chirpy to generate excitement, but it's good for some laughs and a few visual charms. "}{"Title":"Disappointing Fun.","Date":"1 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Ever since I got my first Nintendo for Christmas of Nineteen Eighty Nine.I now started to watch the cartoon series and after a while I was hoping for the film.I never did think that they would come out with it really.Then the Super Mario Brothers Three Cartoon series came out.And then the Super Mario World.And then Random series came on like Captin N One day followed by Zelda,Super Mario World,Super Mario Brothers Super Show,Or Super Mario Brothers Three In Random Order.I wonder if anyone remember it like that.Then when school was almost out In Nineteen Ninety Three,I saw the preview of the Movie,At first I thought it was a dream.Then a few days after school let out The big day came.I saw the movie and I did like it,and I wanted to see it again.But I was expecting more.It didn't have the stuff like the stuff from the show.But I thought for sure there was going to be a second part.But it didn't look like it will happened.Mabey a remake will do,don't know. "},{"Title":"Super Mario Bros. is about Mario and Luigi Mario rescuing Princess Daisy.","Date":"24 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie has always been one of my all time favorites. I used to watch it as a kid with my Aunt. The plot is amazing and I think it is a great movie for kids to enjoy. I love the Mario games and I think that if you are a Mario brothers fan, this movie should be added to your collection. As a little kid I thought the movie was amazing. More kids would probably like this movie more than adults would. I do not think adults have the ability to get into this movie, UNLESS they were a Mario bros fan as a child. I think people don't fully understand the plot of the movie, and how it all started out. The way the movie fits with the original Mario Bros story is amazing. About how they're Italian plumbers and they are always saving Princess Daisy. Especially how the pipes fit into the story. I also think the actors chosen to play Luigi and Mario were both AMAZING choices.I am pretty positive this movie will always be one of my all time favorites. "},{"Title":"For so much directing, it's a lot better than it could've been","Date":"21 February 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I loved this movie as a kid. More recently, I've learned just how much of a living Hell the production was. Evidently the directors wanted it as a totally dark Blade Runner-style flick while the producers tried to change things. To their credit, the producers weren't exactly insane trying to market an adaptation of a kids' game to kids.For the most part, the actors don't seem as miserable as they say they were throughout shooting (actually I hear Dennis Hopper and Fiona Shaw had a blast playing the villains).Again to the staff's credit, a live-action feature based on a video game was a pretty new thing, and while Mario Bros looks, on the surface, nothing like the game, some players will recognize parallels and hidden references in the script and scenery. Finally, the production design of this movie is amazing. There are so many little details in the sets and props, it's actually hard to separate this movie from other big scifi films of the time.Give this movie a shot, and you may be pleasantly surprised. "},{"Title":"I hate to see what the Pacman movie will be like.","Date":"8 January 2010","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" What were they thinking when they made this movie? Was there a reason to make the movie the way it was made? Did the chuckleheads who made it ever play the original Mario Brothers video game? Huh. Well, I don't know, but I will say that this is perhaps the worst motion picture that I have ever seen in my entire life. Now, I could shut my computer off and end the review there, but I will explain why this movie is so hideous as it is. Maybe then will people avoid this horrible abomination.First of all, the movie has a different plot and overall different feeling to it than the cutting edge video game. There are no power up mushrooms, no fireflowers, no bloopers, no cheap cheaps, I could go on forever. And the Goombas and Koopa Troopas in this film are enough to make a kid throw up in his mom's purse. And why is Bowser a bad dialogued aristocratic Donald Trump like figure. He is a HUGE DRAGON THAT BREATHES FIRE AND THROWS HAMMERS! And do you think it's bad enough having Dennis Hopper play him.They didn't even get the princesses right. In this film, it's Daisy from Super Mario Land instead of Princess Toadstool, the princess from the original game. And who got away with making Mario and Luigi's last names Mario. It's like if my name was Derrick Derrick. See how stupid it is. Also, Mario and Luigi are not American. They are ITALIANS! Avoid this movie at all costs. It will make you want to scream bloody murder! "},{"Title":"You either like it or hate it.","Date":"8 October 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" And for me, it's kind of a mix.But first, let's talk about movies and video games mixing together. We discovered in 1983 that turning movies into video games was mostly a bad idea (Thank you, E.T. Great movie, 2nd worst video game of all time according to Gametrailers.com) And it resulted in the video game crash of '83, nearly taking out a whole industry. But 2 years later, we are Re-introduced to video games thanks to an average Joe named Mario and his brother Luigi, who are thrust into a journey to rescue a princess in an alternate world. And we loved it.Now skip ahead to 1993. Mario has become intensely popular. So popular he's got a TV cartoon, along with rival Sonic the Hedgehog...but one thing that Mario gets that Sonic doesn't...A real life movie. But like movies to video games, it's the same result when you send video games...into a movie.You might think on first sight this movie is about Mario and Luigi (Portrayed by Bob Hoskins and John Leguiziamo, Respectively) travelling through 8 worlds to save Princess Toadstool from Bowser, but that's not the case. Instead, it's an alternate dimension complete with a city and endless desert, where Iggy and Spike (Bowser's children in the game, but Koopa's cousins in the movie) have kidnapped different women in hopes to snag Princess Daisy (Portrayed by the beautiful Samantha Mathis) and Bowser isn't called Bowser, it's a leader named King Koopa, Portrayed by a so-bad-he's-good Dennis Hopper (who made Steve Scott one of the most awesome characters in Grand theft auto; Vice City)The reason king Koopa wants to snag Daisy, is that Daisy holds a piece of a meteorite that struck the earth millions of years ago and destroyed the dinosaurs. But really, that meteorite did not destroy the dinosaurs, it instead created a parallel dimension where the dinosaurs evolved into humans with dinosaur-like features. The meteorite piece that Daisy has, is the key to merging the dimensions, allowing king Koopa to take over the human world we know. Yeah, I didn't think it made sense either.Bottom line, it's not the worst movie ever made, but if the directors and producers, and maybe the actors played the game, they could've made a much better movie.It was also hinted that the movie was going to have a sequel, but it didn't happen because of how unpopular the first movie was. that's too bad. maybe it will happen, just with a better storyline.5/10 "},{"Title":"Not the worst flick out there, but certainly questionable.","Date":"12 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The first time I saw this movie, I thought it was great. It was entertaining to say the least. Being that I was eight at the time, and that the movie wasn't in theaters and was in fact on T.V. about 8 years later. When watching, there were and still are a considerable amount of flaws from the video game to the movie. Being that I was and still am a huge Mario fan gives me proper rights to question What were they thinking? The first thing that bothers me is the intro. It's extremely abrupt, there is nothing interesting about it, and it just jumps down your throat like a teacher that won't give you a second crack at a quiz (if that makes any sense). Next is the setting for where most of the movie takes place, the mushroom kingdom. In the games, they all have a mystical, sort of magical premise that you would like to see in any sort of adventure game. However, in the movie they have no regard for such a thing. The mushroom kingdom to the directors was a disgusting run down city ruled by an evil tyrant named Koopa, which brings me to my next point. Yes the main antagonist is Koopa (whether you want to call him KING Koopa or Bowser is up to you to a certain point) But considering that in the games he was called Bowser leaves you with the same question that I asked close to the beginning of this review. Next is the Mario brothers' last names that they lamely mention in the scene where Mario and Luigi get arrested and prosecuted. Mario says that their last names are Mario, and to an extent I can see how that makes for a small laugh, but there's really no excuse for that. If you go to Youtube and look up an inside edition story on Nintendo that dates back to the late 80s, you'll find within that story an interview with an intern at Nintendo of America explaining that the Mario brothers' last names are in fact NOT Mario he says that some things just have no answers and in my perspective I think that the directors should have taken a lesson from that. Anyway, the overall premise to the movie in itself is kind of unique, it blends family humor, with action, and gritty world themes. However, that was a turn-off to most critiques and fans alike. I personally didn't have a problem with it, but I have the absolute most respect to people who did. There are so many other problems with this film that stray from the Mario plot, and in the movie itself. Most of you will probably know that Bob Hoskins called it a F-ing nightmare, and if you didn't know this already then you heard it hear. The game's creator and also one of the most important gaming figures on the planet (Shigeru Miyamoto) said himself that he wished the movie was never made. But in a lot of ways I see past that, this movie is almost so bad it's funny, and in a lot of ways holds a good deal of nostalgia for me. So if you're looking for a good quality movie worthy of Oscar material, look somewhere else. However, if you're looking for a flick to laugh AT instead of with, and to embrace the impurity that lies within this movie and that so many Mario fans alike share, then look no further. "},{"Title":"A Twist to the Classic Video Game!!!","Date":"16 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When I was a kid, I liked this movie. Now that I'm older, I still like it! The movie is very different from the game! It was cool that they played the Mario music at the beginning of the movie! Bob Hoskins made an awesome Mario, but I'm not sure John Legiuzamo was right for Luigi. Mario and Luigi meet a girl named Daisy (Princess Toadstool) Luigi starts to fall in love with her. Later two guys take Daisy back to another dimension. Mario and Luigi follow and come to a world where dinosaurs look like real people and live in a world where King Koopa rules. Mario and Luigi try to save Princess Daisy from Koopa's castle! If you love the game, you might like the film version of SUPER MARIO BROTHERS!!! "},{"Title":"Getting off the bandwagon","Date":"5 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I am very picky when it comes to movies and have no problem tearing them apart with ease when they truly do suck, this movie however, does not. As a big fan of the Mario Bros. since the early '90's and a player of the classic games that came before my time, Would I consider myself a hardcore fan of the series? Why yes actually. Super Mario Bros. is not based directly from the games, but rather lives in the so called atmosphere of it. Also one must remember that it would not be wise to make a movie with a silent plumber hitting his head off bricks and jumping down green tubes and that sometimes artistic license is very necessary.The Mario Bros. are still their respective trades but live in Manhattan and are taken into the Mushroom Kingdom. Princess Peach is replaced by a true Brooklyn Woman named Danniella and Princess Daisy takes the Lead as the main female role. Also, Mushroom Kingdom is in fact another dimension. Some fans where very angry at the lack of Princess Peach who was replaced by the Original Princess Daisy and focused more on Luigi and his love interests or that Koopa is played by Denis Hopper But think back in the early 90's, it was a very expensive option to put in computer generated effects, especially once needed for someone like Bowser!The acting is not bad, although it is easy to tell that John Leguizamo was still a bit of greenhorn when it came to acting. Bob Hopkins is how I believe Mario would behave had he been a New Yorker, although he is a bit rough around the edges at first. He plays more of a father figure to Luigi than in the games as Luigi seems to be in his very early 20's here (20-23) Samantha Mathis was a delight as well as the famous Toad. While Dennis Hopper would not be my first choice as Bowser, he did an excellent job in a certain way and can crack a few smiles.It is a movie that you should give a chance and should not be passed down simply because people like to flame this movie because it was not True to the game.8/10! "},{"Title":"good.shame,arise the vote","Date":"30 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" If this movie was Spielberg would have had more. Since these strontium on the assumption that a film must be beautiful to be directed by big names like Spielberg, Lucas, Jackson, Cameron. .. All these assessments are wrong you understand the level of bad opinion of this site. Only films for intellectuals can be saved. This film was produced with many dollars and the optimal use of special effects make the place as among the best science fiction film Americans. Finitela of using double standards when judged as a movie, try to be objective because they give 3.8 a film of its kind and reward a crap how terrible sin city with 8.2 is really a 'offense. "},{"Title":"Excellent  Mindless entertainment","Date":"28 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" All I Want to say is that you who have given this picture such bad PR should go stick there heads in the sand...cause you sure don't know anything about fantasy...you should try just sitting back and going with the flow of the movie...you might be surprised at how good it makes you feel.I found it to be not only rewarding , but very amusing ,especially the gombahs.The harmonica playing one cracked me up Yoshi was very cute and lovable. This picture may only be mindless entertainment, but I think that it should have Cult status. Maybe there is something wrong with me but I truly enjoyed this Movie,,I have it in my collection and would recommend it to any one "}{"Title":"Truly Avant Garde","Date":"17 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Many talk about how Casino Royale was a gritty reinvention/reinterpretation of the James Bond series, well despite the naysayers and haters alike, Super Mario Bros. was and is a great gritty reinterpretation of the Mario Brothers franchise.The Mario brothers came from being plumbers from some dream land who jump on angry brown mushroom men and turtles to manhattenite plumbers who free a dystopia from an evil dictator who rules the streets with a race of dino-nazi's. Bad-Ass.Super Mario Bros. is by no means a bad adaptation, the DOOM film was a bad adaptation, Legend of Chun li is a bad adaptation, films that could've been relabeled anything, a waste of their respective licenses. Super Mario Bros. was the Casino Royale of its time. It's still Mario Bros., two brothers try and save a princess who's been kidnapped by King Koopa, battling his army of Goombas and koopa troopas in a land filled with mushrooms that come out of bricks. Compare that to DOOM. Furthermore, Super Mario Bros. is insanely watchable, unlike Alone In The Dark.Perhaps it's just my nostalgia or my love of John Leguizamo and Samantha Mathis but Super Mario Bros. is a freakin' amazing movie that gives Mario a GUN. "},{"Title":"Bad in a good way...","Date":"19 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" When I first saw it I hated it for not being the great fantasy it could have been. Making the SMB into a SF is like making a pizza into ice cream. But that aside if you watch it as a popcorn movie and try to forget it has anything to do with Mario it's pretty good. As a stand alone SF B movie it's as fun to watch as Plan Nine from Outer Space or other great mistakes like Godzilla(1998).Pros It has lots of fun slapstick humor and gags the kinda of stuff you'd probably see if you watched the Super Mario Super Show or the Three Stooges. The campyness of the sets and costumes makes them lovable. There's No bathroom Humor something that seems to be the hallmark of all kids movies nowadays. There are lots of fun side characters like the helpless old woman who holds up the Brothers and steals the stone. The Brothers do actually ply their trade and fix a few leaks. Cons It's nothing like the video games, Most all of the game references are misplaced. There are a lot of throw away lines. The cartoon intro helps to throw all realism out the window from the very start. Cartoon explanations do work but only in films like Jurassic Park where they're part of the park instead of serving as an intro. Most of the plot makes no since at all, like the idea that Koopa and a few thousand Goombas could take over the whole world. Also if the humans in this film come from Dinosaurs why don't their bone structures look anything like them? How can the devolved characters have any logical thought at all? How can Iggy and Spike know anything they didn't already know and if they did already know then why didn't their brains lose the information when they were shrunk. Why aren't Mario and Luigi wearing overalls, did the film costume budget run out. If there's hardly any water then how can the fungus and vegetables grow. How does the King return to normal when Koopa dies? Nobody shot him with a evolution gun. Or for that matter how does he produce magical items if the film's supposed to be SF? The biggest error I saw besides the whole plot was that if the Royal family had the power to come to our world all along why didn't they? The whole rest of their world wants to come here so why not them? "},{"Title":"enjoyable","Date":"1 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have read some of the comments posted here by fellow 'gamers', and I must say people are taking this whole thing a little seriously! In a nutshell, this movie is NOT ever going to win any awards or even come close in any category, but it will put a smile on any kids face, and who knows, maybe I'm just a big kid myself, but after recently watching it again it brought back a lot of fond memories! Comparing it to a Mario game is just stupid, because I think at the time this was made the newest console was probably a SNES?! Mario wasn't even 3D then, and certainly didn't have a constant storyline! It was just plain and simple; SAVE THE PRINCESS! And it is no different here. The movie is cheesy, it's stupid, but most importantly of all I guess, its fun! "},{"Title":"as lame as it is...","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" its actually entertaining. i read all over with people saying this movie was bad, but i bought it anyway just for the experience of watching the movie and i had some extra money.i sat down and watched this movie with no expectations whatsoever because i did not want to lean one way with my opinion. and i was thoroughly entertained.OK the storyline is a bit lame. that when a meteor struck earth, it did not destroy the dinosaurs, but split the earth by making a parallel world where dinosaurs lived. on earth (where we live) humans evolved from apes. but right next door, the people there evolved from dinosaurs.Mario and Luigi find the portal to the parallel world when Luigi's love interest was kidnapped by a pair of goons.the world they go into is crazy, the people are crazy. cars are just plain weird. and around the town are Goombas (de-evolved people done by Koopa as punishment) and baby dinosaurs can also be seen.there are some references with the games that you can see in this movie which i think just adds to the humour.its basically a lame little lighthearted movie that does what its supposed to do, entertain. if you go to watch this movie, have no expectations and don't think it ties in with the game. this is a story on its own. "},{"Title":"A brilliant, underrated film","Date":"30 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" As the first movie to be adapted from a video game, Super Mario Bros. wasn't without its flaws. The references to the game itself we few and far apart, and the brothers weren't in their signature red and green overalls until the last twenty or so minutes, and there was a lot of untouched potential in those respects.However, what would have happened if the movie was based on the 'story' of the games? I'm not sure I would want to watch a plumber jumping five times his height on the top of turtle-like creatures, kicking their shells into small brown triangle shaped monsters for eighty minutes before fighting the evil Bowser, and I doubt any of you would either.Instead, we were given the story of two Brooklin-based plumbers who are pulled into an adventure set in an alternate dimension which, from what I can tell, follows the basis of the Mario Brother's story. True, the world they are taken to isn't called the Mushroom Kingdom, and we don't find any mention of Princess Toadstool which is a bit of a let down.Instead of making a complete children's movie based on the almost happy and colourful land of the Mushroom Kingdom, the movie was set in a world created after the meteor that killed the dinosaurs. In an attempt to appeal to an older audience, darker themes are used in the film than in the games, such as King Koopa's plan to take over our dimension for our resources, the fact most of Koopa's world lives in a state of near-poverty thanks to our universe acquiring most of the planet's resources, and various ways in which the world's inhabitants act.For the first movie based on a video game, it was a great attempt, and does not deserve the awful comments and reviews it has received. I'm probably one of the few Nintendo fans to actually enjoy this film, and am very glad to have had the experience of its retro thrill.To expect the movie to be one and the same as the games would be silly... Would you really want to sit through a movie you've already played through yourself? "},{"Title":"Do not let the bad rating fool you.","Date":"25 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Mario Bros was the first video game movie ever made and in my eyes, the very best.Bad acting, terrible dialog and some outdated special effects aside this movie created a memorable atmosphere and managed to squeeze out a story from the very thin source material.Sure the story is pretty terrible, I still cringe when I hear the opening A meteor fell down and created another dimension sequence. But still, they managed to involve so many elements from the games in many different creative ways, so I think it's alright as long as you don't take it too seriously.Again what I really admire from this movie is the atmosphere, it feels somewhat reminiscent of a Terry Gilliam film. All the video game movies made these days are soulless and take themselves too seriously. This one at least has a heart. "},{"Title":"Review of Super Mario Brothers!","Date":"22 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie has been bashed by several critics. In my opinion, it was one of the best video game adaptations of its time. I remember seeing it in theaters, and I just watched it again with the same enjoyment. There are not many movies today that have the story and excitement that this movie contains.It may have not had the best acting in the world, of the best graphics. But people overlook that it was done very well for a time that did not yet have the computer graphics that we have today. Personally, I do like the acting! It is a great movie for kids and adults alike, who have enjoyed the Game Franchise! "},{"Title":"Good for Kids... Not so good for die-hard gamers","Date":"27 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Just as you would expect from any movie based on a video game, the movie tries to refer to the game with King Koopa (Bowser), Mario, Luigi, and Daisy. The only 2 problems is the movie tries to go too deep into the characters history, and most of the jokes were corny and screamed junior high humor and even made fun of the game it was based on. (Nintendo must have fallen asleep like the rest of us when they saw this movie) The games may have been vague in back story, but it seems mean to include a story of a character that has been seen in one form rather than another. Don't get me wrong, the choices for actors in this film were stellar, but some of the script was lame or doesn't hold true to the actual game. The movie has thankfully already been written off by many who see things in my goggles. This movie is intended for the kids and the gamers who enjoyed playing Super Mario Brothers, and is just a huge spit in the face to gamers who sat down and watched it.Bottom line, the movie was horrible and is thankfully forgotten by gamers and kids alike. "},{"Title":"A great film","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" OK, this needed to be said. Super Mario Brothers... Good or bad? Errrr.... GOOD P What people need to understand is that its a story about two brothers who go into a weird world to save a princess.... THATS IT! what the director did was actually give it a deeper story. bob hoskins is great in this film it is definitely worth a rent or even a buy!There are some great lines in the film too, such as Do you eat? (luigi asking out daisy) and the disgusting fungus which is actually... well you'll find out he he7/10 a good watch "},{"Title":"a teenagers perspective","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This film, contrary to the opinion expressed before, entertained me just as much now as it did when i watched it as a child. Bob Hoskins plays Mario very well and definitely does the franchise justice. I think that showing the Mario Brothers in a darker environment helps to add depth to the characters and to the story because it puts them somewhere new, also this kept me interested because it was different to the usual 'Mario' environment of sun and smiles. If you were a child when this came out then it is definitely worth buying on DVD and reminiscing. Be warned though, this is just my opinion; the film isn't enough like the video game franchise for some people.Long story short, give it a go. It's in bargain bins these days........what's the worst that could happen? "}{"Title":"Sorry...No More Lives Mario...","Date":"21 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" As a Super Mario Brothers fan I was stoked when I saw the trailer for this film(this was during the Super Mario World/Super Nintendo phase). So when I saw the film, I was a bit disappointed, but as a fan I still watched it. Some ideas were good to bring to life(for instance why is Dennis Hopper not a lizard?). I guarantee you that the problem with the film wasn't the acting. I think Bob Hoskins, John Leguizamo and Dennis Hopper were perfect choices, but the production. After reading the John Leguizamo book(he said he almost quitted acting, because of how rough this film was), I was right. Originally the film was written for adults and would've been given a PG-13 or R-rating, but the studio quickly decided it should be a family film. This films best quality is it's soundtrack, due to the fact the actors really had no structure to work with, its sad really. If they make another film I would say to bring the original concept back.Basically the premise is King Koopa(in human form)is looking for the Princess so he can get his hands on a meteorite piece that will bring his world and our world together(like it once was) and takeover both worlds. After kidnapping the Princess the Mario Brothers who just met Daisy goes to save her, with the help from some curious rebels(like Big Bertha and a human Toad) It also features Lance Henricksen as the de-evolved King of the Mushroom Kingdom.So ONLY if your a fan of the video games you should see it. My best recommendation is to either watch it from a friends copy or wait for it to come on TV and record it. "},{"Title":"Worth seeing if you haven't yet.","Date":"4 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Although a lot of Nintendo fans might disagree, I think Super Mario Bro.s was a good movie. It might have steered away from the video game a bit, but how realistic would a big turtle-like Koopa who shoots fireballs have been? If anyone other than Dennis Hopper had the role of King Koopa, the character would have failed completely, and the movie along with it.As for the role of Luigi, John Lequizamo was an excellent choice. This role was a piece of cake for him, compared to his roles as a maggot-eating clown from hell in Spawn and a drag queen in To Wong Foo Thanks for Everything, Julie Newmar. He is also one of my favorite actors, which improves my overall outlook on this movie.Overall, this movie might not have the cute bright green Yoshi everyone loves, but it's still very entertaining, given you're not a Super Mario video game fanatic. If you haven't seen it, I recommend it to anyone who wont care if it's not exactly like the game. "},{"Title":"music in the film","Date":"21 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have a question regarding the film music. Mario did dance with a big lady in the film in order to get a stone, I don't quite remember but something like that. The song that you hear, what is the name of it? Ot is there some place for soundtrack or any other possibility? I saw it like a hundred years ago and when you are a young toddler, this film, at least for me, was pretty cool stuff. I thought wow, I've played the game and now I see a movie with Mario and Luigi. I thought it was a cool movie, may not to bee seen for 15 times but I saw it one time for like 7-10 years ago. I want to see it again sometime, but for now I'll settle for the dance music. /Cincerely Andreas from Sweden "},{"Title":"An absolutely fun film...","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I first saw this film in theaters when I was about 8 years old and a Mario fanatic. It was one of my favorite movies back then. Now, I'm proud owner of the DVD and have watched it numerous times. Even in my twenties, I still love this film and have no complaints about it. It delivers on all counts. Bob Hoskins is the perfect Mario. Dennis Hopper plays Koopa with campy charm. And I even love the two goofy guys who play Spike and Iggy. There is so much in this film that I love. It is a rare film from my youth that hasn't gotten old yet, like the first two Ninja Turtles films, or The Sandlot. Super Mario Bros. is a great action/sci-fi/comedy for any kid inside all of us. Forget the fact that it's loosely based on a video game. I did when I was 8, and as a result I still love the film today. So many people bash this movie unfairly, and I have yet to see a reasonable argument against it. I like what that guy from The Washington Post said, It's A Blast! That it is. "},{"Title":"Well...What did you expect?","Date":"30 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Okay, this was based on a VI-DE-O GAME! Look at how most of the movies based on games have turned out! If you think this movie was lame, well again, what were you expecting, Titanic? Leo DiCaprio? Well, as it is, this movie, apart from characters and references, isn't that much like the Mario games. But hey, the games were pretty much Mario/Luigi jumping on giant turtles, and various other things. So hey, like that would work as a movie! Considering what they had to work with, they did a good job here.See, we all know that the dinosaurs went extinct some 65 million years ago when a huge meteorite struck Earth, right? Wrong! When the meteorite hit, it created a parallel dimension, and the dinos continue to evolve into human-like beings. Now, for the most part, Dino Land was a fun place. Then Koopa developed the power to 'de-evolve' things. He wasted no time in de-evolving the King into primordial fungus, and making himself dictator. Anyone who opposes him gets de-evolved into a Goomba. Now, under Koopa's rule, 20 years later, Dino Land is in a bad way. Few resources, limited food, fungus everywhere, and robbery and thievery run rampant. Good thing King K. has a plan to bail out his little town.See, when he took power 2 decades ago, the Queen fled to a vortex that leads from Dino Land to Brooklyn. She took with her an egg (reptiles, remember?) containing her child, Daisy. The Queen dies sealing the vortex, but luckily, the kid is entrusted to some nuns. With the egg comes a tiny shard of crystal. See, the meteorite that slammed Earth so many years ago is in Dino Lan. This crystal is a shard of it that broke off on impact, protected by the royal family. And guess what? If it were to be inserted back into the meteorite, the dimensions would merge together. Problem is, the energy that would be released upon insertion would be enormous, and only a member of the royal family would be able to withstand it. Getting Koopa's plan here? You guessed it snag the shard, kidnap Daisy, merge the dimensions, de-evolve us, and take over our world. Boom, Dino Land's problems are solved! And yeah, Mankind will be a bunch of apes and monkeys, but Lizardkind will be living on easy street, so too bad for us!Not the best filmyou'll ever see, but a fun little gig. Just try and spot all the in-game references here! Yoshi, Super Mushrooms, the Goombas...the garbage men wear masks that resemble Snifits, and the cops, I believe in one scene, are referred to as Koopa Troopers. Big Bertha? Like the Cannon-like enemy in Super Mario RPG? Notice the Bullet-Bill like cartridges that power the Stomper Shoes? Or did you catch that sign over the tunnel that read 'Koopahari Desert?' I personally loved the final battle against Koopa, mirroring the boss battles in Mario Brothers (Koopa vs. Mario on a bridge, shooting fireballs) and Super Mario World (Koopa suspended overhead in his bucket). A pity Magikoopa couldn't have been fit in somewhere. And I would have liked to see Koopa's Airship. But hey, what can ya do? I would have also liked to have seen a sequel, but since it's been 10 years, probably not. Oh well. Take this film as it is watch it, and have fun. "},{"Title":"ignore the license and a movie which is at least worth the time and money is inside","Date":"5 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" no, wait!! don't hang up!! your back on? phew. good. OK, so obviously i am a Nintendo fanboy and so am theoretically biased. but I really didn't think this movie deserves the awful rap it's given. i mean, it has nothing to do with the games really (except for the SNES super scope and the character specifics, like names and such), so we can judge it more fully on it's own merits.the performances, firstly, are all pretty much what is expected. Hoskins is a little less happy-go-lucky than mario, but he looks the part and can still deliver a line like fed-ex can deliver a parcel (the last line was a paid advertisement by fed-ex. just kidding). everyone else is perfectly adequate, if often cheesy.The script is actually really interesting. there are all kinds of little tid-bits (i.e. president koopa orders a pizza and it is incidentally referred to several times afterwards, even though it really has no importance, the bob-omb at the end is wearing reebocks) which make this movie really different from other movies. the whole thing is also pretty much completely random. I won't get into details, but it's a lot like one of those teen Long-car-ride movies where there is an ultimate goal, but everything imaginable happens before you get there.so yeah, this movie is about a game, even though it really has nothing to do with it. that doesn't mean it's bad. it's actually really funny in a ridiculous sort of way. "},{"Title":"Interesting ideas, but not very good delivery.","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I think this movie gets more criticism than it deserves. It's honestly not THAT terrible.I gotta say, when I was pretty young and saw it, it was quite a shock to see lush green plains replaced with a degenerate city unrivaled by even the worst areas of New York, and to see a slimy weird lizard where the happy-go-lucky Yoshi we all know and love would be, not to mention tiny walking mushrooms with mean faces replaced with some of the freakiest looking gargantuan humanoid monsters I've ever seen. Obviously, the movie has very little in common with the games in terms of appearance. However, the concept basically remains the same. Mario and Luigi set out to rescue the princess from Bowser/Koopa (who is also nothing like the giant monster he was in the games).When I was young, my surprise overshadowed my understanding of the movie. Now that I'm older and have seen it again, I can better appreciate some of the good ideas it offered, and put aside comparisons with the games.The story of origin is very interesting. I found the whole idea of dimensions split into a world of people evolved from apes and a world of people evolved from dinosaurs to be quite unique. Also, I liked the ideas of the evolution machine and the ubiquitous living fungus. Of course, for good ideas in movies to work, they must be delivered well. In a lot of ways, Super Mario Bros does not succeed in this.The acting is actually pretty poor. Bob Hoskins and Dennis Hopper do an OK job, but John Leguiazamo and Samantha Mathis not so much. The bumbling Iggy and Spike deliver their lines much in the same way that people in high school plays do. You can't really take the actions of the actors very seriously, even at times when one is supposed to. The love subplot between Luigi and Daisy is done very poorly. If the director tried to make it seem less serious, it would have been OK, but he tries and fails to make the audience feel it is genuine. Also, some of the humour almost makes you cringe, and is pretty hackneyed. Consult the quote section for some examples.These flaws aside, I still found this movie enjoyable enough to watch all the way through. If you're afraid of wasting money on a rental, then wait for it to come on TV. "},{"Title":"Cool Story","Date":"21 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Super Mario Bros is one of my favorite films when it came to theaters in 1993 my mother took me and my brother to see it. Some would say it was a cheesy adaptation in comparison to the popular video game. I honestly loved the story.Mario (Hoskins) & Luigi (Leguizamo) are brothers and down on their luck plumbers who live in Brooklyn. One day, Luigi crosses paths with Daisy (Mathis)a beautiful college student from then on it's love at first sight. When Daisy is kidnapped by two goons, Mario & Luigi rush off to save her only to end up in a parallel universe run by King Koopa (Hopper). He is after a meteorite piece that she wears around her neck, it turns out that Daisy is a princess who has the power to merge the two dimensions. Now it's a race against time as they fight off goombas and other creatures to rescue her from Koopa's clutches. Bob Hoskins & John Leguizamo did a fantastic job portraying the two heroes while Samantha Mathis added a nice touch as the princess 8/10 "},{"Title":"Cool movie","Date":"19 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Super Mario Bros. is an pretty cool movie. I guess gamers seem to hate it because it seemingly doesn't follow the original games's storyline. But really, what is the object of the game? The Marios traveling to Koopa's tower and saving the princess! And thats what they're trying to do in the movie. The creators just added their own twists, and I like that. The movie kept the some of the classic characters from the game as well (B-bombs, Goomba's, Yoshi, Daisy, and Koopa himself). I'm glad that Koopa doesn't look like a big turtle that breathes fire. That would have been terrible. I like the cast, too. I don't remember the actors names, but they did a good job on it. Be warned, though this movie is meant for young people so some the jokes are corny, but many adults may like it, too. Nuff said. "},{"Title":"It's not the game, but I'm sure that was the point...","Date":"27 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" OK...I'll get it out of the way. Yes, I know this isn't based EXACTLY off the game, yes I know the writing isn't the greatest, yes I know this movie bombed...but in all honesty I don't really care. For what it is, I thought this was a nice, zany, and slightly action-packed movie that I found pretty entertaining. It wasn't based exactly off the movie, and I think that's what gives it a good sense of originality. It's for that reason, at least, partly, why I'm sure it didn't sell well. Too many people expected the same color, same saccharine kiddie-fare, pretty much a full-on big screen rendition of the game. What they got was a movie, gritty, dark, and original instead. And that's a main reason I like it as it is.It had the basics down; two plumbers from Brooklyn, Mario and Luigi, going into an alternate universe to save a princess in peril and stop a megalomaniac from wreaking havoc. In the games, as good as they are, it was basically the same situation, not too much difference in terms of delivery. The games had Koopa vying for power and dominance. In the movie, he already has it, and his power usurped everything to the point where his hunger grew well past the point of what he perceived as reality (he wanted to conquer Earth as well). Boasting a slightly all-star cast (how they got Bob Hoskins to do Mario is past me), and, as stated earlier, a grittier and darker look, it seemed as if the movie itself could appeal to both kids and adults alike.I did enjoy how some of the aspects for Mario and Luigi's powers were explained in a bit more realistic terms (I doubt a fat plumber could naturally jump fifteen feet in the air...). The jump boots, the fire-ball launchers, even the wicked bob-bomb, were written in as more artificial, albeit a bit more believable, powers to be at their disposal. The only real drawbacks I saw was that the writing could've been a bit tweaked, as well as some of the direction (it had two directors Mr. Hoskins absolutely hated, so I'm guessing something was amiss). But as it is, I found this movie enjoyable and fun, and I'd definitely watch it again. Obsessive gamers need not apply (you'd hate this movie, I'm sure of it). "}{"Title":"I love this Movie","Date":"21 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Despite the slaggings I still love this movie for one reason ......... it is fun to watch. Forget the plot, effects etc. Hoskins, Leguizamo and Hopper are tremendous to watch in a movie where they all obviously said screw my career I'm doing this.Most complaints surround the inaccuracy of the storyline and characters with the video game version. Since the Mario Bros. video game plots were very simple a film maker would have to flesh them out in order to have a feature film produced.The de evolved dinosaur world is very atmospheric and the overall visual tone of the film is great.Certainly not a classic or award worthy but rent it, watch it and tell me you don't enjoy it. "},{"Title":"You all are crazier than Tom Cruise. This mess is fun.","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I'm reading through these reviews and wondering is everyone losing it, or is it me? This movie is fun, weird, and nicely dark. It's no Citizen Kane but it's better than most family dreck any day. I don't mind telling you all that I am 21 and I just went and bought it so I could sit around with my friends, get hopped up on goofballs, and trust the fungus once again.Here's my take. It's a preteen's movie, not a kid's movie, so there's a degree of poetic removal to things -- i.e., you have to have the grey matter required to go from Toad in game is a mushroom to Toad in movie is a hippie to aha! Hippies eat mushrooms, I get it. Or another Bowser in game is a king in a castle --> Koopa in movie is a CEO-type in a skyscraper. I personally do not think this is a bad thing, but these comment boards are full of wackies who are obsessively comparing the movie to the game. People if someone was going to make a movie about the Mario games that stuck to fact, it'd be nonsensical, there'd be no story, and you might as well slump on the couch and watch a friend play the game for a couple hours. Instead, they interpreted, and the result is sometimes stupid and often kooky and rarely boring. "},{"Title":"Well, what are you gonna do?","Date":"23 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This may contain some spoilers, so I'll mark them, okay? Here we go...Super Mario Bros, wow. Where to start, I became a huge fan of the game when I was about 8 or 9 years old and I had no idea that there was a movie. Well when my Dad said that he was watching the Mario Bros movie I nearly had a heart attack, The Mario Bros have a MOVIE?! I thought, and I quickly set off into an adventure that I'm still lost in today.Onto the review...Super Mario Bros is an adaptation in name only. It has the names of the characters, the names of the places (sort of) and the names of the villains, however they are used as the names of shops instead of actually being bad guys. The movie starts out with a baby being hatched from an egg in a nunnery in Brooklyn 20 Years Ago fast forward to Present Day Brooklyn and we meet Mario and Luigi, a pair of plumbers down on they're luck and out of traditional red and green uniform, one of them, missing a mustache. They meet up with Daisy and find the portal to the otherworld which is pretty much just like this world only with more product placement and cooler cars.I wont reveal the ending, however I will say it left room for the sequel I'm still waiting for... The acting was good and the sets were fantastic, the world was truly believable as another dimension that was run by a power hungry dictator who wanted to rule our dimension, but dude, it's Mario. Mario eats mushrooms and saves princesses and talks to goombas and jumps on koopas in the magical world of the mushroom kingdom! He's not supposed to be living in Luigi's shadow the whole movie while they look for a rock. The camera work, awesome, the lighting, awesome, the special FX, as it says on the VHS box, eye popping, but again, it's Mario, Mario is a simple man who eats pasta and says Mama Mia! Not a Road Warrior. "},{"Title":"Awesome in my opinion","Date":"22 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Mario Brothers is like no other movie. Every part is filled with excitement and lots of fun adventure. It puts you into another world as the movie shifts into another dimension.The sets in the movie are unbelievable. The sets of Koopa's city are amazing with the detailed city streets that make it seem like an actual place. The ending makes it seem as if there is going to be a sequel but they never made a second one. Your probably either going to love this movie or think its pretty bad,depends on the person. I notice many goofs and still love it. I think it is a must own DVD. "},{"Title":"I'm a big Super Mario Bros. fan...","Date":"18 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" and I hated this movie. In my opinion, they've destroyed the characters. I believe that Luigi is younger than Mario in the movie, which is completely wrong. They thought Princess Toadstool (Now known as Peach) was Daisy. Again, this is wrong. When you watch this movie, you feel like it was written by someone who was sort of a fan of Super Mario, but never really got into the games. They've taken a creative, wonderful world and turned it into something which they thought would represent it. The Mushroom Kingdom could have been represented by itself. They also try to clear up some things which they thought didn't make sense in the movie. For example, they gave Mario and Luigi boots so they could jump really high. They were always able to do jump really high. They made Bowser seem like a corrupt mayor of some sort, and basically he doesn't even look like him. Even at the end, when he turns into a dinosaur, he does not look like Bowser. The Mario Bros. lived in Brooklyn in this movie, I think this is the first time that Mario was considered to be from Brooklyn. We don't know where Mario is from, so I guess this was a good choice that the film makers had to make.Don't see this movie if you're expecting something very accurate to the Super Mario Bros. series. See it, if you'd like a somewhat clever twist on the idea of Super Mario Bros. "},{"Title":"I liked this movie!","Date":"16 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" While this movie contained a lot of elements not present in the Super Mario Bros. video games, and the games contained a lot of fun elements not present in the movie that would make it more entertaining, if you think outside of the box then you can get as much enjoyment out of this movie as I have. It takes a popular game and mixes it with someone of a fantasy-reality situation and makes your classic adventure come to life! Think about it! If you were to take those actors with that technology and make every single aspect of the video game become reality in the movie, would anyone watch it? No. If you tweaked it even the slightest bit, you'd ruin the entire storyline. These people did something unique. They made a game become in the real sense, with real people, doing more real things than in the video game. The fantasy part was just to entertain those who cannot do without. Before you go judging this movie, you should watch it without comparing it to the game, because then you just ruin it for everyone. "},{"Title":"Not a classic but a cult hit","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Having grown up play Super Mario Brothers 1,2,3 and World I figured the movie would be a let down. The casting was interesting as in how the heck did they convince Dennis Hopper to play the lead bad guy role and how does John Leguiazamo get passed off as Bob Hoskin's brother.As it was, Bob and John had great chemistry and had witty one liners from beginning to end that made me and my buddies laugh. Mojo Nixon as Toad was also fun to watch seeing is I knew about his music and still laugh to this day to his Redneck Rampage album.Dennis Hopper as King Koopa was hilarious as that wouldn't be the first guy I'd pick to play the role but he did it really well and looked like he had a blast doing it.The highlight of the film was the one liners but up and down it wasn't so bad. I wasn't expecting it to be exactly like the video games and how could anyone? Fun movie 7 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"10 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie is a cult classic. It is a lot like the Rocky Horror Picture show. This is one of those films that the die hard movie critics that are not into the whole lame, spoof style movies would hate. While other people may think that it is terrible, it is in direct reflection to the original NES game. there is nothing special and the effects are a little lame, but that is the whole point of it. I highly suggest at least renting this movie from your local Blockbuster of Family Video and giving it a try. Now that I have said what I wanted to say about this film, I am trying to fill things up since this stupid thing will only let me submit my review if I have 10 lines of text. "},{"Title":"Better than some would have you believe","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" OK, it's no secret these days that the movie has nothing to do with the games, but still, the movie is quite entertaining. The cast did a respectable job with the absolutely lunacy of the scrpit they were given, and Bob and John have good chemistry as the Mario Brothers (I've never understood why the fact their last names were Mario was such a revelation. For Crying out loud, they are the MARIO BROTHERS) The plot is a nonsensical mess, as mentioned earlier, but the movie is more about the what than the why. It's charm lies in it's dumb humor and decent action scenes, as opposed to being mentally engaging. Plus it's surprisingly dark for a Mario movie. And I'm not sure if that's a bad thing or a good thing.There is one exception to something I said earlier. Most of the cast is great for what it is, but Dennis what's his name as King Koopa is just terrible. Still, he doesn't really ruin the movie. It's not good per-se, but it is an enjoyable popcorn flick if you can catch it on TV or for a rental. I give it a 6/10 "},{"Title":"A mixed bag really.","Date":"15 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Mario and Luigi, two wacky plumbers, undertake a daring quest to save a princess in Dinohattan -- a hidden world where the inhabitants evolved from dinosaurs! Mario (Bob Hoskins) and Luigi (John Leguizamo) face deadly challenges from a diabolical lizard king (Dennis Hopper) and must battle giant reptilian goombas, outwit misfit thugs and undermine a sinister scheme to take over the world. As a kid, I hated this film, mostly because they took so many liberties with the game and the makers kinda created their own plot. Well, the other day I saw the DVD in a local store and thought Gee, if it's as bad as I remember, it would never get a DVD release... and so I rented it. Despite the absolutely non-existant plot, there's a lot to like about this film. The cast is excellent, the special effects are FANTASTIC, the sets are great, the costumes are great, production design imaginative. Unfortunately, there are also many bad elements A weak script, lots of cliches, extremely poor plot that ends on a high note that leaves room for a sequel that will probably never happen. There are also many flaws, the most annoying being the fact that all the people in the Dino dimension have hair, something reptiles NEVER had. I guess it makes an okay film for kids or as a special effects bonanza,  but really nothing more. 5/10. "}{"Title":"A good film, for child","Date":"10 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  OK, it's not the best film I've seen, BUT, for a child it is a very good film, in my childhood, it was one of the best. Some people tell that it is a bad film because it is not the story of the game, ..., I'm not sure, there aren't really enough story in the game to make a film, then I think that it is a very good film, and I like very much Samantha Mathis in it!!! ;-)I think that all people playing on it, play really good. The music is not bad too, and the special effect and colors are good too.A pretty little film, for curious of the little cinema ;-) and for fans of Samantha Mathis ;-)  "},{"Title":"Well... it's pretty funny anyway...","Date":"7 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  All right! I know what you all think about this film. It's cheap, maybe cheesy, and some of you probably think that it's a shame compared to the wonderful world of Mario & Luigi brought to us through video games.In a sense, that's true, but have you ever thought about the fact that it could be just a humoristic way of using a Super Mario license for 2 hours??? I really think that the first purpose of this movie was to raise the humoristic personality of these 2 Italian brothers. Thus, as a great fan of Mario & Luigi, I took a good time watching this funny possible description of a parallel world, but I may be more open-minded than some people...^_^ Who knows?  "},{"Title":"Super Stupid Movie","Date":"12 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This has to be one of the absolute worst movie ideas I've ever seen. A videogame that has no real plot being made into a movie is completely ridiculous. Not  only is the movie highly inconsistent with the video game, but it's unbearably  annoying with its stupid a** comedy and lame ending. I would have rather been  raped by fifty horny prison inmates rather than watch this movie again. "},{"Title":"Come on, its Mario...","Date":"11 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Alright. I saw this movie during the time you should have seen this movie for the first time. In 1993 when you're a kid playing video games. John Leguizamo wasn't a huge star then, he was just Luigi. Look, if you don't play the video games you shouldn't even watch this movie, it's purely a movie made for fans. Yes, it could have been alot better if they actually had the Mario creator direct it but in all truth, I think they did a good job of creating a Mario Brothers movie that one can actually watch for 90 mins. I mean I couldn't think of another way to actually create a watchable Mario world. And as for missing characters in the movie...well I'm sure they planned on adding that later in the movie series. The producers who fronted the money for this movie we're likely fans of the Mario series, because I'm sure they knew this wasn't going to be a big hit beyond video game fans.You have to keep in mind this was early in the video game conversion to movie attempts. I mean Double Dragon is almost the same thing but with similar appeal. (And isn't that kid from Party of Five in that movie? Yes I believe so....) If you didn't play the games you'd have no interest in these movies. I mean maybe nowadays people just hate happy and cute movies. The movie is really meant for kids and fans of the series, beyond that you'll probably be upset and lost searching for some deep meaning IN THE MARIO BROTHERS FILM? If I had the money I'd produce a sequel just for the fans, (and yes, movies do get made just for fans sometimes...after all, what did you think Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back was?) And if I ever get the money, I WILL make a sequel. Just so there can be a movie with Toad in it. (I mean wouldn't you love to see a guy run around with a big Toad on his head?) I can't think of a director who would have any interest in creating a sequel to this movie.... but maybe one day.... come on its been ten years... on sequel couldn't hurt too much could it?						 This movie may not be anywhere near 100 best but its nowhere near 100 worst. I liked it. But I've also played every Mario Brothers game ever...so that might do it. =) "},{"Title":"Second only to Street Fighter as The Worst Video Game Movie Ever. Period.","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It's been ten years since I saw Super Mario Bros., and it was almost as much sheer agony to think over as it was to watch.Basically, it's the cinematic equivalent of being stuck in a video arcade for 100 minutes without any money for games - flashy, noisy, pointless and no fun. The plotline somehow manages to be chaotic depsite its simple launchpad of the Princess Daisy (not Toadstool - I'm no fan, and even I know that) being trapped in an alternate universe where the dinosaurs prevailed, and Brooklyn plumbers Luigi and Mario going to rescue her; confusing editing ruins the action scenes, and if you're not familiar with the accountrements of the game - like the walking bombs - you'll be lost.Most movies and TV shows based on video games tend to be cold anyway - Mortal Kombat, etc - and this is no exception. But I will give David L. Snyder's production design credit; along with Alan Silvestri's energetic score (I do wonder about this man's choice in projects), he's the best thing about this movie. Otherwise, Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo as the Mario Brothers - both of whom publicly badmouthed this one - are two of the many, many people relieved that this movie never had its threatened sequel.Game over. "},{"Title":"To video game nerds Get a Life! It's a M-O-V-I-E!","Date":"7 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've seen this three or four times, and it's more fun each and every time.  The cast is excellent.  Dennis Hopper?  Who could ask for a better villain?  John Leguizamo keeps the idiot factor to a minimum... so on and so forth.The effects are a lot like the rest of the movie - FUN.  It's great to see a film where the effects are not a bunch of CG mumbo jumbo.  It's a fun all-ages sort of movie, and anyone who could watch this without a smile is taking the world far too seriously.It seems many of the reviewers here are complaining about the movie's poor adherenence to the video games.  Give me a break.  Ooh, let's make a feature film about a 2D sidescrolling platform game.  Uh huh, sure.This movie stands entirely on its own, needing no 8-bit backdrop, bring on the DVD! "},{"Title":"Mario runs and falls into evil movie pit! Game Over","Date":"2 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  One of the most popular and memorable series in video-game history. Except they took a fun challenging game and turned it into a full-length torture film. Why? Well let's say the Super Mario Bros. game never existed, would people still understand the concept behind the movie? Flying plumbers? A Princess? Dinosaurs? Huh? No of course not, they'd be saying this movie sucks! Maybe the directors and writers didn't work with Miyamoto(Mario creator) enough or didn't connect or who knows? For all know, Miyamoto himself should've been the writer or at least one of the directors helping out. I'm glad they didn't make a sequel once they realized it was a bomb. Game over. 2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"a pipedream come true","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Face facts, we all had some form of this game in our lives (i am addressing the video game generation 1980-Present), and there isnt one of us that didnt go nuts when they heard that it was finally gonna happen.  Video game movies have now become bad omens, but i think that considering that Mario Bros was one of the first (not to forget the Wizard), it had the most free reign to be different. There were a number of things that i would personally question, had i gotten to critique the film before it was completed (imagine that), like the absense of mushrooms, (aforementioned by another person who has commented on this film), the electric bumper cars, the poorly portrayed Goomba, John Leguizamo, the last name Mario (which is troublesome in Mario's (Bob Hoskins)case), and the overuse of snot-like substances.  Nevertheless, it is a fun movie that can be enjoyed by virtually anyone who can appreciate the dimension of individual storytelling, a good cast, and video game sound effects. "},{"Title":"Wow........","Date":"1 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was........... um......... there are no words to describe this. if you have someone you would like to subject to torture, this movie is the one you should make them watch. if you are really really really really really really bored then even then.... PLEASE DON'T WATCH THIS MOVIE!!! "},{"Title":"SMB has its strong points and its slack points.","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  In the first place, if we notice, the movie has the same plot of the video game the Mario brothers travels to a parallel world, populated by mushrooms and dinosaurs, where they have to save the princess of the evil King Bowser Koopa. The movie contains excellent performances like that of Bob Hoskins, brilliant as Mario (the best in the film) and the interpretation of Dennis Hopper (King Koopa). Although I think that the paper of Koopa should have him fact a stouter actor because, in the video game, Koopa is much bigger the Mario brothers.  Other papers like that of Luigi, interpreted as John Leguizamo that doesn't make it bad but it should have him fact an actor a little more mature than it seemed that it was Mario's brother (it is that Leguizamo seems more Mario's son that his brother!!), as for the princess Daisy, embodied by Samantha Mathis, is quite well but physically she was not very similar to the princess of the video game. The rest of secondary characters of the film is exceptional and they make reference to the video game like they are Lenna, Iggy, Toad, Big Bertha, Goombas... although I believe that they have left the poor person of Yoshi some side.It is also necessary the devices that appear in the movie making reference in the video game to highlight like the mushroom (that enlarges, it protects Mario of the shots and it shrinks again), Bob-Ombs (as those of SMB3 although a little smaller), the fire balls (propelled with the help of guns), the mushrooms or the king Mushroom (that make the function that make the blocks in the video game in the video game, of to provide objects and to help Mario and Luigi), the Stomper Boots (that make that Mario and Luigi fly or to carry out the big jumps like in SMB) or the devolution machine. The great majority of these apparatuses makes that the film has a realistic touch and futurist making that the history you already developed beyond those typical histories of the video game (mushrooms, Koopa Troopa, pipes, etc...). In general that with a good cast (Hoskins, Hopper...), the same plot of the video game, a numberless of objects and enemies (taken out of the video games, recycled or added for enjoyment of the movie) and an excellent sound band (Alan Silvestri and the Almost Unreal of Roxette) they make that Super Mario Bros is a movie of two hours with assured entertainment, based on the most popular video game in the world. Although Super Mario Bros any Oscar has not gotten the movie it is very well. And for the many critics that think that this movie is very bad I tell them... Is not reason happened to take a look to movies like Street Fighter? for sure it will be faithful to the video game! No?. "}{"Title":"The WORST movie I have EVER seen!","Date":"9 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie stinks for a number of reasons1)Nothing related to the video game 2)Poor script 3)Poor special effects 4)Poor acting 5)Pathetically ugly settings 6)Too dark and blandI could go on and on... but I won't because the list is just huge. I'd avoid this stinker if I were you... "},{"Title":"stupid humans","Date":"23 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  i don't care what other people think, ok so the script wasn't great but it was ok and the acting was bland in some areas but considering the culture, language and style of the early nineties it was acceptable. this and other various things ensure that this movie was less than perfect but funny and entertaining nonetheless. i hate to think that money was lost in the making of this film. it was one of my favorites as a child and i still enjoy watching it. there's a wealth of talented actors here, some making their screen debut in a fair adaption of the game. interesting. very interesting, and underrated. "},{"Title":"The Best Selling Video Game Comes To Life!","Date":"29 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  A Rather dissapointing movie based on the World Famous video game. At the time, it was still at a rising popularity. Over 50 Games featured these characters. Then in 1993, they were popular, but the movie should have waited.I think a remake in the Future would work. The actors did good, the story was not like the original though. It was not Mario enough. They tried to fit it into the real world and they failed!Other then that, it was not a bad movie. If you have not seen it, give it a look. I gave it a 6 out of 10 Stars! "},{"Title":"Super Mario Bros is a Fun, Exciting Adventure!","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I enjoyed watching Super Mario Bros! I think this movie is an action packed, exciting adventure for viewers. I was disappointed by the fact that it didn't really follow the Super Mario Bros video games, but other than that, I liked it. Bob Hoskins does a great job as Mario, as does John Leguizamo as Luigi. If you enjoy playing the Super Mario Bros games, you'll enjoy this movie!! "},{"Title":"a ridiculous display that's not even smart enough for kids","Date":"14 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hoskins and Leguizamo are plumber siblings from Brooklyn who become unlikely candidates to save humanity when they meet a princess (Mathis), who's kidnapped by a tyrannical lizard (Hopper), who lives in a parallel dimension and wants to use sophisticated technology to devolve the human race. Talented cast can only do so much with a script this dumb, and the result is an endless barrage of gross special effects, cheesy action sequences, and mind-numbingly stupid characters who run around in juvenile fashion spouting one goofy line after another. Watching this nonsense, you have to wonder if just playing the video game its based on for the sufficient running time would have been a better idea; lots of time and money wasted on this junk. * "},{"Title":"This deserves more than a mere 3.4","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Why did this film suffer the wrath of apparently unfair critics?Sure, it wasn't this complicated thriller/melodrama/fantasy movie that you'd discuss around the dinner table for hours and hours.  Sure, some of the lines were cheesy, and it wasn't exactly like the video game.But so what?This is a comedy, and a family comedy at that.  Some of the hilarious lines of King Koopa (Hopper as a bad guy alone gives this movie a boost as far as my critique goes) are geared toward older audiences, while the antics of Mario and Luigi are geared towards children.  Yes, the portrayal of the Mushroom Kingdom as some sort of inner city populated with rude denizens and pushy cops and choked with this nasty fungus wasn't everyone's cup of tea.  But this movie had a great musical track, a nice little romance between Daisy and Luigi (little shallow, but who cares?), and of course, great action and special effects. It was a joy ride for me, one that made me feel like a kid again.  Who doesn't go for a goofy movie every now and then?  This one is one of the greats, nevermind what the slanderers say. There was a feel to this film that really won my heart over.  Besides, not everything needs to be as complex as rocket science. *4 out of 5* "},{"Title":"Wow What A Bad Movie.","Date":"21 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  only one word comes to mind when you the of Super Mario Bros. The Movie, BAD. This could have been a really cool movie, but wow did it suck hard. the whole plot was dumb. They could have made it really good, it was nothing like the video game, which are good games, unlike this movie. Terrible Terrible Terrible. 2 thumbs down. "},{"Title":"My guilty pleasure flick","Date":"12 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Admit it. We all have that ONE picture that we would never, ever, ever in a million, billion years admit to liking. Now, granted, there are some flicks (Evil Dead 2, Buckaroo Banzai for example) that we will admit to liking or loving because we know there are others in the world like us who enjoyed that movie. But then there are those very very bad films that NO ONE can like because it has no redeeming values and will forever brand you as a retard, unable to critically judge a genuine film again and never scoring with the ladies (or gents).This is that film for me.I really, really like this film. Not love mind you, just really, really like it. I rent it ever now and then (usually under an assumed name, while wearing a hood, scarf and sunglasses - yes even at night), and laugh my butt off all the way through. It's just that good - I mean bad!Now what's YOUR'S? "},{"Title":"ChildLIKE or ChildISH?","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a bad movie. Okay, now that that is out of the way, let me point out a few things John Leguizamo is acceptable in his role as Luigi. Samantha Mathis is acceptable in her role as Princess Toadstool. I mean Daisy. And I have to admit that Bob Hoskins and Dennis Hopper are acceptable in their respective roles as Mario and Koopa. My point is that the problem isn't the acting. This is a terrible, terrible movie that should never have been made, but given that it IS being made, the four stars do an acceptable job.The problem is with almost everything else in the movie. This is one of those movies where things have been crammed in there because they seemed like cool concepts. There is no attempt to base actions in reality and there is no effort to infuse the script with logic.  There is a strange, dark undertone to the movie, which can be very interesting (Blade Runner) but here it just seems cheap. Combined with the fungus, it looks like they could only afford a studio BASEMENT and just incorporated it into the movie. I don't know if this was intended to be a funny kiddie movie, or a kiddie action movie, or a dark adult movie, or what. All I got out of it was that it is an idiotic plumber-fest with stupid technology and an insultingly simple plot. Allow me to reiterate THIS IS A BAD MOVIE. "},{"Title":"Not so bad, even though it's nothing like the games","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'm a great Super Mario lover myself, so I regret a little that this has -not a single thing whatsoever- in common with the brilliant games, except for some very loose character designs and references. As a film in itself, this is cheesy, silly and strange, but not bad per se. Switch off your sense of logic (and perhaps of finesse as well) and this is quite enjoyable. Nothing you haven't seen before, granted, but a fun way to kill a few hours with a freaky little trip of a film. Of course, it's supposed to be for pretty young audiences, so don't expect anything deep-running or very suave in there. This was never -meant- to be taken seriously, it's just a silly action romp with no pretention. For Mario fanatics, it also doubles up as an interesting curiosity. "}{"Title":"UGH!","Date":"8 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie makes Batman and Robin looks like an award winning picture. I don't know why other IMDB members liked this film so much. The special effects looks like a 2 year old kid design them. King Koopa (Played by Dennis Hooper) supposed to be a Dragon not a human. What the makers of this movie were thinking?The another thing wrong with this film, Mario and Luigi supposed to throw fireball out of their hand not by using a lame fire gun. Why the hack Mario and Luigi have to wear special kinda shoes to help them jump higher in the sky. That didn't happened in the Video Game.Overwise played the video game instead.Rated F "},{"Title":"Vastly Underrated, never had it's chance to shine, probably never will.","Date":"1 December 2013","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" First off, this film is not deserving of my 10/10. It's not a perfect movie, but the 10 helps. because that's what this film needs after 20 years of a bad reputation, despite there being worst movies out there.But on with the review, and why you should pay attention to it Do you have any understanding of how films work?How they are planned and made? all the sweat that goes to get something unique and worth watching out there? Well, most people don't, because that's behind the scenes stuff, and that is where people don't often go.I always loved movies and their own history, like, did you know The Dark Crystal had originally less English dialog than it currently had? Did you know that The Thief and the Cobbler was in production for 24 years before it was cut down and made into an Alladin knock-off?Did you know that The Black Cauldron had an R rating,but was immediately cut short for a PG rating?That may surprise some people, but not others, which is where all the ruckus comes from.The film itself is alright,but it has a few problems, the jokes are terrible,it has a childish tone,but there aren't any plot holes or inconsistencies, or at least none that I know of, The acting is good, the characters are likable, the special effects still hold up, and it actually feels like an actual movie, instead of a knock-off with game references thrown around.The source of the problem comes with the fact that it isn't like the games, and some people can get through it easily, but others don't, and for those who don't, they often made reviews saying it's a bad movie even though it doesn't really has any true merits of a bad movie, so in the end, people don't look past the fact the film isn't the game, and drag everything down with it because ''My childhood was ruined, I don't understand filmmaking''Often people would wonder how ''good'' this film would be if it was like the games, I put ''good'' between commas because here's a shocker you can't make a good Mario movie out of it's source material.The reason why you can't make a Mario movie out of it's source material is because it goes well with the games, which is where they were born, and translating it to Live-Action simply wouldn't work, I know this because I have read one of the original versions of the script, and it was accurate to the games, Koopa was a lizard, Luigi had a mustache, The Mushroom Kingdom was a huge greenfield, Piranha Plants, Koopa Troopas, you name it. Only problem, It didn't felt like a movie, it felt like a Wizard of Oz knock-off with Mario thrown in. It wasn't just me though, lots of directors at the time dismissed this version of the screenplay because it was so bland and forgettable.Some things only work in a video game, and some things only work in live action, Could you do a Citizen Kane video-game?No. Can you make a Lord of the Rings movie that fully respects it's source material? No. You might be thinking I am a hypocrite for mentioning the LOTR Trilogy because it's not like the books, and tell you to like the Super Mario Brothers Movie for the exact opposite reason, my answer is Lord of the Rings was a 800-page book, everything was established, and fleshed out; SMB. had no story, no character, no depth, it was just one big mess, and you can't make a movie out of that, so it was only logical to make changes.The ideas directors Rocky Morton and Annabel Jankel had for Super Mario Brothers were what shaped the project into what it is,But Disney is the one I blame for ruining the film.The film was originally going to have this awfully dark tone, Koopa's role as a dictator was expanded, and the world of Dinohattan fleshed out in a more mature way, and more. When Disney bought the film, the script was severely dumbed down for the PG rating, and even when they finished the film, it's original 2 Hours and 10 minute version received a PG-13 rating.30 minutes of footage is a lot, several things were cut from the movie, Sub-plots fleshing out the Mario Brothers were cut, Entire action sequences were either cut short, or cut out completely, like Mario being chased by Goombas on Koopa's Tower, and even alternate scenes where Daisy meets the Mario Brothers ,or Lena herself giving Koopa the rock on the Mud Tub, it would be a treat to see those deleted scenes back into the movie.But like many Disney films, like The Black Cauldron and Song of the South, we may never see the extended version of this film, or even a Blu-Ray release, for that matter, all we have now is an easy-to-find DVD release, sourced from the Laserdisc release of the film, suffering from several problems that makes the movie almost unwatchable.You can still dislike the movie if you want, but you must dislike it for what it is, and not for what it should be, it's intentions flew way beyond that, face the facts, and acknowledge them, you don't even need to explain why you dislike the film, just tell you don't like it, because disliking not only this film, but anything in general because it went far from your expectations, even though they were not your target, is simply not cool. It makes you look like a douche-bag.In the end, Super Mario Brothers. Give it a watch if you want, watch it for what it is, and don't expect a colorful fat plumber jumping on mushrooms and hitting blocks, because then you'd be better off with a controller in your hand playing the game. "},{"Title":"Super Mario Bros. (the movie)...  Despite having a Great Cast, this Movie Stinks All Around for One Main Reason- Totally Ignoring the Source Material!","Date":"23 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The incredible Bob Hoskins and the hilarious John Leguizamo star in the 1993 adaptation of the popular video game Super Mario Bros. A lot of people haven't heard of this film, and for some good reasons- it was a critical and commercial failure, seems to only exist as a cult film now, has been disowned by many of its stars, and for it's greatest offense- complete and total disregard for its source material.The games were essentially fantasy, taking place in the magical Mushroom Kingdom ruled by Princess Peach Toadstool, and teaming with the various other character who inhabit it (such as Toad, Yoshi and of course Mario and Luigi, plumbers). The evil King Koopa (or Bowser) will occasionally attack in some attempt to conquer the kingdom, but the heroic brothers Mario and Luigi are always there to stop him. That's about it for the story- it's very basic, very simple. It works. It's a tried and true formula. Just your basic knight-in-shining-armor-saving-the-day.You'd think something so basic would be impossible to mess up. Somehow, this film did just that.Directors Rocky Morton and Annabel Jankel (apparently with help from several other uncredited directors) along with a team of writers brought this film to the masses. While the games were bright, colorful fantasy with a simple story, Morton/Jankel completely twisted the entire story into a sort of dark-yet-childish Sci-Fi What if? about New York City and parallel dimensions and dinosaurs who escaped extinction. The opening scene of the film alone changes the entire set-up for the story, and within 5 minutes, you could easily forget you're even watching an alleged Mario movie.But I'll get back to the blatant source-material slaughter later, and address the movie on its own (limited) merits now.The film starts out with a flashback that theorizes that the meteor which killed the dinosaurs instead created a rift and an alternate dimension where the dinosaurs were transported, and able to evolve into intelligent, human-like beings. We then see the feared dictator of this alternate dimension, King Koopa (Dennis Hopper) pursuing a woman in our world, trying to get back a shard of the meteor- though it's never fully explained, re-inserting this shard into the meteor will merge both dimensions, and allow Koopa to take over our world. The woman drops off a large egg at a church, before appearing to die, while Koopa is sent back to his world. The egg hatches, and a human baby female is found inside.Years later, the Mario Bros. (although in this film, they are changed into adoptive father/son figures), owners of a small plumbing business in Manhattan, are dealing with frustration with a rival- Scapelli Construction, who seems to be stealing most of their work.The baby has grown into Daisy, a beautiful young archaeologist who is excavating dinosaur fossils around the Brooklyn Bridge. She and Luigi meet and fall in love, and one night, Luigi and Mario are forced to pursue her after she is kidnapped by Iggy and Spike, minions of Koopa. They get pulled through an inter-dimensional portal, and end up in Dinohattan (or so I've heard it called), the other-dimension's equivalent of Manhattan. From there on in, it's basically a rescue-the-damsel-in-distress tale, and is more of a light Sci-Fi adventure than a true Mario tale.To give credit where credit is due, there are some good things about this film. For one, the effects are nice and unique, especially for an early 90's film. The production design is quite cool, Alan Silverstri's score is Mario-esque, and the visuals are generally interesting and fun to look at. The cast kinda, sorta works in its own way, and Hoskins/Leguizamo are a ton of fun as the leads.But the movie also does so much wrong. For one thing, as mentioned before, the film totally ignores the games, outside of using character names. There is no Mushroom Kingdom (the setting of the games), all of the animal characters are now human, the brothers are no longer brothers, too much time is spent in the real world, they used the little-known Daisy character from the games instead of Princess Toadstool (Mario's love interest) so the younger brother could get the girl and appeal to the audience, Mario and Luigi's jumping ability are now the work of futuristic shoes. Nothing is designed to look remotely the same. It was like the filmmakers tried their hardest to do anything except make a faithful movie.Also, the film is full of other problems- a large portion of the humor is not funny. A lot of the direction is sloppy. A lot of plot points are poorly written. Dennis Hopper is pretty atrocious as Koopa. The rules are not clearly established. Etc. In addition, the movie tries too much to wink and nod to the fans- at one point, Luigi even talks about being a video-gamer. It felt like they were trying to make a movie about people who play Mario Bros., rather than an actual Mario Bros. movie... an even in that respect, the movie fails overall.This film was fun for me as 5-year-old when it first came out, as I had no real grasp on anything, and was wowed by the cool visuals. In retrospect, though, it's apparent animosity towards it's source material, and it's other faults are impossible to ignore. I have no problem with filmmakers changing some things for an adaptation, but this was ridiculous- they changed everything, and didn't even do a good job at it. Even if the movie wasn't based on Super Mario Bros., it would have stunk because it's too sloppy and too basic.While not atrocious, this film is still pretty bad. A 4 out of 10 just for the cool set/visual design, and the fun leads. It's worth watching once for hardcore fans just to see how wrong they got the story/tone, but only if you can see it for free. "},{"Title":"SUPER MARIO BROS. (Annabel Jenkel, Rocky Morton and, uncredited, Roland Joffe' and Dean Semler, 1993) **","Date":"17 September 2010","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The film version of Nintendo's SUPER MARIO BROS. is mainly notable for two things being the very first Hollywood production ever to be based on a video game (and the most popular one of its time at that &#x96; one I have been aware of from TV spots but have never played) and being unanimously deemed a complete disaster i.e. by movie critics, fans, Nintendo itself and even the film's stars. In fact, leading man Bob Hoskins (replacing Danny DeVito and Dustin Hoffman!) was allegedly drunk throughout the shooting and considers the film to be his worst!Speaking of replacements, Harold Ramis was initially considered for director and Kevin Costner turned down the role of chief villain King Koopa&#x85;a combination which could hardly have improved things much in my view. Somewhat incredibly, the film also boasts among its various producers Roland Joffe' &#x96; the award-winning film-maker behind THE KILLING FIELDS (1984) and THE MISSION (1986) &#x96; who, allegedly, also had a hand in the directorial chores on this evidently troubled 'blockbuster'.In any case, cinematic transpositions of video games are certainly here to stay as the latest one (a full 17 years later), PRINCE OF PERSIA THE SANDS OF TIME (2010), clearly attests. Having watched it for myself, I can safely say that it was not as bad as its unenviable reputation would have you believe; in fact, it brought back fond memories of my childhood viewings of equally exotic (and maligned) adventure fare as HOWARD THE DUCK and THE GOLDEN CHILD (both 1986). Among its relative assets is the gaudy BLADE RUNNER-meets-BRAZIL look for the parallel world of the dinosaurs that seems to be a remnant of the cult MAX HEADROOM (1985) Sci-Fi TV-series created by the film's official directorial duo; I also like the main females in the cast, namely the blonde heroine Samantha Mathis and the red-headed villainess Fiona Shaw.Going to the debit side, one has to point out Dennis Hopper's embarrassingly spiked hairdo, the silly sidekick villain duo who, even after being turned geniuses by their boss, still act dumb and, bafflingly, turn heroic! Ultimately, the film plunges to the depths of irreparable silliness during the sequences depicting Hopper's dinosaur Goombah henchman dancing to Maurice Jarre's Somewhere, My Love aka Lara's Theme from David Lean's DOCTOR ZHIVAGO (1965)!! "},{"Title":"Great movie","Date":"27 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" this is one of my favorite movie... i see that the ranking is low, 3.5 come on... is not a bad movie... is a fantastic movie.. is just different from the video game, but how can you put a game like super Mario in a movie?! will not work... and this story, work a lot... super Mario is cool, Luigi too, the idea of another dimension where reptiles evolve themselves is really original. the story is great, just a cool movie, i put 10 cause i love this movie, but to be realistic a 7 or 8 can be OK. but not 3.5... is not a realistic vote. i've seen this movie first time when i was very young on VHS, then the first version on DVD (unfortunately direct copy from the VHS master...) and then finally a cool version DVD really master. great songs in this movie, from queen, from Charles and eddy, and the super rock song speed of light from Satriani "},{"Title":"A Much Better Film Than Its Given Credit","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I continue to marvel at the awful reviews this film STILL gets nearly 15 years after the fact. People who call this the Worst Video Game Based Movie Ever need to really get a life.Let's get one thing straight no, it's not all that faithful to the original game. Toad, the little guy with the mushroom hat, is turned into a weird parody of Bob Dylan, and Koopa, instead of an evil dinosaur-looking monster, is turned into an evil corporate head.But once you get past these things, and just accept this as a stand alone movie, you actually have a pretty creative sci-fi adventure story. Two separate dimensions, formed when a meteorite hit, and a portal between them can only be formed when a tiny bit of the meteor is restored...dude, that's pretty cool stuff.Bob Hoskins is great as Mario, and he's likable in just about every film he's ever done. Some say Dennis Hopper just took this for the paycheck, but that's silly; if you liked his Frank Booth character in Blue Velvet, then you'll agree he's playing virtually the same character here. Yes, he's a little over the top...he's been over the top in everything he's ever done! The visual effects are pretty good for 1993...keep in mind this was released just a month before Jurassic Park. The Goombas are a pretty great visual creation. And there're a few good lines of dialog, mostly provided by Iggy and Spike. Overall, this wasn't a cheap little movie; you can tell that time and effort went into it.So it's one thing to not like this movie, but to say it's one of the worst ever made is just absurd. Mostly just an attempt to laugh off the Nintendo craze of the early '90's. Check out The Super Mario Bros. Super Show; now THAT was an awful show. "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Oh my gosh, where should I start. I grew up in the late 80's early 90's and was a huge Mario fan. I remember playing my Nintendo with my friends all the time. I remember when this movie came out I was so stoked. Me, my friend Curt, his mom, brother, sister, and mom's boyfriend went to the theater in his old Cadillac. (Can't believe I remembered that!) I remember going into the theater just loving every moment of the film. It was my heros, on screen for the first time. I distinctley remember that the ba-bomb's had Rebock shoes on (I think, maybe Nike, but I think Rebock) I also remember seeing the de evolution guns and saying to my friend Wow check that out, it's a super scope! Well, the movie went on, and I remember the ending. Me and my friend that they made the ending like that because they were going to make another one, but, they didn't. Well, fast forward to 2006 and I watched it again. I honestly think it is still a good movie. Yea, it was kinda cheesy, but hey, maybe those good memories from when I was a kid watching the movie kick in when I watch it, and make me think good things. It was a great movie, good acting, a little off from a Mario storyline, but hey, all the games have different story lines too, so why shouldn't the movie. Hope they make part two someday! Wart, here they come!!! "},{"Title":"Mario Bros. Luigi's the Man","Date":"28 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This is not the movie for those of you too busy remembering the good old days of NES with Mario as the hero. This is Luigi's story (and yes...there was actually a game for Luigi...and guess what...his princess was Daisy.) Those that think this is all about the princess in pink, you are quite mistaken. This movie takes some of the classic game info (Yoshi, babombs, fungi, and two plumber brothers), and makes it more realistic. The world ends up splitting into two parts. One universe humans evolve from apes, in the other they evolve from Dinos. Koopa is attempting to merge the two worlds together and de-evolve the ape-humans.The movie is alternative universe, but as long as you aren't looking for Mario and Peach to be the hero and his love interest, then you should have no problem enjoying this movie. "},{"Title":"This IS a good movie!","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" So many people say this is a bad movie, i disagree. This was just trying to take the story to an new level. If you watch the movie without an open mind then you just be sitting there complaining how far off from the video game. Dennis Hopper was a good villain in that movie, and John Leguizamo was awesome as Luigi. Watch with an open mind please. I'm tired of this being called a bad movie! This is a comedy. This is an action. This is a movie LOOSELY based on the game, not entirely. Besides those jump boots where pretty cool. Super Mario Bros. IS a good movie.OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO ooooo. "},{"Title":"Pretty bad, but it has it's moments.","Date":"20 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie has received enormously negative reviews, that it mostly deserved. The problem with this movie is that they tried too hard to make it make sense, to the point that it makes no sense at all. And it's massive seceding from the video game source is another problem.However, the film does have it's moments. Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo put in excellent performances, and you could tell that they were very excited and enthusiastic over their roles. But this movie was a waste of Dennis Hopper's talents. And come on, who didn't think the dancing Goomba scene wasn't funny? If only they had a better script, this movie could've had enormous potential, but, all well. "}{"Title":"Just a really fun family movie","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Forget how relevent it is to the game, who really cares, people give this movie a bad wrap due to the fact it's not exact to the game. Instead, it's just a really fun movie. People who are too busy bad mouthing this movie aren't giving themselves the chance to laugh nor enjoy it. Just watch it, not expecting the game on film. Then you'll enjoy it as much as I have. "},{"Title":"Why did I enjoy this movie so?","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It should be understood going into this movie that any sane person couldn't take this project seriously, and that I think is what makes it so fun. The actors are all too appropriate(I still can't get over Bob Hoskins' real accent), and they add exactly the effortless kind of ambivalent goofiness this movie needed. No, it's not a GREAT movie; I felt I had to boost it as it was the only movie on the the bottom 100 that I really enjoyed. "},{"Title":"It's everything you love about the Super Mario Bros. w/ fungus.","Date":"2 January 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I remember when this movie first came out. And i remember that the same day i went and bought a ticket to this movie. I also remember what flavor syrup i had on my pancakes too. But that's irrelevant. I'm going to just sum it up now, i loved this movie.I was a big fan of the series. I spent endless hours playing the games, i mean, who didn't? And when i heard that a movie was made, my first impulse was to watch it. I even bought it on box video when it came out. And now that i get online and see that it recieved a 3.4 i wanna find everyone that hated it, and step on their face. I hear the usual, It's nothing like the game! It was too stretched! Well, ok, let's just pretend it went just like the game. A plumber would appear magically in a land of mushrooms for no apparent reason, step on a couple of shoe wearing brown midgets, kick a couple of flying turtles into the afterlife, then walk into a castle, to find a pudgy little man that says, Well, Mario, you're screwed, she's not here. And then we'd repeat for another 3 hours. Sure we'd have to throw in a goofy turtle that breathes fire every half hour, just to keep the realism. C'mon people! I'm glad it went NOTHING like the game.What this movie did was take the story line, and then add in a little more. The comedy was great, and the action was wonderful. Who doesn't love Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo in tool belts fighting evil mutants? I personally found the movie fun, and hilarious. I'm just sorry that the heartless critics out there didn't feel the same.9/10 stars. "},{"Title":"I love this movie","Date":"30 August 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  First of all I absolutely love this movie. Now, people are saying that the movie is nothing like the video game. Lets all think about this for a while. The video game goes along these guidelines. Princess Daisy is captured by Koopa, mario and luigi have to save her. To do this they must go through a world full of mushrooms and kooper troopers. Now what is the plot of the movie? Ahhh, it is exactly the same. I hope they release this on DVD. And even better if they ever release part 2. "},{"Title":"Wonderful film; very funny!","Date":"10 July 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Even now, as an adult, I still enjoy Super Mario Brothers.  The reason why I think it wasn't received well with viewers was because they expected it to be much more similar the video games, but I personally believe it's admirable the way it is.  The acting is marvelous (especially Dennis Hopper), the set designs are amazing (the dark Dinohatten city was very atmospheric), and it succeeds (and surpasses) what it was meant to do present an action-packed (albeit humorous) adventure.And to all of the disgruntled Mario fans out there that think the movie could have been so much better than it was  you should just accept it for the engaging, whimsical, action-packed journey that it is.My Rating  Nine stars out of ten. "},{"Title":"Nintendo could have done better.","Date":"5 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Video game-based movies are hard to create.  The plot is absolutely atrocious.  As a fan of the many, many video games of Mario that exist, I consider this movie to be the worst reincarnation of Mario to date.  There are several key factors which make this movie very annoying.  I think the major problem is they shaped the movie incorrectly.  Mario and Luigi, played by veteran actor Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo, are two average plumbers who get in the mix with a princess named Daisy (Samantha Mathis).  The Mario Bros land in an alternate dimension chasing Daisy, but besides a few differences, it's pretty much the same as our world.  I was really hoping that Koopa (Dennis Hopper) would have his own castle and it would be an entire world and not just a few streets in an endless desert.  It would have been even more marvelous if King Koopa was really a reptile!  The Mushroom Kingdom (or whatever they call it) looks like an average town with trash on it.  The characters just don't seem to be realistic enough to be believable except Mario and Luigi, I enjoyed their performances.  The Goomba's are dreadful, with almost no facial expressions or character emotions. To end on a good note, this movie isn't half as bad as Double Dragon!  I would buy o r rent this movie only if you're looking for a fun rental for the family or if you're a crazed Mario fan like me. "},{"Title":"weird but cool!","Date":"24 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is nothing like the games (which is a good thing).  It is really weird, but the movie was awesome.  It makes fun of numerous things.  The special effects are awesome, and the cast (espeicially Dennis Hopper) did a great job on this movie.  The effects are especially awesome when Toad gets devolved into a brainless creature called a Goomba.  Its an all out good movie, and it's a shame that it didn't do better, cause I wish there was a sequel to it! "},{"Title":"You gotta look closer!! This one is cult!!!","Date":"18 October 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  If you slaughter this movie and call it 'yet another commercial mistake' etc. you just haven't watched this movie close enough. I've watched it like a hundred times and it's just awesome!! There are so many details such as parodies and irony in this movie.... the society is like a parody of the American society, and you find these details that just blow you away. Take for example the Bob-omb if you watch very closely when it stops under Koopa, you can see it says under the Bob-ombs feet Reebok, and there's a little British flag!! Also the vote for koopa campaign, the old woman with the gun, take anything. It's just wild. It's so weird and stupid and funny the same time it's just.... GREAT!! Another thing is the great actors (minus the Daisy-woman, she's no fun at all) and the well-written script. Everything is connected. Come on guys- this is cult. A weird kinda cult, you don't believe it the first time you see it, but later on-- this is just GREAT FUN!!! This was supposed to be a kids movie - but this is adult fun. Believe me. (And Leguizamo has the sexiest accent ever.) "},{"Title":"a weird attempt at making this movie but a great one non to less","Date":"3 January 2011","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" as a kid I love the games and thought it was great seeing it again for a second time after such a long time I still love it but it still seem like there could have been room for improvement considering how it contrast to the video games that inspired it.but overall it was more like a bold move than a great one like I mentioned in my summary above. the 2 lead actors chosen for the role of Mario and Luigi was perfect the main villain was surprisingly good although different from what I had expected same with the princess and the whole story overall. Yoshi's portrayal was acceptable apparently the fact that he was ether a dinosaur or a dragon or perhaps both even had the directors confused as it did fans and non fans alike. I highly recommend this to fans everywhere pervided that you don't take it to seriously. "},{"Title":"If plumbers were superheros my dad would be your superhero","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I watched Mario Brothers the movie expecting it to be really bad. Its not that I felt film makers were incapable of making a movie about two plumbers who use pipes to travel to other worlds, its that I was afraid that the video game was so good, the movie couldn't compare. BOY OH BOY was I wrong. This movie clearly kicks major booty. I had the Mario Brothers sticker book and used to pretend i was a mushroom. Dennis Hopper should win an Oscar portrayal of a troubled dragon, Koopa, who is trying to find his identity in the underworld while governing his Koopa Troopas. He leads two lives, plus, Italian brothers try to kill him. On A scale from 1 to 2 this movie gets a 2. My only problem with this movie is that no matter how hard I push my controller buttons, the movie always ends the same way. "}{"Title":"America's, and Japan's, Favorite Game Comes to the Screen Like You've Never Seen it Before!","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  CONTAINS SPOILERS        Over a billion years ago, a meteorite struck earth and wiped out all the dinosaurs for good, right? Wrong. It created a paralleldimension where dinosaurs evolved into human beings. This is their story. Well it's actually our story but they're in it too.        In Brooklyn, New York, two plumbers, Mario Mario and Luigi Mario, tried to find work, but every job seemed to be taken by Scapelli, a much bigger plumbing company. While on the job, Luigi meets Daisy, a good looking college girl working on a digging site. He invites her to dinner one night, the afterwards the two go for a walk near the site, when two bumbling thugs Iggy and Spike kidnap her and disappear. Luigi get's Mario and the two search for her and disappear into the parallel dimension.         They arrived in Dinohattan, a very weird looking town. It's covered with a fungus and all around are billboards with King Koopa's picture on them. If he's a king, why is he running for president? I guess King is his first name. It's a name. I'm sure we've all heard of King Moody, character actor and Ronald McDonald. Koopa is looking for the rock. A meteorite piece that Daisy was wearing around her neck, but had fallen off. He learns Mario and Luigi have it and has them arrested. They escape from jail and end up in the desert. They learn that Daisy is at Koopa's tower so they race into town to save her. They go into the building in very neat uniforms they find. They outwit creatures called Goombas, and soon come face to face with King Koopa, who had plans to deevolve the Mario brothers. But they make him a victim of his own fowl play and save the day!       A pretty good movie. Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo are good in their roles. Dennis Hopper is a good King Koopa. Everybody is good! Don't really think of this as a movie of the video game, it's more like an original idea based on the game. But anyway, if you're a fan of either, I recommend this movie!- "},{"Title":"An OK social satire based on the popular Nintendo characters","Date":"2 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The meteorite which hit the Earth some billions of years ago and seemingly caused extinction for the Dinosaurs, actually exiled them to an alternate Earth by creating a dimensional fissure in one dimension the reptiles thrived and evolved into a race of intelligent humanoid beings and in a parallel dimension mammals evolved into humans. Unfortunately their world has depreciated much faster and only a small bit of land (enough for a large city) remains hospitable. A small remaining piece of this meteorite is the key to linking the two dimensions and is the only thing keeping the despotic King Koopa from conquering Earth. The Mushroom Kingdom, the holders of the meteor, have fallen to Koopa and send the baby heir to the throne to our Earth, along with the meteor. 20 years later, the Mario Bros., while fixing a large underground leak at an archaeological dig, follow the kidnapped Daisy, who works at the site, through a dimensional portal and find themselves in a world resembling Total Recall and Escacpe From New York. Here they must confront Koopa, who plots to use his inexplicable De-Evolution technology to transform the habitants of Earth into their earliest form (monkeys) and usurp their resources. He frequently uses this technology to turn his own people into savage reptilian creatures called Goombas, who are curiously servile. An odd, quirky little film (not necessarily a bad thing) that doesn't have much to do with the video game series from Nintendo. Film ends up being an inspired, if not always logical, combination of Ghostbusters, Total Recall, Escape From New York and Masters of Universe. Both amusing and somewhat disgusting at turns and a bit too dark for the Bros. Some charm and wit in the lead performances to be sure (esp. Hopper), but story is ultimately hopeless nonsense. "},{"Title":"Burn it.","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Burn the f**king tape. Don't ever see this film, unless you're feeling suicidal or if you dream about having intercourse with Mario. Only totally idiotic die-hards should see this, or maybe stupid children.This is mind-numbingly bad video-torture. The main characters don't even RESEMBLE the original video game stars, so this shouldn't even have the word Mario associated with it. It should just be called Super Brothers. Or maybe just Brothers, since the production has absolutely nothing 'Super' about it. Also with the aforementioned lack of resemblance of the real characters, it's debatable if the film versions of Mario and Luigi are at all related. This movie may be better suited to remain nameless, but I don't agree. I have a good name for this D-F-B. (Which stands for Dia-F**king-Bolical.) "},{"Title":"Perfect example of why Hollywood film makers should stay out of the gaming world.","Date":"30 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Hello, My name is Duy. A typical teenage kid who grew up playing video games. Needless to say, I am a huge fan of the Mario Bros series created by Nintendo.I am extremely disappointed in this movie.I have given this film a second chance by watching it again after my first impression from 10 years ago. Unfortunately, it did not change my view.I have played ALL of the Mario games ever created by Nintendo; from monochrome 2D to fully 3D rendered games. The representation of the Mushroom Kingdone in the game is a VERY bright and joyful fairy tale-like universe. The one portrayed in the film is a dark, sinister, and violent, which is pretty much the EXACT opposite of the impression that the game gave me. They couldn't even get the COSTUME right! The MAIN character, Mario, is suppose to have BLUE overall with red shirt underneath, and a red hat that has the famous M stitched on it. The film has Mario dressed NOT in an overall... AND not the right colors! In the movie, Mario wore a plumber suit (which is forgivable I guess)... but... the colors are reversed... He had RED as the overall portion and BLUE as the sleeves... and... no famous M anywhere to be found.Is it just me or is this film centered around Luigi rather than our main man, Mario? Oh yea, speaking of character names... the name is pronounced, MAR-REE-OH.... It gets annoying when every character in the film refers to the main man as, MEEAR-REE-OH.Why Daisy? Just WHY Daisy? She's barely a known character. Where's PEACH?! Where's Bowser?! Where's Laikitu? The only music from the film that I can relate to the game is the VERY beginning song... I believe that music in Mario games play a MAJOR role in setting the happy-go-lucky feel of the Mushroom Kingdom. Unfortunately, the film takes on a whole different direction and so the music is not applicable.(or at least that is the only reason why I think the catchy tunes from the games didn't get a reincarnation in some form in the film) I may have a different opinion if this film ISN'T call Super Mario Bros. However, this film IS Super Mario Bros., and it fails miserably at bringing the Mario World to life.My final say Hollywood film makers should stay AWAY from the gaming industry. I know that getting hold of the right to make a film for a super famous series/title will probably be a shot at making A LOT of money... but this is unbearable.... All these attempts... all these GARBAGE that Hollywood is pumping out and slapping onto the film the title of some really popular game series/title... As a gamer, I feel like it's an insult to the gaming scene. List about 5-10 movies based on games... and tell me how many out of all those listed are even decent movies... It's hard isn't it? (personally, I can't name a single decent one that successfully brings the game world to life like expected.) "},{"Title":"Pure, Unadulterated Fun!","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is brilliant. It is a piece of art, but not in the conventional way of movies being art. It is a piece of art in that it's just so damned. fun. I don't think that I've seen a movie which is more fun than this one. I do realise that it has extremely little to do with the actual Mario Bros. games- but the basic groundwork is the same, and it's still a rollocking good time. The first review posted of this movie really should be abolished- it doesn't give the movie any credit at all. It's all good fun, with a surprisingly all star cast. I think the actors felt that it wouldn't further their careers, but they would have been having a good time doing it.What made everyone hate this movie so much? Even my mother liked it! It's just stupid fun. What's wrong with a little stupid fun?The only flaw that I found with it is the ending, because it reeks of a sequel, but we all know there won't be one. (I doubt that the actors would want to do it again).So, although an inaccurate portrayal of the Mario Universe, we still have a pretty good movie on our hands here.  "},{"Title":"Bad for Gamers","Date":"30 December 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Wow.  I go around asking everybody if they've seen the movie, and they tend to hate it.  I on the other hand liked it very much.  I think the writers of this film were trying to handle this movie kind of like how Brian Singer does with the movie X-Men.  They try to make it where you would watch the film and make you think that it COULD be possible.  Of course the one thing that Brain had going for him that the writers of SMB didn't was a forgiving fan base.  The writers decided to base it off of some off the wall concept that was no where near what the video game was.  A parallel dimension formed when a meteorite smashed into Earth, and mammals stayed in one, then dinosaurs went to another.  If there was no such thing as the video game, I'm sure a lot of people would have absolutely loved the movie. Unfortunately, the audience it attracted was hardcore Mario fans, and it left most people that left the theater disappointed.  This movie was great for moviegoers however.  The special effects were awesome for it's time, beating (in my opinion) the special effects that were in Robocop 3, Ninja Turtles III, and even Jurassic Park, all of which were released in the same year SMB was released (1993).  The story was extraordinarily creative. If I wasn't a moviegoer, than I probably would have hated this film like most others, because I'm a video game junkie.  In short, I think it was a masterpiece of it's time, and if you're a moviegoer, this would be a great addition to your DVD collection. "},{"Title":"interesting","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This reminds me a lot of brazil for some reason. bob hoskins i guess is the main reason. why people are rating this 3.5 is beyond me, its an interesting take on a CHILDS videogame that has enough good bits to warrant a complete sitting.time to lighten up people ) "},{"Title":"Absolutely disgraceful.","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Not many critics are fans of feature films based on video games, and this movie is a great example of why.Everything that made the video game so much fun was completely thrown out the window. The Super Mario Bros. games were so much fun because of the original thought that went into the story and characters. Players are immersed in a colorful, strange, and silly world where they are in control of a pair of plumber brothers from Brooklyn that find themselves in a place called the Mushroom Kingdom where they must save the the Mushroom Kingdom princess from a giant turtle-like creature named Bowser and his minions. The movie (very) vaguely sticks to the storyline, but replaces all the interesting creatures in the video game with human representations (Dennis Hopper's Bowser is a particular stretch) and replaces the whimsical Mushroom Kingdom we're used to with a dull, uninteresting, dismal world that doesn't even remotely resemble anything in any Mario Bros. video game.Anyway, besides my problem with the movie's inability to stick to the plot of the video game, the movie as a whole is an incredible waste of time that fails to satisfy. I'm not quite sure what the target audience was for the movie, but it doesn't seem to appeal to any one age group, while the video games are timeless classics that all can enjoy. Whether you are a fantasy movie lover, a video game lover, or both, avoid this movie at all costs. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is extraordinarily stupid. The special effects are cheap, the dialogue is lame, and the whole thing seems utterly pointless. This comes off as more of an insult to the video game. Thank God this movie bombed otherwise they would have made a sequel. "},{"Title":"Boy was this a waste of film...","Date":"13 December 2002","Score":"10 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I cannot accurately describe how much of a disappointment this movie was to me. I am a huge Mario Bros. fan, but this movie is truly a dark spot in their history. While I did like the Mario Bros. costumes when they eventually got into them, the rest of the movie had little to nothing to do with the games and was very poorly done. The few things that were taken from the games are so twisted that they don't even resemble the character or place which they were based upon. The Mushroom Kingdom isn't a fantastic wonderland of bricks and strange mushroom houses, but a run down New York City filled with Dinosaur People who look just plain stupid. Toad is some tall hippie guy with bad hair cut, Yoshi is a 2 foot tall T-Rex, and Koopa is Dennis Hopper with too much hair jell. This movie makes the live action segments of Captain Lou Albano on the Super Mario Bros. Super Show look like Oscar winning material.... Well, almost. If you want good Mario Bros. then play the games, and as the tagline for this movie says, This ain't no game. "}{"Title":"All in all, an OK flick...","Date":"4 July 2006","Score":"11 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It was summer, 1997. I was just becoming a video gamer then, and when my Dad told me the Super Mario Bros Movie was on TV, I nearly had a lapse of sanity, I was like THERE'S A MOVIE?! And so I sat down and watched it. Then, I rented it endlessly. After which my parents finally bought me a VHS copy for Christmas in winter of '98. I have studied this movie to no end, I have watched it so many times I have lost count. But it's also not as bad as people make it out to be. Let's look at the facts.Mario is Italian, right? Mario is from Brooklyn, right?Well, they got half that right, getting a British actor (Hoskins) to play the part of Mario with a New York Accent. I thought that was OK, but in the long run, Mario should have been played by Danny DeVito. That's really the only person who could have played him, because DeVito's both Italian AND a New Yorker (at least, he acts like it...)Luigi is Italian, right? Luigi is from Brooklyn, right?Again, something they got half right. John Leguizamo, a young Hispanic man, to play the part of an Italian Plumber. At least John acts like a New Yorker, a convincing New Yorker, nonetheless, but not an Italian Plumber. Also, Luigi should have had a mustache, there's no excuse for him not having a mustache in that movie, but for some reason... Koopa. Koopa is a dinosaur.Okay, they totally blew this one, but hey, it was 1992 when they made the movie, for Chrissake! There was no such thing as CGI back then and even if there had been, we'd all complain to this day about 'How fake Bowser looked.' So they did the next best thing, they made Koopa a really mean politician, I can see the humor in that now...Daisy. Daisy is the Princess of Sarasaland.OK, they blew this one too, but here's the lowdown on Mario and the Princess, I don't know if you know this, but Mario doesn't go out with Peach in the games, he goes out with Pauline, the girl from Donkey Kong, an earlier model for Peach. But now, Pauline and Peach exist in the same plain, so there is no reason to have Mario have a relationship with a young princess when it can go to Luigi, a character that kids can relate to.Goombas. Goombas...Again, there was no CGI back in those days and even if there was it was very primitive (T2) and it could not have made the illusion of many little characters on screen. So they did the next best thing, they had over-sized (God knows why) zombie-like creatures who had once been members of the Mushroom Kingdom act out they're part, unfortunately, probably taking a lot of the budget up...And Finally, Toad. Toad, Toad, Toad...Toad is supposed to be a body guard of the princess, right? Well he's Peach's body guard, not Daisy's and he must have been out of a job or something in this movie because I have no idea why he was even in this film...I hope this helps you understand the Mario Bros Movie a little better. I like to think of it as Mario in Wario's World, which would've made a cool sequel, but again, the movie bombed at the box office... I have now, and always will enjoy this movie, but the flaws are hard to look past. But if you can manage to watch the movie and just have fun, then I salute you, because it's Mario, and everybody loves Mario, no matter what they say.UPDATE After revisiting the world of the Mario Bros, I came to realize what made me fall in love with this movie in the first place... I don't know why, but I've always been attracted to this movie, it will always hold a special place in my heart and it's number 2 on my top ten list (With FIGHT CLUB being number 1.) When I was little, I watched this movie, over and over and over again until three in the morning every weekend until my parents split up... The reason I love it so much isn't because it's about my favorite video game character, or that it stars my favorite actors (Bob Hoskins, Dennis Hopper), but because it's a gritty, dark, violent balls to the wall science fiction movie. Even with a PG rating, this movie is PG-13 by today's standards, lol But I know everything about this movie. The only thing is, I wish they'd come out with a special edition DVD with some special features, it is the FIRST movie to be based upon a video game, after all...All in all, there are only 2 things I'd change about this wonderful little movie...1. Luigi would have a mustache. 2. Mario Bros would be in Mario Bros Red and Green Uniforms whole movie.That's all I have to say, really, I can't express what a fun and entertaining movie this is, even if you don't think it's true to the video game (which it is, to a big extent), still watch it, and enjoy it as the most violent, gritty PG-Rated Science Fiction Film ever made. I love you Mario, Luigi, your okay, too. ~ Art At War "},{"Title":"No Justice for a Good Game?","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"13 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'm sorry, but the movie version of Super Mario Bros. just didn't do any justice to the classic video game.  The plot didn't seem to click, the references to the actual games were few, and the characters?  Well, Mario and Luigi were well-done, but the Koopas just weren't.  All in all, we old-school gamers deserved better when we wanted to see our wrench-toting heroes on the silver screen. "},{"Title":"Stupid Mario Bros. The Movie Ba-Bomb!","Date":"21 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Wow........................ Just, Wow! I Am 14 And I Know Bad Film Went I See One And Lord Have Mercy One Those Who Saw This.While The Trailer Looked Cool, It Still Looked Crappy.I Have Seen This Film 6 Or 7 Years Ago And Did Not Care For It.Bob Hoskins Tried But Even He Never Liked It.& John Leguizamo Tried But He Didn't Like It Either.& Dennis Hopper....Lord I Wish He Was Still Alive And He Spend Most Of The Month Acting In This Ballsweat.And Princess Daisy Never Seemed To Surprise Me.And The Fact That Princess Peach Not Being Here Is Weird.The Fact That The Mario Bros Being Father & Son Makes No Sense.Why Do The Goombas Look Terrible? Why Is Daisy's Father In A Cocoon? Why Is Mario Dancing With A Prostitute? Why Is Bowser Germaphobic? Why Are 2 Italian Plumbers Played By A British Man & A Cuban? & What The Heck Was With The Cliffhanger? Eh, I Don't Care This Movie Sucked So Bad, It Bombed At The Box Office (thank god.) Because Nobody Would Want There Name On Here.But For Those Who Are Curious About This, i Won't Stop You.But This Film Is Terrible From Beginning To End.Do Not Watch If You Are A Fan Of The Video Games - D. Hidden Howard "},{"Title":"Don't trust me, trust the fungus!","Date":"8 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Mario has gone stagnant these days. There hasn't been any real innovation in the games since Mario Galaxy, back in 2007. Mario 3D World? Oooh- now I can be a cat! Please. But back in 1993, when Mario and company were less established, the Super Mario Bros. Movie dared to bring the brothers into a new and exciting world. And created something special in the process. I've heard all the criticisms. It doesn't take place in the Mushroom Kingdom. Neither did Mario 2, Mario Land or Mario World. In fact, Mario World takes place in Dinosaur Land. So the films' Dinohattan isn't too far off. The Princess should be Peach, not Daisy. Except Peach wasn't named that until Mario64 in 1996. Before she was called Toadstool. So Mario Lands Daisy was the better choice. Luigi doesn't have a mustache. No, he doesn't. Boohoo, cry me a river, build a bridge and get over it. The thing is, this is a real fun movie and a good, if dark family film, with out cursing or nudity. And the Goombas, though far different than the ones in the games, are great bits of animatronics. As is Yoshi, a dinosaur with such personality that the makers of Jurassic Park hung around the set to pick up pointers. Too many people have made up their minds about this movie based on the words of internet critics, a dubious occupation if ever there was one, or the sole fact that It's not like the games! Personally, I think many would be surprised by how enjoyable this movie is. But don't take my word for it, watch it yourself. Trust the Fungus! "},{"Title":"Definitely Worse than the Super Mario Bros Super Show","Date":"16 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The good news is at least this movie doesn't involve pasta jokes. The bad news is that this movie is NOTHING like the Super Mario Bros video games we all know and love! And also, this movie has bombed(or should I say bomb-ombed) the box office. Here's the story Daisy is kidnapped by King Koopa and the Mario Bros must rescue her and save the world from being transformed into humanoid lizards. Wait a minute! WAIT A MINUTE! Does this sound like that the Super Mario Bros movie is going to be a great movie? The answer is no. There's also character inconsistencies. In the video games, Mario and Luigi are brothers; King Koopa is Bowser, a tyrannical lizard out to rule the Mushroom Kingdom; and Princess Daisy is a spunky tomboyish princess whom Luigi has a crush on. In this movie, Mario and Luigi are step-father and step-son; King Koopa is a human; and Daisy is a scientist. What's stupid about this movie is the Mario Bros' last names and the intro. Mario Mario and Luigi Mario? Wow, that's creative as the Fearless Leader named Fearless Leader, a horse named Horse, and an ape named Ape! What is this, one of them Rocky and Bullwinkle cartoons?! Also, what does the extinction of dinosaurs got to do with the Super Mario Bros video games? NOTHING! ABSOLUTELY NOTHING!! Who's the numb nuts that approved the idea of making a box office bomb-omb out of the Super Mario Bros video games?!! Wait, two directors and four writers? Oh, I see, six morons made this movie! I hate the Super Mario Bros Movie! HATED THE FACT THAT EVERYONE WILL LIKE THE MOVIE JUST BECAUSE IT HAS THE SUPER MARIO BROS IN IT!! HATED THE CHARACTERS, THE HANNA-BARBERA STYLED JOKES, THE STORY, AND THE SOUNDTRACK FOR THIS MOVIE! (Gets water splashed on) Thanks. I needed that. "},{"Title":"Just watch it for yourself.","Date":"13 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I could not believe how bad this movie was compared to the game. However I thought it was interesting, as in an interesting adaptation of the NES game. But the movie just could not hold up. It seemed to drag on for longer than it should have, and it seemed rushed. The intro is just wrong, it starts off as animated and the animation itself is jerky and scratchy. Then the film states that dinosaurs used to rule the world, which is true; but then it states the idea of the possibility of another dimension in which the dinosaurs thrived. Well that certainly was interesting, but it just did not feel like Super Mario Brothers. But then again I had to watch this movie with an open mind. So as we all know Mario is the older brother, and Luigi is the younger brother. The movie brought a good adaptation of the two but then the movie progressed. I noticed how Mario wore a green jacket but had a red shirt, and also noticed that Luigi had a green hat, but a red shirt on. The colors just felt a little mixed to me. So then we meet Princess Daisy...well wait a minute, wasn't the point of Super Mario Bros. to play as Mario and rescue Princess Peach? It just astounds me how they could have messed that up. So more useless plot filler happens and then Luigi winds up asking Daisy out on a date, but not just a date a double date with Mario. Now I reveal this little bit of the movie for one main reason...Daisy tells the two brothers that she never really knew her family after being questioned by the rock around her neck. She also states that she was abandoned and left at an orphanage. So then Luigi shocked goes into detail about how Mario has always been there for him and then he states basically that Mario had raised him and been his Father, his Mother, etc. It just blows my mind. So basically what this movie is claiming is that Mario and Luigi are not brothers, but Father and Son? This just is incredible. Back to the overall movie, The Academy Award Winning Actor, Dennis Hopper played Bowser or King Koopa in this movie, and I have to say it was an interesting choice, but it just did not work for me. There is only so much Hopper could do to try to make the character work, but he just cannot accomplish this goal. Yoshi also makes an appearance but it was just a disappointment so I shall not go into that. All and all this movie is just a disgrace, its interesting I agree, but other than that, its awful. The perspective is just odd, and the characters do not portray the characters in the game even half as good as they should have. It just seems rushed and half-baked. This movie should have given us insight into the Super Mario Brothers, this movie should have been for the fans, and yet its just another failure. I do not recommend this movie at all, I do however recommend it for the fans, as they will be sure to get a kick out of it. Anyone else, just avoid this movie at all costs because it is certainly not worth your time. "},{"Title":"Here it is, the movie that began the demise of the video game movie","Date":"12 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Like I said in the text above, this was the movie that started the gamers despair, there were ones before that weren't as bad, (Mortal Kombat, Street Fighter...Etc) but this one is the thing that took any idea of a good video game movie by the scruff of the neck and tossed it into 1985. I myself am a gamer and am personally offended by this movie. The casting was O.K. (But really, John Leguizamo?) The movie mainly consists around Mario, Luigi, fungus, Big dumb things in trench coats and King Koopa played by Denis Hopper. It slowly decreases into a miniature T-Rex and muppets. I think that this movie is only really good for commentaries, so if you do not like suffering, do not watch this movie, UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES. "},{"Title":"Highlander 2 might have some competition here!","Date":"21 May 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Every now and then a movie comes along that is not just awful, it is beyond awful. You sit there wondering just what the film makers where thinking or if they were thinking at all. Super Mario Brothers is not the worst movie I have ever seen, but it certainly is one of the most horrendously conceived movies ever hatched, and not in a good way. I think the biggest problem of this film has to be in the concept. Taking two beloved video game characters like Mario and Luigi and transferring them to a live action movie. While this idea worked in other movies like Mortal Kombat, here it just flat out doesn't and should never had been attempted. I saw this in the theatre, unfortunately, and I was amazed at how not only the adults were board but how the kids were as well. Bob Hoskins has loudly denounced the film, as well as his involvement, and I am sure the other actors don't put this on there resumes. All in all, this movie shows that just because you can make a movie does not mean you should. "},{"Title":"Were Sorry Mario, but your Oscar is in another Castle","Date":"13 January 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" While I agree this movie isn't the worst film ever created, it is bad, and does nothing positive for the games but at the same time it is watchable if you are in the mood for such a film.Basically the writers of this movie decided to go the trend of making a typical Alternate Universe 90's cyberpunk action film which spends more time on jokes and action and less time on making it relevant to the games and in that respect it was decent. The problem however is the fact that at the time this film was highly anticipated and an extreme let down to those of us who were fans of the game.Character Bios were rewritten, the Mario Bros aren't even biological brothers, Iggy is Koopa's cousin instead of one of his sons and the princess is Daisy. The film felt more in line with Total Recall or, Demolition Man. There was another film, Master of the Universe which had a lot in common with this film although that one actually fit with the series it was based on.Anyway if you want a mediocre action film that fits the era... this isn't horrible, but don't go in expecting it to be like the game. "},{"Title":"Not your Japanese Super Mario Bros. Kids you've been warned!!","Date":"17 April 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Alright, I'm just gonna say it now, this movie sucked! First of all, what happened to the mushroom kingdom?! That's a big part of Mario!!! Another problem is if this was really based on Super Mario Bros, why is there Daisy instead of Peach, where's Princess Peach? Some of the music and stunts were cool, I wonder if Miyamoto has seen this disaster, he probably cried, There's swearing and sexual content like strippers and prostitutes, if you want kids Mario, play Super Mario Galaxy!!! or i hate to say it, go see Hannah Montana the Movie anyways, Epic Fail! but i hate Nintendo of America for giving the rights to some unknown studio, i love Nintendo of japan, this was soooo not the Mario I know and love. I am disappointed in NoA and Hollywood studios, oh and I know if there was to be another movie, that Miyamoto and Iwata wouldn't let it come to Japan, they have the real mario movies, and animal crossing the movie, just another reason to be jealous of Japan ( "}{"Title":"Doesn't make much sense...","Date":"2 May 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This certainly wasn't a very well-made movie, and I really wonder what the script writers were thinking. But negatives aside, there were some easter eggs in this film. There were more similarities between the movie and the games than most viewers might notice -Dennis Hopper's hair style It is the same ruffled hair as Koopa has in the games, except that it's not bright red.-Jumping into the wall Mario and Luigi jump through a solid wall in the cave, just like Mario does with the paintings and rock walls in Super Mario 64. But this movie was made BEFORE Super Mario 64... ? -The Devo Chamber is basically like the throne rooms of the kings in Super Mario Bros. 3, with the white tiled walls and the golden chair.-The large suspended steel vat that Koopa is thrown into near the end is a little like the clown-faced hover machine that he rode in Super Mario World, minus the clown face.-The Koopa Hotline communication device in Koopa's tower made a 1-UP noise when it was activated.-In the games, princess toadstool has a jewel on the front of her dress. In this movie, she wears the glittering meteorite around her neck.-The Koopahari Desert name for the desert area of the world remains the same between the game and movie.-The scissor lifts used in the police station scene are ever so slightly similar to the spring boards in Super Mario World.-I'm guessing that the cave area with the meteor is vanilla dome? "},{"Title":"Please an second!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","Date":"1 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie was so cool. I love this movie but I think the wouldn't make an second part. But I hope there come an sequel. The Police Car scene was cool and the Devo chamber too. Have they made Toad normally and what is with Iggy and Spike. And do someone know what Daisy will from the Brothers. We must wrote letters or emails to the Person who made the film and as for a second. But we all most wrote because when many wrote they will maybe make it. What for Ideas have you all for a second part?It would be the best when John and Bob Hoskins return with all the others but they won't make it. Hoskins have said about Mario Bros I wish I never played in this movie.Or they must find actors who looks like the two.And I hope that they will make an third Part. Because from the games it's so, Super Mario Bros 1+2+3 and there should be three parts. "},{"Title":"Mario and Luigi rush to save princess daisy who finds out she's related to a dinosaur which happens to be her mother","Date":"29 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I saw the movie quite awhile ago and i loved it!i'm a big Mario fan and i have been since i got my first Mario game in 1996.the game was super Mario RPG legend of the seven stars.anyway,when you see the movie somewhere,buy it while you still can!everyone who says the movie sucked is wrong.that must mean that they're not Mario fans.it's the best movie i've ever seen!i loved how they made Yoshi.he was so cute,but thats just my opinion.the Goombas were pretty funny looking but that didn't change how good the movie was.toad isn't a mushroom in the movie,he's a real boy and King Koopa is an old guy thats really funny looking.Yoshi is a dinosaur like he is in the video game.if u want to know more,see the movie for yourself! "},{"Title":"absolutely amazing","Date":"19 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" the staging, the brilliant real-world adaptation of classic Mario lore, and an eastern flavor in its philosophy, this movie is a childhood gem which glows brightly in my mind more than a decade since my last complete viewing. every detail is precise and perfect. every gesture is elegant and praise-worthy. every word a poem in its own right. the style is so amazing it makes you dislike the real world at worst and wish never to return in its most triumphant moments. as a small child, I was lucky enough to receive the audio cassette companion to the film, which is equally insightful and riveting, though visually lacking. such is the imagination of the filmmakers, who bested the mind of even a young child, whose only defense against crushing reality was his puny imagination. their imagination beat mine, ending the legend of children having better imaginations than anyone. moving on, Dennis hopper's beyond-genius portrayal of koopa rivals such classic movie villain performances as Orson Welles' Citizen Kane and Phillip Seymour Hoffman's Capote. john leguazamo is incomparable as Luigi, Mario's dimwitted, yet highly successful companion and brother. the actor who portrays Mario does so with such excellence that I have never seen him in another movie, or at the very least, don't recognize him, nor do I even remember his name! the greatest thing about this movie is its special effects, which clarify and inform much of the on-screen action with such wit and eloquence, that my mind becomes filled with adjectives to describe them. some adjectives include very good! and tenacious! words, however, have not been invented or combined well enough to describe the climax of this adventure in film magic. this review will be updated when such words become available, but please, dear reader, do not hold your breath. for you would suffer a fate so tragic that Shakespeare himself would be reminded of the various scenes he wrote where characters die from suffocating or holding their breath. in short, this movie is worth buying even if you hate movies or don't own a video player, if only for the box, which features a logo drawn with boundless attention to the film's titular characters, and a plot summary for the ages, which describes the key themes and plot points of the film with a brevity that would send Donovan Bailey, the former fastest man in the world, into a second retirement (were he to read it). all i can say has been said, but do not fear. the movie shall say the rest. listen, won't you? "},{"Title":"Not true to the Video Game, but a cool B movie","Date":"2 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I didn't see this movie till 2002. I was very surprised to find it different from the popular Nintendo video game.Super Mario Bros. is about 2 brothers who live in Brooklyn. They both run a local Plumbing business themselves. Although they have a tough competition with Better plumbing companies that steal their clients' interest on them.Mario is the older brother while Luigi is the younger brother. One day Luigi meets Daisy an ordinary girl who is an archaeologist who discovered remains of a deformed dinosaur fossil at an area in Brooklyn which is said to be the original siting of a Meteor Crater.One night when Luigi and Mario fixed the plumbing system near the digging site with Daisy, 2 mysterious guys come out of no where and kidnap Daisy.They went through a tunnel underground and found a dead end with no where out. But the Dead End is in fact a portal that leads our plumbers to a dark and twisted world with Dinosaur people, fungus and deformed dinosaurs. Our heroes are now wondering What is this place? And what became of Daisy? This movie is pretty good. Just it's nothing like the Video Game. It's 90% different from the original video games. Those who like B-Movies might in joy this movie. Those who are obsess with the Mario Bros. Video Game might not like the way this movie is made. "},{"Title":"A Truly Weird Film","Date":"2 December 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" It would be unfair to say that SMB didn't have its moments, but you really have to wonder why anyone thought making a live-action Mario-movie was a good idea. I admit that I enjoyed the minimal references to the games and some of the concepts were pretty nifty.I also have nothing against Bob Hoskins, John Leguizamo or Dennis Hopper, they're all great actors.However the movie makes so many childish mistakes just from a movie-maker's point of view that it looks like it was really just thrown together. The occasionally amateurish editing and nonsensical lines are my biggest irks, but I do also question the choice of game to adapt.A bizarre experience. "},{"Title":"Play the freaking game!","Date":"5 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie does not show Mario in his best light. I gave this movie a five because, well, I like the Mario games, BUT THIS IS SO F***ING INACCURATE! 1. Daisy is not the Princess of Mushroom Kingdom, Peach is. 2. WHY DO THEY ALWAYS USE BOWSER'S LAST NAME? (for those who don't know what it is, its Koopa) 3. Just because Yoshi looks like a dinosaur, doesn't mean he actually is one. Get that through your heads! 4. I saw a few characters in the movie (I'm not naming names) and I thought, Who the hell are these guys? I'm telling you this. If you want to know about Mario, play his video games. He has a million of them. And if anyone uses this movie as a source for Mario knowledge, there is no hope for you. "},{"Title":"Not for grown ups","Date":"9 March 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" OK so some people don't rate this movie at all. But I went to go and see it when it was first released (I'm 22 now) and I loved it. All the Mario fans (and sonic or whatever) who would like a movie like this would love it. I don't get why some grown up people have to criticise this movie, its not really one for the older generation anyway and if they make a remake it'll be twice as better thanks to the technology we have now. I gave it a ten then and I'm giving it a ten now. Oh and the plot is a little bit loose but what you expect, I mean you don't want to see two plumbers jumping around on bricks do you or what's the point of making the movie? "},{"Title":"Greatest Movie Since Ever.","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  When did we learn to be so critical to movies, and stop having fun with them? Movies like this, Mortal Kombat, Independence Day, etc are my examples of the greatest movies. These movies set out to be totally entertaining from the get go, and succeed. Sure it doesn't take much work, but who cares? Why waste time worrying about plot flaws? Aren't movies generally released for our entertainment?I got an idea, I'll goto the movies and enjoy the entertainment, and you sit at home with an 8 page essay written by a famous lawyer and analyze it. We should both be happy then.To the point of entertainment, this movie is the greatest. I do not exaggerate when I say I've seen the movies over fifty times. Still rolling with laughter at Luigi's use of the term 'buiscet-head', to counter 'over-weening rogue'.Of course, we must differentiate between movies and film. Film is serious Cinema, a true art. Some movies breach the difference between the two categories (Training Day), but this one certainly does not at all. If there was a line with 'movie' on one end and 'film' on the other, this would be all the way on the movie end. So while I would say this is the greatest movie, its the worst film. The greatest film is Paris, Texas.I would like to address consistency issues, mainly dealing with the impossiblity of de-evolution and little things like lizards having hair, or a shard of a meteorite merging dimensions. This is clearly a FANTASY world, and anything can be changed in such a world, why try to apply real standards and knowledge to it? For example, people were complaining Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series, that Mat Cauthon (One of the three main characters) learns to juggle 6 balls at once way too fast, that mastering such a feat takes 20 years in real life or something like that. But its a FANTASY world, RJ can dictate any set of deft learning he likes. People who consider themselves intelligent have a bad habit of hunting for flaws in everything, but why? Is that proof of civility?I wont bore you further, this is a good movie though, I recommend it to anyone who likes to have fun.  "},{"Title":"I actually liked it","Date":"11 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Who would want to see a movie about a short, fat, italian plumber jumping on turtles? I think that Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo played their roles well. I liked it mainly because I didn't expect it to be like the games, because, as stated above, that would be worse. When I first saw the movie, being about 5 at the time, there were three things I wondered Where's Bowser?, Why's Yoshi so small?, and What the hell is going on? but now that I understand it more, I find it more enjoyable. I would like to see another Mario movie made, not one like this... they should make an animated movie, based on the games. What I'm REALLY hoping they make is a Legend of Zelda movie, which I'm sure many others are hoping for someday as well. They are, however, making a Metroid movie.  "}{"Title":"Very Good. It Actually Reminded Me Of The Video Game.","Date":"3 July 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Super Mario BrothersThe Plot - The plot was about The Super Mario Brothers saving Princess Peach (Daisy) and defeating the evil nemisis of Mario and Luigi Koopa (Bowser). They are chased and hurried in time to get to Koopa. They also not to mention brake a lot of rules in the movie.Review - I thought this was like the video game exept Koopa was Bowser. Bob and John played exellent Mario and Luigi's. The funny thing I thought was is Mario is a plumber. Now that is good because it is just like the game and movies (cartoon) he was a plumber. I think this movie should get credited in this amazing movie. If  it is on Imdb's top 100 well I think it is actually pretty good for at least 11 years ago. I think it should get a 10/10 for it's amazing ability and fun things just like the video game portrayed Mario and Luigi as, two Brooklyn Super Heros. "},{"Title":"Not a bad movie, if you don't take into account it's source material...","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I watched Super Mario Bros in the theaters when it first came out, and being young and excited to see one of my favorite games adapted to the big screen, I loved it. It was a fun movie, and even though the only thing it shared with the games was the name and characters, I enjoyed it quite a bit.Looking back, I have to say that Super Mario Bros, while nowhere near a faithful adaptation of the games, still holds up as a decent movie in it's own right.The films overview can be found on this very site, so I won't go into it here. I will however say that the movie is an enjoyable fantasy romp, that while low on plot, is high on fun. As a child of the times, I can't get enough of the flick. Any of you who enjoy the fast paced, mindless action-adventure films of the early nintetees will enjoy this flick for the fun, vaguely gaming based romp that it is....  "},{"Title":"Video Game Comes To Life","Date":"8 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I have always been a big fan of Mario and his adventures.  This movie is a take  off on the NES and SNES video game.  Except a little different,  instead ofbattling Bowser to save Princess Peach,  Mario and Luigi battle Koopa to save  Daisy.  All in all I love this movie.  For it's time it has decent graphics and not a  bad story line.  Bob Hoskins and John Leguzamo are perfect as Mario andLuigi!  It's just too bad they never made a sequel. Any fan of Mario will love this  movie!!  "},{"Title":"This isn't really that bad people!","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've heard this mentioned in people's lists of Worst Movies Ever Made, and I think it deserves better. Considering that they were basing a movie on the Mario Bros. video games (which have about the absolute minimum of plot needed) they did a fine job. They retain elements of the game (jumping, dinosaurs, The Bomb) and developed them into a interesting and entertaining plot. Bob Hoskins is great as Mario and Dennis Hooper makes a keen Koopa. The sets are nice and weird looking and the Goombas are excellent. It's not Citizen Kane but it's not terrible. Manos The Hands of Fate was bad. the Atomic Brain was bad. Mortal Kombat Annihilation was a crime against humanity. But, this? This movie may be somewhat stupid, but it's still fun to "},{"Title":"how can you not like it","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  okay, maybe it's just me, but i think i have fairly good taste in movies, and i really liked this one. i would recommend it to anyone with any sense of imagination whatsoever. it has an entertaining plot, and great characters taken straight from the classic video game. i especially liked the flying boots and the bobombs. anyways, if you are looking for something to watch, you should trust the fungus and watch super mario brothers.  "},{"Title":"OMGWTFBBQ","Date":"18 January 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is the most genius thing I've ever seen. My majors are philosophy and english, and this is the most intelligent piece of film I've ever had the pleasure of watching. First, it has many layers. Layers upon layer upon layer. It starts as a comment on the American Dream, and slowly creeps into the downfall of Western Civilization as we know it. I was glued to my 52 Plasma tv, I wanted to see up a contraption like in A Clockwork Orange so I wouldn't have to blink, in fear of I'd miss a second. When this movie was over, I watched it again the next afternoon. This took the next 3 days of classes off just to let it sink in. I was truly amazed. It made me question the Government, my life, my family, my religion, and everything I held dear and belived it. It was a life changing experience.If you don't watch Super Mario Bros. the movie you'll be cheating yourself. See it ... see it now.  It is a true masterpiece of cinema.By the way, I was being sarcastic, this movie was horrible piece of steaming turd. "},{"Title":"Do you say Mayrio or Mahrio?","Date":"5 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I've heard it pronounced both ways. I guess only Bob Hoskins knows. This film revealed to the world that Mario's last name is in fact Mario, and one would assume it is his middle name as well, if his parents were on an uncreative roll. It was long, Reader, looooooooong!! Note the extra o's in the middle to emphasize the length. Plus, when we watched it, Mario kept getting 1-up's, so it lasted three hours loooonger. Note the three extra o's there. Moral of the story be careful what you wish for. If you wish to watch this, that is. If not, you may or may not want to be careful. I really couldn't tell you. Bye.  "},{"Title":"I Loved it so what if it didn't follow the game I don't give a damn.","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  SMB. is one of my favorites, I watch it every time it comes on tv and I will allways Eagaly await the sequel. It needs a sequel ASAP. But since they are probeply not going to make one then I'll just Write it myself since I want to Be a playwrite when I grow up. anyway, This movie didn't deserve to be in the bottom 100, at least in the middle 1000 and that would of been ok. but mainly people hate It because it didn't follow the game very accuratly, Resident evil didn't neither did tomb raider But those were good, and the Budget, 42 million A good higher then high budget. but it only grossed 25 million thats just dumb and It was in theaters everywhere in 93'. But it is still one of my favorites I love it. and the special FX are spactacular. And If you want to know my sequel Idea E mail me. my ratind 8.5/10  "},{"Title":"Godlike","Date":"30 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is the best movie i have ever seen. It is hard to put to words how good it is. The best part of the movie is how well acted Mario and Luigi are. I can't believe that they didn't get Oscars for their roles. I also love how realistic the goombas are, the special effects are stunning. This is my favorite movie. "},{"Title":"Really not that bad","Date":"17 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Come on... bottom 100 movies of all time? So Super Mario Bros. isn't a great movie... who cares? Its fun, it has cool special effects - in short, its your basic adventure. If you're looking for some deep and thought-provoking film, turn away. But this really isn't a bad movie, especially for a videogame tie-in. "}{"Title":"Awesome special effects!!!!!!","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Most people who have seen this said it had a bad story and it didn't tie together but a lot of other good movies do not tie together you just do not realize it this movie had the best special effects. I would recommend this movie to anyone and I would give this great movie a ***** out of ***** rating.  "},{"Title":"DVD PLEASE!!!","Date":"8 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was great and I dont see why anyone who loves to play any mario brothers game would dislike the movie. You have a point when you say its not like the game but come on now. You wouldnt want to watch the movie if luigi and mario jumped on goomba heads over and over. The movie had a good plot and was similar to the games but yet people still have issues with it but more power to them I guess. I would buy this movie on DVD if it would ever come out but what are my chances in that? 1 in a million? BRING IT OUT ON DVD!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Video Game Veterans May Scream Blasphemy!","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Super Mario, the Italian plumber from Brooklin, is the leading most popular francise for Nintendo. Nintendo is one of the most well-known video game companies in the game today. (No pun intended) Some have even said that Nintendo has become a synonym for video game systems, like Kleenex to tissue. If you are looking for a movie follows the video game storyline closely, let me just say this... go watch some Mortal Kombat 'cuz this doesn't have A SINGLE THING TO DO WITH THE GAME!!!I'll be honest, I'm a video game fan... always have always will... so I wanted to see this desperately. After I saw this, I just went What...?Let's see what we have here -The Mushroom Kingdom is replaced by a city that looks like I came out of Blade Runner -It is revieled that Mario and Luigi's last name is Mario -Koopa (King Bowser in the games) is human (until the end) and is paranoid of germs -The town is covered in fungus that used to be the king -All sorts of character that share their names with other characters in the game are made up (Iggy, Spike, Big Bertha)In other words... don't see it! "},{"Title":"Super once more.","Date":"19 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  On first viewing one may speculate as to the need to rely on a franchise as set-in-stone as Myamoto's often inspiring Super Mario video games. indeed this movie bares little or no resemblance to the videogame of it's namesake. then you realise that's a good thing. Would you really enjoy the movie if it were just two plumbers traversing platform after platform? If you were playing it Yes. If you were merely WATCHING it? Who WANTs to watch a video game that is essentially played for them? No-one.So people may judge the movie based on it's lack of reference to it's origins. Mario Bros. Would make a stupid movie. Konami's Snatcher or Metal Gear Solid would make fantastic movies. But this movie is Super Mario, it has to re-invent itself. And for it's PG rating it does so terrifically well. If David Cronenburg was forced to make a PG-13 THIS would be it. Clever and attractive as well as thoroughly enjoyable. This movie will stand the test of time at least in my books. "},{"Title":"What the hell?","Date":"10 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Ok, so I haven't seen more than a combined total of 15 minutes of the movie, but I can honestly say it's the most painful movie I've ever seen. When I first heard that they were making a movie based off this game, I didn't expect it to be great or anything, but I certainly didn't expect it to inflict pain or anything!! "},{"Title":"Great Mario...but the games?","Date":"24 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  What's the problem of this movie?Bob Hoskins is a great actor and the character of Mario Mario is perfect for him! The story is this The King Koopa search the princess Daisy, and he find this. Daisy have a bit of a old meteorite. And when Koopa have this, the dimension of Dinohattan and the dimension of the Earth have a great problem. The Mario Brothers enter in Dinohattan for rescue Daisy and save the world from the bad King.The problem of this movie is this Like Street Fighter (with Jean-Claude Van Damme), the film don't have the story of the game. And the great error of the writer is this Koopa is the bad guy (in the game are a turtle), and Boswer is the father of Daisy (in the game is the final boss!!!).When a writer write a script for a movie dedicate to a great game...play this, please!!!Vote for the actor 6 (Hoskins is great like Hopkins) / Vote for the story 4 (The consolle and the game of writer is missing?!) "},{"Title":"A funny, silly enjoyable fun movie","Date":"30 October 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a childrens movie about the video game 'Super Mario Bros'. It is lots of fun with a great performance by Dennis Hopper. Cool sets and funky clothes and a wonderful assortment of creatures. It is really cool to see the game characters come to life and there is a wonderful dynamic between Mario and Luigi. Full of humour, adventure, science fiction and romance. "},{"Title":"All right movie","Date":"3 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie was all right. Bob Hoskins was an excellent Mario. John Leguizamo was a good Luigi, and Dennis Hooper was a good Koopa. But the whole fungus thing was really retarded. The plot could have been better. And I wish Koopa was a Dino instead of a human. Yoshi was awesome. The music on the ending credits was cool. The Goombas are so dumb. How could the writers think of something so dumb. Other than that I liked it. I recommend this movie to anyone who likes a good family movie. This movie is aimed for kids, and adults. "},{"Title":"I can't imagine why this movie wasn't more popular!!!!!","Date":"3 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I personally think this movie was great.The special FX were very well done,and the movie has an over-all unique and interesting feel(thanks to solid direction by Rocky Morton and Annabel Jankel who also directed the Original Max headroom TV movie in the UK)Perfectly casted actors(especially Bob Hoskins as Mario!!)make the movie more enjoyable.The creative and energetic script keep the film speeding along like a roller coaster on greased tracks,and the colorful costumes and unique set design  never let you peel your eyes off the screen.A truly enjoyable and exciting film experience!!!! 4 stars!!!!    "},{"Title":"Why do people hate this movie?!","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Although I didn't really care for the movie, the special effects were awesome, the action well done, and I think Bob Hoskins makes a pretty good Mario.  (I think they should've changed the Luigi actor.)  All in all, not a bad movie. "}{"Title":"***.5,3.5 out of 5 stars,the well misunderstood mario bros.","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  true you might expect a big mario game fan to be disappointed in this film but I'm not,true the film went a bit overboard in the artistic license(such as king koopa a guy in a suit,the endless desert surrounding the mushroom kingdom,etc.),but there was some explainable things,(Big Bertha a spiked-studded lady(be a bit hard to place a big fish on land),yoshi in the koopa castle(he could've been captured),etc.),1 think people could see is that they did a good casting job(example in my opinion Bob Hoskins is the PERFECT choice for mario,everybody else got okay to good casting ,except for luigi because he should've had a mustache,(perhaps the filmmakers thought he looked too fake)),maybe the film was intending to tell an original & dark tale of the Mario bros.,unfortunately(to me it is) due to the fact that the film made 8 million the sequel got quickly cancealed.  "},{"Title":"Geez, it's not THAT bad.","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'll admit that SMB  the movie could have been better.  That said, it could have been a lot worse.  I personally liked it myself.  Yeah, it should have been animated.  And yes, Bowser Koopa should have been his fire-breathing, turtle self.  But overall, it was pretty good. "},{"Title":"Video game Movie","Date":"8 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  One more reason to support capital punishment for studio executives who insist upon adapting video games for the silver screen. You'd think that after Double Dragon, Mortal Kombat, etc., they'd discover that it's impossible to make a decent video game movie. Alas, no lesson has been learned, and Warner Bros. is in pre-production on Tomb Raider The Movie. Makes you want to sew your eyes shut with fishing line and start listening to the radio. "},{"Title":"Terrible Movie","Date":"14 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie was a terrible movie. It did not take into account any of the actually Mario Bros video game story line and used humans instead of cartoon meaning some of the more mythical character looked nothing like what they were supposed to in the game. The game was also an adults film, it was definitely not suited for the younger audience who actually play the game. This is a shame really because if you haven't Mario you don't know what it is meaning it just seems like a pretty weird and terrible story. I can think of no way to compliment this film. I would definitely advise choosing a different movie if you had this in mind. It is also slightly hard to grasp onto who the characters are and their role in the film, if they were good or bad. "},{"Title":"Disappointing, stupid, and yet it had the elements to make it a smash","Date":"8 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Based on the famous video games, it was bound to be quirky, which is a good thing, and I liked the idea that the Mario Brothers started off as these Brooklyn Italians with a knack for tools. Unfortunately, it all goes downhill from there. The film has almost nothing to do with the games and it just came out as this tacky, annoying and clichéd mess. Most of the scenes, too cartoonish and lame-acted (not that the actors had anything to do with it), make no sense and neither did the ending. I tried to like the heroes, but the script made them annoying and stereotypical, along with the villain, who was also no good. It was mildly entertaining but mostly irritating. It's a real shame, as if it had a better singular director, instead of a man and woman who were rumored to be bickering all the time on set, and a better script, it could have been regarded as a cult favorite, and the cast and crew would have had a better time shooting. It could have been like the movie Transformers, with an interesting soundtrack and song to go with it, but they screwed it up royally. "},{"Title":"how can you hate this movie?","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" As one of the first video-game movies ever to come out of Hollywood, I'd say this flick was an incredible success.it didn't need to be tied into actual video game story, i mean let's face it.the story for the games wasn't all that great. it was a plumber and his brother, jumping into things and spitting fireballs, trying save a princess captured by a dinosaur, who you killed many times in your quest, and every time before hand running into the same mushroom child who apparently had a real knack for being captured. if anything, the movie was too good for the game, plot-wise. "},{"Title":"It's a shame that this movie is underrated, because  it's quite good!","Date":"31 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Ever since I was a kid I have always loved this movie. The Super Mario bros flick is awesome, dark, and underrated. It is a darn shame on how it is underrated, because many people hate this movie just because they think omgz itz not like the ghames!!1one. Well, if it were like the games, it would have been to childish, don't you agree? This at least beats walking forward eating mushrooms and growing bigger for 1 and a half hours! The acting in this movie is fantastic and I admire all of the actor's work in the film. Special effects are amazing and this movie is really enjoyable if you watch it and totally forget about the game. Movies are supposed to extend plots to things anyway. So if you're up for 1 hour and 45 minutes of action, adventure and a great story, then this film is for you, even if you're not a fan of the mario games! I love it! "},{"Title":"A pretty good movie","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I've played the Mario games and I am a fan of them so I remembered seeing a bit of the film of Super Mario Bros. ages ago but I couldn't recall much so I decided to see it again so I bought the DVD and watched it and I enjoyed it, one thing I kind of like is that it's different from the games. If the film was all bright and colourful it might not appeal to older viewers so they had a bleak looking city instead, Bob Hoskins was great as Mario and so was John Leguizamo as Luigi, Dennis Hopper did a great job as the villain King Koopa and Samantha Mathis as Princess Daisy. Some references to the game are in the film like the Bomb-Ombs, Bullet Bills, the Koopa Coins are mentioned, the music at the start. Some of the characters in the games are in this only different like Toad, who in the film is a guy who sings on the streets, the Goomba's who are huge creatures with tiny heads, Yoshi who is a little dinosaur.The film sees two brothers who are plumbers in Brooklyin meet a young women Daisy who is working at a dig, one night Luigi and Daisy are in the sewers when suddenly they are attacked and Daisy is sent through a portal, Mario and Luigi then go through to find her and end up in a alternate world of Manhannten called Dinohatten, this world as created when the meteor hit Earth and some was sent to this world and now evolved, unlike Earth this universe only has one city and the rest is just a desert, the ruler of this world King Koopa wants to merge the two worlds together so he can rule both but to do so he needs the piece of the meteor that Daisy has but Mario & Luigi had it but lost it, King Koopa captures them and discovers that it's gone then with Toad he sends them to the De-evolution chamber where he turns Toad into a Goomba, his guards. Mario and Luigi escape and are pursed by them but with the help of a mysterious Fungus that used to be the first King they escape, but King Koopa is after them and won't stop until he gets the piece of meteor while Mario and Luigi need to save Princess Daisy and stop King Koopa from ruling both worlds.Super Mario Bros. may not be the best adaptation of the Super Mario Brother video games but it is a pretty enjoyable movie. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Disappointing....","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The plot was just OK, but first of all, why is Daisy in this? She's not the mushroom kingdom princess, and were special effects not invented back then? Why is every creature not special effects? they're just people wearing costumes! The only creature I liked was Yoshi. And who's Daniella? Where's Peach? And I thought King Koopa was some sort of Turtle, not a Dinosaur, the dinosaur is Yoshi. And Toad is a guy with a mushroom head, not a human with weird hair and that sings weird songs on the street like a hobo! Finally, the main thing i have with this is, WHERE IS LUIGI'S MUSTACHE!? THE MARIO BROS. ARE KNOWN FOR THEIR MUSTACHE'S, HOW COULD YOU JUST FORGET ABOUT LUIGI'S MUSTACHE! WHO CARES IF THE REAL GUY DOESN'T HAVE A MUSTACHE, CAN'T YOU JUST PUT A FAKE ONE OR SOMETHING? I MEAN, OBVIOUSLY YOU GUYS CAN AFFORD THAT, RIGHT?Overall, the movie isn't the worst movie I've seen, but it's definitely obvious that there needs improvement, GREAT improvement. "},{"Title":"Nothing Like the Video Games Themselves","Date":"3 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This has to be one of the worst video game adaptations ever. Super Mario Brothers was the pits. I know people will say otherwise, but as far in relation to the games themselves, Super Mario Bros the movie was truly woeful. The cutesy feel and innocence of the video games was replaced with a dark, depressing backdrop with characters looking ever more miserable and serious. Heck, the goombas were large lizards wielding flamethrowers, Mario and Luigi's trademark Red and Green dungarees were all black, and even Luigi's moustache was missing! As for lovable Yoshi, he is represented on screen as one horrid looking lizard.The director and creators of this film were probably not actual fans of the Super Mario games because if they were, then the film would've been faithful to the games themselves. Samantha Mathis was incredibly and terribly mis-casted as Princess Daisy when in actual fact, in the games it's Princess Toadstool or something on the lines of that.This film was utter crap and thus all those special effects which went into the making this film, proved to have not paid off. If anything, Super Mario Bros the movie was a complete travesty and an insult to video game fans. And yet its travesty can only be matched by the just as appalling- yet pitable Streetfighter.Let's face it, video game based films do not work as well as it should and the flop of Super Mario Brothers exemplifies this very point. This film is so bad I wouldn't even take it if someone tried to give it to me for free, let alone purchase it for 1p. "}{"Title":"Super Mario Bros. is an outstanding awesome movie","Date":"19 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" this is the best movie anyone could ever make for super Mario bros. and i loved every single scene and detail of it great pick on actors for Mario and Kupa and daisy and all of them and i do got one question why not make a part 2 with same characters if you bring Kupa back use the same guy he played Kupa great i am so looking forward to a part 2 if it ever gets made id watch it and buy it in a heart beat i hope for a response back from this question or some answers to what others think of my question and all and i bet if a super Mario bros. 2 is made it will be awesome and a great movie to buy this one was perfect so why stop on one why not show us what happens in part two continue it from were part one left off. "},{"Title":"Silly action adventure comedy fantasy plays much better today's audiences.","Date":"6 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Mario (Bob Hoskins) and Luigi (John Leguizamo) are two wacky plumbers trying to make a living in Brooklyn. When Luigi starts dating a pretty young woman named Daisy (Samantha Mathis) and then she's kidnapped by two dimwits thugs (Fisher Stevens and Richard Edson). The thugs brings her to a parallel universe. Mario and Luigi tries to rescue her but they find themselves in a hidden world. Where the inhabitants evolved from dinosaurs! Directed by Rocky Morton and Annabel Jankel (D.O.A. 1988) made a lively entertaining film, which is very loosely based on a popular Nintendo video game. If the movie was faithful to the game, the picture would be very incoherent. Good production designs and Dennis Hopper as the evil Lizard King Koopa are the highlights of this silly film. The story doesn't always make sense but hardly seems to matter in this movie. This was an major box office disappointment but certainly plays better on video. Lance Henriksen appears briefly towards the end. (*** 1/2 out of *****). "},{"Title":"Super Mario Bros","Date":"20 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have seen the movie Super Mario Bros and I find it excellent. my friend and I own a Nintendo with most of the Mario games and we always wanted a movie of Mario bros to come out. when I saw the movie on TV I bought the DVD on ebay. the movie has a good story line and fits in well with the games. I hope they make a sequel with the new Characters like Wario, Waluigi, Baby Mario, Baby Luigi. they picked good actors and Actresses for the movie like Bob Hoskins (Mario),John Leguizamo (Luigi),Dennis Hopper (Koopa), Samantha Mathis (Daisy), Fisher Stevens (Iggy) and Richard Edson (Spike)thats my Opinion "},{"Title":"cute!!! Cute!!!","Date":"2 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I grew up with Super Mario Brothers video game. And living out my own game Of course as the princess being the hero and rescuing the poor defenseless Mario brothers. Defeating the EVIL Goomba and making peace with the world And now that the movie is out I can re-live my fondest memories of my childhood.I share it with my little sister and she loves it even though she never grew up with the story lineAnd Dennis Hopper as the EVIL Gommba is the perfect role for him. It allowed him to move on to greater rolesPlus how cute is Lueggi!!!!! Thank you for making this movie I LOVE IT "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have to say, I absolutely adore this movie. I think you have to be a special kind of person though...the kind of person that likes movies where people start break dancing in subways for no reason (no, that doesn't happen in this movie.) If you liked Ghostbusters 2 (which I of course LOVED) then your probably the kind of person who would like this movie. The high point is, of course, Leguizamo, who is AMAZINGLY wonderful as Luigi. If I were the princess, I would be happy, Luigi is the sweetest romantic interest in a movie since Jack Dawson in Titanic...Take the movie for what it is--a sweet, err...creative...remake of the game, that doesn't necessarily follow a plot very closely but is still awesome. I'm sorry, but any movie that has devolving creatures and video game heroes from the early 90s is fine by me. Luigi i wanna be witchu! "},{"Title":"Super Mario Bros is an excellent B movie","Date":"10 August 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I think Super Mario Bros is an excellent B movie, and unlike many others that it has many aspects of the video game which help keep it elevated. Many of the video aspects are fairly subtle. Every time you see it you're bound to find new things. Below is a partial listing. See if you can find more yourself.1) All the main characters are in it at some point Mario, Lugi, The Princess, Yoshi, Kupa, Spike, Iggy, Toad, The King, Gumbas. 2) They get to the Mushroom Land though a portal inside a sewer, much like many of the portals in the game 3) I feel free to call it Mushroom Land because there are indeed mushrooms all over it, and they help the Marios on the quest, much like the ones in the game. 4) Some of the gumbas have fire ball throwing guns, the game has gumbas that shoot fireballs 5) The mushroom land in the movie is surrounded by desert; there are many desert levels in many of the Mario games 6) The de-evolution guns in the movie are actually the the shoulder rifel things from SNES 7) Yoshi has his power tongue action 8) Babombs!!! 9) After the Marios defeat Kupa Lugi holds up a piece sign as he and Mario float off, also reminiscent of the end of levels in the game 10) The final scene before the credits is the princess coming back to the brothers for help, implying a long cycle of battles, much like the game/ game series (almost 20 years at the war rages on...)PS I say final scene before the credits because there is actually one at the end of the credits as well. Its only about 10sec long. But you'll have to watch for yourself to see what that is. (I know, Shameless Promo)Viva Mario Bros!  "},{"Title":"Oh my, bottom 100! Nooooo...","Date":"23 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I first saw this movie when I was about 9 and have watched many times (im now almost 19yo). I geusse I was too young to understand how silly some of the concepts were in the movie.I was part of the generation which was drawn into another world while playing mario brothers games and knew every little thing there was to know about the game, probably more than Mr. Miyamato, Mario's creator )This movie definatly does not do its best to capture the video games essence which I so wished it did now, but nevertheless the movie was fun to watch at least once.4/10 stars for its interperetation and 6/10 stars for the movie itself.  "},{"Title":"This movie ain't bad!!!!","Date":"17 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  What the Hell is wrong with you people? This movie's good and it's very far from being among the worst 100 movies ever made! It's a good movie. So what if it doesn't have the same basic story as the games? They couldn't have made a movie that was closer to the game plot than this one anyway.The game plot The princess has been kidnapped and Mario and Luigi has gotta go save her.That's the original plot and they made a good story out of it!Everyone does their job great and on top of that there are some nice special fx in the movie so why does everybody hate it??The actors says it's bad. Swedish group Roxette (who made the song Almost Unreal for the soundtrack) says it's bad. But hey, IT'S NOT BAD!I have probably played the Super Mario Games more than most people have and I think that the movie adds a great tale to the Super Mario saga!! "},{"Title":"At least 10 times better than everyone says it is","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This movie is quite simply awesome.  The Mario Brothers rule, and all of you out there know it.  Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo have great on screen chemistry and fit the roles of Mario and Luigi perfectly.  The goombas are great, and Dennis Hopper is wonderful as King Koopa. "},{"Title":"Worst 100? What is wrong with you people?","Date":"12 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Super Mario Bros in the bottom 100? That is an unfair assessment of this movie. It is a great adaptation of a video game into a movie, far better than any other done so far (i.e. wing commander, tomb raider 1+2, resident evil). Granted, the movie is kind of cheesy and campy at times, but its Super Mario Brothers, it has to be! If you want to see a fun movie with well thought out references to the game and just laugh, this is a good movie, which is why, in an effort to save this movie from the shame of bottom 100dom, i give it a 10. "}{"Title":"Does it get any worst?","Date":"27 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Seriously, has there ever been a movie this bad? It will forever hinder video game to movie conversions in the future. Heck, this movie is so bad it gives the Super Mario video games (which are awesome) a bad freaking name.Aside from being goofy and horribly written, it sucked! Did I mention it sucked? The only good effect in the whole film was the cool jumping around jet packy things Mario and Lupi used. But they didn't even keep them! This movie suffers from poor direction, poor acting, poor everything. And I'm proud to say it takes a humble spot in my 10 Ten Worst Movies of all time list. "},{"Title":"Video Tomfoolery","Date":"29 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I'm no fan of video games, but I enjoyed the movie Super Mario Bros. Sure, it has a silly story, and the special effects were obviously done cheap (Jurassic Park, it ain't!).  But I found it visually stimulating, and even a little exciting.  Thinking about the origins of Mario, if this movie had been successful enough for a sequel, I think it might have included Donkey Kong! "},{"Title":"Yes, It's Bad, but . . .","Date":"18 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  It could have been worse.  When you're making a movie about a silly video game, it's a good idea to change things up.  The more things you change, the better.  And in this movie, just about the only resemblance to the video game is the names of the characters.  That's a good thing, but not good enough to make this flick rise above the status of a stupid movie.Still, if you turn off your brain and stop looking for all the negatives, you might find yourself pleasantly entertained--at least for a while.  Don't get me wrong, I do not recommend this movie, but there are worse ways to spend a Saturday afternoon.  Not many, but there are some. "},{"Title":"Play the Video Games Instead","Date":"3 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Super Mario Bros. is a surprisingly dull and uninteresting film which tries to bring the video games to life.  Plumbers Mario and Luigi (Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo) get sucked into a time warp and must save their friend Daisy (Samantha Mathis) from the evil King Koopa (Dennis Hopper).  The film tries to stay with the video game story-line, but improvises in many areas.  This turns Super Mario Bros. into a special effects tour de force that looks cheap and rushed.  Visually, this is a really ugly movie.  There is a lot of mold and other disgusting things that make up the unsavory art direction.  The screenplay is stupid and the direction is unclear.  Your time would be much better spent with the popular Nintendo games.  2 out of 5 stars.    "},{"Title":"It's a movie for those who are fans of the game.","Date":"1 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I grew up playing 'Super Mario Brothers' and when this movie came out, I got to experience it on the big screen.  I admit that it wasn't all that great of a film, but I find myself wanting to see the film whenever it is on; to re-live the same adventures I had explored as a child.  Its just a fun thing to do. "},{"Title":"How can you not like it?","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I don't see what people's problem is with the movie.  Personally, it is ranked within the top 20 of my favorite movies (and I have a lot of them.) The effects are not as spectacular, but enough to make me say cool!  I gave this movie about a 9.5 out of 10!  "},{"Title":"This ain't no game","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Though not a very faithful adaptation of the Nintendo games, as its own film, it's great fun. This is by far the best film based off a video game, and thought that might not be saying much, it really is excellent. Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo have very good chemistry, each have their own amusing traits and play off each other well. Dennis Hopper's King Koopa is like Frank Booth combined with a Roger Moore Bond villain, only amplified. He's wonderfully quirky, and entertaining throughout the whole film.The setting of the parallel universe is great, a dystopian version of New York City covered in fungus and surrounded by an endless desert. The visuals of de-evolution and some dinosaur creatures are very impressive.Watch the movie carefully, and you'll notice many nods to the Super Mario Bros. video games (and other movies like Doctor Zhivago and Back to the Future). The storyline and its many elements are also highly clever and original, no surprise given that the movie is written by Ed Solomon, who wrote the Bill & Ted movies and Men in Black.This film is fast-paced, funny, and adventurous with a great cast, it has cool science fiction concepts and it puts us into a unique world. An excellent movie in every way. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"2 April 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" As noted by a previous reviewer, they said that the Mushroom kingdom in the movie was far too dark, as portrayed by the games to be a light-hearted welcoming place. However.. I may bring up the fact that it IS a light-hearted welcoming place.. HOWEVER bowser, or another villain had come to the Mushroom Kingdom and made it a very BAD place, until Mario and Luigi save the day.. Which basically follows the plot of the movie. We don't want to watch movies with no conflict, if the Mushroom Kingdom had been this perfect place, what were Mario and Luigi to do? I think this movie portrayed the Mushroom Kingdom accurately, but only focused on the times when the Kingdom was in peril..Overall I have to say I enjoy the movie, its now 2007 and can still enjoy watching it. Although at some points I have to laugh, it seems like a B-Rated film at times.. but completely enjoyable. I will continue to watch this, until my VCR breaks and can't find a new VCR. "},{"Title":"What the hell were they thinking?  Someone tell me!","Date":"28 June 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Okay, Mario is one of the most beloved video game characters of all time (I prefer Sonic).  But lets face facts, as much as I love the Mario games and as fun as they are, they have very little depth to them.  Basically, Mario is a plumer who must jump on floating bricks and stomp on turtles and strange turd-like things with teeth called Gumbas to get to the final level where he fights a giant snapping turtle; all to save a princess.  And on his magic journey through hell, Mario is annoyed by a man with a mushroom on his head.  Now, if you were an alien from another planet who had never heard of Mario before, you would be laughing you backside off and calling the order to have the planet Earth destoyed for it's own good.  So why did they think they could make a movie of this?Tomb Raider?  Okay, that has some plot and character to it.  Mortal Kombat?  A stupid plot but good characters.  But Mario?  Who the hell thought of this?!Okay this movie is SOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO OOOOOOOOOOO Bad.Yes, I do require all of those os.First of all, the logic.  Did the game have any real logic to it?  Platforms just floating there.  Stomping on enemies kills them but if you touch them otherwise, you're dead.  No, put that great logic into a movie.  No, technically none of that is in the movie, but there is worse stuff Does anybody remember anything from the games about Dinosoaurs and fungus?  I sure don't, but they went and put it in the movie.  It really does hurt my head to think of this movie.  I wrote in my review of Street Fighter the movie that it was the worse game to movie conversion.  Well, now that I have had a while longer to think about it, this is the worse one.  This is a horrible movie.  It is so bad it's funny.  So that does give it an extra point.  Oh, and they waisted Yoshi.WHY FUNGUS!  WHAT THE HELL IS THE DEAL WITH THE FUNGUS!  EVERYONE HATES TOAD!  WHY PUT HIM IN THE MOVIE?  WHAT IS THE DEAL WITH THE SUPER SCOPES!  DINOSAURS COMING FROM CHICKENS?  AH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! MY HEAD IS HURTING!A BIG OL' ONE OUT OF TEN! "},{"Title":"IT REALLY IS THAT BAD. They weren't kidding.","Date":"28 January 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Don't listen to those people down there who gave this movie four stars; they're clearly insane. Now listen, because these are words you'd do well to remember if you ever get the evil compulsion to rent this sucker Super Mario Bros. is HORRIBLE. And I don't mean just horrible, I mean HORRIBLE. All caps. You'd be surprised at just how unrelentingly, excruciatingly BAD this movie is. And it's not even FUN bad; it's Dear God Please Make It Stop bad. To go into details would be extremely unpleasant; suffice it to say that this movie fails on almost EVERY conceivable level, and maybe a few INconceivable ones.And yes, I DID grow up with the games. I LOVED the games. The original Super Mario Bros. game was my introduction into the wondrous world of Nintendo, and I went on to obsessively play all of its sequels. Which makes it even more apparent to me just how pathetic the movie's attempts to shoehorn in elements of the game are. Also, I have never been more embarrassed for Bob Hoskins and Dennis Hopper. I give this movie a 2 out of 10. The only thing - the ONLY thing - that keeps it from falling into Robot Holocaust territory is the somewhat interesting sets. BUT THAT'S IT, and it's hardly enough to justify this peculiar form of masochism.Don't do this to yourself. "}{"Title":"No, really, this movie is horrible","Date":"30 August 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" There are some reviewers who are saying that, Gosh, its based off a video game of a guy stomping on turtles & saving a princess. They had to change it for the movie & it worked great! Eh, yeah. Now, I understand the need to change or modify parts of the basic story to fit into movies. They do it with comics a lot & other stories that are not deep or are to short to fill in that gap. But heres the problem even taking into account that they had to modify the story & look of the characters - this movie is horrid! Remove the fact that the Mario game franchise even existed & this movie is a stinker. Heres my question? why even do a live action movie based on SMB? This came on the heels of an era when Carebears & Transformers had pretty freaking good traditional animation movies made. There was a (though it was pretty dumb) cartoon that had Mario in it at the time, why not work off that? Or hey - soon after this movie came out CG really hit the big time with Toy Story. Why not do it up right with some awesome CG Mario Bros. takin' on the Mushroom Kingdom? But seriously people, lets have an intervention. When movies ARE bad, its OK to say they are bad. Repeat after me This movie is horrendous, this movie make Uwe Boll look like Spielberg. "},{"Title":"Horrible in every way possible.","Date":"1 November 2009","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I saw this movie a while ago, and I must say I asked myself why I sat through the whole thing. I am a huge fan of Mario and Luigi, and I normally like the Mario games. The TV show was good, but seriously...a movie!?! The story line and acting both suck. The whole idea is a complete copy of The Super Mario Brothers Super Show, the characters from the Mario series brought to life. In short, do not waste you time on this garbage. It is a complete waste of time. This movie is worse than Disaster Movie, which is saying something. Go play the Mario games and watch the TV shows instead. Trust me, you'll be glad you made that decision. "},{"Title":"Not-so-Super Mario Bros.","Date":"24 April 2006","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This movie was a bad idea to begin with. First of all, it has nothing to do with the game. I know your next thought... But if it was like the game then the movie would be boring LOL Exactly, which is why this whole entire project should have been scrapped. I mean, what were they thinking? Hmmm, the idea of a plumber running around, breaking bricks, killing enemies, and rescuing the princess is a boring idea, instead, let's just make up an entirely different plot. So after having pulled this totally unrelated and awful plot out of their rectum, they decided to go ahead and make the movie. Making video games out of movies is one thing, but making movies out of video games is a completely different story. You can make an excellent game out of a movie, but it is very hard to make an excellent movie out of a game. In this case, the game would need to have a plot to begin with, not a shallow plot like the Mario games. The shallow plot works really well in video games, but it bombs on the big screen (just look at Street Fighter! Who's the genius who came up with that idea?) Don't see this movie. Stay far far away. "},{"Title":"Face it... its horrible okay.","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Plain and simple. This movie does suck. The story and the acting pretty much sucks. You can't forget about the corny effects. What were they thinking making a live-action movie out of the Super Mario Brothers? The Super Mario Brothers doesn't have any super powers what-so-ever! The special effects ruined the entire picture from being a bit entertaining. Sorry, but this movie bores me to death. There's no point to it at all. I would rather play the game instead.* "},{"Title":"Horrible","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Before watching this, I couldn't possibly fathom on how a Mario movie COULDN'T capture at least some of the Mario magic and fun of the games, but somehow, this movie managed to pull off the near-impossible by making it completely on the contrary to ANY of the classic Mario games, and here's how.The characters, set designs, plot and atmosphere was just awful. Goombas were about 3 times the size of Mario and yet in the games you're supposed to be able to jump on their heads. Bo-bomb was frickin' wind-up toy, Toad was a busking hobo that ends up in prison, Luigi and Mario rarely wear there classic red and green and the girlfriends of the two were more like hookers than princesses (Not to mention there was no sign of peach). The set designs were just plain wrong. Dark, set at night mostly, a city feel and an all-round depressing atmosphere. For mario fans you will remember blue skies, green grass, happy music and a joyous atmosphere. Don't expect this here. What I'm trying to say is that this is as un-Mario as you can get and I really don't know what bright spark thought up the terrible ideas.If I wasn't a Mario fan or indeed had never played the games, it would still be just an awful movie. In fact, being a Mario fan I was more bias towards the movie, not wanting it to be a disaster like it unfortunately ended up to be.Avoid at all costs. "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time on this one, folks","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"12 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Wow, what an awful film!  That's about the only thing it has going for it.I just saw this movie on the Disney network.  I remember playing the video game a few times and got a kick out of it, even though I don't normally play them.  The movie is absolutely nothing like the game.  Everything is dark, wet, and cold; unlike the game, not a bright color can be seen anywhere in the film.The ebullient Bob Hoskins does his best to buoy the faltering plot, but alas even his considerable talents cannot save the film.  There is some claptrap about a meteorite stone, evolution and de-evolution, and a burning desire for the underworld to take over the land of the humans.  Fiona Shaw's superb acting skills are wasted in this godawful mess of a movie (click on her name in the credits.  I urge you to rent one of the other movies she has appeared in to get an appreciation of this actor's skills).  Dennis Hopper plays the same character he always plays, except this time he has really weird cornrow hair and holds his arms out like those of a Tyranosaurus Rex (because he's descended from one, you see).The film takes forever to get going.  Instead of the bright and happy setting you might expect, we're given a filthy city setting, some nonsense about dinosaur bones, two-dimensional villians courtesy of rent-a-villain (I think they're listed in the end credits), two bumbling shlubs (what corny movie would be complete without them?), and one sloppy lead character, just like all the other sloppy lead characters you've seen thousands of times.Given the popularity of the Mario Brothers video game in the early 90s, one might have expected this film to be the Harry Potter of its time.  It fails in nearly every aspect. "},{"Title":"Doesn't live up to Mario at all","Date":"20 November 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" As a kid I was pretty interested by this movie, but I was also aggravated it was nothing like the Mario a played on Super Nintendo, lol! I remember I wanted the koopa guy/bowser to turn into bowser and look like him, but the result was disappointing. Also as a kid I was freaked out and scared if this movie, I mean those guys with the small heads, creepy! Obviously today a think it down right awful, but as a kid a enjoyed it in a way, but I would be disappointed at times, so even then it wasn't great, but it was enough for me to want to watch it when my older brother or sister was watching it. Today it bad to me. But at least it isn't a boring bad, just a stupid bad, and to me a boring bad movie is worse, so I'll give it a 5. "},{"Title":"A movie taken way to serious then it should have been","Date":"11 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Don't click away yet, yes I get it is nothing like the game, but if you want the game then just go and play the game, this movie was made for kids and yes I get that kids don't even like this movie most of the time, but this movie had the too many cooks in the kitchen syndrome were if most people herd about and worked on the movie which I have only done the first of the two from cast interviews and articles on this movie, but I like to look at this movie in the same way I like to look at Commando a dumb but fun 80's movie, that I love but is dumb at certain parts, and like commando this movie isn't perfect either and the fact that it was left open, were instead they should have just tested waters without making any farther plans, and hey it's better then anything Uwe Boll ever crapped out. "},{"Title":"Nothing Super About These MARIO BROS.","Date":"13 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Here it is...the one that started it all. SUPER MARIO BROS is the first film adapted from a video game, and we were lucky (or unlucky?) it wasn't the last. I was the target age when this film was released in 1993 and even I couldn't be bothered with it. At this point, you'd be hard-pressed to find someone who isn't familiar with the Mario canon the earlier games always involved Italian plumber Mario (and occasionally his brother Luigi, when playing with a friend) working his way through the magical Mushroom Kingdom to rescue the princess from evil King Koopa. The plot is essentially the same here Mario and his brother Luigi are a couple of unsuccessful plumbers in Brooklyn who become involved with Daisy, a paleontologist who's uncovered a strange meteor impact site under the Brooklyn Bridge. When Daisy is kidnapped by the inept Koopa cousins, Iggy and Spike, Mario and Luigi jump into action and enter an alternate dimension where humans evolved from dinosaurs/lizards and the realm is ruled by Koopa, who has plans on using the meteor to merge his dimension with others so that he can rule our world.So, yeah, the filmmakers kept the whole plumber saves princess routine and even kept a lot of the character names, but that's about where the similarities end. Sure, you'll find references to the game scattered throughout the movie...Thwomps, Bullet Bills, Bob-ombs, and apparently flamethrowers have been subbed in for the iconic fire flowers. Instead of the Mushroom Kingdom, we are given Dinohatten...some sort of rundown metropolis that reminds me of Detroit from a post-apocalyptic future where automobiles now function in the same fashion as bumper cars. Whereas the game utilized various landscapes ranging from vast oceans to colorful forests, here it's all dank cityscape with a bit desert thrown in. It all ties in with another major flaw in the movie; I don't think it could decide if it wanted to be aimed a kids (you know, the target audience) or adults. It's as if the studio gave up on trying to make a normal Mario movie and jumped right to the gritty reboot. The Mario games are full of colorful worlds (all right, unless you're playing on Game Boy) with oddball enemies; the movie feels like a watered-down MAD MAX with dinosaurs.It really is a shame that such a bad movie has such a good cast. Bob Hoskins, John Leguizamo, and Dennis Hopper...a recipe for awesome wasted on crappy writing and cheesy dialogue (Anything's possible, Mario. You just gotta believe.). The supporting cast are a series of jokes. The Koopa cousins, Iggy (Fisher Stevens) and Spike (Richard Edson), are ridiculously stupid and their back-and-forth Stooge-like antics aren't funny at all. I mean, really, they felt the need to include a glass pane hauler gag where Spike is tailing Daisy and walks into a window pane. Toad (Mojo Nixon) is now a folk singing Anti-Koopa activist and the Goombas, a staple of the Mario games, are dinosaurs with shrunken heads. And don't get me started on the group of kidnapped Brooklyn girls held captive in Koopa's tower...never have I wanted to slap the stupid out of someone so badly. Samantha Mathis sleeps through her role as Princess Daisy (as opposed to, say, Peach...you know, like in the games). With the whole real world is completely separate dimension from Dinohatten angle, Daisy sure adapts fast to the weirdness she encounters. For someone who grew up in the real world, she sure doesn't take long to accept that her true father is now a widespread mass of fungus.I hate to be such a downer on a movie based on one of my all-time favorite video game franchises, but this movie never should've happened. The gritty realism should've been dropped for faithfulness to the source material. It should've been a colorful, fun kid-oriented movie and it probably should've been animated. Now is the perfect time for a reboot; CG animation movies are looking better and better and it would be awesome to have Pixar or Dreamworks adapt the game into a more faithful, fun family film. When Hollywood had finally decided video games were a rich source of inspiration for film, maybe they should've gone with a game that came with a stronger plot Zelda, Contra, etc. Though I suppose we should just be glad they didn't start with Frogger or Tetris. "},{"Title":"Far too flawed","Date":"5 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Super Mario Brothers the Movie is just downright terrible, no matter what angle I look at it from. I looked at it as funny, as cheesy, as a fantasy movie, and as a video game adaptation, and it's still horrible. I don't understand how the movie was made like this.First of all, I completely understand that making a live action movie about Mario could not have followed the game's formula too closely. A fat plumber jumping on big turtles, growing when he ate mushrooms, and breathing fire when he touched a flower would have looked terrible. However, this movie carries almost no resemblance to the Mario games. You have Mario and Luigi as the plumber heroes. That's it. The big bad koopa is a dinosaur that has evolved into a humanoid dino. The Goombas in the movie are humans that have been demented into big lizards. Princess Peach is replaced by Princess Daisy. Yoshi appears as a pet to King Koopa.It's like they wrote a fantasy script for a movie and threw Mario into it so they could call it a Mario movie. The movie itself isn't entirely awful, but it doesn't at all feel like a Mario movie. Making a Mario movie shouldn't have been too hard. I give it a 3/10. "}{"Title":"Baaad...but mildly enjoyable","Date":"3 August 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The movie has almost nothing to do with the Super Mario franchise. It's basically the same concept, same characters, but in a modern city ( a parallel dimension) instead of the Mushroom Kingdom, real humans and half humans half dinosaur humans instead of random creatures. Instead of princess Peach, we have Daisy, who has been kidnapped by two goons from the dimension i mentioned above. Luigi is in love with her, so normally, he goes after her with his brother...or father...or friend...Mario.Dennis Hopper plays Bowser (king Koopa in the movie), and he's not good at it. I can't think of a worse villain. The only good actor is Bob Hoskins, who is one of the few actors who look like Mario.The acting is mediocre, the script is bad, but the movie does have its moments and at times is quite enjoyable. Trust me, it could have been worse.Final Score 1.5/5 or 3/10 "},{"Title":"A Disgrace to Mario","Date":"31 August 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I have exactly two words for this movie. IT SUCKS. Don't watch it-you'll regret it. My friend and I were looking through his movie closet for something to watch, and we came up with this movie. I'd never seen it before, so we popped it in. After about 41 minutes of watching it, we turned it off. It was more than I could take in. WHY wasn't this movie ANIMATED? I mean, it was creative to have real dudes play the parts, but they didn't look like what they were supposed to be! It didn't resemble the games. Bowser's a human, Princess Peach is some girl named Daisy--I didn't even get what was going on. The plot is incredibly weak and the jokes aren't funny at all, if you can call them jokes. Pretty much the only part I liked was when Mario and Luigi went to jail--that was kinda funny. But this gives Mario games a bad name. Thanks to this movie, there probably won't be any good Mario movies, or Zelda movies. "},{"Title":"Just Skip It","Date":"13 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Getting past the fact that the movie has hardly anything to do with the game series it is based on, the movie itself is just plain terrible.Extremely bad dialog combined with an uninteresting story full of characters played by inadequate actors make for one terrible film. The jokes may have been humorous back when the film first premiered, but they have certainly showed their age when viewing it again now. I honestly don't see why people try to defend this movie. It just isn't even close to being labeled decent in my book. There just isn't much to say about the Super Mario Bros movie besides just saying to skip it. Being a hardcore Nintendo and Mario fan, even I cannot recommend the film to anyone even though I would certainly have liked to. "},{"Title":"I used to think you couldn't ruin something that lacked any depth","Date":"28 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" ..but I was wrong.Quite frankly the choice of the brothers Mario as the protagonists for anything outside of an animated movie is non sensical to begin with. The directors made some bizarre attempt to bring a colorful surreal world into an unappetising hybrid of Blade Runner and Ernest. The dialogue is mostly dull, the plot predictably ridiculous but either not ridiculous enough or far too absurd, you be the judge. I felt embarrassed for Dennis Hopper all the way through, he deserves better, but his role as the noticeably non lizard Koopa is one of the most unfortunate he could possibly have pulled.The only saving grace of this movie is Bob Hoskins manages to somehow pull out a decent performance despite appalling dialogue and shoddy direction. Kids who don't know an awful lot about the original game may be mildly entertained, fans and objecters alike will most likely be united in their distaste for this movie. "},{"Title":"Great special effects!!!!!Entertaining movie!!!!!!","Date":"23 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a movie that has been underrated. People say that it is dumb because it has a weak story and is not like the video game. Who cares if it is not like the video game? video games are for 2-year-olds. The special effects are great and the sets and acting are good. Sure, it may be a bit slow at times, but who cares? great movie. Really nice special effects. "},{"Title":"I think they tried something","Date":"24 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Little is needed to say about this movie Bob Hoskins himself said that Super Mario Bros was the only movie he was in where he noticed that something was going pretty awry. Anyway, I think the idea to adapt the video game to movie form must have sounded cute when they decided to invest money on this, but given that the Imdb credit list shows 4 directors involved, nothing good can be expected. The opening sinopsis is a revealing fact that we're in trouble dinosaurly humans? Or humanly dinosaurs? Anyway, maybe kids will like this movie, the treatment that they gave here to the classic video game is an insult. Bad taste all the way, and once more money over reason to produce a movie that flopped big. Stay away from it, you won't like it, believe me.  "},{"Title":"not a masterpiece but very close","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  They came pretty close to make this as perfect film, just one good scene of t&a with Samantha Mathis would have done the job. Well, at least the movie is pretty exciting, full of action, each scene is pure fun. Here is the story thanks to John Vogel.Can you make a movie out of a video game? Thats the question that is answered by this film. Mario Mario and Luigi Mario, two hard working plumbers find themselves in an alternate universe where evolved dinosaurs live in medium hi-tech squalor. They find themselves the only hope to save the Earth from invasion. I truly love this film, way better than the poor video game, Samantha Mathis is one of the few no breast actress that I like. "},{"Title":"I liked it","Date":"19 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  I liked this movie. I thought the actors/actresses did a good job of playing their roles and the story was kind of neat. The only problem I had with the movie was that it was too far off from the games. Nothing like them. Other than that, I thought it was good. "},{"Title":"Not so super Mario","Date":"24 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" So this is what we get when a successful video game series is turned into a movie. When i was young i liked nearly everything i watched which had anything about it - this did not! Back then i thought it was bad, but i decided to watch it again, and i wish i hadn't Its one of the worst movies i have sat through. Video games when turned into movies don't have a great track record, but this makes the second Mortal Kombat instalment look very good.Mario in the video gaming industry is something of a legend, but this will always be attached to his name, and why Nintendo let this go on shelves is beyond me. Mario as a character is not amazing but it's the superb game play that makes him so loved so why make this awful film It's happened to many franchises in video games, especially that awful Anderson wanting to wreck every video game possible At least when Sonic The Hedgehog got a movie it was animated and was kept low key. Sonic The Hedgehog movie may have had awful voice acting but somehow is still easier on the ears and eyes. Shame Mario hit a low, but at least its never hit his success in the video game industry but here he was not so super Mario. "},{"Title":"Super Mario Bros.","Date":"21 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" This was probably the first film I had ever seen based on a popular video game, and naturally I followed it with things like Resident Evil, Lara Croft Tomb Raider and Mortal Kombat, and having played it myself I hoped the movie about the famous brothers would be good fun. Basically the Italian American brothers, Mario Mario (Bob Hoskins) and Luigi Mario (John Leguizamo) are plumbers in Brooklyn, New York, but they can't get much work with Scapelli Construction Company, run by Anthony Scapelli (Gianni Russo). Luigi meets and falls for orphaned paleontology student Daisy (Samantha Mathis), but before they can really get to know each other she gets kidnapped by strange cousins Iggy (Fisher Stevens) and Spike (Richard Edson) and taken to another dimension. Millions of years ago when the dinosaurs were supposedly killed by the meteor that hit Earth, in fact this meteor blasted the universe and created this alternative dimension where dinosaurs still exist, many evolved into looking like humans, and this world is run by corrupt and nasty King Koopa (Dennis Hopper). He plans to merge the two worlds together by the use of the small chip of the meteor that Daisy wears around her neck, but Mario and Luigi have followed them to get her back. As time goes by, and they try to escape the Jurassic and cretaceous creatures chasing them, such as the Goombas, the brothers are not just trying to save Daisy, but they also find that they may have to save the world as well. Koopa does get his hands on Daisy, and eventually the rock, but with their skills in plumbing handy, as well some gadgets and unlikely friends along the way, including the fungus that covers the city, the Mario brothers do save the day. Also starring Harry Potter's Fiona Shaw as Lena, Dana Kaminski as Daniella, Mojo Nixon as Toad, Lance Henriksen as The King and John Fifer as Goomba Toad. Hoskins makes a good grouchy and often sarcastic Mario, and Leguizamo is likable as the younger brother (but no moustache?), and even though it is strange to see an actor of his talent in a film like this Hopper is okay as the obsessive villain who wants to take over the world. There are elements and references to the games, such as the blue and red and blue and green costumes for the brothers, the large mushrooms and inventive dinosaur creatures, but that it is really all, the rest is a slight let down, as a video game adaptation anyway, but for the silly attempted action and comedy (some of the laughs unintentional), it isn't a terrible fantasy adventure. Okay! "}{"Title":"This movie is #1 stinkie!","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  In a word, this movie is very bad.  I first played the game when I was a mere child, only 16 years old.  Then, three years later, I saw Super Mario Bros. on the big screen.  Unlike I had imagined, it was nothing like the video game.  Poor special affects, and bad acting contributed to making this one of the worst movies ever made.  After I saw this film, I ran into my room, and cried into my bed.  (At the time, it had rocket ship blankets.) Anyway, I was obviously both hurt and befuddled that this was nothing like the beloved video game.  I stayed in my room for 11 days, (47 weeks) crying because it was so bad.  So if you do not want to go through that like I did, I suggest you don't waste your breath watching this movie, because I give it .05/10  (That's very very bad.) "},{"Title":"Pitiful","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  This is a pitiful excuse for a film!  The only thing that actually even looks like Mario is the bomb-omb.  This should have been animated instead, then it might be good. "},{"Title":"The embarrassment that is the Super Mario Bros. film","Date":"22 December 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Wasted opportunity is the phrase that instantly comes to mind, when one thinks of the immense failure of the Super Mario Bros. film adaptation of the classic video game. One of the most popular games on the Nintendo console, The Super Mario Brothers series is a fun way to pass a couple of hours. The story of the game is simple a plumber must save the Princess from the evil overlord of her kingdom. Granted, it's not a particularly intellectual plot, but it's one that has been used very successfully many times before, from Robin Hood to Star Wars. With a talented screenwriter and some good direction, a Super Mario movie could have been a fun romp for children, teenagers and adults as well. Unfortunately, the film hoisted upon fans in 1993 was far from a good film. Super Mario Bros. is a gigantic piece of rubbish that is not deserving of the title given to it. The fact that it was produced by the man responsible for The Killing Fields and starred a talented group of award-winning actors makes this more embarrassing for not only them, but also us having to watch them make a fool of themselves.The plot of Super Mario Bros. is such an incoherent mess, it's as if they took the three drafts of the screenwriters and just mixed them up into one big pile. Mario Mario (Bob Hoskins) and Luigi Mario (John Leguizamo) are two brothers (or are they father and son, as the film isn't particularly clear on that) who run a plumbing business, which isn't exactly the most successful. One day, Luigi meets Daisy (Samantha Mathis), an archaeologist and he falls in love with her. When she is kidnapped by the henchmen of the evil King Koopa (Dennis Hopper), Mario and Luigi go off to save her. They land in a mysterious big city hidden underneath New York City, populated by dinosaurs that have evolved into human beings. Soon, they find out that Koopa wants the rock around Daisy's neck so that he can go up to the surface and rule over the Big Apple. Now, it's up to the Super Mario Brothers to save the day.To start off, the biggest problem with Super Mario Bros. is the fact it is absolutely nothing like the video game. The plot of the game, while simplistic, still works. The story that the film brings forth throws everything away and substitutes it for the ridiculous mess described in the previous paragraph. In fact, the only things that the film has in common with the game are the character names and the title. An adaptation does not necessarily have to be faithful to the source material, but taking away what made the original story work will certainly make the final version smell like feces, for both fans and general filmgoers. The screenplay is filled with jokes that aren't funny, action scenes that are just boring and characters with minimal character development. When a 16-bit video game excels better in all of the above listed aspects, there is definitely something wrong with the film version.The film also fails on a visual level. Super Mario Bros. is a dark film that while marketed for children, it definitely does not feel like it was intended for them. The sets are particularly disappointed, seeing as they could have saved the film. A Manhattan version of the Mushroom Kingdom sounds like a promising idea, but the filmmakers once again ruin the opportunity to bring something good to the proceedings. Super Mario Bros. looks as if they stole the set from Blade Runner and sneezed all over it. It's enough that they practically copy the style, but they essentially rip out what made that film look sleek. If Rick Deckard showed up in that city, he would have had a heart attack at what the set designers had done. The special effects also fall into the category of poor. What makes that aspect of the film really bad is that despite being a Hollywood film on a big budget, the effects look like those of B-movies from the 1960's.Finally, the final aspect of Super Mario Bros. that could have saved it also fails. Bob Hoskins puts on the same accent he did for his character in Who Framed Roger Rabbit. Unfortunately, the superb work he brought to the screen in that film doesn't surface here. He just looks bored, wanting to leave the set immediately so he can go to the bank and cash his paycheque. I think I even saw one scene where he breaks character and glances at his watch. John Leguizamo doesn't fare much better as he's given the film's most banal and uninteresting character as well as dialogue. Through most of the film, he's just staring off into space. The same goes for Samantha Mathis, who is just dull. The actor in the film I feel the most sorry for is Dennis Hopper, though. Not only is the comedic material he is provided with not that funny, he also hams it to the max in his performance. He puts on different voices from a Baltimore accent to a Donald Trump impression and all seem to fail badly. You haven't seen the Easy Rider star until you watch him gleefully say Monkey! like a five year old. Or better yet, don't! Roger Ebert has taken on some recent controversy for publicly stating that video games are not art. This isn't a discussion I want to get into the middle of right now, but comparing the joys of pressing those colourful buttons to the horrific experience of watching this film, I have to side with the game enthusiasts on this one. "},{"Title":"one of the worst movie's ever made","Date":"24 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  sucked sucked and then sucked someone. COULD have been a ok movie but whoever thought it was a good idea, should never be allowed to make another movie, EVER again. the whole way they went about making it was just dumb. what were they thinking. "},{"Title":"better than you might expect","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Nowadays, when we think of movies based on video games, we think of garbage. As Super Mario Bros. shows, it wasn't always like that. This movie isn't great, but not bad by any stretch. Part of what makes the movie so neat is Dennis Hopper's characterization of Koopa; I liked his comment about mud.It's weird to think that when SMB came out, I'd never heard of John Leguizamo (he plays Luigi). He's since done quite well in many roles. And Bob Hoskins also does quite well as Mario. It seems like they could have developed Daisy (Samantha Mathis) a little further. But overall, this flick's a pretty enjoyable romp. "},{"Title":"It really was as bad idea as some sane people would think","Date":"21 February 2006","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I guess this movie was doomed from the start. It must have been a more savage hang over than usual in the plant of bad movie ideas when the whole idea of live action Super Mario film was conceived. I mean you all know the settings and story of Mario games right? A plump plumber in his red overalls jumping in the heads of mushrooms and turtles, I mean Koopas, and trying to save the princess. There just isn't any way, you could even try to turn that something else than a cartoon. It just doesn't work out too well as live action.But they did try, with a force of a four different directors, and yet they still failed. Or maybe that was the main reason why they did.The story has changed so, that Mario (Bob Hoskins) and Luigi (John Leguizamo), two brothers, who look nothing a like, come through a dimensional gate to the mushroom kingdom, where they must defeat the evil Koopa (Dennis Hopper) and save the princess (Samantha Mathis) and the king (Lance Henriksen).It's not that there would be a bad cast in the film. In fact the line up is rather good, even solid as some might say. It's just the execution of the film that pushes this towards the oblivion it deserves to be in.You can watch it for the sake of interest, but it really takes a good bunch of Mystere Science Theatre minded friends to do so correctly. I gave it two out of ten just for the sake of the cast. You just can't beat Hopper as a mad Koopa... Or Hoskins as Mario. "},{"Title":"garbage","Date":"22 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  In a word garbagedescribing this movie brings back too many painful memories.  The weather was bad outside and there was nothing else on TV.  In a strange way I felt drawn to it like you feel drawn to watch a car-crash when driving on the motorway.A decent cast couldn't save a terrible, terrible script.  If you come across it on TV do something more worthwhile, like counting the number of fibres in your carpet.Arguably the worst movie ever made? "},{"Title":"The Good & Bad Of 'Super Mario Brothers'","Date":"20 August 2006","Score":"11 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Here's a kid's movie, at least with the title, but is really for both adults and kidsTHE GOOD - (1) It's fairly entertaining even for adults; (2) it has some likable characters, especially Luigi Mario (John Luguizamo); (3) it has almost no profanity or blasphemy; (4) some of the special-effects are fun to view and humorous.THE BAD - (1) The story is very stupid; (2) it gives yet another plug for evolution, something Godless Hollywood is u-relenting in pushing on everyone; (3) bob Hoskins, as the lead character Mario, is too loud and abrasive.Other notes Dennis Hopper does a nice job of restraining himself! Usually he plays a whacked-out character. Samantha Mathis is a pretty new face.Overall better than anticipated; worth a rental. "},{"Title":"An awkward mess","Date":"27 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Everyone knows this movie is nothing like the games, so I'm not even going to bother complaining about that. Super Mario Bros (1993) is half awkward parody of the source material and half nightmare, the sum being an unpleasant science fiction adventure that proved to be an embarrassment for all involved. The movie looks ugly, the writing is lame, and the comedy uninspired. The only performances I can really recall are Bob Hoskins' Mario and Dennis Hopper as King Koopa (or Bowser, as he's known in the games today). Both ham it up, but you can tell they're having no fun here, probably reminding themselves there will be a nice fat paycheck once the horrible ordeal is over with. You might find the insanity fun if you're in the right frame of mind, but otherwise, I'd avoid this one if you wish to preserve your mental well-being. "},{"Title":"Cheap, insultingly dumbed down but made with no bad feeling!","Date":"7 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Everyone knows Super Mario Brothers. The game was one of the best selling titles of the 80's and the games are still played to this day.So how well does it translate to film? In a nutshell, not very well but it's a wholeheartedly innocent attempt at any rate.I first saw the film at the Cinema when I was about 15 in 1993 and I came away sort of enjoying it. I think it's down to the fact that around that time people were becoming savvy to Hollywood botching film versions of established stories like comics and such. When I walked into that theatre I had absolutely no expectations about the film being true to the source material or any kind of notion that it would be really any good, and with that I sat down and was entertained for the duration.The bad points about the film is that is just dripping with studio exec. interference. This is a cheaply made film aimed at kids, not a kids film you understand. Goonies, Neverending Story etc. these are great kids films but a film aimed at kids is a whole different story.It's a gimmiky adventure film that bungles it's way through the story with a truly awful script, utterly dumbed down that's actually quite insulting to intelligent children. It's painful at times to see Dennis Hopper and Bob Hoskins, two of the great actors of modern time, deliver their goofy lines from the moronic screenplay.The film is cheap and it shows. Very bad special effects, sets and costumes don't add to the action but surprisingly it comes away with a certain feel which I found appealing. The goofy music that plays throughout and irritating 'boing' sound effects seal the coffin lid shut in a final insult to the viewers intelligence. Super Mario Brothers isn't a film you'd watch more than once, or even a guilty pleasure. It's the sort of film you would possibly put on to keep a bunch of 3 year old children happy for a bit.My review must seem scathing so far but I will say, it does have it's small moments. The Goomba (who looks nothing like their game counterparts) elevator scene just made me smile and certain scenes towards the beginning of the film seem genuine enough.As far as I know the director wanted to make the film much darker but was thwarted by the men in suits who wanted a kid friendly money maker and in knowing that I believe that the actors and crew did what they did with no malice intended and that sort of comes through a touch and this blameless feeling is what carries the film for the most part.I can't see how anyone could really hate this film, bad as it is! "}{"Title":"Frank Welker as Yoshi and the Goombas are the best thing in this movie!","Date":"5 January 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" I want to start off by saying that the Goombas are the best thing in this movie version of the Mario Bros. games. They are not very bright, but they have hearts of gold, they like to dance a lot, one of them carefully prepares vegetables for Princess Daisy (after she turns down meat), and another one knows how to play the Doctor Zhivago soundtrack on his harmonica. In other words, the goombas are likable and entertaining characters who provide a nice distraction from the rest of the film.But here's the thing. The goombas have only minor roles in this movie. Most of them are played by extras whose faces may never be known by the movie-going public. Sure one of the extras can boast at a nightclub, Hey I played the most likable character in the Mario Bros film. I was a goomba. But how could he or she prove it? So if you're only fond memory of the Super Mario Bros. were those amusing, not very bright goombas, then you have just finished seeing a really bad film. To begin with, the sets for this film are terrible. I remember as a child that one of the things that attracted me to the Mario video games was the bright colours (large green hills, blue oceans), a plethora of evil critters (including ones that throw boomerangs at you), and having to run against a clock. But none of those things can be found in this Mario Bros. movie. The sets look like they came right out of a run down part of a big city that has witnessed record unemployment and skyrocketing crime. You would not leave your car there; you would not even drive your car there! But if the sets are too gloomy for words (and keep in mind I was having this sobering feeling when I was ten years old watching this movie. I really don't think this movie works for kids either), the characters are just as bad and probably worse. Bob Hoskins is a great actor, but he is a major disappointment here as Mario. He is not funny, when he intends to be funny, and he is not particularly likable. He is a colourless fellow who shows up on set to be chased away by explosions and one wonders if you are going to hire an acting giant like Hoskins to play Mario, then why not give him some interesting material to work with. John Leguizamo also was good in several other films, but he not here where he fails to generate any interest or amusement as Luigi. As for Samantha Mathis, she is just a pretty face as Princess Daisy. Dennis Hopper is somewhat more interesting as the villain King Koopa, but once again his immense talent for acting is being sorely under-utilized here.Thus, this conclusion there are so many things not to like about this film that the unassuming, devolved, and compassionate goombas would have stolen the show if only there was a show to steal. Frank Welker, who does the voices for these goombas, deserves credit for his fine work, but sadly even his considerable talents cannot save this movie from the trash heap. "},{"Title":"You just can not make a movie when there is no material to make one.","Date":"6 September 2009","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" The Mario games are fun and enjoyable, typically not having much in the way of story at this point in their lives. The role playing games that would come later would add a bit more story to this series of games. This movie tries to give something a plot that virtually had none, a bit to much plot and made a movie from a game that just did not need to be turned into a movie. Video game movies are a tough sell anyway, and in this one you had to sell the Mario Brothers and it just did not work out all that well. They probably did the best they could, but the end product was still just painful to look at. The plot had Luigi actually playing a more prominent role than Mario as the princess was more into him. Bob Hoskins is good in some roles, but really can not pull off the lead role, Dennis Hopper does not seem to actually read the scripts he is given when he chooses a role, and backing out of this movie was one of the smartest things Danny DeVito could have done after winning the raspberry for his role as the Penquin in Batman Returns. Heck, I do not think he was all that bad in that role this one would have most assuredly earned him back to back razzies. So in the end a movie that tries to be a lot when it only had a little to work with. "},{"Title":"super retarded bros","Date":"15 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Super Mario bros is the crappiest movie ever made even the actors said it sucked. i mean Dennis hopper as bowser, super jump boots, Yoshi being a guy on the street that gets turned into a lizard? what the hell. if i saw this movie just one more time, i'd shot the t.v. so if you want to see a waste of time this movie's for you. this movie really really really really sucks. god just thinking about it gives me a headache. i mean god this movie is worse than batman & robin. this just proves that video game movies are trash. I just hope that the Metroid and Halo movies are o.k. if anyone said this movie is great they lied.~ Shotgunbundy "},{"Title":"Game Over for this one, Continue? End? You have selected end.","Date":"14 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Mamma-mia! This movie, she stink! Man, what I said seconds probably stink a lot worse, but still, as an old fan of the Mario games, this movie is awful, no I mean very awful, so much I'd want to decapitate the Mario Bros. or have them fall off a cliff. This is another bad movie based on video game, man I don't understand this, and Luigi doesn't even look like Luigi neither. And everything else is not so good, oh man it's lousy. At least they didn't cast Lou Albano once again as the Italian plumber, that would really be bad. Yeah, that is something good, they didn't cast the stars of The Super Mario Super Show, at least that's a good thing about it, but they didn't make improvements from that show, they didn't. This is something else, it doesn't look a thing like Mario at all. It looks like something else, some alternate world thing, or something, ugh! I can't stand this, avoid this and Street Fighter, and Double Dragon at all costs.GAME OVERContinue>End "},{"Title":"A Disappointing Variation of the Video Game","Date":"11 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":"  Very disappointing, stupid, and boring. I suggest play the video game before you watch this turkey of a movie. I give it 2 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Unintentional Laughs Galore","Date":"13 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" There were a number of questions I asked myself as I sat watching Super Mario Bros. What the heck is going on? Is that really supposed to be Toad? Why is everyone acting like imbeciles? Why am I still watching this movie? Nearly 2 hours of my life is gone, thanks to Super Mario Bros., a movie that does everything wrong and nothing right. A serious contender for worst movie ever made, though I'll grant; it had quite a few unintentional laughs.In a ludicrous plot that seems to be trying to make sense of the nonsensical world of the video game it's based upon, Super Mario Bros. is about two plumbers named Mario and Luigi (we're supposed to believe they're brothers, but they look at least 20 years apart in age), who find themselves in a different dimension. The dimension is ruled by a man, or dinosaur, or whatever he is, named King Koopa. From there on, there's something about a meteorite, de-evolution, and a big glob of living fungus.I couldn't even begin to mention every single mistake this movie made. I can only go over a handful of flaws in this review, but trust me; I could go on for days.Let's start with the plot, which I've briefly explained above. It's stupid, it's strange, and jammed with clichés. Everything from henchmen that turn good, child being left on someone's doorstep, clumsy romance, etc.Much of the film feels like a live-action Saturday morning cartoon. In itself, that's not necessarily bad. In this case, believe me; it's bad. Gravity is defied, special effects are terrible, awful cinematography renders some parts of the film unwatchable at times. Need I say more?And yet, I haven't even scratched the surface. Characters are stupid and obvious things are overlooked. Tie-ins with the Mario games are forced and uncreative. Plot holes and continuity problems are everywhere. Does this film do anything right?While the characters' personalities are nothing like they are in the games, it's hard to blame the film for that. This film released in 1993, and at that point, none of the Mario characters had personality. Still, it should be noted that in the film, Luigi is the courageous one, and Mario is more cowardly (the opposite is true in the games). And speaking of Mario, his deep, harsh Brooklyn voice isn't at all the friendly voice we're used to hearing from the famous plumber, but once again, that's not really the film's fault, as no one had ever heard Mario speak before.The acting is relatively terrible. I'll just save time by saying all the performances are awful, with one exceptions. Bob Hoskins as Mario really isn't that bad. He makes the most out of what he's given to work with, and the result is a passable, painless performance.Alan Silverstri, what are you doing composing music for this film? You're better than this! It's depressing to see the composer of such classics like Back to the Future reduced to this. Still, the score is awful. The main theme is annoying, and there is no references from the original game's soundtrack in the score. There were lots of possibilities here, and Silverstri refuses to explore any of them.The dated soundtrack is a nightmare. Various pop songs of yesteryear are in this movie, and they all made me wince in pain. The exception here being Walk the Dinosaur. I laughed when I heard this playing, because this song is also featured in Ice Age 3, another dinosaur-oriented film starring John Leguizamo (who's terrible in this film, by the way).Unwatchable, flawed, and laughably bad at times, Super Mario Bros. is an abomination. Forgetting everything that makes the Mario games enjoyable, Super Mario Bros. is a mess of fantastic proportions. It's unusual to see a film this bad. It's almost interesting. Maybe I should spend the next hour contemplating how awful this movie is. It will certainly be a much more entertaining way to spend my time than watching the movie was. "},{"Title":"Pretty awful, although it does stay fairly close to its source material","Date":"25 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Comedy, Family","Review":" Let's face it, a Mario Brothers movie never had much potential. First of all, the games work because of just that - they are games! They don't require plots to entertain us. (It's a nice addition, but in the case of Mario, it's not necessary and it works just as well without one.) The Super Mario games were always about Bowser trying to take over the world and kidnapping Daisy/Princess Peach (her name changed a lot in the games, didn't it?), of course a film adaptation won't work based just on this because 1) It's not interactive 2) It's not deep enough 3) It has no merit whatsoever as a motion picture This film adaptation was clearly an attempt to capitalize on the surprise breakthrough of the Mario games and how much money they earned Nintendo back in the early-to-late nineties. There's no effort to make anything worthwhile out of this, it's basically just about a crazy villain who kidnaps a babe and Mario tries to save her.It's a shame really because it's so well cast. Bob Hoskins is really good as Mario and Dennis Hopper is pretty psychotic as usual. My biggest complaint? No Bowser. I guess it was too expensive back then.I do think with a great director, great screenwriter and great special effects artists this could be remade into a fairly entertaining summer blockbuster -- better than most game adaptations, anyway. (Resident Evil, anyone?) Mario is a likable enough character and with someone like Lucas or Spielberg who love their special effects, the world could be better represented than it is here.But then again any movie based on a video game like Super Mario will never really become a classic, will it? It'd be best as an animated movie, like Toy Story or something. "}]