[{"Title":"As you pointed out, our physical resemblance is striking","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Suture (a sewing together according to my dictionary) has to be one of the cleverest films I have ever seen.Definitely not to everyone's taste, it concerns two half-brothers Clay (Dennis Haysbert) and Vincent (Michael Harris) who meet up after their father's funeral. Clay is a poor construction worker whom the rich Vincent plans to kill. The idea is that Vincent is on the run for murder and he attempts to kill his half-brother in a car bomb explosion, planted with his identity so that he will be free to continue his life without harassment, the authorities believing Vincent Towers to be dead. Unfortunately for Vincent, his brother survives, and, an amnesiac, assumes his life and identity.If all this sounds quite good, then you have to remember that Dennis Haysbert is black and Michael Harris is white, and they have no physical resemblance whatsoever. I've seen this film trashed even by professional critics, such as the British magazine writer David Quinlan who bemoaned that `no one seems to notice'. Of course, the very fact that no one seems to notice IS the point. If I were honest, I wouldn't state for certain that I know what message the film is trying to purport. In fact, so confused was I by it, that I took the unprecedented measure of reading the other user comments before I wrote mine. I normally avoid this practise to avoid unconsciously stealing another's words, but I had to get some fix, some general consensus as to what it's all about. Some interesting theories abound, including one very good point about the two being `Yin and Yang', explaining the black and white filming. (And in delightful cinemascope too!) It is suggested that race is not an issue in this film, though I feel the scene where Clay's plastic surgeon describes his face in Caucasian terms (`Roman nose&#133; thin lips&#133; straight hair') is a definite reference.In fact, the film emerges as a search for the nature of identity, as well as the nature of racial perception. Of course, you could argue that what is a straightforward plot, doubtlessly tried many times before, is merely propped up by gimmickry. And occasionally the film does over-crank it's tools, such as the glorious moment when Clay is listening to Johnny Cash singing Ring of Fire, turned down, so it's almost subliminal, before he himself is consumed by such a ring. However, this sublime moment is gatecrashed by Clay's trolley-dash to hospital being punctuated by a full-blast rendition of the same song by Tom Jones. This does, though, act as a nice coda to the piece much later, just as the prelude is effective. The idea that you could steal another man's life and possessions, even his face but never be able to become that man acts as the central thread. As you can see from this outline, it all becomes very complex and heavy going, though it's told in a slight, minimalist fashion so you never end up with too much of a headache. What makes this film worthy of a `7', even if you don't like the basic concept and theme, is the execution. Using excellent direction, which often consists of arial shots, not one scene is given over to bog-standard point-and-shoot techniques, where the camera is merely dumped in front of the actors and left to roll while the director goes off for a sandwich. (And this is no place to bring up The Phantom Menace). Especially worthy of note are the dream sequences, and the recovered memory sequences, which are starch and fuzzy like a damaged television screen. Also outstanding are the initial scenes that showcase the climax-to-be, where the two brothers must ultimately confront one another. Haysbert's dark skin contrasted with the pure white of the bathroom as the camera looks down upon him holding a rifle in a straight line ahead is a perfectly captured image. Also worthy is the off-beat acting style, very evocative of Soviet cinema in the sixties, the deliberately off-kilter and underplayed performances giving it all a continental air. For the sheer basic conceit of it's plot I would recommend anyone see this film. It is a testament to the fact that real talent in cinema often gets buried. The writer-directors have done little work since, this film making less than $200,000 in it's own country. Meanwhile the creators of production line cinema have mountainfuls of projects lined up for them with increasing regularity. A great shame.  "},{"Title":"The most genuinely interesting noir thriller for a decade!","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Although the story arc of this film is fairly conventional (murder setup, memory trauma, induced impersonation, final double-ironic betrayal) it is the ominous mood and the spectacular, yet understated gamble that the writers and director take with the audience's expectation in making the central duo -brothers- utterly different racially and physically. It is so obvious a thing to point out, but for me this reaffirmed, via an otherwise rather easily-contrived situation and plot, the whole modern interpretation of the film noir.The concept of all reality being a facade and prey to the unexpected warpings of fate, accident and whimsical doom-laden coincidence is a fundamental aspect of noir. With the twist of no one actually making the obvious connection between the brother's difference and Dennis Haysbert's character Clay gradually absorbing the life of his (not) dead brother without incident, the surreality of the film is magnetically compulsive and as noirish as some of the best films of the 1940s and 50s in dreamy, menacing atmosphere. I found myself deeply caring what happened to Clay on his odyssey towards a (false) identity and finally claiming it.The whole cast is good, but in this film Dennis Haysbert shows the gravita s and dignity and vulnerability that makes him the real star of the excellent TV thriller '24'. A landmark film of the '90s gone unnoticed! "},{"Title":"A filmmaker's film","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  A masterpiece of black and white Cinemascope, a brilliant use of the format. Every frame is beautifully composed with meticulous production design and art  direction. It is so stylized that perhaps only ardent cinephiles can really appreciate it. The story is about a rich murderer who discovers that he has a long lost brother  who looks so much like him that, if he is killed by a car bomb (in the murderer's  car, in his clothes, carrying his identification), nobody will guess it isn't the  murderer. The innocent brother is so poor and naive that he allows himself to be  set up, but, instead of dying, he survives with a smashed face and no memory. The justification for this implausible setup is the opportunity to explore the idea  of identity by positing an amnesia patient who is fitted with a very different  person's face and past. If this story had been told in a conventional way with  color, a narrower screen size, realistic rather than stylized acting, and the  casting of two actors who looked very similar, it would have made a reasonably  interesting thriller. The brilliance lies in the artifice, especially in casting the wonderful Dennis  Haysbert in a role written for his directly opposite physical type. The filmmakers  seem to expect the audience to be able to watch the movie on more than one level. The story allows the audience to consider the obvious questions about the  nature of identity, but the stylization allows the audience to consider the different  questions about the nature of the film experience. "},{"Title":"In the style of Hitchcock...","Date":"9 August 2001","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The filmmakers have created a stylish suspenser that would make the master of suspense proud.  Filmed in black and white, Suture weaves a tale of two brothers, one whom wants to use the other as a pawn for his devious scheme involving murder and mistaken identity.  If I could mention two scenes that reminded me of Hitchcock, it would be these 1) the first scene that sets up the film, and 2) Vincent explaining his dreams to a psychiatrist--reminiscent of Spellbound.  This is an excellent thriller that should be seen.  "},{"Title":"A classic overlooked","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" A few years ago a friend and I were picking out a movie to watch. Since we had seen just about everything we decided to give this movie a try. The film ended up being a huge surprise to us, clever, well shot and nicely paced, with strong acting. This film is overflowing with Hitchcock style themes and also has a 1960s Twilight Zone feel to it. This was also the first time I have seen Dennis Haysbert (24, All State Commercials) in a film and he does a fantastic job. Some of the compositions and the overall cinematography are also handled with skill with some shots being smartly composed. What really made a lasting impression was the way the film handles reality, and the reality that the camera sees. Don't let the silly title and the black and white film stock keep you away from this unique movie. "},{"Title":"DISTINCTIVE","Date":"20 September 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I caught this film upon it's cinematic release, and thought it to be one of the freshest films for the whole of the 1990s. It was interesting to catch it again recently on BBC2, and find it still stands up well.The nods to noir and Hitchcock are there for all to see. This partnership finally has another film (U.K release before 31/12/01) due out, and I await it with bated breath. "},{"Title":"Best film of the 90's","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I watched Suture, in 1994, it ripped through me like some kind of high speed extra-terrestrial spacecraft, and I found myself asking, What was that? A year later I watched it again and the whole thing began to make sense. This film is unapologetically bizarre, mysterious, and aesthetically engaging -- almost everything I desire in a film. It is more like a piece of music, becoming more enjoyable with each viewing. One reason for the films superb milage is that it can be enjoyed on so many different levels. It is both a mirror image of contemporary society and a message from some alternative universe. The Surrealists made the point that the transcendent is found in the mundane, and Suture wallows in the mundane. Must be seen more than once.  "},{"Title":"Burying the Soul","Date":"7 September 2010","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" The construction worker Clay Arlington (Dennis Haysbert) meets his wealthy half-brother Vincent Towers (Michael Harris) in their father's funeral and sooner Clay travels from Needles to the city to visit Vincent. When Clay arrives, Vincent changes their IDs, gives his clothes to Clay and tells that he needs to travel but would be back on the next day. Clay drives Vincent to the airport in his car and Vincent explodes a bomb planted in the car. However Clay survives with amnesia and with his face and bones are restored by the specialist Dr. Renee Descartes (Mel Harris) that uses a video and pictures of Vincent to rebuild his face. The amnesic Clay assumes the identity of Vincent and learns that he is the prime suspect of Lieutenant Weismann (David Graf) for the suspicious murder of his father. Further, Renee and he fall in love for each other. With the support Dr. Max Shinoda ( Sab Shimono), Clay finally retrieves his memory and has to decide which life shall be buried. Suture has a good story but the viewer shall buy first that the African American Dennis Haysbert and the Caucasian Michael Harris resemble each other. The plot has many flaws, and I believed that the brotherhood of Vincent and Clay had been kept in secret due to racial issues. Therefore, there is no explanation why the brothers have different social conditions having a wealthy father. And what about the fingerprints of Clay and Vincent, how could they match each other? The black and white cinematography is very beautiful and the camera work is excellent. My vote is six.Title (Brazil) Not Available. "},{"Title":"What a Bad Idea...","Date":"10 May 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is like when you're sitting around drunk with your friends and some guy says something clever, and then you're like Oh dude that would make a cool movie! Then you wake up the next day and think Wow, I was really wasted last night, what was I thinking?*SPOILER*So, some scrawny old balding guy decides to kill his brother who is this big black guy. He slips his magical, indestructible drivers license into the black guy's wallet, and proceeds to blow him up. The dental records won't survive, but the ID card certainly will!The black guy survives, but has amnesia. But somehow everyone mistakes the black guy for the white guy... Apparently, being in an explosion gives you black skin, African facial features, a full head of hair, and a different voice and personality.Despite how insanely ridiculous this movie idea is, somehow the film continues to be completely predictable throughout. It's boring to boot.If anyone can give me one good reason this film exists, please do.But I will say the cinematography was pretty good/interesting. "},{"Title":"I loved it! Hitchcock would be proud!","Date":"1 August 2009","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Very excellent film. The choice of black and white to shoot the film was a very good idea. So was the casting of the 2 brothers. I believe they are chosen to look completely different (although in the narrative they are supposed to look identical) is that the director/writer wanted to show how different their personalities are. Perhaps this could not have been conveyed so easily if 2 actual twins were cast. The dreams with the metaphorical flashback triggers were very clver, i.e. needles in the arm/Needles the town. They don't make films this thrilling anymore unfortunately. Hitchcock couldn't have done this any better.Anyway, this was an excellent film, check it out. "}{"Title":"Cinematically impressive but a touch too arty for mainstream tastes","Date":"19 September 2002","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Working class Clay travels into the city to meet his wealthy half-brother Vincent for the first time.  Their shared father has just been killed.  Shortly after Gus arrives, Vincent announces that he must fly out of town overnight and Gus drives him to the airport.  On the drive back Vincent sets off a car bomb to kill Gus, however Gus survives despite being badly disfigured.  Believing him to be Vincent the surgeons rebuild his face and try to bring his memories back.  However Gus finds he is now accused of murder (as Vincent) and that he has only strange dreams about a possible past life.I have seen this twice in an attempt to try and break into the deeper issues that it alludes to.  I have not been totally successful but this not to say that I think this is a bad film.  The plot involves the complexity of personality.  I first watching it thinking it sounded like a good set-up for a thriller &#150; if you think the same then you may be let down.  The plot is more about how our personalities are formed &#150; are we an ID picture, are we who we chose to be?  The split personalities and the dual aspects of the plot are best seen in the casting of the two main roles.  At first I thought it was a lazy art-house trick to cast a black and a white actor as `similar brothers' but the metaphor is used quite well.The problem with the film is that the inner themes are not fully explained (pr at least I found them hard to reach fully).  I know roughly what it was saying but I would find it very hard to explain.  This means that if you can't get inside the plot you are left with what's on the surface and this isn't enough.  It moves slowly and appears to go nowhere in particular.  But focus on the bigger picture and this will give you something to think about even if it fails to grip you for the whole running time.Haysbert is pretty good &#150; if fact all the cast are OK bu they all seem to know they're in an arty movie.  The result is that they talk slowly, say big meaningful sentences and stare into the distance regularly.  What saves this film is the direction.  The use of black and white is superb, the framing of every shot is interesting and I was honestly transfixed by the bleak beauty of every shot.  Things that would have been ordinary in colour are fascinating in this bleak frame.  On top of this the music is good too &#150; lots of classic music gives a cold, unsure feel to the film but the use of `ring of fire' is brave and, happily, comes off.Overall is this for everyone? No.  Is it worth a try? Yes.  On my second viewing I feel that it has layers I'm yet to understand and fully appreciate.  The visual aspect of the film alone is worth a watch.  Although I suspect that the plot is not as deep or as clever as it thinks it is, I know that there is plenty ot be discovered about this.  Give it a shot &#150; I did and now am about to go and give it a 3rd watch. "},{"Title":"Anti Racism","Date":"15 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" This film is just one long anti racism campaign. Not that that's a bad thing, in fact it's laudable but it detracts from to film and at times it's unbearably laughable the lengths they go to not to distinguish between race. It's possible to be absorbed by the philosophical questions that the film raises but only if you really want to. What is identity is great, you can run with that theme and make a decent film, but when you are laughing your way through because nobody notices he is African American and a little old lady can't distinguish him in a line up where he is the only African American, I'm sorry, but this is plainly moronic.This film is a mockery and affront to people with half a brain. I've seen plenty of movie gimmicks but this has got to be flat out the worst one I've ever seen. In fact, I'd be happy to make a wager that they wrote this film with the intention of putting a white character in the lead role and changed at the last second though of course I could be wrong. I think what most people forget watching this is that you cannot simply brush race under the carpet, because this inherently detracts from who we are, it's part of our identity, the most recognizable part in fact. And for a film which was trying to be a study in identity I'm sorry but it falls down on the most basic level and for that I give it four.Also, stylish? This film is not stylish at all. Why does a slow jangly plucked stringed instrument in the background with a slow cymbals beat backing it up result in style? People talked, that's about all the style I saw in this film. If anything it was a bit dull. "},{"Title":"Take the Chain Offya Brain!!! - A Hidden Gem!","Date":"22 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" I had seen this movie about 10 years ago, liked it at the time, and was waiting for an HD version to appear to make my own copy. Lo and behold it came on today! Moreover, I just noticed Amazon carries a DVD that I simply have to include in my collection.Had it not been for the obvious twist, this would simply have passed as a predictable crime drama involving one brother trying to pass off the responsibility and consequence of one of his own crimes on to the other.The twist is that one of the brothers cast is black. However, his race, ANY racial overtones OR stereotypes, are EVER mentioned. EVERYONE plays it TOTALLY as if Dennis Haysbert were white. Or, more importantly, as if this has absolutely NOTHING to do with ANYTHING. The cinematography was crisp black and white which perfectly complemented the very unique question the film has posed to me ever since I first viewed it Could we ever get to this? Haysbert and Dina Merrill (who for me were the biggest names here) give excellent performances driving a very interesting film that uses a simple crime format and elevates it into a thought-provoking and hidden gem that constantly forces the viewer throughout to take the chain offya brain! Seeing it again today reminded me of not so much the story but simply the possibilities it suggests.I hiiiiiiiiiiiiighly recommend as a very worthy addition to any film library. "},{"Title":"Waiting for MacGuffin","Date":"1 April 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Since some of the reviews compared Suture to a Hitchcock, we watched it waiting for a rationale for why nobody seemed to grasp the lack of resemblance between the presumably half-brothers (one has distinct Afro-American features, the other does not). Could everyone here who pretended not to notice be in a conspiracy to cash in on the white brother's fortune? Didn't seem likely, since nobody was shown even suspecting, but we endured this bore to the bitter end just to find out. No MacGuffin. No relationship to Hitchcock. A complete waste of time, not only for the viewers, but for those involved in making the film. "},{"Title":"Deep, amazing and unforgettable","Date":"27 September 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" There is a lot more in this movie than it seems. The actual philosophical dilemma between 'having' and 'being' is developed wonderfully here. One character wants to change his 'being' (Vincent), and Clay wants to change his 'having' (Clay). the intrigue brings them both into reconsidering their whole understanding of life. The name of the Doctor (Renee Descartes) is self explanatory... The desires of both characters are evolving and their need for something else arises slowly. watch it ones, twice and this amazing life lessons will arise by itself. I am teaching philosophy and i used this movie as a tool to make my students search all existing personality challenges in this film. 20 years later, we still speak about it. Enjoy... "},{"Title":"Excellent modern noir","Date":"26 June 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Excellent modern noir, though could've had a better ending as I will explain later. Elements of Hitchcock and David Lynch could be seen/felt, but definitely had it's own style. Acting was great, though not in a completely realistic way, more like the other worldly, slightly dreamlike delivery found in a Lynch film, but it didn't get as bizarre or unfathomable as Lynch often does (don't get me wrong, I love David Lynch!). Direction, Cinematography and Editing, again, excellent. So many interesting shots and sequences. A lot has been said about the choice of actor for Clay and the fact that everyone in the film sees the brothers as identical. My interpretation is that they ARE identical twins and that there just happens to be a black actor playing Clay and a white one playing Vincent. If the director decides they are identical twins in the film and that everyone in the film will see them as that, then they are. If a director has a prop of the Grand Canyon made for a film that doesn't look like the Grand Canyon, but he decides it is and has all the characters in the film treat it as the Grand Canyon, then in that film, it is the Grand Canyon. Obviously this was done on purpose to give more weight to the theme of identity. I don't think race had anything to do with the story of the film except in the mind of the viewer, which is valid, as it is such an issue in our society and why i think the director chose a black actor (rather than another white actor) so that the viewer will think even more about identity. I believe the twins were born to Mrs. Lucerne and separated at birth. There is a sequence where she describes this. I think this is when he received the St Christopher. Why Vincent was kept by Mrs Towers we don't know. Why Clay didn't stay with Mrs Lucerne, we don't know. Mrs Towers must have known there was another twin because he was at the funeral. Where did the St Christopher appear from after going missing? Was it put there by Vincent or Mrs Towers?I would have given this 10 stars, but for the ending, which was OK, but could've had a choice of twists. 1. He assumes the identity of Vincent, but then some new evidence comes to light and he ends up being charged with the murder of his father. 2. Even better, the Clay we see at the beginning of the film before the explosion is a facade and he actually killed the father after finding out about the details of his birth. this is why he also shot Mrs Lucerne because she gave him away to a poor life in a poor town. He was then planning to kill Vincent and assume his identity, but Vincent got to him first. I think this is borne out by the fact that, once he realises who he is, he's not as nice a guy as at the beginning of the film. I think he decides to remain as Vincent because that was his plan all along. And then the new evidence comes to light and he ends up being charged with the murder of his father. I think Mrs Lucerne, Mrs Towers and the St Christopher could've been woven into a much better ending, but even so, one of the best films I've seen for a while "},{"Title":"A film about film","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  While I have some stylistic qualms about Suture, and several complaints about the acting, the film is an intriguing study of how we view films and identity.  In some sense, it echoes Godard and the Brecht alienation effect by using the fact that Clay and Vincent are different races--something that we as an audience immediately see, but no other characters ever recognize-- to establish that we are watching a performance.  In a film called Suture, we are never sutured into the narrative structure. "},{"Title":"Highly recommend this movie to those interested in movie immersion","Date":"23 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" When I first started viewing Suture, I said to myself yeah, right what a premise. Mid way through the movie I realized that they really made it work. By the end of the movie even I believed.You've got to let yourself go and truly get into the fantastic acting, great dialog and wonderful use of black and white cinematography. I my humble opinion this movie should be considered a classic in the turnaround genre.Dennis Haysbert does a fine job as the main character. He makes you believe that his ailment of amnesia has truly overcome him. This was one of the first movies I saw him in and his performance made him stand out as a fine character actor. "},{"Title":"race as signifier for class- the marxist dream","Date":"30 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  there are a lot of things going on in this movie, but i think the most fascinating is the way in which you must try and respond to the images before you. oh yeah, i am supposed to be seeing a white man and woman in bed, you remind yourself. you have to lie to your eyes. what you see you should not perceive. simply amazing. blackness is not an after thought, it is a before and during thought. it is an indelible marker in all realms of consciousness. "},{"Title":"off-beat stylish with unconventional music that works great","Date":"4 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The cinematography (Greg Gardiner) is obviously the most outstanding in this b/w psychological thriller, that I found reminiscent of 'Seconds' (Frankenheimer, 1966), due to the identity problem and the unconventional progression of the story.  BE sure to see this in widescreen, for it will lose its appealing character in full-frame.  The performances from the cast aren't really convincing enough for that matter.  I guess they have a hard time keeping up with the off-beat vision of the directors.  That vision crystallizes into an almost expressionist and sometimes minimalist worldview without turning into imagery.  Visually, this film could only have been made after or before the eighties, because in the eighties the cinematic style and art direction would probably have been taken for granted (without actually being something Michael Mann would have made) while it is actually subtle and intentionally pregnant, as is the music.  Recommendations are most films by John Frankenheimer, 'The Limey' (Soderbergh, 1999), and visually maybe 'Das Kabinett des doktor Caligari' (Wiene, 1920).9/10 "}{"Title":"Thought-provoking and mesmerising","Date":"8 June 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Suture is indeed a thought provoking, even mesmerising film at times. The entire show endeavours to answer the psychological question posed at the very beginning of the film How is it we know who we are? Are we the person we think we are?.I must say I've never seen anything quite like Scott McGehee and David Siegel's Suture. The pair wrote, produced and directed this film which steps away from the traditional path of entertainment to a wholly philosophical, psychological one. Viewers will not find themselves concerned with such trivia as performances, costumes, cinematography or sets, but rather issues, questions and statements. Issues such as self-awareness, questions such as Can we become someone else?, and statements such as Skin colour has no relevance to the identification of self. In their black and white feature, McGehee and Siegel fail to differentiate between and African/American man and a man of European descent. We're concerned not with the physical here, but the meta-physical.As for the answers to these conundrums, one can only reach one's own conclusions. For me though, the personal soul is unchangeable and cannot be interchanged for another's. We may take someone's place, but we cannot become who they are.Monday, May 5, 1997 - Hoyts Croydon "},{"Title":"See this one many times, it gets better and better","Date":"17 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Apart from being wholly original, filled with homage, visually stunning, and satisfyingly rich on levels that expand with each viewing, I found this movie's deadpan conceits hilarious. The plot hinges on extreme physical resemblance between a skinny, sociopath, upper-class white guy (Vincent), and a man who looks and is nothing like Vincent, except they share the same father, whom Vincent has probably murdered. A similar trick was played, but in reverse, in Charles Willeford's brilliant short novel, Pick-Up. But back to the conceits. Awful Vincent enacts a plan to beat the patricide rap by fratricide. To this end, he invites brother Clay, whom he met at Dad's funeral, to Phoenix for the weekend. Clay, (both malleable and model-handsome - get it?) survives murder-by-exploding-car with horrible injuries and no memory, and is, in fact, taken to be Vincent. Throughout the movie, few notice the difference between the strange white guy and the giant, hunky, wonderful, black man. The difference, when taken, is moral, not physical. Among the many virtues of this movie the psychic soundness of Clay's return to mnemonic wholeness; genuine happiness between the surpassingly lovely plastic surgeon and Clay; the pleasure of viewing (for once) the character delineation of a whole man incidentally black, with the white folks stereotyped. Good acting, especially by Dennis Haysbert and Dina Merrill. "},{"Title":"Stylistically great, but with an Ed Wood touch.","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Suture is a beautiful film... great B&W 2.351 (Super-35) photography and keen editing. The performances are excellent. Everything is great except for one thing It relies on such a suspension of disbelief that becomes distracting throughout the film. Don't get me wrong. Dennis Haysbert has the best performance in the film. But I feel that it was a bad idea to make the whole plot hinge on everyone mistaking a black man for a white man. I understand the reason why it was done, but there's no motivation for this.This gimmick ends up being as distracting as Bela Lugosi's stand-in for Plan 9 From Outer Space. There's no reason why the two would be confused with each other, obviously. However, it's never indicated WHY the use of two actors with opposite races would be confused with each other. I wouldn't have a problem with this if they didn't constantly show us how different they are. Vincent mockingly says they look the same (meaning they don't). The plastic surgeon watches a tape and views photographs of Vincent repeatedly. We basically have to let it pass that no one can recognize just basic features of the two (Vincent's gaunt face and receeded hairline). This gimmick was used perfectly in Luis Bunuel's That Obscure Object of Desire - two actresses play the same character for no reason. But that's a surrealist comedy. It almost feels like the directors put the gimmick in Suture just for the intent of being distracting. That's nice, but it's like keeping a hand over half of the lens for a whole reel to show blockage. It's nice, but it gets old.The use of the making the actors completely oblivious to something obvious to the audience can only work in something like a comedy or at least a film that doesn't take itself seriously. This is why Weekend at Bernie's can work, because it's so silly. Suture doesn't seem to be a movie meant to be taken as a jokey film. Maybe it's a parody of art-house films and we just can't accept that.This film basically shows that the switch of a driver's license is enough to switch identities. I really think that without this misfired gimmick, it would have been a great film. Or at least making it a comedy would have worked. "},{"Title":"The worst film ever made","Date":"12 October 2007","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":" Plan 9 From Outer Space is a brilliant accomplishment compared to this piece of crap. Whatever possesses some people to write reviews saying this movie has merit is beyond me. Whenever the discussion of the worst movie of all time comes up, I immediately think of this film Suture. Some movies are so bad, they leave a vestigial imprint on your memory cells which one wishes could be obliterated. This is such a film. The visual imagery of having two individuals exchange identities, and then no one notices, is absurd. Nothing hangs together throughout the film. The script is preposterous. The miracle is the fact that funding was obtained, a greater miracle that the film was produced, unbelievable that copies are out there for you to rent, and mind-boggling that some people like it. "},{"Title":"Odd arthouse film","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The thing that makes this film kind of odd, is the fact that they use two completly differant looking people to be confused as the same person. While it is kind of a bothersome gimmick at first, it grows on you, and you soon forget it.  Not bad, there is some good acting, and I kind of like the fact that it was in black and white.  This is not for everybody though. "},{"Title":"Odd arthouse film","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  The thing that makes this film kind of odd, is the fact that they use two completly differant looking people to be confused as the same person. While it is kind of a bothersome gimmick at first, it grows on you, and you soon forget it.  Not bad, there is some good acting, and I kind of like the fact that it was in black and white.  This is not for everybody though. "},{"Title":"The emperor who wore no clothes","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"5 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  I find it interesting how so many people would bother to try and draw deeper meaning from this low-budget, poorly acted, art film.  It looks like it was put together by a rather ambitious drama major with some help from his friends.Of course there is a certain group (conspiracy theorists?) who go around thinking that nothing is what it seems.Rather than come up with a real location or an expensive movie set the directors of this set could only find an abandoned car dealership to use as the protagonist's mansion  Then they covered up the real furniture with sheets to try and make the place look like someone just moved in.If the definition of surreal is to take actors and have them read their line in a wooden fashion so that the audience doesn't think this is a real film, then this film qualifies.Having two people pretend to look alike when they obviously don't is neither interesting nor funny.This film is void of creativity, and is what happens when for lack of budget the producers take a stab at developing an art film with a cult following. They succeeded only it's a pretty small cult. "},{"Title":"The great shades of Black and White","Date":"27 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Suture in my opinion uses the effect of displaying the film in black and white well along with casting black and white characters that are deemed similar but in fact look nothing alike. The whole film is generally pleasing and interesting to watch, and includes some interesting (and unlikely) characters in the form of the psychiatrist and the plastic surgeon. The interesting and controversial comparison the film presents is perhaps that a black man cannot lead a white man's life, nor take up his values and lifestyle. But ultimately, although the character manages to unravel his past and his problems, the ending pursues quite an interesting direction, which the psychiatrist presents.  "},{"Title":"enigmatic but nice","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  If you're the type of guy that likes trying to figure out 'whats the deeper meaning' of the film, or like an expression we use ' what does the poet wanna say' then see it.If then again you like Hollywood crap, avoid this one, as its in Black&White POther than a HUGE plot gap, which is surely deliberate and thats what the whole enigma is about, he film is really nice made mystery / character development film with lots of good ideas. Maybe it inspired MEMENTO a bit.  "},{"Title":"The yin and yang of black and white","Date":"15 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Thriller","Review":"  Shot in black and white, Suture expands our minds by casting a black man (Dennis Haysbert) as Clay and a white man (Michael Harris)as Vincent, the proverbial twins separated at birth, who meet again as adults. While the meaning of this unusual casting seems to have escaped most viewers, I think I've either figured it out, or need another hit of 60's style windowpane to jog my mind back to reality. One thing of which I'm sure---race is irrelevant in this piece.This film is an unique play on the duality of nature, yin and yang, good and evil. Vincent, the evil (white) twin, tries to destroy Clay, the good (black) twin, but ends up losing everything to his opposite. Were we to look at the physical negative image of the film, Vincent would be black and Clay white.Under suspicion for murdering their father, Vincent tries to fake his own death by inviting Clay to his home, leaving town and killing him via a remote-triggered bomb in his car that he insists Clay drive in his absence. However, Clay survives, but with amnesia that prevents him from knowing who he is.  As pieces of Clay's memory begin to return he must determine what is real before Vincent returns to finish him off.While not the best movie I have ever seen, it is one of the more interesting.  "}]