[{"Title":"Liberty as Freefalling Through Life.","Date":"14 December 2005","Score":"87 out of 102 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" For a film about mourning, there are two moments in Krsyztoff Kielslowski's THREE COLORS BLUE that seem divorced of anything that is happening at first glance. Both are seen through the impersonal medium of a television. The first occurs early in the film as she recovers from an automobile accident which claimed the life of her husband, composer Patrice de Courcy, and her daughter Anna, Julie is given access to witness their funeral, but as she turns the channel, there is an image of a man bungee jumping. It will be seen again when Julie visits her mother (played by Emmanuelle Riva) who lives in a home, disconnected from the outside, watching television. This image of a person seen in free-fall against a pale blue sky (blue is indeed prominent in this film) seems to mirror Julie quite well her loss has given her an empty outlook on life. She wishes to do 'nothing', to just exist, divorced from human contact. However, that same cord which is a life-preserver will eventually pull her back.It's the slow but sure pull of the cord that Kieszlowski wants to tell in this beautiful but tragic story. In Juliette Binoche he has found his muse. With that face that expresses a complex set of emotions and her internalized body language that at times threatens to break through outbursts (as when she plays a piece of the concerto for the unification of Europe her husband was creating and suddenly slams the piano, or when she leaves her house carrying only a box and almost mauls her first against a stone wall). She cannot feel and is trying to make herself do so, but realizes it is better to just be, without ties, love, meaning.BLUE is filled, almost drenched, in subtle meaning which grows stronger at every frame. Kieslowszki's bungee cord begins to make its presence at every subsequent scene. The box Julie is seen carrying contains a mobile which formed a blue sphere -- her only link to her daughter. The musical score, which in one scene she had ordered destroyed, makes its appearance in none other than the streets of Paris under the sad flute of a deadbeat who says, We all must hold onto something. People inevitably come into her life -- for what reason we aren't told up front, but there is the feeling of matters left unresolved and new elements which will force Julie to come full circle and finally open herself to herself.There are three sequences in which Julie immerses herself in water. Water allows herself to go under, to dive into what she has been avoiding for some time now. In one scene, she is seen in a fetal position as if this is a return to her primal state of floating -- free-fall -- and is safe. However, the next-to-last time she swims she is confronted by her new friend and neighbor Lucille (Charlotte Very) who is an exotic dancer working in the red-light district in Paris (note the implicit link to RED) and then she, and we, hear the noise of little children who all jump into the pool dressed in reds and whites which make her instinctively recoil and maybe cry. After all, this is an oblique reference to Anna and she may not be ready for this kind of information. The memories come back (even when we do not see them) and even correlate to a decision to have a neighbor's cat kill a litter or mice in her apartment because she needs complete aloneness.But this will not happen there are still serious matters which she is about to discover and Lucille, the least involved person in Julie's tragedy but whose progressive insinuation into Julie's life, similar to Valentine's reaching out to the old judge in RED, will be the link to facing them.Music is also an important part of BLUE, and whenever Julie is about to make a decision that will take the story to the next level we hear the haunting Preisner score which permeates the entire movie as its soul. American films don't seem to give music such a prominent position in a film, quite possibly because there is always the element of consumerism that is at the heart of every movie -- even serious films. European films, I've noticed, have a different approach to storytelling. BLUE is a very oblique mystery contained within itself from WHITE and RED, but one that demands listening to as well as subsequent views it opens and reveals its petals very slowly and contains a surprise at the center of its bud, one that again, American film-makers would not have known how to resolve unless there was some form of catharsis and maybe even violence. Not here for a movie that gives music and its relation to a truly spellbinding mystery, BLUE and its score are stunning, particularly at its climactic sequence where all of the people Julie has crossed paths with are seen in one last, flowing shot -- Emmanuelle Riva's being the most emotional, seen reflected twice in what can only be a haunting death scene, or is it? -- and returns, full circle, to another reflection of Julie, and Julie herself, open, and weeping in an enigmatic, Mona Lisa smile, free at last. "},{"Title":"Impressive","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"79 out of 103 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Often times when viewing an intelligent film like this I have to really contemplate what the implications the film maker making mean to me.  This film was no exception.  Kieslowski, with his background in non-fiction film making, is applying the french political value of liberty to a personal situation.  He is, in essence, studying the human condition through fiction. The meaning of liberty takes on a very different meaning for Julie in this film.  She tries to gain liberty from her memories and her emotions only to find that it is an impossible task.  This is not a film to casually throw on after supper.  This film requires a commitment by the audience to really consider Kieslowski's implications, for he is telling us (throughout this trilogy) what he thinks makes a good person.  The score is beautiful and has a character of its own in the plot.  A must see for true film lovers but perhaps a little too much for someone expecting a casual encounter.  "},{"Title":"Bleu A Symphony of Grief","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"70 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  The subject(mourn,lost)is so interesting and profound that this film is a real treasure. It is very difficult to write about 'Bleu' because this film has so many intense scenes,with many details.Juliette  Binoche's vulnerability is in every scene, every gesture, every moment. She plays an enigmatic woman,'Julie,' we're witness to her terrible loss(her husband who was a famous composer and her daughter died in a car crash)She is the survivor,not only of the accident,but of herself too.The film doesn't show us how her life was before the tragedy,but' Bleu' focuses on her personal journey to healing. Julie seems stoic,she did not criy hysterically or stay in bed totally depressed,her grief is intimate and touching.In one scene when Julie is near the blue crystal mobile(which belonged to her daughter) just notice her reaction.Another poignant scene is when Julie is in that swimming pool,suddenly,she stops and she can hear her husband's symphony(all in her head). Bleu also approaches a philosophical question-when you lose everything  can you start all over again?,life is a series of events and choices,Julie moves to another place from the country to a city.She did not want to see her friends,she wants to be alone but is this possible?,her past will haunt her. Another interesting aspect of this film is the use of music instead of dialogue,her silence is a reference of her terrible loss and pain,she is not depressed but sad. Also the meaning of the unfinished symphony of her husband is very profound (is connected with her grief and healing) The photography of the film and the beautiful and delicate face of Binoche contribute to the impact of  BLEU. Kieslowski was one of the most talented directors, I really admired his 'Trois couleurs' trilogy but I think,'Bleu' was his most powerful film.10/10 "},{"Title":"Kieslowski master of visual narrative.","Date":"21 November 2000","Score":"64 out of 89 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Krzysztof Kieslowski is, unquestionably, the master of the visual narrative.More-so than even La Double Vie de Veronique (which is much more poetic than linear in it's structure), Trois Couleurs Bleu is a marvel of visual exposition. Due to the nature of the film, exposition in this case is not necessarily related to plot, but rather to the understanding of a human being.Kieslowski delves so deeply into the true nature of Julie (Juliette Binoche) and in such a remarkable way that by the end of the film we understand her utterly. Free from the clutter of dialogue and, for the most part, interaction with other characters we see Julie alone and in her most natural state. Kieslowski takes his documentary background and conveys his character in an almost voyeuristic manner. Showing Julie in anything but a state of solitude would be false; due to human nature Julie with Oliver would not be Julie, but rather a reflection of her true self which, although certainly interesting, pales in comparison to observing her silently struggle with the death of her husband and daughter alone.Kieslowski played with applying the documentary techniques, which he perfected in his early work, to the narrative form in The Dekalog with tremendous, although at times visually mundane, results. The Dekalog looks like a documentary. Here, he turns over much visual control to his Director of Photographer, Slawomir Idziak, with tremendously cinematic results. Idziak's use of color and light, combined with his groundbreaking filter work, serve to further explore Julie's character. Blue feels like a documentary and looks like a dismal Rembrandt. While Kieslowski concentrates on showing the true nature of Julie through action, Idziak contributes by showing her through light and color.Trois Couleurs Blue is an almost unmatched achievement in the history of cinema. Never before has a character been conveyed so splendidly and in such a visually stunning manner. "},{"Title":"A masterpiece of an understudy into human grief!","Date":"23 January 2004","Score":"46 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  BLEU (TROIS COLEURS) / France/Poland 1993 (4 STARS) 23 January 2004 The thing that stands out most about Blue is the expression (or lack there of) of grief. How does a woman, seemingly fulfilled by happiness, react when that happiness is yanked away in one telling moment, in a car accident in which both her husband and her daughter pass away? That is the central understudy - a strong woman's attempts at finding purpose in the seeming absence of meaning.  &#149; Mise-en-scene I watched an interview with Juliette Binoche, where she mentions that Kieslowski refused to make the film unless it had her in it. It's easy to see why. I can't imagine Bleu without Juliette &#150; its not just that she lends her personality to the film&#133;Bleu IS Binoche.&#149; I was thrown off by the sub-plots of the character's relationships with her mother and the striptease dancer, as I was about the seeming resolution at the end of the film. There were perhaps references that I missed but the &#145;almost happy' ending left me feeling un-relinquished. Given that I had shared such an intense journey with Julie, it seemed almost improper to accept that she would settle in to a normal relationship again.&#149; Cinematography The 1st shot of the film - that of a car tire racing - shot from the bottom of the moving car establishes this as &#145;not your typical movie'. The sequence-of-shots that follow eerily draw one into the compelling story-telling style of Krzysztof Kieslowski, minimalist in its approach, with a world communicated without dialogue in the first five minutes of the film. &#149; Blue is not your typical art-house film. Its production values are up there with the best, and the cinematography by Slavomir Idziak (who's craft was recognized by Hollywood in Black Hawk Down), is nothing short of stunning.  &#149; The lighting is low key and soft, and wraps around the characters to create a mood of subtlety. A distinguishing feature is the detail in the shadows. None of the close-ups fully illuminate the protagonist, almost hinting at her vulnerability at facing the light, though the delicate use of eye-lights does well to bring alive her emotions.  &#149; The camera, an intelligently used narrative element, interacts with Julie and partakes in her emotions, respecting them and yet accentuating their intensity as she plods on in an alien world of deep personal purposelessness. The tight close-ups penetrate her soul and force us to delve into Julie's mind and share in her agony.  &#149; Editing deftly uses match on action to create irony while forwarding the narrative.  &#149; Sound The pace is hauntingly slow and silence has been used compellingly. It screams with meaning as it is becomes one of the more important elements as the narrative progresses.  Bleu is not a film you can watch, consume and move on. Either you'll feel that you've totally wasted your time and will probably not be able to sit through (the pivotal occurrence is over within the first five minutes of the film without a single world being spoken, and the rest of the film is essentially the protagonist's psychologically subjective journey) or you'll realize by the time you've reached the end that you'll revisit this film at various points in time, explore and read about it, discuss it with people you respect, and try to get closer to the essence of Kieslowski. For there are two now well-accepted truths about the folklore surrounding Kieslowski, whose reputation continues to mount posthumously&#133;1. that Kieslowski carefully interwove elements that were rich with meaning and social irony, and 2. that figuring those elements out and appreciating their implications is probably a lifelong learning process. "},{"Title":"Perfect attention to detail - (with SPOILERS)","Date":"13 November 2002","Score":"34 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Krzysztof Kieslowski's Blue is a film that appears, at first glance, to have a very simple story and almost no plot.  The film is about Julie (Juliette Binoche), who after losing her husband and daughter to a car accident must learn to cope with their deaths.  But the real story revolves around the process of liberation from her past.  Kieslowski illustrates this process with complex visuals, implementing an interesting use of light and shadow, as well as colors, to create an atmosphere that reflects the feeling of this piece perfectly.There is a certain degree of multiple meaning in the use of colors in Kieslowski's Three Colours trilogy, aside from creating an appropriate mood for each part of the trilogy; the colors also represent the blue, white, and red of the French flag.  The three colors stand for liberty (blue), equality (white), and fraternity (red).  Liberty, or freedom from the past, is a major theme in Blue, the first part of the trilogy.  The Juliette Binoche character, Julie, goes through a personal journey, as she must cope with her husband and daughter's deaths.  She must go on with life even though the worst has happened, and she chooses to be free, to become liberated.The color blue is used regularly from beginning to end.  The film starts with a shot of a candy-wrapper moving in the wind; it is colored blue on one side.  The street, the car, and even the air seem to be tinted in a hue of blue.  The last shot before the final montage is of the sparkling blue crystal lamp hanging above Julie's flat.  Throughout the film blue is used extensively, there is a trace of it in practically every shot of the film, everything from people's clothes, the color of ink, the paint on walls and arches, the tint of the street and the water, etc.  The blue is used to create moods of melancholy and coldness, and to draw attention to the resonant emotional associations conjured up by objects and places in Julie's mind. (Andrew, p. 25)  The coloring perfectly reflects the mood of the film; it presents a very dismal and hopeless atmosphere full of solitude and melancholy, giving the viewer a visual insight into Julie's mind.The several scenes in the swimming-pool are some of the most powerful moments in the film, there's aching dimension in the bluish swimming-pool water she regularly immerses herself in (Howe), and it is especially evident in the shot following Julie's recollection of her husband's last words.  In this scene Kieslowski implements an interesting use of light and shadow.  The shot begins in the water, Julie's entire body is submerged, and the only color visible in the frame is blue the water is blue, her body is blue, the surrounding walls are blue, and even the shower door is blue. The camera pans as she moves from one side of the pool to the other.  Then, as Julie lifts herself out of the water, a reddish ray of light covers the upper half of her body, while everything else seems to be hidden behind a blue-tinted shadow; it is as if the essence of life itself is shining its hopeful light on her.  But she can not handle it; she is not yet ready for liberty.  Slowly she lowers her body back into the water, returning once again into the atmosphere of the oppressive blue until she is completely submerged in the pool, her grief now as clear as the bluish water surrounding her.Another fascinating element about Kieslowski's films is the attention that is paid to details, especially when it comes to expressing one of the most difficult elements to capture on camera human emotion.  Every glance, every reaction is rich with meaning, there is no close-up throughout the film that is unnecessary.  Kieslowski works very well with the actors, especially Juliette Binoche, who gives one of the most impressive performances of her career in Blue.  One can see the grief on her face, but it is a very cold grief, more than in any of her other films Binoche gives the impression that her character in Blue is undergoing a complex state of thought.There are a few shots in the film that seem to be unrelated to the story. This is yet another technique often used by Kieslowski to heighten the intellectual capacity of his films.  Whenever creating any series of films, Kieslowski liked to link each respective part of the series with certain characters or actions, and this is true on several levels of the Three Colours trilogy.  Beside the fact that the court scene of White is actually a short part of Blue, and the fact that the characters from all three films appear at the end of Red, there is a very interesting shot of an old woman that is presented in the same way in every part of the trilogy. It's a very simple shot, but it says a lot.  An old woman, so old that she can barely walk, walks slowly towards a recycling container.  She reaches up so high that she can barely reach to throw a bottle into the container, and then once again she takes her bag and slowly walks away.  It is as if Kieslowski wanted to represent life's struggle, and indeed the different struggles of the characters of his trilogy, with this little old woman's struggle with the recycling container.Also seemingly unrelated were several shots of people bungee jumping juxtaposed with a dialogue between Julie and her mother.  Before I was happy.  I loved them.  They loved me, too. says Julie, just as a shot of a man jumping from a helicopter begins.  The fall seems to symbolize her desperation perfectly, yet it is also a symbol for the film's theme of liberation, for although the shots of the bungee jumpers all end just before it, the entire point of the bungee cord is to stop the fall and to pull the jumper back up, perhaps not to the same height, but up again never-the-less. It is like Julie's plunge into the bluish darkness of hopelessness after her tragedy, yet there exists the opportunity for liberation, for her to be pulled back up and to put the past behind her.Music is a large part not only of the story of Blue, but Kieslowski actually worked with composer Zbigniew Preisner to make it a part of the film.  There are more than a few parts in the film where music is essential in creating the effect of the scene.  Kieslowski suggests the music's almost supernatural provenance by showing Julie first dozing in a chair with an unexplained blue light playing over her face, then, having been woken by the music, looking started and mystified toward the camera (which not only draws back from her and then returns, but bathes the scene in a blue wash), as if the music itself were a (blue?) physical presence. (Andrew)  When Julie first starts remembering the tune to the music to the Song For The Unification Of Europe the music plays in several brief flashes, and each time it plays Kieslowski creates a visual lens flare effect, which is of course colored blue.  In the scene where Olivier shows Julie his version of the music the audio and video simultaneously lose clarity each time Julie makes a change to the manuscript, removing instruments from the composition one by one, the camera goes out of focus until only the string instruments are left and the camera is completely unfocused.  The ending sequence is another example, for the first time in the film the audience hears the complete chorus and as the tension builds and we finally hear the choir portion the camera tilts up to Julie's glittering blue crystal lamp, a shot which is followed by the powerful chorus and complete darkness.  This effect of juxtaposing darkness with music is something that occurs several times throughout the film, Kieslowski uses this technique to represent the intensity of emotion running through Julie's head.  When the character Antoine asks Julie if she wants to know what he saw at the time of the accident, she answers simply no, then the screen blacks out and music begins, a few seconds later the black ends and we are returned once again to Julie and Antoine's conversation.It's a shame that more directors do not undertake more ambitious efforts such as the work of Krzysztof Kieslowski.  His films often do not rely on conventional plot elements, in fact, often times there is no real plot at all, yet somehow he was able to make his films both intellectually stimulating and interesting to watch.  In Blue, Juliette Binoche's character, Julia, must learn to cope with her family's death.  She wants to put her past behind her, yet she is drawn into the past because of her husband's unfinished composition.  Does she even want the composition finished?  Was the music originally her husband's, or was she the real composer?  Kieslowski was not interested in answering these questions, he preferred to leave them uncertain.The film is, instead, about the process of Julie's liberation from her memories.  For Kieslowski, subtlety is a religion. He hints or implies -- anything to keep from laying his cards on the table. With Blue, you never feel he's shown his whole hand; not even after the game is over (Hinson). There is no happy ending here, and there is no real solution to the puzzle; the final shot is of Julie's tear-stained face, as it slowly loses opacity to an image of something blue on the frame behind it.  She makes the decision to be liberated from her past; hence it's a hopeful ending, yet the tear represents a struggle that is never really over.  "},{"Title":"A passage through dark water into light","Date":"15 December 2003","Score":"37 out of 54 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites.The disturbing topic of a woman who can't deal with the loss of her husband and child transforms into an essay on the impossibility of isolation. It is a quiet, personal movie that spends most of it's time with the main character played excellently by Juliette Binoche.The color blue is very evident in the film,and a fade to a simple blue screen is used to show times of deep emotion. Although the characters are set in a specific time and place ( France just before the formation of the EU ) the focus on the personal journey of grief transcends the setting.I like the way this film changes from a story about a death to an affirmation to life. I like the way that little things like mice in the apartment loom large in the thought of our main character, where as what others consider important such as finishing her husband's symphony seem very minor .It feels like diving deep through cold dark water to finally swim toward the light. One passes through emotional turmoil to come out the other side. I found it a very satisfying. "},{"Title":"'Blue,' 'White' and 'Red' represent the apotheosis of European art cinema just at the moment when its very existence seemed most uncertain&#133;","Date":"23 November 2008","Score":"25 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Three Colors Blue is the first part of Polish director Krzysztof Kieslowski's Three Colors trilogy&#133; Blue is set in France, White in Poland and Red in Switzerland, but all production was based in France&#133; Not only are the colors of the trilogy those of the French national flag; the original intention was meditation on the ideals of the French Revolution freedom, equality and fraternity&#133; This suggests a political dimension to the work&#133; But though like most Polish filmmakers Kieslowski had his difficulties with the Polish Communist system, its collapse by the early 1990s meant that he was not only free to work where he pleased, but liberated from the necessity for his films to engage directly in the political process&#133; In Three Colors Blue Juliette Binoche plays a woman whose husband and daughter are killed in a car crash&#133; Overcome by melancholy, she progressively withdraws from life, depriving herself of possessions and refusing relationships, a state of mind conveyed in part by the director's subtle use of color blue&#133; But eventually she is able to accept the attentions of a lover and even to offer friendship to another woman who is pregnant with her husband's child&#133; Finally, she completes the piece of music which her husband has been commissioned to write&#133; The result is a work that has less in common with the Polish 'Cinema of moral concern' of the late 1970s than with the tradition of the mainstream European art cinema, in its concerns with alienation and the loss of feeling, countered by the transcendent power of love&#133; "},{"Title":"Do we like her?  Do we feel anything?","Date":"11 August 2004","Score":"65 out of 116 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Something of a model of directorial focus and control, 'Bleu' seems to be an attempt to answer several related questions How can a filmmaker express the feelings for someone who won't, or can't, express them herself? Can the director make the viewer understand her, like her, share her feelings? Krzysztof Kieslowski comes very close, finding ingenious, even brilliant ways to get inside the head of his deliberately impenetrable Julie. The frequent 'blackouts,' coupled with the throbbing, somber score (inspired, it seems, at least in part, by Mozart's 'Requiem'), gives us a window into the character's inner life, lets us hear, rather than see, the humanity behind her aloof façade. We understand her--but do we like her? How easy it would be for Julie to become totally unlikable--the way Juliette Binoche plays her, she is blank to the point of coldness, sometimes in ways reminiscent of Catherine Deneuve's Carole in Repulsion, only with a taut intelligence that character certainly lacks. Somehow, she never does; but, for all the actress's control, the characterization is ultimately Kieslowski's creation, not hers. It's the directorial techniques, and not the acting, that allow us to care about Julie. So, do we ever share her feelings? No, despite all Kieslowski's tricks, we really can't. So often, Americans wrongly write off European films as 'cold,' and that's why it's surprising that this movie, which directly tackles the question of emotional frigidity, and which has such a passionate following among cinephiles, should turn out never to make us feel really anything. Oh, the film has an undeniable emotionalism, a potency, just beneath the surface, yes. But it's never willing to go the extra step and manipulate the viewer in an outright way. It's too respectful of its audience, too intelligent, too careful, for that. And this studied, uncompromising unsentimentality in itself is an achievement Kieslowski should be commended for, but some may find it makes 'Bleu' into a portrait of grief to be admired, rather than loved. 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A stunning film from one of the world's preeminent directors.","Date":"22 November 1999","Score":"23 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  TROIS COLOURES BLEU is a rich, dark film with all the Kieslowski marks death, silence, depression, and the inner torment of outwardly attractive women.  After seeing the whole trilogy and the DEKALOG, I'm convinced at Kieslowski's great talent, and his very early death was a true blow to world cinema.  Much like Kubrick but with a less ironic nature, Kieslowski loves to make his characters and stories both humanely distant, realistic, and, at the same time, philosophically idealist and dense.  I enjoyed BLEU more than BLANC (which was an odd machismic entry in a trilogy mainly focusing on women) but not as much as ROUGE, which I feel is one of the finest, most beautiful, most well-done films I've ever seen.More specifically, BLEU's focus seems to be on the relationship of a woman's loss of the tactile manifestation of her husband's existance with the ligering notions of his life - especially his music, which pervades the entire film, interrupting at key moments with a blackout and short blast of the overture.  To watch Julie struggle with her husband's abandoned secrets (including a mistress Julie befriends) is shattering, frustrating, and perplexing.Unfortunately, life must move, and, due to that, I can't watch BLEU over and over.  However, I did glean from one viewing the complexity of this picture, and recognize its need to be watched over and over, until Kieslowski's last gasps can be properly understood, which is all we can hope to return to a man whose genius was tragically cut short, but still stands as a giant in my view of cinema.    "}{"Title":"A Beautiful Film","Date":"17 July 1999","Score":"29 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Blue is one of those little movies that grows on you.  The more you think about it the more you like it.  That's not to say that it's not enjoyable to view; the cinematography and music are marvelous.  But this is Juliette Binoche's movie.  Everything revolves around her character, Julie, who, in the first scene, survives an automobile accident that claims the lives of her famous composer husband and her five-year-old daughter.  Now alone the remainder of the movie delves into Julie's long emotional recovery.  Not traumatic, or depressing as the subject matter may imply it is instead subtle, graceful, and beautiful. "},{"Title":"My brief review of the film","Date":"12 June 2005","Score":"18 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Carefully directed, with attention to both detail and colour, the film is amazing on a visual scope, but it is also powerful on an emotional scope with a number of very intense and moving scenes. It is a story of coping with grief, with characters fleshed out through facial expressions rather than words and actions, and Binoche is a fine choice for the lead. The intriguing music score and fade-to-black editing provide the film with an interesting sensation, in particular alongside the cinematography and lighting, used cleverly to keep things in and out of focus. Kieslowski also plays with sound in an interesting manner, and it is hard to flaw the film on anything. We are told nothing of the background of our protagonist, the supporting characters at times appear haphazardly thrown around, and yes, there is a lot of meandering and not much story, but this surely depicts the state of mind of the protagonist. Really, it is hard to say anything against this film, as it is so well made and moving that it is really just fine viewing. The first entry in a trilogy of films, it was followed in 1994 by 'Trois Couleurs Blanc'. "},{"Title":"It's Not Easy Being Blue.","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"24 out of 41 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  The first of legendary Polish director Krzysztof Kielslowski's Three Colors trilogy (representing the three colors of the French national flag) is a hypnotic and intriguing journey which follows Juliette Binoche after she tries to gain total liberty (the representation of blue in the flag) after the deaths of her husband (a famous European composer) and young daughter in an automobile accident. Of course isolating oneself from all others is not easy to do as the past keeps on popping up and the future holds many uncertainties. The fact that Binoche's husband had an affair and the woman is now carrying his child is both ironic and tragic for all involved. In the end will Binoche be able to stop being blue? Blue, like all of Kielslowski's works, thrives on symbolism (the color popping up all throughout the film) and an unmistakable tone (much the way that Roman Polanski uses that feature in his better productions). The film is not for all tastes because of strong adult content and a distinct female flair (due to the almost total focus on Binoche), but Blue is still a movie which is a testament to its excellent film-maker and its unique theatrical aspects. 4 stars out of 5.   "},{"Title":"Poetic cinema at its finest.","Date":"18 February 2009","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Shot in France with a French cast and a Franco-Polish crew, Blue (1993) is the first entry in the masterful Three Colors Trilogy that Polish director Krzysztof Kieslowski completed shortly before his untimely death in 1996. Each of the three films draws its title from one of the colors of the French flag. In Blue Kieslowski richly counterpoints the color's conventional connotation of grief with its emblematic meaning of liberty. After a devastating car accident claims the lives of her young daughter and her internationally renowned composer husband, the film's protagonist Julie (Juliette Binoche) finds herself unable either to deal with the profound pain of loss or, despite several aborted attempts, to commit suicide. She elects instead to distort the meaning of liberty by cutting herself off from all things connected to her happy domestic past and from all human relationships that might cause further pain. She empties her home of furnishings - including all but one key item that belonged to her daughter. She retrieves the last composition that her husband was working on (significantly entitled Concerto for European Unification) and deposits it in a passing garbage truck. She summons and sleeps with her husband's associate, Olivier, who she correctly suspects has always carried a torch of unrequited love. As a test of her dispassion, Julie perversely uses the act of love making as one final gesture of disconnection, hoping also to prove just a woman to Olivier and not worthy of his continued pursuit and idealization. In the morning she deserts Olivier and her emptied country home for a leased room in Paris, where she plans to do nothing and live anonymously. On her way off the estate, however, we watch as Julie scrapes her knuckles along a stone wall until they bleed, suggesting that the pain of human existence and memory resides powerfully beneath her liberated surface. For some time while residing in Paris, Julie continues her self-imposed human exile, having little to do with her neighbors, focusing intently on the phenomena of the present (like a sugar cube dissolving in her morning coffee), and continuing to repress the feelings and memories symbolized by sudden bursts of orchestral music against a black screen. Inevitably, however, Julie's walled in isolation begins to crumble. Olivier finds her hiding place, a homeless man inexplicably plays fragments of the Unity Concerto on his flute, a young stripper who has been ostracized by all others in Julie's apartment building insinuates herself into Julie's life and re-awakens her memories by zeroing in on the blue glass mobile that hangs in Julie's apartment &#150; the one object connected to her daughter that Julie was unable to abandon or destroy. Ultimately, two events combine to extract Julie from her psychological slough of despond and initiate the process of her re-engagement with the world. First, by a chance occasion paralleling the accident itself, she learns that her husband had been conducting a prolonged affair with a young law clerk and that the woman is carrying her husband's child. Initially stunned with betrayal, Julie angrily confronts the woman, but then her inherently generous nature surfaces and Julie invites her to take possession of the abandoned country estate. At about the same time, Julie learns that Olivier has undertaken to complete the Unification Concerto on his own, which - as he has counted on - arouses Julie's ire and provokes her into aiding Olivier with the project. As earlier intimated, it now becomes clear that she, not her husband, was the concerto's primary composer. Work on the concerto not only restores Julie's creative link to life but also sparks love and desire for the ever-faithful Olivier. The healing powers of love and music together are indicated by the lyrics of the concerto's chorus. Adapted from St. Paul's Letter to the Corinthians, they read Though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, if I have not love, I am nothing. The film ends with a montage of images that weave an existential tapestry of chance and fate, love and isolation, life and death. The most memorable of these is a sonogram of the fetus pulsating in the mistress's womb, compensating imperfectly yet affirmatively for the loss of Julie's own child.Roger Ebert, in his original review of Blue, cited Ingmar Bergman's conviction that many moments in films can only be dealt with by a close-up of a face - the right face - and that too many directors try instead to use dialogue or action. Dialog and action in Blue are indeed sparse and obviously subordinated not only to close-ups on Juliette Binoche's extraordinarily expressive face, but to other purely cinematic film elements such as color, composition, camera placement, and &#150; perhaps above all &#150; sound. Indeed, Blue includes one of the most original and emotionally powerful diegetic soundtracks that I have ever encountered. Whether regarded as an independent entity or viewed in the context of the whole trilogy, Blue is a major work by one of the great masters of contemporary world cinema. "},{"Title":"A Bit More Narrative Please","Date":"3 July 2010","Score":"18 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" The movie's narrative basically ends after the first ten minutes. There is practically no external conflict after that, except for the rather uninteresting point of will Juliete Binoche finish the score for the Unification of Europe song. To tell the truth, I really, really did not care one way or the other. Without plot narrative, we're left with some quite striking cinematography, mainly shots of Juliete which should definitely be in a slick fashion magazine. There's some nice montage of images and sounds a la Godard or Bertolucci, but nothing very memorable except for a sugar cube dissolving and some baby mice. This leaves me in the distinct minority of those who found the film cold and boring. I realize that the director Krzysztof Kieslowski was dying of aids when he made this film, but I can't transfer my sympathy for him to the film. I haven't seen the other two films in the trilogy. I hope they are better. I'm also upset with the false advertising on the DVD which calls the film Mysterious and Sexy. There is no mystery here and one shot of Juliete Binoche's naked back and several shots of her swimming in a bathing suit hardly qualifies a film as sexy. Of course, if they had written the truth Morbid and Pretty who would buy it? "},{"Title":"Colored Noir","Date":"12 November 2004","Score":"14 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Spoilers herein.No people are more culturally distinct from their neighbors than the Polish. They know something of pain, and they have a stronger vision of beauty than anyone - one which extends to even pain having beauty. And not just any notion of beauty, but a sublime beauty.The most important development in film in 50 years was the development of noir. True noir takes the direction of the story away from the writer, away from anything that makes sense, and places the story as it unfolds in the hands of a capricious fate. It added another layer to the folding of narrative, one above the layer of the viewer and author and two above that of the movie.But noir is black, or was. With these films, our genius explores what colored noir would be like... what a world would be like under an ineffable drive to recover the past. Parallel pasts, hers and his. Other films in the trilogy dealt with tougher challenges Red as parallel presents; White as parallel futures.That business about the French flag is no more a skeleton for these than the old woman recycling glass. I'm astonished that anyone would believe that.So this is colored noir, and necessarily beautiful - in fact part of the pain is the entanglement with the sublime. This could be the most beautiful film ever made. All in the eye which frames the thing.Binoche understands that she is not inventing a character, but a representative of life - someone who blends into the motion of the film. That whole motion makes the whole world a woman.Ted's Evaluation -- 4 of 3 Every cine-literate person should experience this. "},{"Title":"Excellently executed, sensitive and moving drama.","Date":"18 July 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I have ever seen. Not only for Juliette Binoche's excellent performance, but also for the delicate cinematography, the haunting music and the overall texture of immersion in the world of the young woman. If you are after car chases, exploding jets and gun-toting macho muscle-men, then stop reading now, this is not for you.I enjoyed the other two films in the trilogy (Three colours Red and Three Colours White), but ...Blue is easily the best. Kieslowski's movies are very different from the formulaic action movies that steer you firmly down a plotline, without giving the audience time to absorb any feeling. Without giving anything away, the story centres on the life of a young woman who experiences a great loss, and how everything changes, how she reacts, what happens next and much more. Music plays a central part in the plot and the scene where her finger traces the score as she shapes the symphony for Europe, is unforgettable. As you watch it you are lulled by the music yet also aware of the tension between her lover and her. Simply put, this film is subtle and moving, beautiful to watch, has a haunting musical soundtrack (I bought the CD as well, I have to say) and is never sentimental or cliched, not for a minute. There are little link scenes that join this movie with the other Three colours... movies - the storylines are separate but overlap.If you liked this, see also Three colours Red and The Unbearable lightness of Being. It's best on the big screen. "},{"Title":"Addition and subtraction.","Date":"3 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Taken as a whole, the Thee Colors trilogy is certainly a work that is greater than the sum of it's part. It represents the totality of life by way of trichotomy, and by a process of addition, each film adding on another aspect, another color, to what came before. Blue is tragedy, white is comedy, and red is... well, it is indeed hard to pin down, but I would think that it is perhaps romance. At the same time, like the way bits of each film make guest appearances in the others, each of these aspects, each color, is mixed with parts of the others. Therefore, it's important to see all the films, and they really should ideally be seen in their chronological order, for only at the end of it all - when it all adds up - do we find the sense of completion that gives the work its true magic. Therefore, I won't be commenting on Blue and pretend the others don't exist. They must be taken together as a three-course meal.In light of this it may seem almost paradoxical that each of the individual films in certain respects are based on an opposite process, an act of subtraction. The beauty and poetry of these works is just as often as not a result of what is not said, what is left out and must be inferred, what is never confirmed, what is left hanging. This act of subtraction is given most poignantly in Blue.The accident that opens the movie and grants Julie that tragic liberty that she never asked for and never wanted, sets in play a process of removal that we feel cannot be stopped, until it either reaches its conclusion or some greater outer force intervenes. Julie never, for a second, attempts to restore the fragments of her lost life. Once the process of destruction is started, she does not attempt to stop it. The bulk of the movie shows her systematically destroying what is left, and all memories of what was. She gets rid of the mansion where she lived with her family, including all furniture and belongings. She angrily, in an act of stunning subdued violence, chews and devours a lollipop that had been her daughter's. Finally, she tries to destroy the score for her husband's symphony for the Unification of Europe.In a movie about a woman who has lost her husband and her child, we may expect certain kinds of scenes flashbacks, memory sequences, returns to what has been lost. These are all notably missing from Blue. Julie doesn't return, not to her past or to the world of the living, not until outside forces &#150; Kieslowski's wonderful random acts of genius storytelling - intrude.At the end of the day, Blue, mercifully, ends on a note of affirmation of life, optimistically, even happily. It is, of course, a happy ending unlike any other in cinema, one that can only be brought about by way of the most extreme grief and loss. It's a phenomenological process of sorts, in the Husserlian sense. For Husserl, only by removing the objects of consciousness, by constantly subtracting what is in it, can we hope to arrive at understanding of consciousness itself. For Julie, only be removing everything that her life contained, by going down to the bare bones of her self, can she truly find herself, and start living again. In the end, life wins out and starts anew. Even after the greatest apocalypse, some seeds of life have escaped death, and they will continue to grow and to flower.This is one of my favorite movies of all time, an opinion that is, I believe, shared by everyone who sees it. It's more than a trip to the movies. It's even more than an experience of immense beauty, even if it is, of course, that too. It is, in my opinion, an opportunity to take part in a process of discovery of what it is to be human, that will leave you a better person afterwards. "},{"Title":"I can't find the appropriate words to describe it, but it's the best.","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I saw Three Colours Blue in video because in my hometown didn't ever arrive to Movie Theater; even with that inconvenience I could appreciate a superb film (why do we have to see only Hollywood films? Where are the French, Italian, Spanish, Mexican, British, etc, movies?)Everything is marvellous, the music, the photograph, the history, the actress&#133;Juliette Binoche had the best work I had ever seen on her,  (and she was magnificent in Damage, The Lovers on the Bridge or The Unbearable Lightness of Being). The music by Zbigniew Preisner isn't only a background; it's a part of the history, indispensable.This isn't a typical movie; there are many people who don't understand that. Perhaps they believe it's boring or dark, but here there aren't dinosaurs, indestructible policemen, violence or teenagers' licentiousness. The spectator will see the human being showing his innermost thoughts and emotions, the weakness and strength, the man showing his nude face and nude soul; Even without words! Juliette Binoche doesn't need to speak to show her soul storm.I highly recommend watching Blue, White and Red (observing the French flag colours order).When Krzysztof Kieslowski passed away after a second heart attack, the world lost one of the best film directors, but his masterpieces live on.  "},{"Title":"Escapology","Date":"23 November 2011","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" A psychological reading of this film might suggest that it's about grief. Then one discovers that its part of a series in which Kieslowski wants to engage with the idea of freedom. Well, clearly there's tension between these two ideas. Where grief is a static process, Kieslowski's Julie uses the bereavement as a chance to move away from her life. Yet just as grief may prove impossible to overcome Julie cannot wrest herself from her past which at first chases her physically and then spectrally. Grief or freedom - neither is absolutely possible and peace through management is the only option. All this is in relief to a dreadful situation in which absolute freedom is attained but at a cost Julie's mother has escaped her past through Alzheimer's.These are the themes of the film, relentlessly but poetically investigated. The performances are good. The colour symbolism isn't as obvious as it threatens to be. I particularly like the dissolves as the indelible music that either Julie or her husband were writing overcomes her at moments where escape of the past is impossible. Zbigniew Preisner's music itself is the plastic weak link of the film. 7/10 "}{"Title":"Richly complex and moving","Date":"17 November 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is one that has to be watched many times (along with the other two movies in the 'trilogy') to understand the subtle nuances and interactions in the movie.It is not a movie that 'hits the viewer on the head' with a moral. There are no good or bad guys. No gun battles or whiz bang special effects. Just a story and a search for meaning in a complex world.See the movie and make your own mind up. Everyone will find their own meaning in the story. "},{"Title":"Juliette Binoche, Kieslowski's egeria","Date":"18 February 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" It's been years that I have seen Bleu and my writing about it today is to show the lingering effect it had onto me. The movie is simply a masterpiece. (10/10) Why? First, the plot or the process of going through pain and grieving but also the human resilience of surviving the lost of cherished ones, an infant daughter evidently more so in the movie than a husband. Second, the cast Binoche, Binoche and Binoche. She's centerpiece and rightly so. She's a mountain of emotion and strength that permeates the screen. Third, the music that Preisner wrote prompted me to buy the soundtrack. For anyone who has it, they can share with great emotion when one hears Juliette say Vous me montrez ce que vous avez composé? (You want to show me what you have composed?). Her voice seems only a murmur, but at the same time commanding as of one who knows what to expect; and the movie as it unfolds tells us that it is not much. Olivier wanted to finish her husband's work which she reluctantly agrees to but the resulting effort is really unimpressive. She corrects the work by taking away instruments. Why Olivier put them in in the first place was gauche. She repelled him throughout the film because he was too insisting as if he wanted something from her; the same thing her dead husband got ? The storyline is very subtle.This is not meant to be a spoiler but a persisting feeling throughout the film is that Julie is really the composer of the symphony. This is what the journalist implies in her reportage. But she would rather not be known as such and she hided behind her ex-husband. Now, Olivier that knew this, wants to take his place and she turns him away until she gives in. Enough about the plot but isn't that the expression of utter freedom? Julie is really the composer of the new unified Europe anthem but she doesn't want to take the credit for it because it would take to much of her liberty away. She wouldn't be free any longer. Such altruism may be love, but even more so, an act done out of a will not to have any strings attached. Beautiful.The altruism pervades throughout. Julie gives, gives and gives. But she has received so much her towering musical talents, beauty, sensitivity, wealth, so on and so forth. Kieslowski implies here that real freedom in life is achieved when you give back in return for what you have received. And Julie makes the ultimate gift; she gives away her personality, her fame to the men in her life as they become world renown instead of her. I know this may not be obvious to many but you will agree that this bring to the film a whole new layer of mystery plus loads of everything else. A MUST SEE. RUN "},{"Title":"Predictable and slow, but mercifully only 1 hr. 40 min.","Date":"13 August 2007","Score":"10 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I saw this as a DVD. Mysterious? Sexy? Well, maybe if you have lived in a box. Why this movie is rated R is beyond me.I've seen plenty of art films and have enjoyed most. This one is predictable and slow, in my opinion, with very little mystery about it. Plenty of art for art's sake here; a 1 minute view of the shadow made by a teacup as the day progresses. Oops. Sorry for the spoiler.A movie I did appreciate on a similar theme (tragic loss throwing unwitting strangers together) was Enduring Love. I realize they are two totally different approaches to the theme, but I thought the latter was more thought-provoking.If you want to drive someone nuts, rave about this movie within earshot. You'll be sure they will waste an hour and a half and perhaps wonder how they can be so shallow.Mercifully, it was kept to an hour and a half. "},{"Title":"Overrated navel gazing","Date":"13 May 2003","Score":"12 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  *****Some spoilers*****I was actually expecting to like this quite a lot - although I hadn't thought much of Three Colours White I decided to give the series the benefit of the doubt and continue persevering because I had heard so many good things about this installment. It seems this was a mistake. Three Colours Blue is exactly the kind of film that action loving Hollywood film fans so gleefully laugh about. After a promising opening it becomes very slow and very little happens throughout. This is probably because it concerns a woman coming to terms with the death of her husband and daughter in something approaching complete isolation, but that's no excuse for making something as thoroughly uninteresting as this. Things do start to liven up a bit towards the end with the introduction of the husbands secret lover, but this is topped off by possibly the most horrible closing scene of any movie ever - it seems to start with Juliet Binoche having sex in a glass box full of water, then goes through a roll-call of all the characters looking thoughtful and deep. Overall, while this is far more ambitious than Three Colours White it does not pull off a success. Sometimes you have to drop a little bit of the subtlety to include something an audience can actually enjoy and engage with. "},{"Title":"Liberation, your name is Juliette Binoche","Date":"1 April 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Trois Couleurs Bleu often ranks only second in Krzysztof Kieslowski's trilogy dealing with liberty, equality and friendship. True, the picture doesn't have the emotions on the forefront like Rouge does, but in its coldness, estrangement and portrayal of unspeakable desperation, its painful observation of someone who just cannot go on anymore lies its strength. Juliette Binoche plays a woman who epitomizes loss her husband is dead, so is her daughter, all in an instant. Gone is what she was used to call her life, her passion for everything she ever cared for, the money has lost its importance, even her demented mother doesn't know anymore who she is, and it doesn't end there. Staggering on the brink of the abyss there is no will anymore to leap over the cliff, but even with the decision to retreat from everything the lives of others are affected...Bleu is the perfect combination of a visually oriented director, great script and editing (e.g. with inventive fade to blacks) - and an actress who perfectly understands how to play a grieving, inaccessible widow and at the same time the fragile being who could shatter any minute. Oh, and we shouldn't forget the importance of music in this movie, as this is what it's all about To bring back music in someone's life in order to liberate the self from, well, let's say being blue. It works so well that it hurts - but that's the purpose. "},{"Title":"Gorgeous and resonant.","Date":"18 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Krzysztof Kieslowski explores grief and loss here with an authenticity, aided by the perfectly understated turn from Juliette Binoche, that is somehow simultaneously beautiful and ravaging. So many scenes leave a lasting impression. The moments of her succumbing to masochistic tendencies in order to feel something, anything other than the unbearable despair over her loss, are absolutely wrenching.Kieslowski doesn't lean towards melodrama for a moment here, never allowing his audience to feel as though they are watching a film take place, but rather presenting such a lived-in study of this level of devastation a person can experience. Binoche is on point every step of the way, somehow being expressive to the audience while shutting herself off from everyone around her. She is my favorite actress in the history of cinema and this is a glowing example as to why; even when she's saying nothing she is saying everything. Her face is so expressive in the most subtle of ways and here she puts that to remarkable use.Of course even if this wasn't such an emotionally profound piece, it would still manage to be a treat for the eyes, with Kieslowski making full use of his color palette in impressively vivid ways. That final shot, a hold on Binoche's face as tears quietly stream down it, was one of the few things that I had remembered from my initial viewing of the film years ago and it's easy to see why; it's haunting. "},{"Title":"Freedom is an Illusion","Date":"13 August 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Krzysztof Kieslowski's most famous films are his last. The three colors trilogy or film tricolor was very highly appreciated among critics and viewers. The series of three includes the films Blue, White and Red. After the last one, Red, Kieslowski announced that it was the best he could do and therefore retired. I don't believe, and I don't think even Kieslowski believed that Red was the best he could do. I bet he only wanted to get peace, by announcing that. To get out of the fame and media. Each of the colors have one main theme, but the same themes repeat in all films, for instance the paradox of freedom and love, which had been a leading theme throughout Kieslowski's work, culminates in The Three Colors. Blue - Freedom is about a woman who loses her husband and daughter. She is in a prison of love, she tries to move on, detach and become independent, but can't. The paradox of love and freedom the woman wants to be free but can't because she is in love. People who think they're free are the least free of all. K. Kieslowski.A woman, Julie (Juliette Binoche) suddenly gets in a car accident with her husband and daughter. She tries to find solutions how to continue her life, and decides to escape their home. Since Julie's husband was a famous composer, the media and the people are very interested in her life. Julie's husband had started a new composition in celebration of the united Europe. But because of his sudden death, the composition remained unfinished. A friend of Julie and his husband decodes to try to get the composition ready. When he gets Julie to agree and help him, they begin to compose it as close to the original purpose as possible.Why The Three Colours Trilogy is so famous and appreciated is because the films are so multidimensional and full of many layers. Each of them have their own story and themes, but certain events, motives and themes combine them. Blue is about a woman, White as about a man and Red is about a man and a woman. That is the simplest way to look at them. But each of them have their leading themes Blue / Freedom, White / Equality and Red / Fraternity. But of course all the films deal with plenty of other themes. In Blue among freedom Kieslowski deals with the difficulty of detachment and independence. It makes us wonder what is freedom? Can we ever actually get it? What is the freedom Julie seeks or receives from? This is of course what Krzysztof Kieslowski intended. He breaks many codes of narrative and traditional dramaturgy, but he certainly doesn't do that just to seem intelligent. He breaks the chronology and leaves many things opened, but if one pays attention one will figure them out.In addition to Blue's thematic beauty and depth it is technically perfect. Krzysztof Kieslowski's main composer, Zbigniew Preisner composed the music for Blue as he did for No End and all the subsequent films by Kieslowski. His score is always very beautiful, touching, emotional and important for the film, but in Blue it is especially important for the story. The film itself deals with music, because Julie's husband was a composer. Preisner, who hasn't ever studied music wrote a beautiful composition for the unification of Europe. In the end where we get to listen to the composition one could cry. Not only because of the sad story or the touching climaxes, but because of the true beauty in cinema. I burst out into tears, the music is so beautiful, so perfect and so profound. The lyrics are taken from The Love Chapter in the Bible. The song is such a beautiful piece which makes one understand the beauty of life but also remember the enormous pain belongs to it.There are several ways to interpret Blue, the events, the choices and the situations in it. The simplest way to understand Julie's choice would probably be to think that she had known that her husband had an affair for years. That is why the appearing of the mistress doesn't shock the audience as it doesn't Julie. But the theme score by Preisner, which plays every time someone talks about Julie's husband to her, gives many changes of different interpretations for the audience. For instance in the beginning a journalist asks Julie Is it true that you composed all the compositions by your husband? No matter is the statement true, still Blue gives the audience a lot to decide, observe and think on their own.Krzysztof Piesiewicz the screenwriter was the third important man in Kieslowski's team. Kieslowski says in his interview, Kieslowski on Kieslowski that Piesiewicz is not much of a writer, but an amazing speaker. They talk for hours and write the screenplays together. But Kieslowski admits that usually all the great ideas come from Piesiewicz. These three masterful men were able to create a perfect film cycle. Krzysztof Kieslowski was very talented in visual narrative he didn't need dialog to explain certain things and emotions. For example the old lady recycling the bottle, Julie sees her but decides not to help her. In Red the main character sees her and does decide to help her. In Blue we are clearly told that Freedom is only an illusion, which people so hardly try to reach but never can get. If White portrays love as a prison then in Blue the paradox of love and freedom comes from the impossibility to set oneself free and become independent when still in love. Because to Kieslowski love is the strongest force of all just as it says in The Love Chapter. Only love can expose the true nature of freedom. "},{"Title":"Blue=Liberty or is it?","Date":"4 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Krzysztof Kieslowski's Blue is the first of the three part trilogy based on the three colors of the French flag, with the other two being Red and White. It follows a story of a woman;Julie, played by Juliet Binoche dealing with the pain and her life after the accidental death of her husband and her daughter. She is completely cut off from everyone else around her life, and she decides to deal with the pain on her own terms. After her loss, she destroys all music notes composed by her husband and sells anything in her house that would bring her memories from the past. She is sad and shaken. She tests her self whether she could feel any love by seducing the man who was working with her husband who was secretly in love with her. No she cannot. She settles into an apartment by herself to be free, to begin life all over again or to just avoid the urge to begin. Krzysztof Kieslowski, who was one of the most prolific filmmakers, was a devotee of such filmmakers as Bergman and Tarkovsky, who explored subjects of faith, philosophy and death. Kieslowski here too dives into these subjects in a fashionable way, playing around with some of the scenes to show the inner nature of the characters using beautiful cinematography and story telling techniques. The use of close ups in the movie has a profound effect in portraying the mindset of a character. We read their faces to understand what it says even though the words are not present to express it. Towards the end there is quite a surprise when she meets the mistress of her dead husband who is now pregnant with his child. How they deal with this discovery and most importantly how Julie deals with it presents a great revelation about her. "},{"Title":"masterpiece...","Date":"27 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" The lead character was at the depths of despair when she lost her family, and she struggled to muddle through life afterward. Many vignettes of her life were shown; not one of them was particularly earth-shattering in itself, and each was represented by a piece of music. Some of her life scenes were very ordinary; other scenes showed us how hard it was for her just to make it through the day; others showed her experiencing some amount of happiness. At the end, all of the musical vignettes were brought together to create a wonderful symphony. The creator of this parable wanted to show us that each of our lives is a symphony in its own right, a wonderful compilation of our experiences, no matter how mundane or difficult each experience seems to be. "},{"Title":"Blue..","Date":"16 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Kieslowski kicks off his Three Colours Trilogy with this 'Blue' first chapter...The movie, featuring a somber mood, beautiful cinematography by Slawomir Idziak and some brilliantly haunting score by Zbigniew Preisner unfolds almost like a melancholy...with Juliette Binoche playing the central character of Julie.The premise deals with an accident claiming the lives of Julie's daughter and her composer husband. Quite naturally, Julie is utterly grief-stricken. The rest of the story revolves around how she tries to shun away the grief by liberating herself from it..It's a simple story told in an almost poetic fashion by Krzysztof Kieslowski and Krzysztof Piesiewicz. Juliette Binoche delivers a stunning performance as the sorrowful Julie. The range of expressions she subtly displays is nothing short of fabulous! And of course, hats off to the Man himself, Mr. Kieslowski who has some little surprises here and there for us..including the very interesting way in which the next chapter in the trilogy crosses this story's path. Not to mention the use of symbolism throughout the film...the use of the colour Blue, and the superb manner in which all three colours of the French flag are shown in one particular quick scene....Blue is a superb beginning and an indication that the viewer is in for a treat in the following two films in the trilogy.. "}{"Title":"Moody blues&#133;.","Date":"12 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I had a hard time motivating myself to watch Bleu, which I have only ever heard glowing reviews about. People have been recommending the movie to me literally for several years, and I never got around to watching it until last night, after I recently purchased the trilogy for a whopping 30 yuan (about $4.25), thanks to China's total indifference to copyright laws. The movie is suitably depressing and highly artistic, and although some of the technical experiments didn't really work for me, the story itself is outstanding. Early in the movie there is a clumsy use of a flashing blue screen that might remind some Hitchcock fans of the psychological use of color in Vertigo, but it's one of the examples of the overuse of blue in the movie that came to me to be a little redundant. The movie is called Blue and it's an emotional color, I don't think we really need to be hit over the head with it so many times. Juliette Binoche stars as Julie Vignon, the wife of a famous composer who dies in a car crash, along with their daughter, throwing her entire life into total emotional chaos. She responds by trying to erase her memories of her lost past. She sells all of her possessions, moves to a new place, and goes back to her maiden name. Throughout this time, she immerses herself in her sadness, just like that astonishingly blue swimming pool.Obviously, music is an extremely important part of the film, it takes us on an entirely separate journey through Julie's sadness and emotional development. The movie illustrates her loss of feeling, her inability to form meaningful connections with other people after her catastrophic loss, and through the thoroughly unexpected turns of events that take place throughout the movie to allow her life to continue, in completely unexpected directions. There is a lot of focus on minute details in the film, long shots that focus on seemingly trivial objects but that create a surreal environment that is almost impossible to create in any other way, similar to the effect that Binoche gets with her particular style of under-acting. There are a few moments in the film when the screen fades to black for a few seconds and then fades back in to exactly the same shot. I imagine Kieslowski was going for some kind of temporary mental blackout, triggered by an emotion or a sudden painful memory, but it just came across as campy to me. Nevertheless, the movie has such a powerful and involving story that it's easy to overlook things like this, although this is certainly not the feel good movie of the year. By far the film's best feature is the story, which is brilliantly written and takes us on a fascinating journey, followed by the stupendous performances. Kieslowski is not one of our most accessible directors, but certainly one of the most enduring. "},{"Title":"Stunning.","Date":"3 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" At it's core, Blue is really an uplifting story of a woman who loses her husband and child (something I could never imagine the pain of ) and is slowly able to bring herself back into a working society. It's really stunning the way she gathers herself together at the end, but the final shot shows us that she'll never truly be rid of the pain from that situation. We also see how one person in such a tragic circumstance can affect so many lives and I thought that was really touching. Kieslowski does amazing work with colors here as he uses stark, vibrant reds, greens and blues that completely draw the viewers attention and suck them in. I loved the little scenario with the mice in Julie's apartment and how instinctively she tried to kill them but once she realized it was a family she was unable to do it. I also adored the repetition of her diving into the lush blue swimming pool, as a way of almost freeing herself from all of the stress and pain that's building up inside of her. Of course the first thing she does when she emerges from the water is cry. Overall it's a completely sublime film that I couldn't take my eyes off of. The final shot of Binoche (who gives an amazingly subtle performance) staring directly into the camera with a tear dried on her face and another emerges and runs down is truly heartbreaking. It feels as though she's staring right through us and into our soul. "},{"Title":"Initially Sad, It Won't Leave You Feeling Blue","Date":"28 September 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Blue, the 1993 opening film in Krzysztof Kieslowski's Blue, White & Red trilogy, sports perhaps the most fitting title of the three. It tells the story of Julie, a 33-year-old woman who has just lost her composer husband and young daughter in a terrible automobile accident. Thrown into the bluest of blue funks (and who wouldn't be?), Julie moves to a flat in Paris and tries to divorce herself from life, telling herself that money, love and friendships are all traps. But what at first seems to be an extremely downbeat film proves rather life affirming, as Julie discovers that maybe there are things left to her worth engaging with after all. Her newfound and unwanted liberty (blue is the color of the French flag that corresponds with liberty, oui?), her sudden independence, may not be as desirable as she initially thought.... Blue is a film loaded with all sorts of symbolism and suggested meanings. It features world-class direction, striking photography (although that impressive image-on-the-cornea shot was used to better effect in Goldfinger some 30 years before) and impeccable acting, especially from Juliette Binoche in the lead. It is certainly not the picture for viewers desiring speed, but nonetheless rewards the patient viewer with its ultimately uplifting message that life does have a way of pulling us back in. Though easily the most somber of the trilogy, it is not at all depressing, and didn't leave me feeling blue at all. Oh...has anyone else noticed that although Julie's daughter is reported to be 5 at her funeral, the dates on her coffin indicate 7? Is this an error on the director's part (hard to believe, with such an impeccable craftsman as Kieslowski) or something else that needs to be thought about by the viewer? In a picture that offers so much food for thought, this is just one more tasty morsel. "},{"Title":"A Commentary to Remember","Date":"22 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" This film is one of the greatest comments on society to remember. I read a review of someone saying how this film does not express the liberty that Kieslowski states this film addresses. This is in part because this film is a negative comment on french society. Julie searches and searches for a way to liberate herself from society, however she fails to achieve her liberty because she realizes that without society she is nothing. Liberty is just a ideal that is impossible to achieve, but we try to reach it for the better of ourselves. Kieslowski did an amazing job on this film, creating the most stunning images. This film should be viewed on a quality sound system, turned all the way up so one can grasp how the music is a whole different story itself. I love this film dearly, and this is one of the greatest films of the 90s. "},{"Title":"My most perfect movie","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Contains spoilers, please do not read unless you've seen this movie.I have debated in the past whether this movie or Vertigo is greater, as both of them are profound studies of the human experiences of obsession, loss and pain, and can be watched again and again, always revealing new things. Citizen Kane is considered to be the greatest movie ever made but I would say that both Blue and Vertigo are as great in their masterful use of all the techniques of movie making, and their timeless stories of love and loss. Unlike the other two, Blue does not end with despair but with redemption and hope; therefore it is more satisfying.Blue, unlike the necessarily complicated story-telling of the other two movies, is simple and straightforward, and the heaviness is in its assault on the senses and emotions, using the cinematography plus the musical score which gradually unfolds. Like a siren coming clearer as it draws nearer the despair gives way to acceptance and a new life for the one who mourns, using the materials at hand in her life. It is matter of fact to this woman that there is no other way than to withdraw from life and then to be forced, by one's own nature, to participate again.I first rented Blue in 1994 and watched it at my friend's house. Then I rented it again several times over the years, and the last time in particular about two years ago, I was powerfully moved, even though I had no loss in my life at the time. Today I watched it again because my friend has died and I hoped it would help me through this time. As always I was moved by the story itself but in a new way because I remembered the tears I wept the last time I saw it, and the powerful way it affected me the first time I saw it at my friend's house when everything was all right and it was only a movie, and I didn't know that one day I would be weeping for him as I watched it. I can only say it is a good movie to see to prepare yourself for the inevitable loss of loved ones, and also cathartic to watch when that loss has happened to you.One thing that surprised me was that this copy did not translate into subtitles the Greek chorus, which is the love chapter of Corinthians. Every other time I saw it the words were printed which added to the emotional impact of the final scenes. For those who don't know Greek, that is as vital as giving subtitles for the French. Only because I saw it before did I know what they were singing which is the whole message of the film. The emotional impact of that end is unparalleled in cinema.I cannot say that about Red and White, although they are brilliant too, of course. Blue simply outshines them in every way, though they should be watched as part of the trilogy for they also have important messages and are beautifully made. "},{"Title":"Extraordinary use of music","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  The cover of the box in which this movie comes says Mysterious.  Sexy.  Blue is not really either one.  It is very straightforward, and sexual where appropriate, but not at all sexy.  It is very pretty, and it is very, very intense.My American prejudice forces me to assume that any movie in French will be visually stimulating.  I expect gorgeous locations, pretty people not necessarily model-perfect but dripping with style, and fabulous scene compositions.  In this aspect, Blue certainly does not disappoint.  Blue is also extremely well-acted, and overall a touching, sensitive, and honest exploration of grief.  However, the aspect I most want to comment on is the way sound, particularly music, is implemented in this film.  It's absolutely ingenious.Most films addressing dramatic events or tough emotional situations seem nowadays to hammer in their points with overblown music -- violins for sentiment, bassoons for majestic landscapes, drums for suspense and action.  Audiences are not allowed to simply let the experiences the actors are delivering wash over us and sink in naturally; we must constantly be ordered to notice each nuance through the insistent blare of overweening musical backup.  The most refreshing aspect of Blue is that it does not do this at all.Natural ambient sound is the most frequent background in Blue.  This is shockingly effective.  Ordinary noise -- traffic, or the sounds of a person moving around a room alone -- provide all the atmosphere necessary to make us feel what is being conveyed.  Surprising sounds surprise us.  Startling noises startle us.  We feel everything that each sound makes each character feel, because we have experienced it in exactly the same way.The only place that the very wonderful music is used is when the protagonist or another character of the world of music thinks.  The protagonist is a musical woman, a composer and a composer's wife, and it is perfectly right that she should feel and think everything first in music.  When she or someone else reads music, we hear what is being read, just like a voiceover.  When the protagonist is impacted by an image, an utterance, or a memory, we are impacted by the musical chords by which her mind and heart respond first.This is not only very effective, but it's also very respectful of the actors and of the audience.  I have never, ever had the pleasure of a film experience like this before.  Although the film falls apart a little at the end, rushing where it shouldn't and turning slightly derivative of Wings of Desire, and although it's probably not a movie I'd watch twice since half its impact is based on not knowing what will happen next, it is a very good film and definitely worth watching just for this amazing experience of hearing music and sound handled so expertly and with such dignity. "},{"Title":"A little of the Paradise's Blue","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  It is very hard to comment on a film that was so intense. Three magic things happen the photography (excellent, excellent), the music (eternity), and, of course, Juliette Binoche. The film is in first view a film about a memory. A memory that has to be forgotten (and thus it is by a revelation of the past). However we can read it as a metaphor of the present of Europe, arrested in its past, that has to be forgotten to have a full present as a united Europe (the music Concert for Europe is the proof). It has a poetic treatment and thus it has to be seen, with an astonishing look. (sorry about the english) "},{"Title":"The Beauty of Blue","Date":"18 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" The beauty of Kieslowski's later works has little to do with pretty pictures, but everything to do with his cinematic imagination, and his ability to tap into and enrich the emotional, spiritual, and aesthetic content of his work. The opening sequence to Blue, involving the car passing through a tunnel, as we are immersed in the ambient sounds (hearing bits of familial conversation, viewing the swish of vehicles and splash of lights through the window), followed by the passage into late afternoon light (and the silvery blue balloon being sucked out the side window flapping in the breeze), just before the accident, is as astounding in its beauty as it is penetrating in its content.... This film is resplendent with cinematic sequences as unique and profound as its opening, and, throughout, Kieslowski's use of sound as a way to access Binoche's interior process is absolutely brilliant. Witness the sequence, when she finally feels able to step out into the world again and move into the city after the accident. She rents an apartment on an upper floor of a large, strange vacuous building, and there, that first night, through her window, witnesses the beating of a man on the street, who escapes and runs into her building, the fear on her face, as she listens to him climb the long metal escape stairway, floor by floor, still followed by his assailants, as he comes closer to her.... But it is not only the imagery (Binoche blurry through window, staring vacantly somewhere as she experiences intimate relations for the first time since the accident), or ambient sound (the sudden clamor and echo of the indoor swimming pool as she comes up for air from under water) that reflects the nature of her psyche, but Preisner's haunting music that simultaneously takes us back to her husband and her tragedy, as much as towards her recovery of self as she engages her creative process. She is a woman who has lived in the shadow of her husband, while yet participating in the creation of the very music he is famous for, and as the music enters the film, each time, it is her reflecting on and coming to terms with all that it represents to her, including, finally, the bridge to her salvation....This is not a typical Hollywood redemption tale handing us the standard prescription for such a tale of woe, no how to reclaim your power as a woman course 101. This is a tale of truth, and we believe Binoche every time she makes a decision because we are not only privy to her experience, but fully involved in the process of transformation that becomes her liberation.I could go on and on through every scene like this, but it is better to watch and listen to the film several times by yourself.... "},{"Title":"Excellently executed, sensitive and moving drama.","Date":"5 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the best movies I have ever seen.Not only for Juliette Binoche's excellent performance, but also for the delicate cinematography, the haunting music and the overall texture of immersion in the world of the young woman. If you are after car chases, exploding jets and gun-toting macho muscle-men, then stop reading now, this is not for you.I enjoyed the other two films in the trilogy (Three colours Red and Three Colours White), but ...Blue is easily the best. Kieslowski's movies are very different from the formulaic action movies that steer you firmly down a plotline, without giving the audience time to absorb any feeling. Without giving anything away, the story centres on the life of a young woman who experiences a great loss, and how everything changes, how she reacts, what happens next and much more. Music plays a central part in the plot and the scene where her finger traces the score as she shapes the symphony for Europe, is unforgettable. As you watch it you are lulled by the music yet also aware of the tension between her lover and her. Simply put, this film is subtle and moving, beautiful to watch, has a haunting musical soundtrack (I bought the CD as well, I have to say) and is never sentimental or cliched, not for a minute. There are little link scenes that join this movie with the other Three colours... movies - the storylines are separate but overlap.If you liked this, see also Three colours Red and The Unbearable lightness of Being. It's best on the big screen.I now have the DVD versions of Three Colours Red, Blue and White , and it is interesting to see the director's commentary and actress interviews. Sadly the director (Krystof Kieslowski) died after making these films. At his funeral they played the same music that was composed for the funeral scene in Blue. Blue remains my favourite.In his interview clip he comes across as obsessed with his movies - sweaty, taut, focussed on his work. The DVD content was obviusly dug up after the movie was made, but it is all the better for that. "},{"Title":"A hauntingly beautiful film","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  In my opinion, the finest of the Three Colors films, Blue is an abstract sojourn into pure emotion. Often when I think of this film, I forget that it had words - I think it could have just as easily been silent. I can hardly think of a film more affecting... it infused me with so many feelings that I could scarcely think of anything but the movie for several hours after having seen it for the first time. Kind of like the feeling you get when you realize that you are in love... Kieslowski is a master! "}{"Title":"Sumptous visual palate saves exploration of mourning process from total mediocrity","Date":"16 September 2014","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" This is the first film in Polish director Krzysztof Kieślowski's Trois couleurs trilogy based on the French Revolutionary ideals of liberty, equality, and fraternity. The high point is Sławomir Idziak's sumptuous cinematography and when all is said and done, 'Blue' is a fine film to look at. But in terms of story, it's also a slow-moving affair and if you don't have a lot of patience, you might find the narrative an exercise in unfortunate ennui.Juliette Binoche plays 'Julie' whose famous composer husband and young daughter are killed in a car accident at the beginning of the film. Totally shattered, Julie first attempts suicide but can't go through with it. Instead, she decides to withdraw from life by putting up her home for sale, place her Alzheimer's afflicted mother in a nursing home and renting an apartment in Paris without telling any of her friends and family. She also destroys her husband's unfinished musical score (commissioned to promote European unity), which she may have actually composed herself.The main question we're left with (as robot-like Julie makes her way through her self-imposed life in exile) is, when will she come out of it? Along the way, however, she's determined to prove that she can go through life with all her emotions deadened, as a sort of impotent protest against the cruel fate bestowed upon her. Hence, when Olivier, a former composer colleague who's in love with her, finally finds out where she's moved to, Julie has sex with him and then cruelly tells him never to see her again. And then there's all those scenes swimming in the pool&#x97;we hear the booming sound of the unfinished symphony impinging on Julie's consciousness. This obviously signifies her inability to repress her emotions completely.Kieślowski argues that in the mourning process there comes a point where demands for kindness in ordinary life must intrude on the mourner's determination to maintain their inflexible stance of anger and denial. Case in point Julie answering exotic dancer's Lucille's call for help when her father shows up at the strip club. Or Julie deciding not to hold a grudge against Sandrine, her husband's mistress, by allowing her and the new baby, to live in her family's home. While Julie probably is still not overjoyed by Sandrine's actions, this is her way of 'moving on', and also acknowledging that she must help the baby, which belongs not only to Sandrine, but to her late husband as well.Julie finally breaks out of her shell by getting involved with Olivier. At the denouement, Olivier gives Julie the ultimatum about the unfinished score (a copy turns up preserved)&#x97;he'll complete it with all its 'roughness' or Julie will take over completely, but admit to current and past authorship. But Julie's decision is ambiguous in terms of who takes credit&#x97;what's important is that she's involved in collaborating and is no longer alarmingly self-absorbed. As the presumed completed symphony plays, we see shots of the various individuals who Julie touched, in spite of her self-defeating but thankful short-term exile. And the housekeeper who earlier cries for Julie because she's unable to mourn, can now rest assured that Julie is finally beginning to cry herself.Part of the 'Blue' problem is that there is no external conflict going on. The conflict exists solely in Julie's mind. The characters that impinge upon her are not developed in great detail&#x97;they exist as a catalyst for Julie's recovery. There's also the natural tendency to feel sympathy for a character that has experienced an unfathomable tragedy. Nonetheless, Julie's recovery is rather predictable and I'm not convinced that explorations of the mourning process in itself, should really be the subject of a full-length feature film. On the other hand, if you're a patient film goer, the film's visual palate, is worth the price of admission. "},{"Title":"Rather cold and distant, but very pretty to look at","Date":"9 October 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  The first in Krzysztof Kieslowski's Colors Trilogy, Blue will frustrate those in search of action or a brisk plot, as well as those who wish to become intimently attached to the characters. But the patient and reflective will be greatly rewarded by the films poetic images.The entire film is lite in blue tones,scored with classical music and dialogue is sparse.The best way to approach it is a painterly appreciation for moments where a sugar cube is slowly saturated with coffee, or of a hand being dragged along a stone wall.Juliet Binoche deservedly won the Venice Film Festival award for her understated performance.Recommended for the patient and cerebral.  "},{"Title":"Sad but good","Date":"15 March 2003","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Three Colours Blue is mainly centred around the character of Julie (Juliette Binoche) whose husband and daughter die at the beginning of the film in a car accident, which she survives. Julie, who was very much in love with her husband, essentially withdraws from her life as an attempt to cope with her tremendous loss. This is also coloured by the fact that her husband was a composer and died before completing a very important work. This music haunts her at the same time. She does communicate with people from her past, and new people, and learns lessons on the journey that takes her to end of the movie.This movie is a relatively small tale, as expected, but magnifies the enormity of loss from a micro to macro level and gives it a tangible feel. Juliette Binoche is excellent as Julie, and the rest of the cast put in great performances. Direction is also particularly good, especially the cinematography. I think this movie would be enjoyed by anyone that likes emotive movies centred around relationships. 4/5 "},{"Title":"A grieved woman retakes her life after surviving a car crash  which killed her family","Date":"28 November 2012","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" First outing of a thought-provoking and brooding trilogy by Polish director Krystof Kieslowski inspired by the French tricolor flag , here ¨Blue¨ stands for ¨Liberty¨. Its is based on a tragedy by a car accident and the subsequent consequences on an affecting woman . Julia , Juliette Binoche, reshapes her existence after dieing her husband and their little young daughter . After surviving Julia , she has a feeling of grief and sells her properties and buys a flat in the city . She lives lonely but discovers a dark secret about her deceased husband , a former famous composer .First of a trilogy of films dealing with contemporary French society concerns how the wife of a composer deals with the death of her husband and child . This is a tragic film , a symphony of pain and filmed in enjoyable style , good sense and high sensitivity . Subtle details make for careful viewing but it is a rewarding watch and a visual treat . Being necessary to keep an eye on cinematographic use of the color blue . Magnificent acting by Juliette Binoche who makes a real tour-of-force , she relies on the internalized affection rather than overwhelming displays for expression . Good support cast as Benoit Regent and Florence Pernal ; both of them also make appearances on the followings . The picture has various subtle references about trilogy such as  At one point, we see Julie carrying a box which, as a close-up shows, has prominently written across it the word blanco, Spanish for white; in the next shot we are looking at her from behind, and she pauses in the street as a man in blue passes her on her left and a woman in red passes her on her right , this is a reference to the structure of the Three Colours trilogy - blue, white, red, in that order, mirroring the French flag . During one swimming scene in the blue pool, children in red and white bathing suits run out and jump in the water . Colorful and evocative cinematography by Slawomir Idziak , it is essential to be understood the story . As well as the musical score , Zbigniew Preisner composes a rousing and impressive soundtrack . The 1994 Annual Cesar Awards , presented by the French Academy of Cinematographic Arts and Sciences, it is France's main national film awards, considered by many in France, and internationally, to be the French equivalent of the American Academy Awards gave two deserved Cesar to the best actress Juliette Binoche and the best film , for this above average film titled ¨Blue¨ . Rating  Good , worthwhile watching . The picture was followed by ¨Trois Couleurs  Blanc¨ , a bittersweet comedic story spiced with lasting love and vengeance , in which a bewildered Polish hairdresser is divorced by his disdainful French spouse and returning to his family in Poland when he decides to fake his death ; being starred by July Delpy and Zamachowski , including cameos by Juliette Binoche and Florence Pernal . And ¨Trois Couleurs  Rouge¨ starred by Irene Jacob , Jean Louis Trintignat , Frederique Feder and cameos by protagonists in the earlier film , Juliette Binoche and Benoit Regent ; ¨Red¨ is for fraternity in the Fench tricolor flag , dealing with emotional connections are mad between unlikely couples and director Kieslowski uses the ending to tie up loose ends . "},{"Title":"Three Colors Memory","Date":"17 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" How do we know what it is, essentially, that we liked about a movie? Which is to say, what do we know about this viewer who was affected by something he saw and it rang a chord? And what do we say of that experience, do we ascribe it outside of us?This is what we have here, questions of memory and meaning. A woman as viewer of a movie (played by Binoche as placid observer) taking spontaneous shape around her, that pokes holes in herself and provokes questions; finally overcoming it by being pulled forward by what was left incomplete in it.A woman who has lost everything as the film begins, every anchor in her life violently removed in one swoop and she's now cast adrift. We have the whole film as her own inner drift through an interminable flow. Kieslowski evokes this with lush dissonance between visual segments, cuts and fades that leave life in suspense. There is scant story, all about living with these fragments. Music erupts around her in sudden intervals; but music that's coming from inside of her and being hallucinated.It's the world of memory and inner life. Tarkovsky enters this with long, mystifying sweeps of the camera that lift bearings and slip into dreams and ruminations. Kieslowski by contrast caresses their outline, the surface of emotions as they glide over the eye. It's not difficult like Tarkovsky or Ruiz can be, but pleasant in the way of Kar Wai. It goes down rather easy, you can see it for just the surface shift.Kieslowski had spent the whole 10 hours of the Dekalog training this ability to dream in advance. It pays off here. Each of the 10 Dekalogs was about a narrative that an earth-shattering revelation comes along and creates a change in viewing. You will see this here obviously. But Dekalog had a contrast; some of it was Kieslowski opening corridors in the imagining with his camera, most was characters stumbling into revelations and articulating feelings. Here it's resolved in favor of the eye; the whole is about visual slippage through cracks in story.He lets blue lights shine on screen as music soars in crescendos, he gives us closeup shots of eyes; the eye that colors. At other points he introduces memory as images before a viewer the funeral playing on a screen, images of her husband on TV that when shuffled through reveal a mistress. Most eloquently, images on TV of someone being cast over a void with a bungee chord as her anxiously precarious drift with nowhere to hold. She's fading from even the mind of her mother.For the end he reserves a tableaux of joined moments from lives as they are suspended briefly in mind. It's all being endlessly relived and combined like the music she works to complete with her composer friend. The music is central here. Not just as the memory of what was collaboratively lived with her composer husband, the emotion that was absorbed and now erupts again, but also as the sheet where an incomplete piece beckons for the work of continued imagination. The shot of this sheet as scribbled notes end and lines stretch interminably is the abstract heart at the bottom of it.Had another woman not made a copy of the score, it would have disappeared when she burnt it. Had she come by to pick up the photos of her husband, she might have burnt them with everything else and never found out about the mistress. But it's all this what pulls her out of herself. "},{"Title":"This is a must-see film if you love French cinema","Date":"10 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" The French movie Trois couleurs Bleu was shown in the U.S. with the title Three Colors Blue (1993). It was written and directed by Krzysztof Kieslowski. (It's one of the Three Colors trilogy by director Kieslowski. The other two are Three Colors White with Julie Delpy, and Three Colors Red with Irène Jacob.)The film opens with a tragic accident. Julie Vignon (Juliette Binoche) is riding in a car with her husband and young daughter when the brakes fail and the car smashes into a tree. Her husband and daughter are killed. Julie is seriously injured, but survives.This isn't only a personal tragedy; it's a national tragedy as well. Julie's husband is a famous composer, and he was in the midst of creating a major piece of music that would celebrate the possibility of a united Europe.The rest of the movie shows us how Julie copes with her new life situation, and her possible love in the person of her husband's colleague Olivier, played by Benoît Régent. Binoche is at the center of the film. She is the sun around which all the other characters revolve. I don't know if the movie would have worked with a different actor in the role.Binoche is outstanding. We know she's outstanding. She knows she's outstanding. Most important, director Kieslowski knows she's outstanding. She's in almost every scene, and, in almost every scene, she's front and center. That's because Kieslowski can't take his eyes --or his camera--away from her.Binoche is beautiful, but in a unique way. Some of her contemporary French female actors--Anne Parillaud, Emmanuelle Béart--are classically beautiful. However, Binoche is beautiful in her own strong, intelligent way. OK--as my wife pointed out, her cheekbones have cheekbones. Still, she's not standard movie star beautiful. She's a great actor who happens to be very attractive. It's a wonderful combination.We saw this film at the excellent Dryden Theatre at George Eastman Museum in Rochester, NY. It was shown as part of the Three Colors Remembering Krzysztof Kieslowski series. It was great to see the movie on the large screen, but it will work almost as well on the small screen. This is a must see film for people who love French cinema. Even if you don't love French cinema, seek it out and watch it. You won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"What Is It Like to Be Submerged in Grief?","Date":"6 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" This film is about the most raw of emotions, grief from great loss. In an opening scene, the brakes go out on a car, ridden in by Juiette Binoche, the result of which is the loss of her composer husband and her young daughter. We now focus on her attempted recovery which begins with a suicide attempt. Once out of the hospital, she wallows in grief. She obviously has the funds to go on which allows her to drop out of her previous world. Her husband had been respected all over the world for his work, but it is implied that she had as much to do with the work as he did. One of her husband's associates (who has loved her and sleeps with her one evening) wants to finish the master's final composition. She destroyed a copy earlier, but it resurfaced as a copy in his desk at his workplace. As she tries to get direction, she finds out deep secrets that were kept. She has a relationship with an exotic dancer in a sex club. There are rather obvious scenes of her swimming alone, going into the depths of the water and coming out. This is quite an intense, but superbly quiet film. "},{"Title":"An elegant machinery of rhetoric doesn't make for a poem","Date":"6 January 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I cannot be sure that Kieslowski cared much for the script of this film; otherwise he would not have made this 2-act film drawn out into the length of a 4-act. The symbols are there, elegantly shot perhaps, but not elegantly placed; the black screens and musical outbursts are overdone and obtrusive, to say the least. And when the widow, (shall we call her Ms. Blue? I don't remember her name) Ms. Blue, is given the cue for reflection (such as when waiting in the dark for an entire minute, deliberating on whether to open her apartment door to check on the remnants of a street fight), the actress reflects well -- but to what end? We get the feeling that Kieslowski is making a feature film from the pieces of a short film (what would be a fantastic short film!) and must slather a coat of cinematic, slow art house reflective paint over the missing pieces to hit a 80+ minute running time. Perhaps to make the film eligible for awards.It is a wonderful film, especially visually; unforgettable are the ultramarine swimming pool and a sugar cube absorbing coffee. But sugar cubes and swimming pools alone don't make for a feature film. The dramatic weight just isn't there, and the freshness of the visuals certainly don't mend the paucity. "},{"Title":"A cerebral, poetic and misty experience","Date":"12 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I don't think I can emphasise how much I adore world cinema, an innocent pleasure vindicated by the 1993 French film Three Colours Blue. Starring Juliette Binoche, the film treats us to a dreamy snapshot into human remembrance and existence, forcing us to meditate on our own experiences of life. The intelligence and reverie that Three Colours Blue exhibits should convince anyone how world cinema, dare I say it, is superior to most of the films produced by Hollywood these days.Although I hate the fact that years of English and Drama studies have hardwired my brain to view everything as symbolically as possible, I will admit that the emblems and symbols presented in the film are simply astounding. What is particularly enticing is director Krzysztof Kieślowski's ability to utilise symbols in not only objects and locations, but in film techniques as well. The smooth tripod movements and natural lighting emphasise our stability as observers of Julie's story. I don't intend to bore you with the multitude of symbols in this film, but I will mention perhaps one of the most memorable scenes in the film. As Julie swims through the ghostly blue waters of the pool, her introspection brings her to one of the core messages of the film - no matter how hard we try to suppress bad memories, we are inevitably confronted and challenged by our past.Now, allow me to examine the story without a gratuitous analysis of symbolism that could make me sound all too posh. I think the film has a strong opening that is laden with mystery and coldness that conveys how we are both observers and participants of the narrative. Julie's journey throughout Paris brought me back a feast of memories, ranging from the solitude within cafés, to inhaling the sights and sounds of Parisan streets, and ascending through the labyrinthine staircases of apartments. I should also mention that the relationship between the story and soundtrack cleverly represents the various psychological states of Julie, with the lonely piano phrases emphasising her isolation, while the pan-flute of the busker symbolises the mystery surrounding life. Although I applaud the filmmakers' exploration of issues such as solitude and suicide, the biggest let-down for me was the fact that the film had a slow pace despite its 94 minute runtime. However, if you consider yourself to be a patient movie goer, this shouldn't be an issue for you. Despite this small crack in the armour, I was impressed with the cerebral, poetic and misty experience of watching Three Colours Blue, and I found it to be a good film to end the week with. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest classics of all time","Date":"18 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" For cinema lovers this is an incredible movie , Juliette Binoche plays one of the best roles in her lifetime i think. The movie is great, and watching it many times is a must to understand all the hints of the Great director Kieslowski. Amazing picture , every cadre in the scene is beautiful well thought off and very meaningful.Even though this movie is within the frame of a three-movies series , i personally happen to admire this one the most . However , the other three , three colors white and red are also incredible movies. They are almost at the same high point of being interesting. Simply i believe anything of Kieslowski the director is great , he's an amazing talent that one must follow and apprehend. "}{"Title":"Reel Look 'Three Colors Blue'","Date":"25 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Now I have only one thing left to do nothing. I don't want any belongings, any memories. No friends, no love. Those are all traps. Krzysztof Kieślowski's 1993 French drama film 'Three Colors Blue' is one of three films from the Three Colors trilogy (all directed by Kieślowski, the other colors being White and Red), depicting the first color in the French flag, standing for liberty. But how does the first installment of this trilogy series play out? Let's take a look. The film tells the story of a beautiful young woman named Julie (Juliette Binoche) who survives a car crash while tragically losing her musician husband and daughter and later on becomes haunted by grief. Filled with remorse and bitterness, she tries to shut out memories of the past and the world itself to melt into her own misery, at one point indulging herself in trying to swallow a capsule of pills, another by scraping her bare knuckles against a stone wall as she walks along, drawing blood. In a close-up shot for one scene in a café, we see her dipping a sugar cube in some coffee, showing us how once something pure can quickly become stained as her life had now become. Certain sounds amplify the story at certain and are key, allowing the film to breathe in a sense as would the incomplete piece her former husband wrote with its beats, tempos and musical nuances or as any other arrangements of composed music as well. Besides the many things being blue that are in this film, the primary focus are what we as the audience will either sense or feel throughout. Whenever Julie encounters a friend from the past, the screen fades to black and we hear a chord from her husband's unfinished symphony. Moments later the screen fades in again and we return to the scene at hand. Here we are to experience the emptiness of this character's psyche for a brief moment and her yearning to be set free from what has ensnared her being. We hear more than we see rather; her inner anguish writhing within followed by the sudden oomph from the full orchestra whenever it fades to black. This happens two or three times more in the film; fading to the darkness for an instant, the chord of a symphony and then fading back in. When something is repeated it is usually for emphasis, and in this particular scenario the director allows sound as well as sight to flourish in volumes. To the sound of a homeless street performer droning her deceased spouse's tune on a recorder to almost being able to smell the hot coffee in a local café, this picture is truly a film for the senses. 'Blue' weaves a mysterious orchestra of senses and emotions together all on its own to capture the essence of grief, loss and the uncertain bonds that must be mended regarding the present state and the future. "},{"Title":"Three Colors Blue (1993)","Date":"14 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Krzysztof Kieślowski's Three Colors trilogy is his final cinematic work and revolves around the three colors of the French flag blue, white and red, and the ideals which they represent (liberty, equality, fraternity), as well as why these ideals are irrelevant or impossible on an emotional basis. At one point, Kieślowski was editing Blue while shooting White and writing Red.Blue is the first film of the trilogy and centers around liberty and why it could be just an untouchable value. The subject takes the form of Julie (Juliette Binoche), the wife of a famous composer who died in a car accident, same as her daughter. After the accident, Julie cuts all her ties with her past and tries to live completely isolated and free of social bounds.The visual outlook may be self-explanatory concerning the title; there are lots and lots of various shades of blue scattered throughout the film, be it through a blue glass mobile leitmotif, filtering blue lights overwhelming the screen, and Julie's face, symbolizing the memories that haunt her (other times, this is done by blacking out the image and returning to the very frame that Kieślowski faded out from), or just plain blue objects. Other times, the French flag in its entirety is shown, like in the shot where Julie carries a box which says Blanco (Spanish for white) and is passed by on the right by a woman in red and passed by on the left by a man in blue.According to Kieślowski, different people at different parts of the world but at the same time think the same things. This theme is almost an obsession of mine, that people in different places and for different reasons think the same thing. This idea manifests itself in other of his films, but is also present in Blue, in the form of a street musician who plays the unreleased tune composed by Julie's dead husband - the tune which the street artist had no possible way of hearing and invented it himself.Sometimes, Kieślowski will turn to small details to carry the plot, like when Julie touches a cup of coffee with a sugar cube. The coffee soaks in, so Julie drops the cube into the cup. Kieślowski explains that in her state of isolation, Julie turns to little things to escape the big picture, such as scraping her hand against a stone wall in order to substitute big emotional pain with smaller physical pain.The main message is that true freedom is a delusion and that it's counterintuitive to the point to cut all ties with the world. Julie spends a good portion of runtime dipping in a large pool, which gives her an illusory sense of freedom. But she becomes truly fulfilled only in the final scene, where she makes love to her friend, ironically in a claustrophobic glassy box which contrasts the wide open pool of before.As is par with the course with Kieślowski, there are many symbols, most of which relate to Julie's past coming back to her (the mouse family she takes out with a cat may symbolize the sense of maternity she lost), or the difficulties of starting life anew because it'll all bounce back to the past again (like the bungee jumpers on Julie's mom's TV). The movie ends with both a birth and a rebirth; the husband's mistress' baby on the ultrasound monitor being shown side to side with Julie finding new life while having sex with her friend in a glass bubble.Blue is a wonderful synthesis of image and sound, like pretty much all of Kieślowski's works, and presents a thought-provoking allegorical story with great acting, an interesting use of music to carry the plot, and some fantastic cinematography. "},{"Title":"A superb film of struggle to redemption.","Date":"2 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" A woman struggles to find a way to live her life after the death of her husband and child. The first part of Kieslowski's trilogy on France's national motto Liberty, Equality, and Fraternity. 'Blue' is the story of Julie who loses her husband, an acclaimed composer and her young daughter in a car accident. The film's theme of liberty is manifested in Julie's attempt to start life anew, free of personal commitments, belongings, grief or love. She intends to numb herself by withdrawing from the world and living completely independently, anonymously and in solitude in the Parisian metropolis. Despite her intentions, people from her former and present life intrude with their own needs. However, the reality created by the people who need and care about her, a surprising discovery and the music around which the film revolves heal Julie and draws her back to the land of the living. Roger Ebert wrote In the trilogy, Blue is the anti-tragedy, White is the anti-comedy, and Red is the anti-romance. All three films hook us with immediate narrative interest. They are metaphysical through example, not theory Kieslowski tells the parable but doesn't preach the lesson. It's the same with his Decalogue, where each film is based on one of the Ten Commandments, but it is not always possible to say which commandment, or precisely what the film is saying about it. I know this because I taught The Decalogue in a film class, where we discovered that the order of the commandments differs slightly in the Jewish, Catholic and Protestant versions. And in the Kieslowski version, a student sighed. Bleu also approaches a philosophical question-when you lose everything can you start all over again? Trois Couleurs Blue is an almost unmatched achievement in the history of cinema. Never before has a character been conveyed so splendidly and in such a visually stunning manner. "},{"Title":"Very engaging drama","Date":"30 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" A very engaging drama.Three Colours Blue is the first in director Krzysztof Kieslowski's Three Colours trilogy. The story of a woman who suffers an immense tragedy and how she deals with it. Very real, human and relatable. You can see how she meticulously, and sometimes even callously, discards her old life, starts again and tries to close herself off from reminders of her past. A great study in human reaction to tragedy.Doesn't have a very satisfactory ending, however. After all the careful build-up, the ending feels rushed and too open-ended. I kept waiting for a moment of clarity that never came.Solid performance by Juliette Binoche in the lead role. "},{"Title":"A Truly Visual Film","Date":"29 December 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" A woman (Juliette Binoche) struggles to find a way to live her life after the death of her husband and child.Nothing against the plot, but this is a visual film. As with the other two films in the trilogy, the color of the title features prominently in the color scheme. Here, unlike White, the blues (and greens) jump out everywhere without being overwhelming. The elements are intense, but well-used.Does it compare to Red? Based on what everyone seems to think, it does not. But everyone should make up their own minds -- watch all three. "},{"Title":"Both painful and comfortable","Date":"5 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" That movie was my closest moment to feel the pain of a loss. It made me think of my possible moves if I lost one of my relatives and had to move on without them. At this point, Juliette Binoche was obviously perfect as she was really good playing her role. Also I have to point out that I spent plenty of time on the internet trying to find some good and valuable scenes from the movie because I really don't want to forget them and how I feel during these scenes! When it comes to Kieslowski and his different view for ordinary things, I can see the reason why I'm not a director or not even close to be a director. In the movie, Kieslowski has integrated art, music and death, any of which is extraordinary. However, it is also not easy to consider all of them together with a flawless relation! "},{"Title":"Wonderful and Powerful","Date":"11 June 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Review In A NutshellBlue tells the tale of a woman who is trying to cope with a recent car accident that involved the death of her husband and child.Blue is one of those films where one couldn't predict the ending, as there wasn't a measurable goal established during the first or second act of the film and the director was aiming for a sense of realism when shaping the lead protagonist, therefore the character would not be following the traditional path of absolution and instead making one that is tailored for the character. I truly admired Krzysztof Kieslowski's approach with the film as filmmakers these days seem to try their best to cater towards the audience's expectations and resolve the character's story the way that is acceptable for them, which at times hurt the film's emotional and thematic impact. The film doesn't let us get too close to our protagonist, Julie, we never at any moment get inside her head, we only have her actions and her words to shape our perspective of her and I think this approach kind of left me a tad bit detached at some moments and finding it hard to empathise, but I think the director wanted us to not let the film speak itself too frankly, he wants us to keep coming back and observing her, hoping that each visit would let us become closer to the character and develop a unique understanding of who she is, what she is feeling, and how she would get through it.The film also explores Julie's coping mechanism of her depression and grief. Julie's way of coping is definitely not something a psychiatrist or counsellor would recommend as her remedy is to isolate herself from the objects that could bring about memories of her loved ones. Julie also engages herself in activities like swimming, which at first I thought was her way of distracting herself from the recurring thoughts of her family, as the film went on I started to see what Kieslowski was trying to create with those scenes, she is swimming in her sadness and at times drowning herself in it. This held me back in thinking she is close to moving on with her life, but since the director is going for something more realistic in dealing with depression, I was more willing to let myself accept the decisions that the characters make. Throughout the late second-third act of the film, we are treated to a side of Julie that wasn't primarily seen at the start of the film. We get to see her immerse herself in the art of music, which I found to be highly entertaining as this gives us a glimpse of what she used to be and how talented she was before the tragic event.I cannot go into high subjective detail on the film's cinematography as I feel that I need to go through this once more before I could properly criticize the choices that both the director and cinematographer have taken. All I could say for now is that the photography of the film captures that distance between us and the protagonist perfectly, no matter how close the camera is we could never fully penetrate her. There were a couple of times where I did feel the use of the color blue was a bit too emphasised in a couple of shots, but then over time I was able to get through it and appreciate it's usage, particularly the scenes that involves Julie swimming in the large pool. The film at times switches between mounted and stable shots to hand held tracking shots. The director is manipulating how much of the character we see, there are times where the film lets us in and at times we only see partially or are too far away from the character.The film's score was a definitely one of the film's highlights as the score creates this sense of impact during particular moments in the film, accurately representing how she feels at that given moment. The film was clever enough to have the film's protagonist be aware of the music, as the music seems to play as a reminder of the event and at the same time a sense of inspiration in how his husband's magnum opus composition should turn out. Since both the protagonist and the audience can hear the music, we are able to feel a sense of empathy, which is something of a rarity throughout the film.The film's acting was mainly anchored by Juliette Binoche and she does a wonderful job here. I have only seen the actress on Abbas Kiarostami's Certified Copy which I thought she did a great job with, but her performance in this film took my perspective of her even further. Binoche is an outstanding actress who definitely deserves more credit than she currently has as when he embodies a role, she does it with such precision that one's previous understanding of the actress would be wiped clean when starting a new film. Just on scenes where the camera captures a close up of her face, she doesn't reveal much but it definitely does not seem hollow, there is something there but one has to look harder in order to obtain it.Blue is a great film that contains a wonderful and powerful performance from Juliette Binoche and a story that avoids from being predictable. If one places an effort to understand and connect with the character, then one would be left highly rewarded by the end of the film. "},{"Title":"Stylish, beautiful,","Date":"9 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" For me, this is the definition of an art movie. Minimal crew, confined spaces, slow pace. Deliberately choosing some key objects and constantly returning to them as for some symbolism. It reminded me of some earlier Ridley Scotts' movies and of some lynch movies, though without the shocking images. Beautiful Juliette Binoche plays, wonderfully, a beautiful, both inside and outside, woman. I have sympathized with her character. Both the idea of the movie and the point at the end are very clear, and portrayed very well. In contrast to other movies where we have some turn in the plot, here we have a turn (change) in the character. So this is mostly a character driven movie.There are lots of concentrations on blue chandelier, blue swimming pool, showing Julie relaxing herself. Such accent on the art made a compromise in the plot. So there was not much going on. For an hour and a half movie, it felt slightly longer than necessary. Still, it was beautiful and well played. "},{"Title":"A Perfect Film","Date":"15 February 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Blue is a masterpiece. It is first, and the best, of three films by Polish Director Krzysztof Kieslowski. The three films exist in circles which connect on the periphery. Characters from Blue, White and Red (the three colors of the French flag) intersect with characters from the other films but the appearances are more like Hitchcock appearances in his own films. The appearances aren't substantive and add little the underlying stories, but they are fun to see.Blue is beautiful and sad. The viewer watches Juliet Binnoche process the tragic loss of her family. The loss is routine, mundane without a real villain to blame. We watch her process a profound loss which takes her outside her daily life.She and her husband were composers, and the soundtrack becomes a central part of the story. It is a wonderful soundtrack befitting its importance to the story.The cinematography is stunning, as is Ms. Binnoche's acting.This is a rare jewel. The other two movies in the trilogy are worth watching as well, but they aren't perfection. They should be seen in order. White is the second film, followed by Red. "},{"Title":"A real drama...","Date":"30 October 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" When I start to watch this trilogy with the first color be the blue one and read that it's a drama movie, I did not think even for a moment that it will be such a nice movie.Three Colors Blue is a real drama movie and when I say that is a drama it really is, from the start to the end of it. In this move we watch how the life of a woman changes when her husband and her child die and we can see how she tries to continue her life after all of that.I think that Juliette Binoche (Julie Vignon - de Courcy) who plays as this woman who lost everything makes one of her best interpretations and she is really great. "}{"Title":"A Superb Movie","Date":"10 August 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" A great movie from a famous director. For the first time, i knew Krzysztof Kieslowski by this this movie and suddenly, it makes me feel restless for watching more and more from him. Be specific on Blue, this masterpiece could be watched over and over and every time it looks mysterious and challenging. Excellent directing, engaging screenplay, smooth and glazing plays especially by actress in leading role Juliette Binoche and last but surely not least music composed by Zbigniew Preisner make this movie unforgettable. Noteworthy, Blue is part of trilogy written and directed by Krzysztof Kieslowski that the other two are White and Red. "},{"Title":"Music, Family and Death","Date":"15 June 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Kieslowski's Trois couleurs Bleu (1993) has been among my favourite films for as long as I can remember, yet it manages to surprise me with each viewing it's so perfectly nuanced, emotionally heartbreaking and demanding, visually coherent and ipso fact perfect elaboration of film as art and art as something of value. The rest of the trilogy is just as mind-boggling in its brilliance, tenderly radical in its visual determination. But this! Nonpareil filmmaking only equaled in the past 20 years by Wong, Malick, Tarr and the Brothers Quay.Kieslowski sees beautifully organically, rooted in true presence of not only the characters but us; us not only as observers but as participants. He does not only show but truly takes us there, not only refers to emotion but charges each image and sound abundantly with that which we may recognize in ourselves. Reciprocally, not patronizingly, so effortlessly.The smallest of objects become amplified in their significance, and this way Kieslowski and Tarkovsky are alike the objects are given life much richer than what they usually are as simple décor. They are given memories and this makes them alive for us, since we can see them interface with the people inhabiting this lonely space.This film in particular speaks to me with such force because three things in particular it shares with me that I can share with it music, family and death. All this in a work of art that exhibits powerful visual ingenuity and radical rethinking of the use of sound and image. "},{"Title":"Binoche is brilliant","Date":"27 May 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Blue is the first of Krzysztof Kieslowski's trilogy. It was followed by White and and Red, the colors of the French flag. Julie(Juliette Binoche) is married to a world famous classical music composer who dies along with their daughter in a car accident. She responds by almost committing suicide with pills but instead she leaves the hospital and takes an apartment by herself without telling anyone where she is going. She speaks with her senile mother on the phone, but her mother is confused and believes that her daughter is her sister. Julie destroys her husbands last composition, which was to celebrate the end of the cold war and European unity. There are hints that she actually wrote the piece. A former assistant of her husband, Olivier, is in love with her and announces on television that he will try to finish the final composition.Julie, meanwhile, discovers that her husband was having an affair. She tracks down the mistress, Sandrine, who is pregnant with the love child. This leads to an extremely unusual finale. I will not give it away; but it is well worth watching for Binoche's brilliant performance. "},{"Title":"Mindful and gripping...","Date":"13 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Polish screenwriter and director Krzysztof Kieslowski's tenth feature film which was written by Krzysztof Kieslowski, Krzysztof Piesiewicz, Agnieszka Holland, Slawomir Idziak and Edward Zebrowski, is the first part of his trilogy about the national flag of France's three colors blue, white and red which represents freedom, equality and fraternity. It tells the story of Julie Vignon, a 33-year-old woman who one day wakes up in a hospital in Paris after a car accident and learns that her husband and their five-year-old daughter has departed. In a state of shock and without the ability to react rationally Julie tries to commit suicide, but her will to live prevents her from it. After she is released from the hospital she instantly takes care of the financial formalities and moves from her old house to an apartment in the city. Julie chooses to live an isolated life, distances herself from human contact and digs herself into an introvert grieving process which cuts her of from her own existence.The main aspects in this visually exceptional and in-depth study of character from the early 1990s, is the main character's grief and the symbolic color blue. Krzysztof Kieslowski's vague allusion about the color blue symbolizing freedom may seem somewhat intangible as the protagonist's loss of her family seems to be the crucial moment which brings her back to her independent freedom. Still it becomes evident in the scenes where the color blue intertwines with Julie's being that it is only within these moments she comes close to mending her grief and thereby liberates herself from her opposition. Thus the color blue is perceived as the symbol of her soul. It's conceivable that Julie is a somewhat dependent woman who has lived her life in sheltered surroundings and always relied on having someone around her. Because of this it may seem as if Julie's loss is a key element in a greater plan life has initiated in order to test her survival skills and her will to live. With her introvert and emphatic acting performance which is one of her most memorable, French actress Juliette Binoche creates a mysterious and fascinating portrait of a grief-stricken woman. A performance which gained her the Pasinetti Award for Best Actress at the Venice Film Festival in 1993.Filmed with precision and great sense of detail, Krzysztof Kieslowski provides fragmentary insights into the soul of the central character. The sporadic editing, the poignant and multilateral atmosphere and Juliette Binoche's versatile facial expressions creates a lurking unpredictability. The compassionate and philosophical screenplay, the idyllic production design by Claude Lenoir, the prominent cinematography by Polish cinematographer Slawomir Idziak and the masterful score by Polish composer Zbigniew Preisner harmonizes within a whole that constitutes a tangible masterpiece. This international co-production between Poland, France and Switzerland which was shot on different locations in France gained amongst others seven awards at the Venice Film Festival in 1993, three awards at the Cèsar Awards in 1994 and three nominations at the Golden Globe Awards in 1994. Krzysztof Kieslowski (1941-1996) tells the viewers more through images and actions in this mindful and gripping psychological drama. "},{"Title":"Blue","Date":"30 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I find it very difficult to write about Blue. So much has been said about it already, especially by Annette Insdorf (who provides a superb commentary on the Miramax DVD and a video essay on the new Criterion Blu-Ray), that anything I could put forward would be mere repetition. The truth is that as dense as the film is, it's also quite simple. It doesn't require great effort to decode it, certainly not as much as Veronique. Kieslowski's ideas -- about liberté, grief, love, the need to not be completely free of connectedness to others -- are very close to the surface. But there is such elegance to its simplicity that it never feels obvious. Only in hindsight does one think Of course that's how it should be done because it is all done so perfectly. "},{"Title":"True Bleu","Date":"9 December 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Kieslowski's Bleu, the first installment of the Trois couleurs series is a rapturous splendor, treading gracefully upon the grounds of hopelessness and disillusion experienced by Julie (Juliet Binoche) with a vibrance and intimacy that has never been matched - there is a certain parity at all times between Binoche's visceral performance and the serene metaphysical landscape painted by Salwomir Idziak's cinematography, which is constantly involved with the extraordinary aspects of the everyday that most refuse or aren't capable of seeing. Although Julie's spiritual transformation is the film's central focus, that metamorphosis isn't possible without Zbigniew Preisner's score. Like the balancing act of the camera and the performers, Preisner strikes a chord (if you'll excuse the pun) that resonates softly, initially, but as it drones on begins to echo the lingering antagonisms of consciousness that haunt the protagonist after her loss. On the other hand, it is in fact the harrowing reminder that is the music that allows Julie to reach the other side, to surface amidst the beautiful elegy that is closure and, in turn, release. "},{"Title":"Beautiful grief","Date":"26 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" When viewed by its own right, and not as part of a trilogy, Blue is simply a beautiful movie. Above all the heavy layers of symbolism and social commentary - which, I admit, were a bit too heavy-handed for my taste - there's a simple and touching drama about grief, loss and recuperation. Beautifully shot, beautifully edited, and played out with subtle and minimalistic perfection by Juliette Binoche.Most of all, stylistically, Blue excels in its juxtaposition of image and music, and it does so on almost every shot. Some of the elements that try for symbolism felt to me like they try too hard - the excessive use of blue colors, or the brief blackouts. But at its quietest, simplest moments, the music and image compliment each other to create a perfect mood, and cinema at its purest. "},{"Title":"Poignantly composed and sublimely acted drama","Date":"2 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" 'Three Colors Blue' is the first of the trilogy by Krzysztof Kieslowski, a Polish director who wants to convey the French motto of 'Liberty, Equality and Fraternity' through his trilogy, this one taking Liberty as its influence. However, the director's approach is through human emotions rather than political or economic commentary, giving a depth and a Shakespearean complexity to the movie. As Roger Ebert rightly observed, the film is sparse in dialogs and inconspicuous in showing direct emotions but it gives the viewer a chance to ponder and decipher the protagonist's emotions. The silences aren't too long but the viewer can sense the invisible rays coming from Binoche, for example when she enters her house after her husband and child's death, or when she sits at the cafeteria, and the camera focuses on her face. Juliette convincingly manages to underplay such scenes, and that gives more gravity to her emotions and performance.The plot is simple and revolves around Julie, the wife of a famous composer who along with his child dies in an car crash while Julie survives. Julie wakes up in the hospital, with the camera focusing on her pupils and the reflection of the doctor who informs her about the tragedy. The eyes shed no tear, though Julie's lips quiver and her heart is shattered. She tries committing suicide but cannot, but this results in prolonged psychological suffering as she suddenly decided to leave behind everything and start afresh. She remains cold and apathetic to everything and this disturbs her the most, and she shuns everyone around her, destroys her husband's possessions, makes love to her husband's friend and fellow composer and lives in a hotel. The only instrument she cannot obliterate is the music in her mind, which keeps confronting her to face reality and move on.Three Colors Blue is a highly polished film, clocking at one and half hours exactly. To me the movie was flawlessly paced like a symphony- maintaining the atmosphere while playing the notes continuously without stopping. I never found it to be too long or boring, because there is genuinity in the movie, which I found completely lacking in the recent claptrap 'Sucker Punch' which claimed to be complex and artsy, but to me was a hack. I was completely flabbergasted when some viewers were discussing the great art behind the pretentious and opaque 'Sucker Punch'. Blue on the other hand is sublime and realistic- did Julie ever seem pretentious or overbearing to me? No, in fact Juliette portrays her with such truthfulness that I felt a unbroken line in her performance that's seldom found in movies these days. Part of the credit goes to Krzysztov who uses the camera so effectively on her.The movie apart from its constant references to the title, also has the elements of red and white finely embedded in it. For example, when the prostitute friend of Julie thanks her for refusing to sign the list to throw the former our to 'keep the society clean', she brings white flowers, a symbol of equality. Also, one could find how the lady who requests Julie to sign the list was being deceived by her own licentious husband in the previous scene where he spends the night with the same prostitute (He was the lady's husband, right?). Also, when Julie helps the prostitute in the brothel, the screen becomes red, indicating kinship and sisterhood. Howeve, blue dominates the background whether its the pen used by Julie, or the curios, the swimming pool, the door, the prostitute friend Lucille's overcoat, Patrice's room etc. And never for a moment does it completely dominate the foreground, in fact it subtly rests in the background to reinforce the idea of liberty.In fact, Julie gets freedom but in order to continue her normal life, she has to rely on her past, as her past influences her. I feel that apart from liberty, the movie pays highlight to influence. I take my country's example. India got independence in 1947, yet it has its British influences. Even though Goa is now free from Portugal's rule over it, it cannot obliterate its past completely as its past keeps influencing it. Take the case of the pauper in the movie who plays his flute on the streets. When Julie places his flute case below his head, he says 'You always got to hold on to something'. In this case, its the music which Julie composed during happier times. Or her scene with the rats, where she is distraught to see the babies being killed, reminding her of her dear child.The only slight complaint I have with the movie is the final scene where Julie actually sheds a tear, or rather two. For some reason, after going through so much internal pain and struggle just to realize that husband was not faithful to her, and then getting her redemption towards the end, I felt that a stolid face with a tear trickling slowly down Julie's face didn't do much justice and made the scene rather distant. Krzysztof could have injected a trickle of positive melodrama by making her break down in tears. But that's my personal opinion.I have to disagree with the comment on the poster of the film saying that the movie is 'Mysterious... Sexy!'. To me, its relatable, touching, gritty, compelling and beautiful. My rating 9.5/10 "},{"Title":"A sad portrait of pain and grief","Date":"10 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I never go to the movie to see myself on screen. The movies, for me, are a tapestry of lives and actions that are foreign to my little world. Movies can be a window to lifestyle I will never experience and people that I will never meet. I have noticed that some people tend to form an opinion about a film based on the character's actions by comparison with their own. I prefer characters that deal with things in different ways. Krzysztof Kieslowski's Blue features just such a person.Her name is Julie (Juliet Binoche) and she lives in Paris with her husband and their daughter. Her family dies in an accident, leaving her in an emotional stalemate. The spaces of her life that were once populated by the vibrancy and energy of a busy life are now still and quiet. Long days of emptiness stretch on and on. What we come to expect from our usual patterns of this situation is that Julie will, with time, attempt to find a way to press on. Somewhere, we expect, she will end her loneliness and despair by starting over. This is not Julie's way. Thrust into this horrible situation, she becomes hardened. She throws away the life she had before, disposes of all memories of her family. She moves to another part of Paris where no one will recognize her. I have only one thing left to do, she says, Nothing. I don't want any belongings, any memories. No friends, no love. Those are all traps.Julie is played by Juliet Binoche and that makes Blue something special. Binoche is, of course, known for a variety of roles in films like Damage, The Unbearable Lightness of Being and her Oscar winning performance in The English Patient and what I have noticed is that she has one of the most expressive faces that I have ever seen. Even playing someone as callused as Julie, there is an emotion in her face and around her eyes that suggest everything that she won't outwardly reveal. In those other films she was able to express herself with her body and her voice. Here she keeps it all inside so we read her beautiful eyes for the turmoil within.We don't know everything about Julie's past but from the pain in those eye we can guess that her marriage was not sunshine and roses. Indeed through the film we get clues to her unhappy life then and now. Julie does things to assess that her numbness from grief doesn't mean that she will never feel again. After the accident she goes and has sex with a man who was a friend of her husband. If this scene is shocking to you then you've missed the point.Many movies begin by making everything clear and laying the entire plot on the table before our theater seats are even warm. 'Blue' is different, it follows a woman's journey to deal with grief in her own way. She doesn't always do things that make us happy as viewers. Blue is about a woman who has become cold to the world around her through the numbness of grief. "},{"Title":"Broken homes and solitude","Date":"21 December 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" The baby skin is so red and thin that a stroke of light or wind could make it burst. Mama's desperation shows in her eyes and frantic manners when the next - where she quietly raises her brood - is suddenly uncovered. It's just a mouse family and yet their physical vulnerability and strong family ties draw us close to them. We pity their ordeal; we mimic their fear and pain. We are reminded that one day we were defenceless babies, too. For a few moments, we no longer distinguish between human and rodent feelings.Three Colours Blue is an acutely well-observed study of human solitude and broken homes. The protagonist Julie (Juliette Binoche) has just lost her family (husband and daughter) in a car accident. She is disheartened and despondent as she attempts to recreate her life. The encounter with the mouse family represents the newfound feeling of sympathy. She is unable to kill the mice because such barbarous act would represent the perpetuation of her own family disintegration.Finally, Julie borrows the neighbour's cat in order to carry out the murderous task. Her decision is contradictory but also liberating. She finally forgave herself for the death of her husband and daughter and decided to move on with her life. There should be no room for guilt and fear in our lives, Kiéslowski reminds us. "}{"Title":"A Study of Dissociated, Interior Conscience, Thus Blue","Date":"12 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Juliette Binoche is impressively becoming in her role as a woman whose husband and child are killed in a car accident within the first five minutes of the movie. Then proceeds a story that we imagine must be about how she wrestles with her loss, but as she is abruptly set free from the connection of family, Julie attempts to fortify herself from everyone in her life and live in isolation from those former ties. However, she finds herself making new connections she can't seem to help but make. What a beautiful capture of humanity that is. Many of us would love to take advantage of a golden, if heartbreaking, opportunity to sever all ties. Yet the film presents a profound question To what extent do we need human contact? Is it something even the most walled-off of us can do without?Blue is the perfect color for such a subject. It's a moody, quiet color that evokes water, which complements emotion in many ways. Kieslowski has made such a personal film, such a deeply personal insight which feels like, for him, it was bold. He parades proudly his telling story with a theme of powerful music. "},{"Title":"watch it!","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" i am almost too nervous to comment on this work as i am an enthusiastic but amateur movie watcher! this is simply one of the best films i have ever seen. in the sense that it is a complete work, complex, layered, beautiful. every moment is considered, reduced, pure. that is the definition of art. i loved it. and i loved the anticipation of watching the next two, not least to find out how the remaining themes would be handled and relate to each other. but Blue remains my favourite. i don't often rate movies highly, but i cannot give it (and White and Red) anything but 10, i find no fault.advice WATCH IT i know i will re-watch all 3 several times. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully complex psychological drama","Date":"27 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Blue (Polish/French, 1993) Starring Juliette Binoche, and created by Krzysztof Kieslowski. It is the first in a trilogy of films (Blue, White, Red). Worthy of your time...they are wonderfully complex psychological dramas, I will see them over and over. Aside from the obvious use of colors within each film, and some of the symbolism (which I suspect the European art crowd finds nicely elitist in that secret-society way, no one will absorb the full depth of these characters after one viewing. I also suspect that the issues portrayed in Blue are related to European politics and issues of solidarity, represented by various characters and circumstances. You'll continue thinking about them, and, fortunately, they are open enough to use as comparisons (symbols) within your own life. That begins to reach Art. The color photography is superb, the scoring, although perhaps over-extended, is also superb. "},{"Title":"a beautiful film about loss and loneliness","Date":"2 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" This is one of the masterpieces of Kieslowski. A film that speaks about loneliness, grieving and death, which leaves you with a feeling of premonition, knowing that the director died a few years later leaving so many films undone.This is the story of Julie acted by Juliette Binoche who loses her husband, a famous composer and young daughter in a car accident. After an unsuccessful tentative of suicide she leaves the house where she was living with her family and moves to Paris. In fact she is not sure what to do with her life, she does not know how to cope with the loss, she does not even know if she is capable of feeling anything any longer. While life goes on around her she seems to become kind of a spectator, tries to forget and disconnect from memories in order to alleviate the grieving. Even discovering that her husband had an affair with another woman who is expecting a child from him does not really shake her, although this seems to trigger a process of returning to reality. Will she close the circle? The end seems to say yes - on a factual plan at least - as she is finishing a composition that her husband worked at, and she is restarting a liaison with a friend and long time admirer, but we are not that sure that this also happens on an emotional plan. The last sequence seems to show the principal characters that crossed her path in the movie being each alone in his universe. Real life cannot be lived more than once, loneliness surrounds us in our awaiting for death.Binoche acts beautifully, it's maybe her best role. The pace is slow, the tone is melancholic, but if you like human stories, that make you think and feel this is a movie that you would not miss. "},{"Title":"Trois couleurs Bleu","Date":"14 January 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" In the beginning there is a car accident (a popular scenario for filmmakers). Julie has lost her husband and her daughter. After that she wants to lose every connection to her old life, because she couldn't stand being reminded of her big loss. That's an understandable human reaction. We do not hear anything about why she is able to afford living without working, we know that she has enough money and that's it, because also for Julie money is not important. She has to find her way back into life. The film deals with love, loss and coincidence. If she had found out about her husband's girlfriend earlier, what would have been her reaction? Juliette Binoche is fabulous as Julie, she carries the whole movie with her believable performance. Krzysztof Kieslowski's direction is superb, he lets us see the world the way Julie sees it. The camera often concentrates on small pieces to underline how she has to struggle with herself and isn't interested to think in bigger terms. "},{"Title":"Blue. Sad. But so Majestic and Grand","Date":"15 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" An outstanding work of the great late Mr. Kislowski. This time, the main heroine is impeccably performed by excellent Juliete Binoche and she plays with a mastery and skill that still admire after all these years. The film is truly blue, the main color scheme is really blue and then it suddenly turns to a Kislowski's most beloved honey yellow that it is a sheer pleasure to watch it. The main heroine suffers a death of her husband, a famous classical composer and her daughter in a car accident. She slowly starts to come back to life, and every time she has a real epiphany we hear a marvelous, deep, majestic music all around her. The woman becomes a new life, she sells her large house, buys a neat flat, meets new people and slowly returns to a normal way of life. She meets new neighbor, meets a former lover of her late husband, goes swimming... Life goes on, but up till the end, when she finally takes the work of writing the EU Anthem herself, that she finally comes back to this side of life. There are some very cool smaller details in the film - like, a bent old granny trashing the bottle, or a homeless flautist who anyway goes to his work in a luxurious car, or a scene of street fight late at night - everything is so sharp, precise and forms a full grand scale picture. The only slight minus of the film is a bit slower tempo that it really should have had, so that to make this work an absolute peak. However, this film stands out still... "},{"Title":"Blue&#151;a feature film on an abstract Biblical chapter","Date":"17 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" A film on I Corinthians Chapter 13, just as Kieslowski's Dekalog was based on the Ten Commandments The later works of Kieslowski never cease to amaze me. Here is a film so spiritual in content with no markings of being a cinematic essay based on an entire abstract chapter in the New Testament&#151;a chapter that could fit into the holy books of any religion and is not strictly limited to Christian theology but universal philosophy that could find equal acceptance by, say, a Sufi scholar or a Hindu mystic. But then Kieslowski made 10 marvelous short films called Dekalog each loosely based on one of the Ten Commandments. But if the viewer is not well versed with theology or philosophy, the film can be viewed as story far removed from such lofty heights. It would be a mere story of grief and reconciliation to loss of kin (but then Ingmar Bergman did a better job of this subject in the little known 1971 film The Touch or Beroringen with Bibi Andersson and Elliot Gould). Kieslowski, was a product of Communist Poland but a Christian in spirit and upbringing. He knew all of us had to make difficult moral choices in life constantly. Interestingly, Ingmar Bergman made another film taking a leaf from the very same Biblical chapter&#151;Through a glass darkly. In Blue, the moral choice the lead character makes is to love. Love whom, one may ask? Love the boy who makes a great effort to return the stolen necklace with a cross, the husband who cheated on her marriage, the mistress of her husband with his unborn son in her womb, the husband's colleague who seeks fame from adding final touches to another person's unfinished masterpiece, the unfinished musical work that needs a loving inspired end, love the neighbor who is a prostitute, the servants of the house, the mother in the old age home (most of the images are reinforced towards the end of the film, as excerpts from the Biblical chapter are sung). Ms. Binoche was able to allude to a faint smile at the last frame, the actor's contribution to the film after her understanding of the end of Anton Chekov's play The seagull. Kieslowski retained the contribution of the literate and sensitive actor.Blue--one of the three colors of the French flag. It is the color that defines melancholy in the English language. Blue is the untrue reflective color of water in a swimming pool&#151;a cathartic venue where the lead actor swims to rid her fear of rats, a venue that suggests purging of her past fears and marital shackles, a venue where she curls up like fetus in a womb to be reborn.There were unresolved passages in the film&#151;the despondent face of the daughter staring out of the car, the lead actor's obsessive interest in her dead husband rather than the loss of the daughter and why the mattress was the only furniture left behind in an otherwise empty house. Wish Kieslowski was alive today to explain these loose ends! The film is a superb example of sound editing, music composition and camera-work&#151;each technical department competing for top honors. Blue was made for Venice Festival just as White was made for Cannes and Red for Berlin&#151;the three top film festivals. Venice Festival loves such subjects as Blue presented&#151;Blue was designed for it, each shot from the dunking of the sugar cube to epiphany of the street flute player to the laceration of the hand (spiritual reference to shedding of blood?) on the stones in self mortification.In the final evaluation it is product of teamwork&#151;making a swansong triptych of a talented director who probably knew his time in this world was limited. If I had not seen Bergman's works mentioned earlier, I would have voted this film as the best of the trilogy. My vote therefore is for White, as it is more original in style and more complex of the two. Yet each of the three colors is a work of a master of cinema. I consider it a privilege to have met Kiesolowski briefly and talked to him, through an interpreter, in 1980, much before he had bloomed into a great filmmaker in the early Nineties. At that time he had only made Camera Buff with Jerzy Stuhr&#151;a film that impressed me but clearly lacked the maturity of his later works. Poland should to be proud of its great son. "},{"Title":"Wow! No explosions, yet still good.","Date":"15 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" According to my film 2 professor, this film is what is known as a character film. That means it shows the invisible, what is happening in the character's soul. OK, doesn't sound like my thing, but whatever, I was down for a free movie & getting out of a class or two. The movie starts with this little girl, focusing on her & her point of view, she gets in & out of a car, she sees the world as she rides in the car. As a side note, the audio wasn't working the 1st day, so the bass was very heavy. I think watching the movie this way, or at least the very beginning, helps to enhance to feeling the director chose to create of being underwater. Moving on. The camera focuses on a teenage boy sitting by the side of the road, & he watches the car drive by. He looks away. Off camera, we hear a crash. It was the car. Somehow, by not showing the actual crash, then showing the devastated car, the feeling the audience is able to experience is parrallel to that of any bystander you hear a noise, expect it to be something mundane, and are filled with shock to realize that it is not. The rest of the movie focuses on the girl's mother, crushed to find that her husband & daughter died in the crash. At first she is self destructive, attempting suicide, having a loveless affair with an old friend, and dragging her knuckles along a stone wall until they tear & bleed. Later, she moves into an apartment, befriends her prostitute neighbor, and goes swimming. Her life is more in her control. Sadly, she finds that her husband had an affair, and the woman is now pregnant. She decided to give her husband's son their old house, and the movie ends with a sequence of everyone, showing how unhappy their lives are. The color blue appears throughout the movie, especially in a glass chandaleir whose importance is left to the viewers imagination. "},{"Title":"Real grief","Date":"8 April 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Anyone who has ever experienced loss of the magnitude experienced by Julie, the central character in Blue, will find in this film an piercingly accurate portrayal of the grieving process. This is a film about falling apart -- and slowly, painfully, learning to put the pieces back together, taking a single step into the world, and then another and another. This in itself would make it a remarkable film, but it goes even further. In addition to its emotional intensity and depth, it also has a strong plot, a magnificent soundtrack, wonderful characters and even humour (the mattress incident alone is worth the price of admission). And Juliette Binoche gives the performance of a lifetime, one that is human, raw and achingly sympathetic. What more could anyone possibly want? "},{"Title":"The Perfect Movie","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" In a brilliant this movie is a masterful beginning, it's a wonderful place to drown in color in space and sound--- the end crushes me every time-- a terrific reminder of the wonder of being alive the weight of sadness, that time is passing. This is my favorite movie so.... These movies and the Double Life of Veronique are a late night movie dream. When the world feels like it's over. When your waking life to resemble some of the magic of your sleeping life---- these movies are perfect. Watch the movie. (The idea that I've got to have at least 10 lines seems sort of preposterous, sometimes great things can happen without 10 lines being required to explain it)-- for instance-- it was a million degrees out today and then it rained for 10 minutes-- i took off my shirt, closed my eyes and felt it hit my body) "}{"Title":"A brilliant and deeply dark film","Date":"1 April 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I came across this series while I was experiencing a deep depression. My first viewing of this film was an emotional experience for me.  The depth of the pain the characters are in is well-acted.  The brilliant piece of music acts like a 'idee fixe' with the plot. Well shot, well acted, and well written in my view. Not for those who are looking for a cheerful film, however.It's in my top-10 list for all time, too. "},{"Title":"Best of the best !!!","Date":"5 March 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I love all the Trois couleurs -movies, but this is simply the best one. It's basically a very sad story, but it also gives hope. Juliette Binoche is absolutely great as a lonely griefing woman, who gets back to her feet after an awful tragedy. Blue makes you cry, but it also has very dry humour (through tears of course). Recommended !!! "},{"Title":"So Beautiful","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  What a splendid start for the now famous trilogy. This film is three persons Kieslowski, Preisner and Binoche. They combine their talents and produce a masterpiece. An artful approach of modern day life in France. A lyrical narration of the life of a woman who lost her husband and her son. It touches even the deepest strings of the viewer. If you have trouble describing blue, watch this movie. "},{"Title":"Stunning","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Blue the first of the three color trilogy, is a very stunning and mesmerizing visual force. I can't think of any film with camera work that can even be mentioned in the same breath with this film. Juliette Binoche is absolutely perfect in the lead role. This is a very slow paced film. There is no action & no real comedy relief (I laughed at one part). And speaking is not really done much here. Binoche communicates to us through her body language. And the late great director Kieslowski speaks to us through his stunning camera work of beautiful and magical images. The score of this film is so very beautiful it's hard to put into words. You must rent this movie only when in a serious mood. For it must have your full attention. I give this, a 9 out of 10. I don't give it a 10 because sometimes it's just to slow. "},{"Title":"A master","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This is film making. This is a director who has inspired me as much as any great artist. Beautiful. Whenever I need affirmation in my belief that film making can be the greatest  artform- combining all other arts- I look to this man's work  as an inspiration. A master.  "},{"Title":"Incredible use of music.","Date":"1 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Since I saw this movie in 1993, I've seen it again many times and appreciated it more every time I see it.  The one aspect of it that caught my attention first was it's dramatic use of music.  There's a distinct lack of atmospheric music, which becomes blaringly obvious when, during the grieving process, the lead character is suddenly hit with a severe sadness; something I find to be an accurate depiction. The overall feeling of the movie itself seems, to me, to be >like that of music not forceful in it's attempt to provoke emotion, more of a subtle feeling of sharing in the human experience that is both painful and beautiful.  "},{"Title":"Kieslowski masterfully paints all of the colors, Blue, White and Red see all three!","Date":"6 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  It is not only difficult to comment separately on the three parts of Kieslowski's trilogy, it seems obvious that the filmmaker wants us to do just the opposite  view them in order, Blue, White, and Red, and consider them together as one complete work.  It is true they are distinct stories with distinct themes liberty, equality, fraternity, and each them is developed with unique applications of intrigue and artistry.  They are each well worth seeing independently, but I believe they are best seen as one work.  Collectively, I would rate the trilogy as a 9; separately, I place each in my top ten for the years 1993 and 1994.Blue is the mood of a grieving woman who lost her husband and daughter in a rural car crash; it is the shadows playing on her face in a cold hospital room as she watches television coverage of the funeral; it is light shining into an empty room of her house.  Blue is the color of her dreams and memories, which she tries to erase after the tragedy, and of the liberty she seeks after the disappointing turn in her life.  Liberty is the ultimate theme here, corresponding to the three worded French motto, `Liberty, Equality, Fraternity.'  Of the three Color films, Blue is the most stunningly photographed and conceptualized.  The plot is almost secondary and the dialogue is sparse, which gives all the more emphasis on the visual and on the thematic.  With excellent acting by Juliette Binoche, this movie rates a 9. "},{"Title":"juliette rocks","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I think trois couleurs bleu must be the best movie that I have ever seen. Everything is right. Juliette Binoche is truly magnificent, and her acting is way more subtle and deep than in any of the tacky US market oriented movies she did afterwards (like the overestimated english patient). Every silence, sigh, and smile is right. US audiences may think it is all somewhat slow, but the more sophisticated European public adores this kind of acting, where there actually is some thinking and interpreting required. "},{"Title":"See it with a fine arts major","Date":"12 August 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" She is the wife of a great composer, and the music plays in her head because she is really the composer herself. After her husband and daughter are killed in a traffic accident, she tries to kill herself because the music is too beautiful and the memory of it too painful, but she can't swallow the pills. Then she tries to renounce the world but finds that she still cares.She is still of flesh. She says she wants no belongings and no memories, No friends, no love. Those are all traps.This is a beautiful film, perhaps too precious for some, understated and overdone by turns with artsy shots on common objects and blurred views filtered through liquid colors, especially of course the color blue. Sometimes the movie was so quiet for so long I became aware of the faint whine of the VCR.Juliette Binoche, lately seen as the nurse in The English Patient, dominates the screen with her affecting countenance. The camera continually explores and re-explores her face-an interesting, almost androgynous face, kind and gentle, unassuming with a sweet undercurrent of power.I liked this better than the overly clever White that followed, also directed by the talented Krzysztof Kieslowski.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Just a character study","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Juliette Binoche gives a wonderful performance, though the movie is merely a showcase of the transition that her character goes through after her husband and daughter die in a car accident.  This character, Julie, is initially suicidal after the accident, but later decides to sell all of her possessions and move into an apartment in Paris where she intends to shut herself out from everyone.  You get to see Julie lose all emotion....and at the same time, she loses interest in almost everything.  Binoche's performance and the innovative cinematography are the best things about this movie.  Worth watching if you like seeing Binoche in movies....but there's nothing special about this movie.  The next film in the series (Three Colors White) is much, much better than this one. "}{"Title":"Stunning and amazing","Date":"21 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Blue was incredible.  Like Kubrick, Krzysztof Kieslowski uses symbolic images -- in the case of this trilogy it is very often colors as the titles would suggest.  Where Kubrick makes serious commentary about society and the civilized world, Kieslowski paints a picture of emotion and the human psyche -- many would argue a more daunting task.Truly the interpretation of this film is personal to the individual who watched it, but here's my take.  Blue was about one emotion, one state of mind  the numbness we experience before grieving.  It is something that every human being who has suffered goes through, whether it is for just a few minutes or for a lifetime, as we feared Binoche's character would do. I felt the plot was a vehicle by which the director painted these emotions so vividly.Binoche's character suffered intensely and seemed numb to the world around her, but at the same time she also became more empathic and sensitive. She could not stand the thought of others having to suffer -- which was the case in her interaction with the prostitute-dancer and with the mice in her closet.  These many paradoxes in the human mind seem to be a running theme in this film (another is the closeness and anger she felt for the lawyer who carried her dead husband's child), and possibly his others (of which I have yet to see).To anyone who has a weak stomach for wrenching emotional imagery, stay away from this film.  However, if you want to see an artistic and poetic triumph in a film, you must see blue. "},{"Title":"One Sunday Morning","Date":"27 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  One Sunday Morning I awoke on my friend's sofa, feeling a little groggy but, at the same time, pretty mellow.  I reached for the remote and channel surfed through the garbage until I came upon the opening credits  for Blue on Bravo.  I watched with pure intrigue for the next two hours. I emerged feeling as though I experienced a new High.The film is an amazing delight of visuals and sound complemented by the angelic glow of Binoche. Sit down one night or some early morning and view this brilliant film.  Perhaps by yourself and see if you experience what I did, for words cannot describe the feeling.  "},{"Title":"Gorgeous, complex","Date":"18 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  More than any other aesthetically pleasing movie I've seen, Blue succeeds in unifying the visual elements of the film into a single, cohesive theme. Juliette Binoche's subtle performance adds greatly to the film's statement about interconnectedness and the impossiblity of denying community, if only a community of two.   "},{"Title":"A triumph of the human spirit...","Date":"14 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This film has been a constant source of inspiration for me since seeing it five years ago.  Juliette Binoche turns in an amazing performance as Julie, a woman who loses her husband and young girl in an auto accident that she survives. Numbed, Julie reacts by giving up her material possessions and turning her back on humanity.  After starting life anew, however, she is forced to come to terms with and help the eccentric characters she meets (including the sex-show worker who is despised in Julie's building and the lawyer carrying her deceased husband's child).These characters force Julie to feel emotion and ambition again. Watching Julie finish the grand musical composition that her husband began is to see a triumph of the human spirit.  Despite the tragedy that made her want to ultimately withdraw from life, she brilliantly perseveres in the end. Bleu is a truly inspirational story.I highly recommend watching Binoche in The English Patient and Damage, two films which further show-case her talent and beauty.  "},{"Title":"Incredible ...","Date":"25 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Many people say that Three colors Red is the best of the series. In my opinion Blue is a lot better although I love all three films of this series. Juliette Binoche gives a stronger performance than Irène Jacob and July Delphy. Preisner's music is like the whole picture a wonderful and very deep discovery of human feelings. This is no film, it's a mysterious trip into strongest love! Go on this trip! "},{"Title":"Great Film","Date":"5 November 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great film.  Critics have said that it's mysterious; I think it's more suspenseful though, because we know and feel what Julie (Juliette Binoche) is going through.  But it is mysterious in the way that we do not really know what she is up to.  I love the scene where she gets locked out of the house and we are allowed to search her face for, what it seems like, several minutes.  Wonderful acting!  I also love when she is told that the lady downstairs is a whore and she should sign a petition to kick her out. Julie's response That's not my problem. Great Dialog.  R.I.P. K.K. "},{"Title":"This effort representing Liberty is a deliberately paced but rewarding look at the process of mourning and redefining one's life after personal tragedy strikes.","Date":"20 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" The rehabilitation of a human spirit after painful tragedy is given stunning, aesthetic dimension here. Shocked by the death of her composer husband and their young daughter in a car crash, a woman (Juliette Binoche) destroys his final work, but draws back from killing herself.Three Colors Blue is the first part of director Krzysztof Kieslowski's magisterial trilogy and its a harrowing experience, as Binoche's Julie first attempts suicide, then strives for the freedom to cope with her suffering by retreating within herself. Discreetly, brilliantly and closely observed. "},{"Title":"What binds human beings together","Date":"18 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" This is the first exposure to Kieslowski that I've experienced, and it definitely won't be the last. The subject is so close to the heart of all of us that anyone can relate to this, and it will have something to say to any audience member. This film isn't for everyone, and the painful topic of death and grief, not to mention the insistence on not providing any more light moments or relief than Julie gets, is not the only thing that may leave certain viewers unhappy with this. It is for people who love movies, and it is an intimate work of emotion. The editing is masterful, with subtle and effective use of sound. This has great cinematography, and it is never flashy. The acting is stunning for everyone involved; Binoche sheds every single speck of armor, as far as feelings go, and allows herself to be extremely vulnerable(and again, there are those that will find it to be an excessive strain, though it is worth it). Every character is immensely well-written and entirely credible. The lead is thoroughly developed, as well. This has a marvelous plot. The dialog is realistic and genuine. There is a bit of disturbing content and brief sexuality(a little of which is unpleasant) in this. The DVD comes with 46 and a half minutes worth of informative interviews/featurettes and also trailers for the Colors Trilogy. I recommend this beautiful picture to anyone who thinks it possible for the medium to produce art. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"8 September 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Krzysztof Kieslowski was one of the more interesting filmmakers of the last quarter century, and the centerpiece of his claim to greatness is the Three Colors (Trois Couleurs) trilogy of films that he wrote and directed in the early to mid-1990s, filming them all at the same time. Blue, White, and Red represent the three colors of the French flag, and symbolize the three virtues of liberty, equality, and fraternity respectively. Blue (Bleu) is the first film in the series, and was released in 1993. The color blue also resonates for its associations with depression and coldness, that are well demonstrated in the film. It was deserving of the many award sit garnered, such as winning Best Film at the Venice Film Festival and the Goya Awards, as well as star Juliette Binoche (who looks like a prettier Julia Roberts, as well as a better actress) winning Best Actress at Venice and the Cesar Awards.Yet, Kieslowski made a wise choice to depoliticize his films, for the freedom that Blue deals with is not political but personal and emotional- a hoped for freedom from memories, and not the cheap sort that Hollywood would foist, such as a woman running away from an abusive boyfriend. If only more artists (think Latin American writers) could learn that political statements can be made slyly and subtly and wield far more power than overt preaching. Another wise move he made was to cast this film as a picaresque, whose main character is delineated in small strokes, with scenes that do not drive simple plot not character development, but stand alone and apart as merely defining her state of mind.The film starts with an automobile accident that kills off a husband and father, the famous musical composer Patrice de Courcy, and his five year old daughter Anna. The only survivor is his wife, named Julie de Courcy neé Vignon (Juliette Binoche). This is foreshadowed when we see a shot of leaking brake fluid from the car when the daughter is let off the side of the road to urinate. Fortunately, the crash occurs off camera, not in the melodramatic style a Hollywood film would drool over. Interestingly, at the end of the film, after the credits, Kieslowski has a sly tweak when he notes that, since the car is an Alfa Romeo, any loss of brake fluid, and the accident, are purely fictional events. When Julie wakes in a hospital we see an extreme close up of her pupil reflecting the image of her doctor. It is an objective shot of subjectivity after Julie regains her consciousness after an unspecified period of time. This ellipsis of death to the opened eye has a great psychic resonance to the viewer, in a way mere words cannot. She recovers, after a fey attempt at suicide by overdose at her hospital, and decides to abandon her country estate and set out for an anonymous life in Paris. In one scene, Julie comes upon her old maid who is crying. She asks, 'Why are you crying?' The maid answers, 'I am crying because you are not.' The rest of the plot has been detailed by others. I started this review by stating that Krzysztof Kieslowski was one of the more interesting filmmakers of the last quarter century, and I stand by that claim. The only thing a viewing of this film will add to that claim is to append the term great to that description, for Blue is a flat-out masterpiece. It is as mysterious as a work of Antonioni, symbolic as a film of Bergman, humane as a work of Fellini, and precise as a work of Kubrick. That's good company to keep, and this film earns such companionship "},{"Title":"Blue","Date":"18 December 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Blue is a Polish film in French, Polish and Romanian with English subtitles. The film is about a woman named Julie who survives a car accident while her husband and daughter were killed. Julie tries to start life again on her own in an apartment in Paris. Along the way Julie discovers things she did not know about her husband and she has to come to terms with her life now that her husband and daughter are gone. Winner of The CEC Award for Best Foreign Film at The Cinema Writers Circle Awards; The Cesar Award for Best Actress (Juliette Binoche who plays Julie), Best Editing and Best Sound at The Cesar Awards; The Goya Award for Best European Film at The Goya Awards; The Guild Film Award Gold for Foreign Film at The Guild of German Art House Cinemas; The Silver Ribbon for Best Female Dubbing at The Italian National Syndicate of Film Journalists; The LAFCA Award for Best Music at The Los Angeles Film Critics Association Awards; The Sant Jordi Award for Best Foreign Actress and Best Foreign Film at The Sant Jordi Awards and The Golden Lion (for director and co-writer Krzysztof Kieslowski), The Golden Osella for Best Cinematography and The Volpi Cup for Best Actress at The Venice Film Festival. The film has good direction, a good script, a good performance by Juliette Binoche, good original music, good film editing and good cinematography. The film's director and co-writer Krzysztof Kieslowski made this film in a trilogy of films he called the Three Colors trilogy which is followed by the films White and Red. Blue is a quiet and small film in many ways. There is not a lot of dialogue in the film and the general story is relatively simple when you first view the film, but after viewing it you will later think about it for awhile and have some questions about it. The movie is good looking and I think Juliette Binoche did a very good job expressing her emotions just by her facial expressions and mannerisms instead of using talking seeing as there isn't a lot of that in the film. The film also has a beautiful yet haunting look to it which is very artistic and stylish. Although the film is a little slow moving I was never bored with it and as it moved on I grew more and more curious about the Julie character and I really wanted to see what would happen with her at the end. There is also some neat twists and unpredictable scenes in here that I thought worked quite well too. I must also commend the film for it's great character study of Julie, a woman who is grieving and is also in a state of self discovery. The film is a small and quiet film but it is fascinating and neat to look at and also is quite a thought provoking and intelligent film. "}{"Title":"A Grand Film","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" This movie is more like an 8.5.I had previously watched this film before when I was younger and I did not like it. I was probably to young to grasp the full power of the film and what it represented. I know for the first time saw it for it really was.I can go on and on about the film's many outstanding qualities. Juliet Binoche gives an Oscar caliber performance as the grieving Julie Vignon who has lost both her daugther and husband in a car accident. She performs on so many different dimensions it is hard to describe. Ahh, the music! It was beautiful. From the street performer and his flute to the orchestras going on in Juliet's head to the operatic ending. I don't think music has affected me this deeply in any movie before. The cinematography is also great. Ranking as one of the top five best shot films in my opinion.Only problem parts in the middle of this movie are painfully painfully boring. Too bad.Definitely recommended. I am now off too watch White and Red. "},{"Title":"wonderful","Date":"2 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" This film must be seen! (preferably in a darkened room , in the night, on your own) Visually one of the most beautiful films i have ever seen. The use of colour and imagery throughout was wonderful. I am astounded that the director has maintained that level of creativity throughout the film. The ingenious phraming of every shot i found brilliant and the way he managed to integrate all of the themes into this was again breathtaking. It is the story of a women's attempt to come to terms with the death of her family. However we are not only shown the relationships she has lost but how this has affected others. This story pulls you into the character as you genuinely care about the plight of the central character.This film changed my perspective on movie making. "},{"Title":"Flawless Voyeurism Not For Casual Viewing","Date":"10 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  There is only one person I'm willing to see a film like this with because like me she is a sculptor. Like me she is also a bit of a voyeur. Bleu is not a film for casual viewing or the casual moviegoer. Because it is not a movie, it is a film.There are very few films I've ever seen that fall into the flawless category; On The Waterfront, Apocalypse Now, Sling Blade, American Beauty, Magnolia, Lost In Translation.This is one of those rare films that leave you stunned as the credits roll. It left me speechless. My friend and I sat in silence staring at the television until the tape reached the end and kicked into reverse to rewind.I've read the comments here and the one common complaint is that it didn't go anywhere. Hollywood has left viewers without the ability to stray from their archaic, proven and profitable formula for movie success. Well, this is not a cheerful film. It doesn't have explosions, murder, mayhem, a handsome Leading Man and buxom but brainless Damsel In Distress. If you want all that, go watch Spiderman 2.If you want an experience, one about feeling, and to witness the beauty of an artist creating something more than a mindless romp from Once Upon A Time to They Lived Happily Ever After, you will never regret seeing and being Bleu. Don't watch this like a movie. Just feel what Julie feels.Easily in my top 10 of all time.  "},{"Title":"A masterpiece in the study of human grief.","Date":"11 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  The thing that stands out most about Blue is the expression (or lack there of) of grief. How does a woman, seemingly fulfilled by happiness, react when that happiness is yanked away in one telling moment, in a car accident in which both her husband and her daughter pass away? That is the central understudy - a strong woman's attempts at finding purpose in the seeming absence of meaning.Mise-en-scene I watched an interview with Juliette Binoche, where she mentions that Kieslowski refused to make the film unless it had her in it. It's easy to see why. I can't imagine Bleu without Juliette - its not just that she lends her personality to the film...Bleu IS Binoche.I was thrown off by the sub-plots of the character's relationships with her mother and the striptease dancer, as I was about the seeming resolution at the end of the film. There were perhaps references that I missed but the 'almost happy' ending left me feeling un-relinquished. Given that I had shared such an intense journey with Julie, it seemed almost improper to accept that she would settle in to a normal relationship again.Cinematography The 1st shot of the film - that of a car tire racing - shot from the bottom of the moving car establishes this as 'not your typical movie'. The sequence-of-shots that follow eerily draw one into the compelling story-telling style of Krzysztof Kieslowski, minimalist in its approach, with a world communicated without dialogue in the first five minutes of the film.Blue is not your typical art-house film. Its production values are up there with the best, and the cinematography by Slavomir Idziak (who's craft was recognized by Hollywood in Black Hawk Down), is nothing short of stunning.The lighting is low key and soft, and wraps around the characters to create a mood of subtlety. A distinguishing feature is the detail in the shadows. None of the close-ups fully illuminate the protagonist, almost hinting at her vulnerability at facing the light, though the delicate use of eye-lights does well to bring alive her emotions.The camera, an intelligently used narrative element, interacts with Julie and partakes in her emotions, respecting them and yet accentuating their intensity as she plods on in an alien world of deep personal purposelessness. The tight close-ups penetrate her soul and force us to delve into Julie's mind and share in her agony.Editing deftly uses match on action to create irony while forwarding the narrative.Sound The pace is hauntingly slow and silence has been used compellingly. It screams with meaning and becomes one of the more important elements as the narrative progresses.Bleu is not a film you can watch, consume and move on. Either you'll feel that you've totally wasted your time and will probably not be able to sit through (the pivotal occurrence is over within the first five minutes of the film without a single world being spoken, and the rest of the film is essentially the protagonist's psychologically subjective journey) or you'll realize by the time you've reached the end that you'll revisit this film at various points in time, explore and read about it, discuss it with people you respect, and try to get closer to the essence of Kieslowski. For there are three now well-accepted truths about the folklore surrounding Kieslowski, whose reputation continues to mount posthumously...1. that Kieslowski carefully interwove elements that were rich with meaning and social irony, and 2. that figuring those elements out and appreciating their implications is probably a lifelong learning process and 3. that Krysztof Kieslowski is one of the finest filmmakers to have graced the cinematic world.Trois Couleurs Bleu is a masterpiece and the greatest exponent of human grief that i ever have and, probably, ever will see.  "},{"Title":"Quality art-house material where style overrides content.","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  A French woman loses her famous conductor husband and young daughter to a car accident and has to build her life afresh.One of these films that has nothing really new or original to offer but gets high IMDB marks because it is an emotion wrangler and has the quiet (almost silent!) appeal of Juliet Binoche in the lead role.(In competitive diving they have a tariff system which takes away marks for easier dives. This is an easier dive, but that doesn't mean the dive isn't excellently performed. I would take a whole point of the IMDB score under any such system!)While I admire cinematography and symbolism in movies I believe these are the support structures to the story. Here they push the story to one side and take over - to the point where there is often nothing but mood, posture and music.A move dedicated to grief and re-building is hardly going to be a laugh a minute, but Binoche wants to be frosty and controlled through the vast majority of this short (for a main feature) movie. Sorry, people don't grieve like that in real life - it is more a rollercoaster of emotions.We know so little about this now-ended relationship. How was she before the accident? How did they really interact? Was it really a happy relationship? We know that her husband was no angel - but how do we know this wasn't known to JB? A checklist of questions is not what I want in a movie that exclusively takes on one woman's life experience in such close up.Thankfully the final message is positive - life can be rebuilt. Wounds do heal. You can move on from tragedy.Here is a movie that may leave you entertained and moved, but it is far from a voyage of factual discovery unless you are an expert on body language and mind reading. Maybe there should be subtitles for this too?  "},{"Title":"Beautiful and quiet","Date":"6 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  'Trois Couleurs Bleu' is the first out of three movies directed and co-written by master Krzysztof Kieslowski. This is the story of a woman Julie (Juliette Binoche) who loses her husband, a famous modern composer, and her daughter in a car crash. She deals with this tragic event on her own way.Blue is the first color on the French flag and it stands for liberté, which means freedom. Julie moves away to an anonymous place in Paris where she is free of her past, and therefor free of everything. From here on she has the freedom to do everything she wants.The movie looks beautiful. Of course the color blue is seen a lot. In her old house she even had a blue room. Juliette Binoche is perfect as Julie. The movie is not one of the most happiest and most fun to watch ('Blanc' from the same trilogy is a little happier for example), but there are so many beautiful things to enjoy. Just enjoy this great quiet movie. "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"13 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  The first of the trilogy. I like them all, this one even the least (I give this one an 8). Why? It is dark, sombre, which I like, but sometimes a little bit too dark. The music is absolutely beautiful, but sometimes a bit too overwhelming.Still great piece of cinema! "},{"Title":"The theme of this movie is fraternity, not liberty.","Date":"19 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Of the trilogy, I like all three equally as well.  One of my friends found Blue to be tedious, I found it absorbing.  I disagree with those who think Blue represents liberty.  I agree with those few commentators who believe its theme is fraternity or brotherhood.  To me the movie is a depiction of the social recovery of the protagonist after the loss of her immediate family.  In my opinion Kieslowski is drawing a parallel to what happened in Europe in the aftermath of World War II. "},{"Title":"I tried","Date":"11 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I tried to like it, i really did... but a second viewing just seemed to confirm my original opinionSure, the music and photography were ok but thats just not enough.  For one i didnt really get in touch with the characters.  Julie's character staring every so soften in de camera didnt get me any further.  And then the symbols after a while i started thinking ok ok you dont have to shove 'blue' down my throat all the time.  And what's with the fluteplayer, the swimmingpool, the mice... give me a break will ya.  Did the reqiem get written? Who cares... at the end of the film that subject just got dropped. The theme is interesting though the dead of someone leaving close relatives/friends puzzled.  Somehow i think it could have been a lot better.The film resembles 'la double vie de veronique' (wich i liked) too much the music, mirrorlight, meeting in the cafe, the main character being a lone woman,...But dont get me wrong though i like kieslowski; i've only seen a few of his films, but 'short film about love' is already one of my favourite movies, if not my number one. "},{"Title":"Mesmerizing","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Juliette Binoche is fantastic in this relentlessly heavy but very rewarding drama.  With a minimum of dialogue, she has your undivided attention and delivers the goods.  Most movies are forgotten ten minutes after you see them - this one stays with you awhile.  "}{"Title":"Bad music","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Though interestingly filmed, in that Kieslowski way, this film is disappointingly predictable and shallow in its layering, and in the exposition, such as it is, of its supposed theme of liberty. And how are we to imagine that the composer of such superficial and badly composed music was famous? A failed attempt to imitate some sombre late 19th- or early 20th-century style? But it is much too banal for that, and perhaps some sort of monumental-sounding minimalist approach was intended. A film in which a composer and his (?) music figures prominently must make a better attempt to provide a convincing score. Binoche's portrayal of emotional deadness was not convincing, either. The Decalogue is a much greater work. "},{"Title":"A-logical and boring.","Date":"13 February 2015","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Julie Vignon has lost her husband and child in an accident. The film tells about the new history of her life after the accident, in the meeting of symbolic objects, people and places.Probably I have quite of an enmity against slow-rhythm movies, and that's why I wasn't able to appreciate this at all. Then, if you do like pointless visual photography (by the way, what the hell did go wrong with Kieslowski and the cups of coffee?), illogical characters making illogical actions, please go ahead, this movie is perfect for you. Otherwise you should try something else.In synthesis, I won't say that this movie is bad because a lot of people seem to have found it visionary, I will rather say is not the right movie for my personal taste. "},{"Title":"The peremptory withdrawal into an existence of self solitude","Date":"19 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" A blurred image of a car driving along a country road first, hardly perceived by the young passer-by. And after a few seconds the CRASH, awful, appalling, ineluctable. The half-conscious eye becomes prematurely aware of the death announcement. Almost before the woman realizes it, things have gone too far and it's impossible for her to back out from living damnation. So from an hospital bed of suffering a scream of anguish arises suddenly, seen as a peremptory withdrawal into an existence of immeasurable self solitude, as a controversial evidence of a disillusioned and insignificant future. There it is, the cathartic route to desolation row of a woman voluntarily immersed into voids of memory and determined to erase the past from her mind, doomed to cancel the loss of her family as a free self-imposition thank to the complete repudiation of every sentiments, as if her fate weren't discouraging enough.Julie's route is intended as a cry for freedom. As a release from musical reminiscences thrown into the dust-bin, from the possession of material things whose recollection can stop the healing of open wounds, from love involvements in the enclosed space of some anonymous, empty rooms. Julie's freedom is very heavy, it makes her perceive its oppressing presence every moments of her life, but on the other hand it helps her to empty her mind of every sad recollections of her past. But the line between pain and oblivion is very thin, and sometimes she doesn't even realize she's crossing it.Juliette Binoche puts her heart and brain (more the last one than the first one) into acting the disconsolate widow. Her performance is personally inspired by Annie Dupré's book The black angel, based on the death of the writer's parents in a car crash. Her character is damned to perpetual interior torment, into the BLUE, deprived of the faculty of emerging cathartically to light, necessary intermediate stage to reach a new existential balance.And we can find the BLUE everywhere. BLUE like the reflections of the swimming pool, faithful companion in solitude, relaxing amniotic liquid whose embrace is so welcoming! BLUE like the color of her empty room, once beaming with joy. BLUE like the chandelier, brought with her as the only memory of happy days gone by. BLUE like the notes of the scale that run after each other on the musical pentagram playing a growing hymn to love. But mainly BLUE as symbol of the cold void of the soul fallen on her back, temporarily deaf to the bells of life resounding around it. "},{"Title":"Bound to be free","Date":"9 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is about freedom. But how liberating is it to loose your husband and only child in a car accident? It seems to be as liberating as dying yourself. I must be slow, but this is what I realized after viewing the movie for the third time. Almost the entire movie Julie is kept in prison by her masked grief. Only after she comes to know more about her husbands' life and discovers more about her own talents, she is able to cry and start anew. "},{"Title":"Kieslowski's masterful story about freedom is a must-see!","Date":"20 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Kieslowski is a visual master. This is a very symbolic film that shows Juliette Binoche who lose her dotter and husband in a car crash(Her husband is a famous composer). She starts a new life and moves to Paris. There she lives a wordless life without doing so much. It's masterfully shot and the film is not only showing her problem, it is showing the human nature. Juliette Binoche's performance is so very perfect. Her silent all the time in the film is touching and actually frightening.A very good film that I might though was a little overloaded some times(what I trying to say was that it was might a little much for me to understand some times). Still a superb film and a film that you thinks very much of after you have seen it. It is the first of three films about the French colors, the other are white and red. 9/10 "},{"Title":"This is art!!!","Date":"29 November 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Yeah, it is. This film is one of the best I've ever seen. Every single picture, every single dialog, every single note, shortly every single everything fits to everything else. It is a great artwork done by two great men, Kieslowski and Preisner. Two men who created not only a film but a piece of art! "},{"Title":"Binoche glows ..... just as well there isn't much else!","Date":"21 November 2012","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" ''There are a few shots in the film that seem to be unrelated to the story. This is yet another technique often used by Kieslowski to heighten the intellectual capacity of his films.'' This is a quote I read concerning this film and which to me sums up the pseudo-intellectual gobbledygook that seems to surround this director when he brings a new film to town. Yes, 'Blue' is a study in overcoming grief it is also an exercise in over-indulgence. One of the 'unrelated shots' referred to would undoubtedly have been the scene where the camera pans away from a troubled Julie (Binoche) onto the street where an old lady, bent double with osteoporosis, is endeavouring to deposit a bottle into a bottle bank. The camera lingers while she labours to push the bottle through the slot. Mission accomplished the scene changes to something totally unrelated. What was the purpose of that scene? What did the pain of an crippled old lady have to do with Julie's tribulations? Is it Kieslowski's purpose in life to make you believe that every unrelated scene has some hidden symbolism or is he really having a laugh at how foolish we are. Having previous seen his 'Veronique' which was similarly puzzling I have reached the conclusion that this director now has a status, like that of many modern artists, where nobody dare criticise for fear of being called an intellectual philistine. On the credit side however is the use of classical music which engendered atmosphere something which it also achieved in 'Veronique'. Of Juliet Binoche what can be said that hasn't been said already? A superb actress with a wonderfully expressive face. In my opinion the only reason to watch this film. "},{"Title":"Three comments Blue","Date":"21 October 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Julie mourns the death of her husband, but had she already lost him when he died in the accident? Had he, in turn, already lost her? In exercising the freedom to do as they pleased in life, had they misused their liberty, thereby becoming each other's prisoner? Was Julie only mourning the death of her husband and daughter, or was her grief further aggravated by the knowledge that she had failed as a wife and mother?Juliette Binoche is asked to do something in this film which is, in and of itself, a great challenge for any performer she is directed to portray an uninteresting character, a woman who is so grieved and burdened by her past that she is barely able to keep the movie afloat. That she succeeds in doing so illustrates the tremendous talent she possesses, although she is undoubtedly assisted by the ingenious use of editing, which combines brilliant displays of the colors blue and green, and music that transcends the screen and reaches the viewer's soul. "},{"Title":"despite its being depressing, hang on--it does have a good payoff at the conclusion","Date":"13 July 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I think in general my tolerance for super-depressing films is less than some film connoisseurs. I have found that some films (such as some of Bergman's) are too depressing to merit the high praise they receive. It's almost like to be considered a sophisticated, you have to love depressing and occasionally pointless films. I began to feel this way towards this film early on--thinking to myself oh, no,...another dreadfully depressing art film. However, I was VERY pleased when despite the incredibly somber pacing, music and plot, the movie did not remained mired in misery and showed growth and change--and NOT in an overly idealistic or Hollywood way, either. Instead, the depression and existence of the lead, Binoche, seemed very real and I think this is the best of her films I have seen. In fact, I was a bit hesitant to watch the movie, as I was NOT a fan of two of her most famous films, The English Patient and The Unbearable Lightness of Being. These two films were also quite depressing and cold, but the movie Blue seemed to engage me more--perhaps because I could easily see myself or someone I love in Binoche's position following the deaths of her family.At first, she decides the best way to cope is complete denial and repression--forget about the past by extinguishing all memories--including selling all her possessions and running from her past life. However, despite her best efforts, she finds herself unable to completely keep out the past and is forced to deal with her husband's legacy (though the movie makes a mistake not to really address the death of Binoche's child very well).For psychology students, this movie is an excellent example of defense mechanisms (Freud) or the grieving process (Elizabeth Kübler-Ross). "},{"Title":"freedom at 450-495 nanometers","Date":"10 July 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Trois couleurs Bleu (Blue in English) was the first entry in Krzysztof Kieślowski's Three Colors trilogy. Named after the colors on France's flag, the trilogy focuses on stories involving France's national motto Liberty, Equality, Fraternity. Kieślowski said that Blue looks at emotional, rather than political, freedom, as Juliette Binoche's widow Julie is no longer bound by family life but can't fully escape her past. This continuing connection is embodied in the lamp of blue beads, and in the footage of bungee jumping (in which the cords become more apparent as the movie progresses, symbolizing evidence of a link to the past). Most importantly, there is the music much like how music consists not of a single note but of harmony with other notes, Julie cannot stay isolated from the rest of the world. Thus it's an anti-tragedy Julie's attempt to erase her past call into question whether love and freedom can coexist.This is the first Kieślowski movie that I've seen, and I'm really impressed. His use of scenery and colors to tell the story mirrors Stanley Kubrick's style of filmmaking. Juliette Binoche won both a Golden Globe and a César for her performance, as well as an award at the Venice Film Festival (all well deserved). As for the director, I hope to see the other entries in Kieślowski's Three Colors trilogy, as well as his other works. It's too bad that he retired after finishing the trilogy and then died of a heart attack. "}{"Title":"interesting art-house film","Date":"19 June 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" This is the first of Krzysztof Kieślowski's colors trilogy. Blue is Liberty. Julie de Courcy (Juliette Binoche) survives a car crash which killed her husband Patrice and her daughter. Patrice is a famous composer who was commissioned to produce a piece for European unity. Julie tries to commit suicide and then escape from the glare of her former life. She befriends exotic dancer Lucille. An old friend Olivier is also a composer and suspects the composition is actually Julie's. Patrice had a mistress. Julie has to break out of her darkness. Kieślowski uses everything including color, silence, music and most importantly Binoche infusing this with meaning. This is very much an art-house film and may not be for everyone. The quietness does lower the intensity. It's slow and meticulous. There isn't much of a plot. It's all about Julie's darkness and the reveal that can break through. "},{"Title":"Reviews the three parts of Three colours","Date":"22 September 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Apparently most people prefer Blue, I don't (I can see you coming and saying that's it's just my contradictory mind). Really, I found it beautiful, aesthetically and on the acting level (yes, I agree with everybody on the fact that Binoche is wonderful). But it was quite boring; especially it was so long to really start, but I guess it's how grieving is, long and boring. So people die, survivors survive OK, life goes on, we know that. Therefore I started White with a bit of apprehension, and finally was really caught quickly. I will even dare saying it's somewhat Kusturician. Is it because it's mainly base in Eastern Europe that I have this feeling, or is Eastern European genuinely crazier and more surreal than us? I guess the fact that Eastern Europe had a lot to catch up with Western Europe at the time of the film allowed to use crazy ideas as importing a dead body from Russia to fake your own death. Apart that, I was really interested by this man who couldn't satisfy his wife as long as they were married, and could start doing it again as soon as he was supposed to be dead, meaning as soon as any commitment was impossible. Power, commitment and sexuality such a millenary-old story. After this Red could have been a bit boring too, but it was very intriguing so it compensated the absence of surrealism. I just had a real difficulty to like Irène Jacob's character (Valentine) she's so naive and full of guilt, it's annoying, please shake her a bit! Which reminds me that I deny that any woman can be as Dominique (played by Julie Delpy) in White. Seriously, yes some divorces can be ugly, but it's rarely that intensely ugly. But I guess it's part of the surrealism of White. I think in fact which annoys me more in White is not in White but in Red. When you end up seeing the link between the three movies, you discover that Karol (the ex-impotent ex-husband of White) is finally back with her, and I find this so improbable first she was in prison, and unless he reported himself as having faked his own death (in which case he would be now the one in prison, not on this boat), I can't see how she would have been released; second, even if she had been released otherwise, how could she be willing to go back to him after he planned a so big revenge? And more globally, what is this stupid link between the three films? The three couples (or will-be couples) happened to take the same boat, and worse, to be the only survivors of this boat's sinking. This is so happy-ended and unnecessary I don't think the three stories needed to be linked more than by a random and meaningless meeting (when Julie in Blue steps into the courtroom where Karol and Dominique are divorcing for example, it's enough). Which by the way leads their meeting's number to twice what is the probability of that, people not knowing each other encountering, and then when not living in the same country anymore, meeting again on the way to a third country? And plus what is the probability that they survive all together? In fact I was expecting them to die when they started speaking about the sinking on TV I guess the probability that they die all together is not better, so maybe Kieslowski should have given up on linking them at the end. Because the link is already elsewhere loneliness and death are all along the three movies. People die, people survive, people fake their death, people stop loving after the death of a loved one... People are in love but lonely Julie is in love with a dead husband, Karol is in love with his ex-wife, Valentine is in love with a jealous long-distance boyfriend. People are together but lonely, more or less haunted by death. This is how I see the big theme. I can't see the meant-to-be Freedom, Equality, Fraternity. OK, not really fair in fact I can see some freedom in Blue, in how Julie chooses to deal her own way with her grief; I can see some fraternity in Red, in how Valentine and the old judge learn from each other; but I can't see any equality, neither in White, nor in the others (because I guess this three themes are not that simply distributed between the three movies). Anyway, I am sure this trilogy is far richer than this and that anybody would find something different in it. "},{"Title":"Artful melodrama, though not flawless","Date":"24 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Blue is an emotional study of a woman trying to cope with the sudden loss of her husband and daughter.The pacing is moderate which is fine during the first hour, but since there is no tight storyline to follow, the last third is a bit strenuous.One of the strength of the movie is the unique use of music in connection with fade into black. I think its intention is to show how much music is inside the character of Juliette Binoche. Due to her mourning she is trying to suppress this music but it still finds its way to the surface.The movie contains some very impressive closeups, i.e. a feather on a blanket, a reflecting eye shot, a piece of sugar which is soaked up with coffee, etc . I think it underlines the inner conflicts and sadness of the protagonist, who is trying to shield herself from what is going on around her.The color blue is nicely present everywhere. In particular I enjoyed the exquisite scenes in the swimming pool.I was disappointed by a subplot with a young woman who is a neighbor and works in the red light district. I know that Kyszlowski didn't want to explain everything in his movies and leave room for interpretation. But here it seems to me that they had to take some scenes out of the movie which leaves this subplot underdeveloped. "},{"Title":"A puzzle","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" A film about freedom like sense of life. Introspective way and forms of disillusion, fight against the past and steps of self-definition. And the masks of music, ambiguity of search, nooks of desire. A beautiful film about the relation with life and image of the other. Exercise of honest description of reality like collection of different pieces. A subtle form of catharsis and anatomy of gestures. A meditation about values and expectation, trust and desire, about skin of things and the memories as parts of a lamp.A fascinating puzzle in which every piece is bone of a seductive game. Every scene- step on a soul ladder, every symbol- sign of passing away. A Kieslowski film, with same taste, images and nuances of recreation and description of empty world, with delicate art to reveal the essences of days and sacrifices, with same mute hope, glass realities and stone hours.A film about love like only way to exist.About freedom as circle of self-definition.About fragile world beyond the shadows, truth as not result of conventions, silence as perfect refuge, the other as reflection of own universe.Pain as mirror. The images, the illusions, the mud traces are details of a impressive puzzle, the place of pieces are image of perpetual search. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and colorful","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Kieslowski is one of those filmmakers whose framing, lighting, composition, and aspects of mise-en-scene basically bleed symbolism and interpretive meaning. This film is a virtual festival of light and color, though set under a rather murky tone... everything one comes to expect from this auteur.For me the experience was most engaging because of the way he seemed to use colors to denote different types of space red for dramatic space, green for outside space, white for balanced space, and of course blue for personal or internal space. Not to say that this holds directly throughout; green is also around a lot during natural and life-giving moments and blue is used so much and in so many shades that it can mean a lot of different things. However, of the trilogy, this is the movie that most saturates the colors, spreading them over a bright canvas and making it impossible to ignore.It's also the most abstract, starting with a non-literal composition and finishing with a broken and open ending.It is, at any rate, very enticing and beautiful. It's one of those films that can take as much time as it likes and one doesn't begrudge the extra minutes staring at a person wrestling with internal thoughts.--PolarisDiB "},{"Title":"The first installment of the best trilogy ever created","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Blue (along with White and Red) is a cinematic masterpiece and one of (if not the) most innovative and powerful films of the 90s. Director-writer Krzysztof Kieslowski suggests an anti-climactic approach to a more visual interpretation of both physical and mental pain. How does one cope with loss of a loved one? How do we continue living if we're totally alone? Kieslowski forms a narrative around the characters in the story, and around their whole existence. Although the story is a deep focus of the heroine or protagonist, it shows the world both through and outside of her eyes.Juliette Binoche stars as Julie, a successful woman who has everything one would ever want, until one day when driving in a car with her family, the car crashes killing both her husband and daughter. After losing her family, Julie detaches herself from any memories, thoughts, and pain by giving up everything she's ever wanted, and starting a new life in an obscure area. Julie's deep passion always was and will be with music, and through her subconscious the music comes back and reminds her that she once was a happy woman.In the first five minutes of the movie you're completely hypnotized. It opens up with a closeup shot of a wheel from a car spinning on the street as the car drives. The cinematography sucks you in and almost foreshadows a more saddening mood, suggesting this road ends before the car reaches the destination. We're only shown the back of the characters in the car and we're left with very little to think about in terms of their psychology. Kieslowski knew exactly what he was doing by opening the scene in such a way. When the car crashes (in the most detailed and realistic crash scene I've ever seen), the movie cuts to a closeup of someone's eye in which we can see a man's reflection. We automatically know we are inside someone's head and that they are almost too tired to look at the man. Kieslowski's incredibly cinematic opening scene is just the beginning of a visually stunning and deep film.The eye is that of Julie's, who's lying in bed as the man tells her that her husband and her daughter are dead. We expect a big scene where the woman breaks down, smashing everything around her in a dramatic attempt to kill herself. But all we see is her shift her head and we know that she's suffering without having to show it. The idea of Blue is to question whether or not someone can start over and heal without going through the mourning process. We are lead to believe that Julie can, but something always comes back and reminds us that maybe we are wrong. Some scenes create this illusion by having the picture fade to black as we hear music then fades back to the picture. We all know that a technique in editing where fading to black is used to represent passage of time. But in this situation, it's nothing of the sort. Julie constantly blocks any memory from her mind, but the mind always pushes those memories out. Her husband was a composer and the music she suddenly hears is both a reflection of her past and a reminder to her that she is still alive.Every minute of the movie we are exposed to the pain that Julie is experiencing. This is more of a statement than it is an expression though, since Kieslowski uses magnificent techniques to draw out this emotion. In one scene, Julie is swimming in a pool (where she goes every night to let out her physical energy so that she doesn't explode with everything she's been keeping in), and her husband's music starts playing in her head. She pauses and allows herself to sway back into the pool, in the part of it that represents death. Juliette Binoche describes this as a form of a fetus who's not yet pushed into the real world.Kieslowski loves to pay attention to detail. Everything that's on the screen is a form of reality and a symbol of pain, suffering and isolation. For example, the scene in which Julie is in a restaurant drinking coffee exemplified just how much this woman is emotionally constricted. She hears music that she and her husband wrote, and she automatically shelters herself away from it, to disallow herself to have her memories come back. She quietly puts a cube into her coffee and watches the sugar turn brown. To some extent this is a perfect example of how not only Julie is withdrawn from life and others, but so are we, the audience.There's no doubt that this allegory is a masterpiece in film-making. Kieslowski often moves in and out of the frame with the camera, showing us a world that we're meant to see, instead of just placing an element in a frame and keeping it there to blatantly smack us with the message. To some, Blue is a masterpiece and to me it's also inspiration. Everything from its incredible cinematography to the haunting and memorable score, is flawless. Whether or not Blue is the least favorite of the trilogy, it comes in at my list (and many other's) as one of the best movies of all time. "},{"Title":"Exigence in Bleu","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Krzysztof Kieslowski's Bleu remains in my mind, one of the most brilliant films ever created. All aspects of the film the writing, the acting, the cinematography are absolutely stunning. Binoche is wonderful playing Julie, a woman emotionally racked by the sudden and tragic deaths of her husband and young daughter. In an attempt to stifle her pain, Julie tries to kill her past (she sells her house and burns her personal belongings), but learns that not matter how hard she tries, she cannot destroy her past, her story. Here is where the cinematography is so breathtaking, as Julie crumbles under the emotional weight, the color blue infiltrates the film and consumes all aspects of the screen. Blue becomes the manifestation of her pain. Kieslowski demonstrates his strict attention to detail and his ability to create exigent art. We all have something we can learn from this film. "},{"Title":"Binoche is excellent","Date":"17 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I agree with critic Leonard Maltin when he states that this film is more of a showcase for Juliette Binoche than a truly fine film. There are moments that really bring truth by the pain shown by Binoche's sullen face and eyes. She is truly mesmerizing in showing the inner pain of a woman who loses her daughter and husband,but also a woman trying desperately to move on. Everywhere she looks, however, brings forth unhinged memories of those she has lost. She tries several things to stop the inner pain such as rub her knuckles down a brick wall as she walks. She sells off all her possessions. She moves off to a Paris flat with just one blue lamp that looks like a chorus of shingles and her clothes. She tries every way to leave her past behind in order to deal with the loss..even throwing a symphony music sheet her composer husband had been working on in a garbage truck. The film really doesn't have a true plot. It more or less plays as an one woman show . The only annoyance to me was a hooker in the film who was going to be evicted from the apartments Binoche is staying. Binoche was the name that saves her because she wouldn't sign a petition. This character really has no link to the film other that a provocative part to bring an extra sex component to the film. Anyway, the film is still a strong character study that explores pain and the lingering effects of loss. ****/***** "},{"Title":"Losing oneself, and then regaining oneself","Date":"4 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This movie really conveys the sense of loss that one might feel if she lost her husband and child, and her husband was a famous person, and slowly things about that husband are revealed.  It's a passionate and compassionate movie, with the beautiful performance by Binoche.  I look forward to the next two colors, waiting for me on my TiVo. "},{"Title":"Juliette Binochet took my breath away!","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  The emotional impact of this amazing first film of an even more amazing trilogy was so strong that I had to keep reminding myself to breathe. Juliette Binochet does an incredible job without much in the way of dialogue simply by using that wonderfully haunting face of hers and the director took full advantage by giving us many long caressing close ups of her.  "}{"Title":"An awesome film to look at but not to watch","Date":"18 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Trois Couleurs Bleu is one of the most amazingly crafted films I have ever had the privilege to watch. Being the first in Kieslowski's series of films about contemporary French culture, it was naturally the first and (up to this point) the only one that I've seen.It is visually perfect Kieslowski's direction, his attention to detail and his sheer style ring truer here than in Amator, the only other of his films that I've witnessed. He also manages to extract a marvellous performance out of Juliette Binoche who portrays a female composer dealing with the tragic and unexpected death of her husband and her child, basically without grieving. She's essentially a fairly frustrating character, comparable to the character of Stephane from another great French flick, Un Coeur en Hiver. She effectively isolates herself from painful feeling by similarly isolating herself from the people around her and from her music. The onscreen result is brilliantly sad in the way it is portrayed, however it is unfortunately quite thin, and at times a little slow.The overall effect, then, is not exactly a film to sit down and watch repeatedly. Once is enough, and you can feel happy that you've watched a master at work. But like I've said about other films, Trois Couleurs Bleu is far more of an exercise in artistic filmmaking than just a film. You can scrutinise it, analyse it and appreciate it for all its brilliance but not watch it 'just for fun'. I'm not saying this is a bad thing, because it sure isn't. It's wonderful that there are films out there like this that care far more about artistic merit than taking the audience 'for a ride', it will always help to expand the range of cinema. And while I may often sit down to enjoy a high-explosive Van-Damme popcorn flick, it's far more of a delight to see a tale like this being brought to life with such exceptional quality.****1/2 / ***** "},{"Title":"Breathtaking!","Date":"24 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Julie's is a relentless search to find the equilibrium between chaos and perfection.A relentless search to find, through freedom, the truth in the infinite steppe of the intellect.A relentless search to find love in the misty gorges of emotion and sentiments.Through her catharsis Julie finds Freedom, and through freedom Love.La Vie c'est l'Amour! Loving is an act of freedom!There cannot be Freedom, and therefore Love, without a struggle.It is impossible to be impervious to Julie's struggle. Her's is a tonic for life! One cannot but love the character and the actress. "},{"Title":"Pure nature sets us free","Date":"4 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Truly, a masterpiece dealing with freedom and the ability an individual has to live totally free in the real world. A somehow slow-going movie, definitely unsuitable for action films fans, Blue is the touching story of a woman, whose family is killed in a car accident. However, she survives and decides to move on and tries to set herself free from her past, which proves a very difficult thing to do.The direction is wonderful and Juliette Binoche is absolutely terrific. What I really loved about this film, though, was was the heavenly classical music throughout. Juliette Binoche's husband was a composer in the film, and she also has a thing for it, so we get to listen to some beautiful pieces that classical music fans will enjoy very much. The music sets the perfect mood, and is so brilliant that points to the real meaning  freedom does not come by denying your surroundings and living anonymously. Freedom is achieved through doing what you feel like, through not turning your back on your nature. A free person is the person that does everything he likes doing. Which, in this case, is composing wonderful music.A must see film for all meaningful movie lovers.  "},{"Title":"Exquisite Filmmaking! Kievlowski was a true Master","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This film lingers with you for days. It is shot beautifully and possesses a haunting suspensful edge. Our voyeuristic desires are  satisfied when we're invited to enter the main character's psyche. Unlike Hichtcock, who was wonderful at manipulating our emotions with his contrived form of suspense. Kievlowski examines the intrigue and strangeness which exists in our plain reality. How truly fascinating is the seemingly ordinary human animal as seen through the eyes of a great filmmaker. Elengant, perplexing, thought provoking and ultimately liberating are the words to describe this film which much be watched as an event, not just another rental. The film also brings out the extraordinary talent of Juliette Binoche, in what I believe has been her best role to date. Don't miss it. Catch it with a special friend or loved one and some good vin rouge.     "},{"Title":"One of the most enchanting movies to date","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  All has been said and analyzed on this movie on this website. Thanks a lot for useful hints! All I can say and add is it is inspiring, enchanting and deeply symbolic. Just terrific. I am sorry for the people who can not appreciate this movie as it is basically about humanity. Kieslowski changed and enriched my life, even though it might be marginally. Thank you K.K. and may your spirit be among us and in some upcoming director talents ;-) "},{"Title":"One of the most amazing films ever made","Date":"23 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This film really has it all. I could go on and on about the acting, direction, cinematography, light and sound usage, etc... but what really makes this film so special is the emotion. Such an amazingly heart felt piece of work. Any aspiring or even established director should watch this film and take notes. "},{"Title":"The best film of the trilogy","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This is in my opinion by far the best of the 'trois couleurs' films. Far from any stereotypes it shows what is really going on in us. It leaves me literally breath- and speechless. It shows also the best performance of Juliette Binoche(and that means something!).If you like 'real' films about life then this is for you.A masterpiece. "},{"Title":"wonderful movie","Date":"30 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I have ever seen. It is in my personal top 10. Life ain't easy , but we have to keep on trying. I enjoy every single minute of it. "},{"Title":"The best movie I've seen.","Date":"6 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  The more I see Bleu, the more impressed I get. Wonderful music, a beautiful actress, a strong script. From the very beginning of the film, you're aware that you're watching the product of a great artist! This movie is a rare look inside the mind of another person. When you think you had a reliable idea of what Freedom means, you're sweeped of your feet by the heartbreaking events in Julie's life. Most moving detail Julie touching the screen of the portable television when the coffin of her daughter appears on tv. "},{"Title":"Booooring....","Date":"4 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  am i the only one who thought this was very boring film? and don't give me that artistic crap talk...what is boring is boring. i can't believe this has gotten so many good reviews and high points... damn these artwork movies, if they are all as boring as this was i don't think i can take 'em much more ) "}{"Title":"Starts off well, but builds to nothing special","Date":"7 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  (Spoilers) Juliette Binoche stars as Julie Vignon, a woman in serious need of grief counseling, in Blue, the first of Krzysztof Kieslowski's colors trilogy.  The entire time I watched this, the thought kept rolling through my head This woman needs to see someone.  But that notwithstanding, Blue took me in early and then lost me toward the end.  The movie plays a series of events in the life of a woman who wants to completely start over after losing her husband and daughter.  Several oddballs come and go into her life, all the while kept at a cold distance by Binoche's Julie.  In the beginning, I felt sympathy for Julie (who wouldn't?), but as the film wore on, the lead character's distant emotions began to wear me down, and I lost interest.  The little surprises we learn toward the end didn't do too much for me, as Julie seems no better or worse than she did in the beginning.  I'll mark this overrated. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"6 July 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" One is destine to see the plot for this and think that it's yet again one of those very slow, artsy foreign films. And hey, they may not be wrong, but this is a pretty good film (not as great as the reviews say though). I liked Binoche in it, but I somehow wish another actress could have taken the role and done even more soulful and deeper stuff with her performances. In a way, it seems like a wasted opportunity. There are some truly dazzling and visually amazing shots here, the cinematography really does give the film that murkiness of the pace and of what the director is trying to get across. Overall, I recommend this, although it's not perfect. "},{"Title":"Blue","Date":"12 June 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Julie loses both her famous composer husband and young daughter in a car accident and attempts to free herself from the agony and grief by separating herself from the whole ordeal completely, finding very difficult to do so. To me, besides the gorgeous cinematography and use of the color blue which is very distinctively applied visually throughout, it's all about Juliette Binoche's superb work as a woman trying to suppress feelings of loss and sadness, by cutting herself off from everything that reminds her of the life before the accident. But, every step she takes towards this goal seems futile as the past returns time and again. At first, she does seem liberated, moving to a new building, with the financial resources available to do nothing except live, such as visiting a café to drink her coffee and eat her ice cream, listen to a seemingly homeless talented flute player, swim in a nearby pool, and spend her days with a symphony of sound presenting itself in her mind. It is established that Julie actually helped write the orchestras her husband was held in high esteem for. She later learns that her husband had a lover and this lawyer is carrying his child. Julie was also herself having an affair with an associate of her husband's, himself a musician. This man is truly in love with Julie and so desperately wants to compose a work for the Unification of Europe, but needs her help in order to bring it to life. I think the movie is about accepting a tragedy in order to heal. I don't think one ever can completely free herself/himself from the grief of losing those you love and certainly understand the complex feelings of anger and pain about this unpleasant event that forever changes your life. Binoche is an actress I hold in high regard because I have an affinity for those who can communicate to us without the crutch of dialogue. Sure dialogue can help, but when you can tell us how you feel with very little in the way of words, I, for one(and I imagine I'm not alone), think this says much more of the ability of an actress. Binoche has always been that kind of actress, and that is why I watch a movie if her name is in the credits. I was moved by this movie because the content and central performance connected with me in that I could sympathize with how difficult such circumstances could be when you lose a family and are left alone. You don't want to face those feelings..they are there and I'm glad that eventually Julie does finish the symphony with Olivier(Benoît Régent) and decides to restart a relationship with him. The film also shows how Julie befriends a stripper whose not as base and evil a loose woman as her detractors might paint her as. We also see how Julie's mother's memory is fading and the boy who was present where the crash took place finds her so he can return a necklace and pass on something her husband said before passing away. These people, her mother, the boy, her former lover, the stripper, alter her plans at a new and different life. It is, however, for her own benefit. I do think we want her to be emotionally healthier and embracing life again truly is the way, don't you believe? Two great instances of communicating her inner turmoil are the lollipop and hand scraping alongside a wall scenes. Not to mention, the scenes in the pool when she often contemplates suicide, holding herself underwater, before coming to her senses and re-emerging. "},{"Title":"Bluer Than Blue","Date":"22 November 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Now if there is one woman character I can really get into to&#x97;you know, one that speaks to me&#x97;it's the woman protagonist in Bleu. Strong, Honest, Determined, Intelligent, Highly Creative, Brilliant, Wealthy and Independent, Smarter than all Other Female Walt Disney Impressions of Women we see on the screen these days&#x97; Well&#x97; .... If you're looking to ...... affirm any of the above qualities ... You just gotta see this movie.(HAHAHAHA!) (That wasn't enough for the snobs at IMDb. They want me to write more! When will people ever learn... that language is not about a length of words, strung together? Language is about words and ideas. Language speaks to us about our Ideals as a Society. So stop censoring me! Or telling me what is or isn't enough. I'm pretty adept at doing that myself... If you know what I mean.) hahaI'll try to explain.Think Plato wrote a whole lot of things about a whole lot of things and he was one cool dude. Some things were 2 sentences long. Now would you censor him, because he didn't conform to some silly standards?I sure hope not! For your sake. "},{"Title":"Three Colours Blue","Date":"30 April 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I heard about these films, and the result of this first instalment of the trilogy from director Krzysztof Kieslowski about the contemporary French society was brilliant, which explains the three colours, of the French flag. Basically Julie (Golden Globe nominated Juliette Binoche) has lost her husband, an acclaimed European composer, and daughter in a car crash. Julie tries to start a new life free from personal commitments, belonging, grief and love. She basically cuts herself off from any real public appearance, staying anonymous in solitude, but people from her past and present life are intruding with their problems. However, with these people coming into her life she finds inspiration to create music, and she goes back to her normality. Also starring Benoît Régent as Olivier, Florence Pernel as Sandrine and Charlotte Véry as Lucille and Hélène Vincent. Bincohe is astounding in her performance, she was even willing to scrape her knuckles on that rocky wall for real. The use of the colour blue in most of the settings is very effective. It was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Original Score for Zbigniew Preisner and Best Foreign Language Film. Juliette Binoche was number 88 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, the film was number 33 on Film 4's 50 Films To See Before You Die, and along with the sequels, all three were number 77 on The 100 Greatest Films. Outstanding! "},{"Title":"Disengaging","Date":"3 May 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" A woman (Juliette Binoche) survives a car crash which kills here husband and child. Her life wrecked, she sells up and withdraws from life. Fortunately she is extremely wealthy &#150; her husband was a world famous composer - in fact we are led to believe she wrote his stuff for him. This had me groaning - the woman's existence is on such impossibly ethereal plane that it undermines the emotional core of the film - the old problem of watching someone suffering who has less excuse for suffering than most. Far more tragic, surely, if they had been struggling and she had been left penniless, but then, Kieslowski is clearly only interested in dealing with refined, precious people - even his Dekalog series dealt mainly with doctors, lawyers, professors and suchlike &#150; it's probably significant that my favourite episode deals with a taxi driver (though not the murdered one). As a result of the socio-economic distancing, Binoche's post-crash trauma is too indulgent, too minutely detailed, too drawn out. The sterile affair she then has with her husband's associate seems predictable, and the salvation achieved in the latter part of the film when she takes to working on the music is only banal.There are some nice things here though. The sense of throwing everything up and withdrawing from the world (I have only one thing left to do. Nothing.) is something rare and valuable in film. The scene with the rats nest is memorable &#150; it was perhaps the moment in which we can relate to her most. But on the whole, Binoche's character is a priggish, hard-headed, snooty bore, too willful and self-controlled, too wealthy and too preternaturally talented to be of much interest. No doubt Kieslowski was chummy with world famous composers who live in country mansions the size of small citadels and who have wives as tasty and accomplished as Juliette Binoche. The rest of us have to put up with real world. "},{"Title":"Rhapsody In Blue","Date":"1 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I'm not perhaps the best person to write objectively about a film that was screened just one week after I found myself in the same position as Juliette Binoche - bereaved rather than involved in an automobile accident. Everyone reacts differently of course and though I found little in the way of common feelings I was able to register Binoche's total immersion in the role and marvel at the way she is able to say so much without speaking. This is, I suspect, an extremely fine film on a delicate subject and in my case I did not, as I thought I might, rebel against its ultimate message that implied a healing process was well under way, because common sense dictates that this must eventually be the case even when it is the last thing the bereaved want to hear. I can only praise a film in which all the creative elements, Writing, Directing, Acting are as good as it gets. "},{"Title":"Is it a veneer?","Date":"27 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Ticks all the European Film boxes Death? Mourning? Intense love? Long lingering shots of faces? Moody lighting? Yes, yes, yes and yes.I was very engaged throughout, but writing this two days later I can't help but feel a bit unfulfilled about it all.I'm going to sound really up my own backside here but I think Martin Amis said something about stories having to be secondary to style now. His point, if I remember rightly (and maybe you shouldn't trust me on this) is that we've heard most stories before, so all we can do now is just try to tell them in ever more interesting ways. I think that's what he said, but try as I might to be an intellectual the brain isn't up to it frankly.This film has little in terms of twists and turns and plot points. But the simple tale is shown to you in such a way as to please you immensely. There are moments of two people talking that are lit so beautifully you want to grab other directors and say why can't you make people look as absorbing as that? You haven't been *trying* have you? Stay behind after class. On the other side of the equation the DVD extras have a bit of the director telling you what he was trying to achieve with the close-up shots he was using and Binoche goes on about her painful dedication to her art and you sort of want to say yeah, OK, chill out and you feel like after they gave the interviews they might giggle behind our backs and laugh at how they made us all think it was all dreadfully clever.So, I would rate it above average, but I'm suspicious of it all and I'm not convinced this film is going to stay with me for long. However, I will see the rest of the trilogy and I wouldn't want this review to put anyone off renting it. Your eyes will come out of the experience feeling fulfilled. "},{"Title":"Pompous","Date":"6 November 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Some French movie entrepreneur must have come up with the idea what if we make a trilogy, named the movies after the colours of the flag, find an exotic, arty director and use some famous stars? Tills will be ringing but the critics will be happy, too. Unfortunately there wasn't any idea after the initial concept. I could only take half an hour of this pap; the film was lurching from one ponderous situations to an other, with no reliance whatsoever on some old-fashioned ideas such as structure, meaning, progression etc. You've been warned...  "},{"Title":"Binoche is captivating in Blue film","Date":"30 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  The film Blue is very blue. Dark blue in fact. A lot of questions were brought up in the film and none were answered and thats what makes this interesting and well made film aggravating. It is a film to be admired but the open holes make it hard to embrace. The one thing that cannot be denied is the terrific performance by Juliette Binoche. Even in a film that is hard to handle is watchable because of her. And this is a very good performance by her. Her character Julie is interesting as we watch her separate herself from her past and most of the outside world. But then she is slowly dragged back in. This film seems to be overrated by some critics and underrated by others. Its a very good film and an excellent performance, but those holes keep it from being more than that. "}{"Title":"twa colours boring","Date":"7 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I haven't seen the other films in this famous trilogy, but had been led to believe that they were exceptional pieces of film-making. This first instalment didn't fill me with anticipation for the other two. There just isn't much going on really. Juliette Binoche is a very attractive lady in that gamine way so beloved of the French, and there is no shortage of languid close-ups. The director is so obviously enamoured of his lead that one wonders about the scene behind the scenes. The direction is artfully tricky and contemplative but the story, as such, is so trite as to be soap-worthy. The preponderance of blue filter was also overdone to my untrained eye; it seemed that a better director might have used location/lighting to create the effect more often than he did, (the pool), rather than relying on such a tired device. The relationship with the other composer is standard Mills&Boon, and the plot of the damaged sensitive heroine being brought out of the self-imposed shell of grief is similarly tired. The discovery of the mistress with child, and the rapprochement therewith, may seem to Anglo-Saxon eyes to be a revelatory dramatic device to illustrate the depth of her love for the dead husband and his son-to-be, and a self-discovery through forgiveness, but I didn't see it that way. I spent some time in France as a teenager, and cheerfully experienced at first hand the rather cavalier attitude of the locals to marital arrangements. It is considered quite acceptable, if not normal, to have a lover/mistress outside the marriage, and this has a social cachet, especially amongst the bourgeoisie. Therefore, to my, and I would assume a European eye, this climax (no pun) to the drama seemed a rather flat conclusion to a story that never really got out of the blocks to take us anywhere. Nice to look at but nothing to chew on a confection. "},{"Title":"Elegant but Vague","Date":"28 February 2002","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Despite its elegance, beauty, and the talent of its star, Juliette Binoche, Blue disappointed me.  It never gained any forward momentum that I could discern.  Scene after (slow) scene went by without either telling me much more about Binoche's character or making me care very much about her.  She was simply a repressed sad woman.  Maybe it's me but I cannot recommend this movie; 5 of 10, and that only because of Binoche's performance. "},{"Title":"Sorry, But Bleu is Boring","Date":"25 June 2006","Score":"7 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" I'm afraid I don't have any deep and intelligent remarks to make about Trois Couleurs Bleu because I found it rather boring. Generally, I like French films and I saw the other two installments of this trilogy, that is, Red and White. I recall, however, that they were more interesting movies than this one, which frankly, isn't saying much. Yes, the score for Bleu was pretty good, but I wasn't moved by Juliette Binoche's performance as the grieving widow and mother nor drawn into the plot of the movie except on a superficial level. In fact, all the characters seemed shallow and uninteresting, including the lead. Repeatedly, I found myself becoming impatient with the slow pace of the story because nothing seemed to happen for considerable stretches. Perhaps another viewing would change my mind, but I have no interest in seeing the movie again and I don't believe my lack of interest was because everything in the film was so subtle and symbolic (as others mentioned) and I must be as sensitive as a piece of driftwood. All those lingering closeups on Binoche's face, I found ineffective and dull, at least partly because her face is not very interesting to me. Further, the tale does not adequately convey the sense of grief one feels in real life at the death of loved ones. Toward the end, Binoche became somewhat less stilted in her detached interpretation of an accident survivor, which I take to mean that she was emerging from her depressive state. What prompted this? Apparently, nothing more than the discovery that her dead husband had a mistress who was carrying his child. She became transformed by the news and suddenly wanted to share her house with the woman. Finally, she came to grips with the fact that she was the real musical genius in the family because she was able to finish off her dead husband's last symphony with ease and hand it over to her new love, his old collaborator. Talk of the director's brilliant reputation can't rescue this overblown effort. Other than the moving yet somewhat pretentious score, signifying European unity, and the visually arresting blueish scenes, I am underwhelmed. I wouldn't call it a lousy movie, simply not a very good one. "},{"Title":"yes its very good, but that music","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Yes indeed, 'Blue' is a wonderful movie, containing some of the best film-making of the last decades or so. Binoche's role is as perfect as possible. Lighting is splendid, even though the use of filters is quite obvious. But that music! The score is an integral part of the story, or better, the essence of this film, and it is, in one word, horrible. I'm very sorry. This is very bad music. Like Mozart, as one reviewer thought? No way, Mozart is always light, and when he isn't, like in the requiem, he is profound. The score is neither. It's pretty personal, I know. But imagine what an Alban Berg-like score would bring to this movie. Or any twentieth-century informed music for that matter. Here we are stuck with music as boring as a Gorecki-symphony, endearing for a minute or two, but containing absolutely nothing. "},{"Title":"OK, OK, but what about grief for the daughter?","Date":"24 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  OK, OK, we get to see Julie struggle with her grief over her husband's death, as is evidenced by the music, the incomplete score, Olivier, the mistress, and so on, but what about the daughter???????Apart from the blue-gemstone-hanging-thing and the blue lollipop, there's almost nothing in the movie about what Julie thinks or feels concerning her daughter, and i'm a  bit puzzled by that.We get to see none of her daughter's friends, her living quarters, her daughter's interests, either at the beginning (when Julie is blocking everything out), or at the end (when she starts opening up to her grief)Are we to think that she was a detached mother to begin with, preoccupied with her husband's career and music?Maybe the scene with her killing the rat and the babies also points to the fact that Julie was a detached mother?And maybe her invitation of the pregnant mistress to come live in the house represents a coming-to-terms of Julie with her detachment as a mother, and thus she would want to make up for lost time?This movie leaves me with more questions than answers. "},{"Title":"Perplexing...","Date":"9 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  I literally just finished watching this film.  Throughout it, I was trying to gain meaning from the images I was seeing.  But, I'm coming to the realization that this film was pointless.  What was it trying to say?  It has no plot, which can be great, but if a film is not telling a story, than it has to be showing something deeper.  BLUE has incredible scenes of human emotion, but also has scenes that are utterly pointless.  The film was never going toward something.It was beautifully filmed and wonderfully acted, but those virtues don't make up for the above problems.  I was watching it, knowing I was supposed to like it.  As an intelligent filmgoer I read the rave reviews from both critics and movie buffs, but I just didn't get the point of it all.The film is perplexing to me because I don't understand why people love it so much.*Email me at chaddoli@sbcglobal.net if you'd like to argue with me about it.  "},{"Title":"All Binoche","Date":"21 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Blue 1993 is the story of the emotional self-reconstruction of a woman (Binoche) who survived a car crash which killed her husband and daughter. With the panache, style, and visual artistry of the best French films and abiding the less is more philosophy of film making, Blue tells its story by filling the screen with the subtleties of expression and behavior of the central character. The antithesis of Tinsel Town commercialism, this critically acclaimed, award winning Binoche tour-de-force is likely to bore the socks off many American audiences but is a great watch for those into artsy Euro-flicks. "},{"Title":"Courage","Date":"17 April 2002","Score":"8 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  In light of the many glowing reports on this film, it takes a little courage to admit that beyond a few impressive story telling techniques and some memorable uses of color, Blue was altogether unremarkable.  After the inginuity, one's audience still must invest in the story, or at least in how one is telling it.  I have nothing to gain by criticizing those who appreciate the technical and artistic nuances of this film, but Blue was produced for a select sub-culture.  To the lay-film-lover, it was foreign on two fronts.  4/10 "},{"Title":"I am going to give meaning to the colors Blue Red and Green","Date":"8 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This is my interpretation of the meaning of the colors in the movie Blue The Blue stands for liberty (Julie-Trying to forget what the color blue means to her/forget her past) The red symbolizes the moments of human connection that Julie begins to experience.  The green appears in times of vulnerability.  This movie is of eastern european origin, therefore is not driven by the plot, but rather the character and the phsycological state of Julie.  The colors portray Julie's internal emotions expressed in an external way.  The pool symbolizes a place in her head where she goes to try and forget/wash away the memory of the past, but as time goes on the green becomes introduced into it, showing her mental state as one of changing and becoming more willing to accept human contact again.  Spoiler In the end she has sex, up against a fish tank, symbolizing her willingness to fully leave the water and come to grips with her life. "},{"Title":"Boo","Date":"9 April 2010","Score":"8 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" A woman tries to cope with the death of her husband, a famous composer, and child in a car accident. This is the first of a trilogy of films about colors by Kieslowski, and it is about as pretentious as one would expect with such a contrived premise. OK, we get it that grieving equates with blue, but the director raises the indulgence quotient to extreme levels with weird sound and visual effects. Sporadically, the screen goes dark - it's not clear if this is symbolic of the widow's mental state or just a case of sloppy editing. Binoche is a good actress but she isn't given much to work with here. The film just rambles on pointlessly, with one tedious scene after another. "}{"Title":"boring","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This film is long and drawn out and is quite challenging to watch.It's not that it is bad--it isn't--but it is all about the liberation of a woman grieving,  and so, as a viewer, you are invited (no, dragged)  into the grieving process whether you want to or not.  If you are already feeling blue about something,  don't watch this film;  although it is supposed to be an anti-tragedy,  it will still depress you anyway. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Didn't work for me","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"6 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" Before I get into my (very brief) comment, I do regard Troi Couleurs Rouge as one of the best, if not the best film I have ever seen. But I found Bleu flat, and worse, intensely boring. It is, to me, a meandering, pointless exercise in the meaning of fidelity / freedom. Characters behave quirkily without any seeming motivation, and arrive and leave seemingly at random never to be seen again just so that we can have another incidence of infidelity dumped into the picture. There is just too little backstory to make you care about Binoche's character, and too little plot to propel you into the film. I guess what I'm trying to say is that while idea based films can be enthralling, they can only be enthralling when there is a plot which successfully carries the idea (which is exactly what makes Rouge a masterpiece). Here, there's no plot, just the - pretty primitive - idea, which is exactly why I think Bleu is not a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"Perhaps I'm clueless...","Date":"22 October 1998","Score":"3 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  Okay, this movie is undoubtably one of the top technical films I've seen. Its use of solid colors and those corresponding shades on everything (especially the use of blue and green) was a good job on that aspect. My gripe comes with the story. Maybe this old Hollywood brain of mine still can't comprehend French cinema, but this movie seemed a tad predictable. My other gripe is that I couldn't connect with the Binoche character. She seemed unfeeling to everything (which is fine if she chooses to live her life like that) and it was hard to see her destroyed over killing innocent mice but not over her child. Then, I was wondering if I was going to see the tangled web of lies and passion the stupid back of the video box promise. I got this half-baked idea that didn't pan out anywhere that I could have inferred from the first 5 minutes of the film. Maybe a re-watch is in order for this just okay film. "},{"Title":"Warning for English viewers...","Date":"25 December 2006","Score":"1 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":" There are some references to an English audio stream; it is similar to an explanatory type narrative over the french audio. There is no English dubbing. If you're like me, and like to immerse yourself into a movie and find that having to read subtitles seriously diminishes that experience, you might want to avoid this series of films. It also tends to be an 'artsy' film; much is left unsaid, and you have to derive a lot of meaning from the backgrounds in the films. I don't like movies that I have to watch several times just to understand 'everything the director is trying to say'; if a director isn't able to clearly convey what he/she wants us to feel, maybe they're in the wrong business. Being vague in a mystery can be a plus; but in a drama it just makes the plot murky and confusing. "},{"Title":"Boring!","Date":"1 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This is a very good movie.....if you are trying to find a way to fall asleep. At least there is a good soundtrack, however it the movie still suck. This is suppose to let you enter the mind of the main character, a kind of psychological-flick. Yeah right, the only thing in what I've entered during this long two hours was a coma. "},{"Title":"One of the worst films of the '90s","Date":"30 November 2002","Score":"8 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music, Mystery","Review":"  This film is one of the worst films I've seen in a long time. I cannot mention even one good side of the film- Through the bad acting, the HORRIBLE music score, the artistic-like camera shooting. Near the end, I even started to laugh. I liked the Ten Commandments, but stay away from this one! 0/10  "}]