[{"Title":"Mike Myers' best film","Date":"7 July 2004","Score":"41 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" So, I married an Axe murderer is not the sort of Mike Myers comedy that people have become used to over the years. Myers will, undoubtedly, be most remembered most for his Austin Powers series, but this is a film that certainly should not be forgotten; Myers was never funnier than he is in this movie.The plot centres around Charlie Mackenzie (Myers), a man who can never have a girlfriend without finding a flaw with her which always leads him to end the relationship. That is until he meets Harriet Michaels. She seems perfect, but the flaw that Charlie finds with this woman, may cost him his neck...What follows is a tour-de-force of comedy. It is true that a few of the jokes don't really work, but the ones that do REALLY work, and it 's easy to forgive the movie for the ones that don't. In fact, I haven't seen this movie in over a year, but I'm laughing as I type this. This movie features some positively brilliant moments, from Myers' poetry sessions (Woman! Woah-man, wooaaaaaahhhhh-man), to the very Scottish father, played to perfection by Myers who has a duel role(Head! Move! Now!) to Charlie's police man friend, who is definitely the man with the most comedy; his conversations with Charlie regarding the song Only You, the moments with his police chief (a memorable performance by Alan Arkin) and most notably, the parts with the commandeered driver (No, it's one of my favourite things) are positively hilarious. The entire cast of this movie delivers their lines with a great comic timing; a lot of the quotes I mentioned aren't funny out of the context of the film, but due to the way they are delivered and the context of the movie, the dialogue is side splitting.There isn't a lot of plot or heart to chew on with this movie, which accounts for the lot of the reason that this is a short review; but when a film is this funny, who cares what it's about? In the face of Myers' more commercially successful movies, such as Wayne's World, Austin Powers and Shrek; So, I Married an Axe Murderer isn't going to win a lot of fans as it's not as outgoing as the other three and a lot of the humour is very wry. However, this is Myers finest hour and this little comedy gem should definitely not be forgotten. "},{"Title":"Underrated Comedy","Date":"26 September 1999","Score":"34 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Probably one of Mike Myers' finest films. The film is the story of Charlie MacKenzie, a commitment phobic who performs in a coffeehouse as a poet. Charlie is looking for the right girl of which he finds in Harriet, an attractive butcher whom Charlie falls head over heels for. The two begin to date but Charlie begins questioning his relationship when clues pointing to an serial killer show up and point directly to Harriet. Funny performances from Mike Myers pulling double duty as sarcastic Charlie and his Scottish dad Stuart MacKenzie, Brenda Fricker as Charlie's horny mother who's got the hots for Tony, Anthony LaPaglia as best friend Tony, and Nancy Travis as girlfriend Harriet. Look for a few surprise cameos from the likes of late great Phil Hartman, Michael Richards, Alan Arkin, Charles Grodin, Steven Wright, and Debi Mazar. Definitely a good rent on a Saturday night. "},{"Title":"Better Every Time I Watch","Date":"28 May 2006","Score":"22 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is an unexpected delight. It has the love story aspect most women like, the mystery component that should please the watchers of thrillers and some action sequences that males are sure to enjoy. There was even a nudity scene so this has something for everybody.Mike Myers is at his talented best playing both Charlie and his father. In fact, it's his father's role that steals the show in both the Harriet meets Parents scene with his comments about his younger brother's Heed and also at the wedding with his shouting out Lets get P*seed at the end of the ceremony.Nancy Travis does a great job of looking slightly suspicious throughout the movie. I especially like her appearance in the scene where Charlie drives past whilst she is rolling out the awning wearing Dutch national costume.Anthony LaPaglia's portrayal of the frustrated undercover policeman is a real hoot. You can't help but love the part where his Captain comes into his office, kicks his feet off the desk and gets stuck into him for nosing into a case belonging to Homicide, particularly, since when he comes back into the office and tells him how much he loved that outburst.The other winner is Brenda Fricker who portray's Charlie's mother with the hots for his friend (LaPaglia). I loved the way she explained the story of Mrs X from her favorite paper News of the World totally ignoring Charlie's depiction of it as a sensationalist rag.Although there were some dead parts in the movie, they were easy to ignore and more than made up for with the pace of the script. This is a movie you can watch repeatedly, especially when you've seen everything else in your DVD library, it's fun, not meant to be taken serious, the hero gets the girl (somewhat) and nobody get's hurt except the drunken bagpiper at the wedding reception. "},{"Title":"It could happen.......","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  In this greatly under-rated film, Mike Myers plays a man scared of commitment, until that is he meets Harriet and they fall in love, but does she have a rather macabre secret?This film flows wonderfully, carrying you along before you realise it, right until the end.Some of the better comedic moments, though, come from the cameos, especially by Steven Wright and Charles Grodin, who is always wonderful, whatever film he is in, although the poetry scenes are quite funny too.For some reason this film was not as successful as other Mike Myers' efforts such as the Wayne's Worlds, and it does appear that audiences prefer Myers in character than as himself, and indeed you will come out liking Myers better as his father than as his main role, but nevertheless a great movie! "},{"Title":"Unappreciated gem","Date":"12 May 2000","Score":"13 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So I Married an Axe Murderer is a delightfully offbeat, inventive comedy I can see again and again, and laugh every time.Mike Myers, in a dual role as the neurotic but romantic Charlie McKenzie and Charlie's cantankerous father, gives the best performance I've seen from him so far (I've yet to see the Austin Powers movies but I didn't especially care for Wayne's World, maybe because I couldn't stand Dana Carvey or his character).  Nancy Travis is quite good as Harriet, the seemingly perfect girlfriend who's got a secret.  The supporting cast also does excellent work, especially Anthony LaPaglia as Charlie's policeman buddy Tony.What makes this movie truly special isn't the principal story line -- the romance-mystery-suspense -- but the many wonderful bits of inspired lunacy/hilarity along the way.  Among them every scene involving the hero's cantankerous dad; Harriet's sister Rose persuading Charlie to stay for breakfast; Phil Hartman's cameo as a very intense tour guide at Alcatraz (this scene gets butchered when the movie is edited for TV, even non-premium cable; make sure you see the uncut version!); Charles Grodin as the surly driver of a vehicle commandeered by a cop; an episode involving a guy who works on the obituary page of a newspaper; the side-splitting scenes between Tony and his precinct captain (a very funny Alan Arkin).   There are many such moments throughout the film, turning up in the most unexpected places.  The dialogue is witty, and the humor is completely unpredictable and fresh.  "},{"Title":"This may be Mike Myers funniest movie EVER!","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"20 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" For a first (and I know it's not his absolute first but close to it) this movie was fantastic. The more I watched, the funnier it got and the best are the small nuances.After following his work and being a fan of his other films I appreciate the humour he's written into this movie even more.If there's any doubt that this is a masterpiece, bring up the scene where he visits his parents in any crowd and watch the quotables start flying.When asked what my favorite movie of all time is (a supremely tough question for a movie buff) this one always pops out first. It's cute, smart, hilarious, and no body gets hurt! Watch it! Love it! "},{"Title":"Myers Rules!","Date":"13 May 2001","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The sad thing is that this is Mike Myers' lowest grossing film, which shows just what most people know. It's absolutely his best one though, with more likeable wit than the 2 Austin Powers pics and better characters and plot than the Waynes World movies.Myers can only really do about 4 voices (Himself, Wayne, Austin and a Scotsman, which he's doing AGAIN in Shrek now) and he gets to show them all off here, which is actually great. He's great as his miserable dad, and the whole thing is just great fun, a really good film. Nancy Travis and Anthony LaPaglia as his insecure cop buddy support Myers well all the way through. Mike Myers and this movie just rule. "},{"Title":"Did you marry Mrs X?","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"14 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mike Myers gives Waynes World a rest and delivers what I think is a better movie.... well better than Waynes World 2 anyway. It is a truly great movie with Mike playing a duel role, firstly as Charlie MacKenzie a young guy who is scared of commitment to women, then his dad Stuart MacKenzie a very funny Scotsman who could take the lead role in X Files with his ideas on Conspiracy. Nancy Travis stars as a butcher... Harriet, who ends up with Charlie..... A great movie that is very funny in the pre Austin Powers age, a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Underrated Mike Myers comedy","Date":"22 April 2003","Score":"11 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" SO I MARRIED AN AXE MURDERER (1993) *** Mike Myers, Nancy Travis, Anthony La Paglia, Amanda Plummer, Brenda Fricker, Alan Arkin, Michael Richards. Hilarious comedy about a marriage phobia plagued neo-Beat poet (Myers) who finds the girl of his dreams (Travis) may in fact be a psychopathic serial killer.Impressive supporting cast with absurdly hilarious situations and performances. Myers also plays his ribald Scottish dad and Charles Grodin has a hysterical cameo. "},{"Title":"Silly Love Story","Date":"15 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Charlie Mackenzie (Myers) is a San Francisco coffee house poet whose poems are about all of his failed relationships with women and he's scared of commitment. Things change when Charlie meets Harriet Michaels (Travis) a local butcher who isn't just beautiful but has a heart of gold, their relationship is going great until he suspects Harriet of being Mrs. X a woman who kills her husbands on their wedding night. His friend Tony (Lapaglia) thinks he's just being paranoid but the story reaches a climax when the real murderer is revealed and tries to kill Charlie. The cast includes Brenda Fricker, Amanda Plummer, Alan Arkin and a cameo appearance by Charles Grodin. So I Married An Axe Murderer is one of the funniest yet scary romantic comedies of 1993. Mike Myers also plays the role of Stuart Mackenzie Charlie's father. 8/10 Stars "}{"Title":"So We Watched This Movie.","Date":"9 May 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The title is kind of emblematic of the entire film. So I Married An Axe Murderer. We can visualize the minimal shrug that goes with it. It's a statement that befouls any logic. If you marry an axe murderer, you should be anything but casual and resigned. But the title suggests a lot of funny events and assumptions without being in itself funny.It has an A cast. Mike Myers is a young man in San Francisco, an admirer of the Beat poets, who's always found reasons not to marry any of the girls he dates. Myers plays his own father too, with an outrageous Scottish accent which he uses as an instrument of vituperation. One of his sons has a head of hair so voluminous that it turns his head into a virtual planetoid. It has its own weather system!Myers meets Nancy Travis, a local butcher, and they wind up married. She acts kooky at times, while he comes across more and more hints that she is the notorious axe murderer who has disposed of four husbands by the usual means used by notorious axe murderers. It all leads to a perilous chase across the roof tops of their remote honeymoon motel, which looks like a haunted old mansion. The writer, Robbie Fox, gets off a lot of cracks about Hollywood conventions, some good, some routine. In some ways, the most impressive of these (and it may have been unwitting) is when Nancy Travis has just taken a bath in the mysterious hotel and wants to check her face in the fogged-up mirror over the sink. So she clears a spot. And do you know who we see standing behind Travis in the reflection? Absolutely nobody.Travis is oddly beautiful, with a wide face, broad smile, eyebrows that would have to look up the word curve in the dictionary, and a sassy figure that, alas, we see too little of. Gee, she looks good. Any normal man would have been proud to be seen standing behind her in that mirror.There are amusing moments, including Charles Grodin as an uncooperative motorist and Phil Hartman as a self-important Park Service employee. The problem is that the laughs are scattered throughout a screenplay that doesn't itself promote amusing situations and the laughter that should follow. (For an example of a truly well-integrated comedy plot with embedded comic moments, I offer Some Like It Hot.) Myers is kicked in the family jewels and makes a twisted face. A good five-second laugh, but then what? Nothing much. He has to have the same part of his anatomy assaulted again a minute later. Another five-seconds, and we're back to a frenzied pursuit. It's not a bad movie, not insulting in any way, and Myers and the other players are quite good, but it would have been nice had more effort been put into blending the jokes into the narrative instead of making them stand-alone gags, like Myers' reading poetry to a jazz group "},{"Title":"Quirky and Funny.","Date":"7 May 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I saw this film on cable not long after its release and remember enjoying it. But like most films, it didn't leave a lasting impression. For some reason I have had a DVD copy of the film in my collection for some time now, probably a b-day gift or some such, and I never watch it&#x85;Last night, sixteen years after it first appeared, I watched it again.Sometimes, a piece of art takes time and multiple exposures for its audience to fully appreciate its quality. This is definitely the case with this film. For me, a film should show me new characters or new settings or give me a new way of looking at a recognizable situation. So often films just give their audience the same tired stereotypical content; Characters that differ in name only from other films and plot lines that so closely follow previous successful productions that I'm surprised there aren't more lawsuits between artists. Such is not the case with So I Married an Axe Murderer. With the tiny exception of the girlfriend of the chief supporting character, every role can accurately be described as unique. A butcher shop owner/operator (Nancy Travis) for a leading lady that may be wielding her cleaver in the off hours plus her curiously flighty sister (Amanda Plummer). A suburban San Francisco family of intensely Scottish decent that includes the youngest son with an enormous head and a Mother (Brenda Fricker) who has no qualms about French kissing her eldest son's best friend just to assure herself he's good at it. There's a light aircraft charter pilot (Steven Wright) that probably shouldn't have been awarded a license and a slightly embittered, slightly maniacal former Alcatraz guard/now tour guide (Phil Hartman) who makes me laugh just to look at him on screen. There's an undercover cop best friend (Anthony LaPaglia) that wanted to be Starsky or Hutch but instead learns the job really entails filling out a lot of forms and his boss (Alan Arkin) who, if it wasn't for Mike Myer's performance, would have stolen the movie with his portrayal of a Police Chief that can only be described as the antithesis of that character that we've seen so many times in films and TV.About Mike Myers Intensely likable. Free and easy on film at a young age he creates two wonderful characters that make us laugh hard throughout. As the lead Charlie McKenzie and as his father Stuart, Myers keeps the film moving with his paranoid yet irresistible charm from Charlie and his Robin Williamsesque quips that flow from his two characters accomplishing the most difficult task for such a performance; namely, entertain without distracting from the story.I've added this film to my Favorites list and recommend it highly. If you liked You Can't Take it With You you'll love this more contemporary yet equally quirky film of love and family. "},{"Title":"Hilarious at times, torture at others","Date":"6 January 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I'll be the first to admit that I loved Mike Myers on SNL and hated him ever since.  So I am more favourably disposed to this movie than I have been the Austin Powers franchise.What makes this movie is Myers' rendition of the family patriarch.  I still quote the scenes when he riffs on Heed, which is purely hysterical.  The rest of the movie, in comparison, drags and is notoriously unfunny.  If you're prepared for a movie that is intermittently funny, then by all means, watch it.  If you're looking for a movie with memorable parts, then by all means, watch it.  If you hate Austin Powers with a passion, and can't remember why Mike Myers is famous to begin with, watch it.  If you're looking for something that's laugh-out-loud funny beginning to end, take a walk past this one.    "},{"Title":"So I Married an Axe Murderer","Date":"10 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Not as lousy as its rep might lead you to believe, this Myers vehicle gets a lot of mileage out of the star's brand of off the cuff humor. He's a beat poet in San Francisco who seems to exclusively use his soured relations with weapon for his club material. Having trouble with committing to a woman, always coming up with excuses for why they aren't compatible, Myers finally might have met his girl a butcher played by the lovely Travis. Anthony LaPaglia, as Myers' cop buddy, is hilarious in his Serpico-inspired cop attire and look, often bewildered by his pal's inability to have a successful relationship. Myers as his lead's loud and blunt-honest Scottish immigrant father, Brenda Fricker as the mom who reads cheap trash mags and believes their stories to be true, Amanda Plummer as Travis' scary sis, and Arkin as LaPaglia's boss trying to learn a rougher side to address future officers under his watch (seeking LaPaglia's advice!) all offer fun parts to curb the rather ho-hum plot developments regarding whether or not Travis is indeed an axe murderer or not. In the end it is more about the cast playing off each other and Myers reacting to tell-tell signs of Travis' behavior that give this its charm. Travis plays with her character's facial expressions to keep us guessing if she is a killer while Myers is a toy of the plot machinations. San Francisco makes for an appealing back drop, too. Fricker's strong attraction to LaPaglia and Myers naked meeting with Ralph are highlights. Cool intro and closing credits song really sets up the romance for the city and its leads. "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"30 September 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" After numerous breakups over what his friends and family consider shallow and a way to avoid commitment, the hard-to-please aspiring poet Mike Myers finally finds himself the perfect match in Nancy Travis... there's only one flaw... she might be an axe murderer! Very Mike Myers humor with lots of buddy comedians in supporting roles or cameos, all taking place in a so-very-'90s San Francisco&#x97;this film only works because all the pieces fall into the right place. Surprisingly light-hearted given its title, only getting dark in the third act. Killer (pun?) soundtrack. Travis actually cut off the tip of her finger during a scene at the butcher shop.★★★ (out of four) "},{"Title":"For Mike Myers Scholars Only","Date":"25 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The only reasons to watch this film are(a) you are a Mike Myers scholar, and you need to learn the origin of some of his most oft-repeated character lines in his boffo, bonzo (totally hilarious) Scottish idiom; or(b) you are a Mike Myers scholar, and you need an exhibit illustrating your to-be-published thesis on how Mike Myers cannot act a romantic lead role (this would be exhibit A, his inability to create even one spark with Tia Carrere in Wayne's World is your Exhibit B). So I Married . . . has so much promise at the start. Gorgeous, looping, looming, sweeping shots of San Francisco at night, a rollicking soundtrack opener--the jangly, infectious indie pop song the LA's There She Goes--and a funny opening line from Myers about a latte the size of a pizza. What a film this might be, the viewer thinks.But no. Despite a couple rip-roaringly funny character scenes, with Myers playing his own, cartoonishly Scottish, father, some funny bits about a butcher's shop, and very good work by Anthony LaPaglia in a supporting role, the film more or less flops. The funny sequences are fleeting, and they get buried by other scenes where Myers is supposed to be, in turns, dashing, or lusty, or trapped like a winking, assured Cary Grant in the midst of an unfolding whodunit. And in those other scenes, and there are lots of them, Myers doesn't deliver, he does not sell himself or the story with his acting. Myers scholars, this film is for you. All others, let an SNL nerd do the Scottish thing in homage and you'll have seen the movie. "},{"Title":"Some funny characters","Date":"12 July 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Charlie Mackenzie (Mike Myers) has bad luck with women or just paranoid with bad excuses. He lives in San Francisco and his best friend Tony Giardino (Anthony LaPaglia) is a bad undercover cop. Then he falls for butcher shop owner Harriet (Nancy Travis) who could be too good to be true. His mother reads the tabloids and tells him about Mrs X who kills all her husbands on their honeymoon. With some weird warning signs, Charlie breaks up with her. When somebody confesses to one of the murders, he begs to come back to her. It all comes to a head on their honeymoon.There are some wacky characters and may just be the prelude to the Austin Powers movies. Myers is doing the wacky father that has the similar tone to an old and angry Austin Powers. The parent characters are a load of fun. Phil Hartman is great as the stone faced Alcatraz guide Vicky. Anthony LaPaglia has difficulties with the comedic role. It needs a real comedian to do the job properly. As for the romantic chemistry, Mike Myers feels too childish next to Nancy Travis. They have good friend chemistry but I wouldn't call it sexual chemistry. She's a little too serious of a actress. She is too straight and her character needs more jokes. Again a real comedian would help in this role. "},{"Title":"Hilarious","Date":"2 May 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" In San Francisco, Charlie reads poetry at a place where the 90s version of hippies or beatniks hang out. His friend Tony works as an undercover cop. His very Scottish father Stuart is a butcher, and his mother May loves the tabloid Weekly World News. Charlie sees a butcher shop that has meats from all over the world. He goes there to buy haggis for his father and meets the cute Harriet who runs the place. Because he has worked for his father and Harriet needs the help, Charlie goes to work there on one of his visits. Eventually Charlie and Harriet start dating. Charlie also meets Harriet's quirky sister Rose. But Charlie finds too many similarities between Harriet and a serial killer his mother is reading about in the tabloids. Meanwhile, Tony doesn't feel satisfaction in his job. He doesn't get yelled at like TV cops do.So will things work out between Charlie and Harriet? I think the movie's title gives it away, but will she really turn out to be a killer?Mike Myers does a fine job as Charlie and is delightfully over-the-top as his father. Nancy Travis is so likable I wish she had done more of these movies. Amanda Plummer is cute in a slightly mentally ill sort of way.Numerous supporting players, some with only a few lines, give wonderful performances. Alan Arkin and Anthony LaPaglia have one particularly memorable scene as Tony finally gets what he wants--though will he regret it? Charles Grodin is great as the driver of a car forced to pick up a hitchhiker on official police business. And Phil Hartman is as stiff as a Dragnet cop and as funny as the cast of Airplane! as a former Alcatraz guard giving tours of the former prison.This is a wonderfully funny movie with an exciting ending. "},{"Title":"Occasionally Funny, This Dated Cult Favorite is Aging Uncertainly","Date":"7 October 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Manic in a way that even Austin Powers couldn't match, this vehicle for then-recent SNL grad Mike Myers hasn't aged quite as well as I'd expected. Myers delivers with ease when he's under the guise of a wild, colorful character - his best scenes are as a boisterous, drunken caricature of a father under heavy makeup - but comes off as insecure and off-putting in the more straightforward leading role. For every joke that lands, Myers ricochets three or four duds off his companions' foreheads, lending the impression that he's always on stage and robbing his turn as well-intentioned poet Charlie of a meaningful connection with the audience. Clunky, distracting post-production work and an excessive dose of early '90s pop culture also prove to be tricky obstacles, dating the material and lending the impression that it wasn't quite polished enough for a final release. When it's working, few films from the era are so consistently funny, but those sporadic dots of brilliance aren't quite enough to compensate for the shaky, timid nature of the rest of the story. A great premise with some moments of pure genius, it's probably best enjoyed as a series of expertly trimmed clips on YouTube. "},{"Title":"Mike saves the day....again","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Written by Robbie Fox, So, I Married an Axe Murderer is basically a silly film that is made palatable thanks to the comic genius of Mike Myers and the charms of Nancy Travis. Myers makes the most of all the comic opportunities and often has us laughing in fits. Look out for the nude scene, and Mr. McKenzie, Mike's dad.Nancy Travis is a beauty we don't see enough of, while Anthony LaPaglia, Amanda Plummer and Allan Arkin (unbilled) have great fun in support roles. Charles Grodin pops in briefly too. Directed by Thomas Schlamme.Sunday, January 2, 2000 - Video "}{"Title":"A wonderful and fun romantic comedy","Date":"27 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I first saw this film when it was fairly new (c. late summer 1993). In fact, the main reason I went to see it was because it was playing at a discount (dollar-type) cinema, having just left the regular theaters. I was also in need of a pick-me-up during that period of my life. I had seen the TV ad for the movie, and thought it looked dumb... But after seeing the film, it became one of my all-time favorites (and I even bought the soundtrack album - on cassette). I saw portions of it (on TV) a couple times in following years, and bought the video in 2002. It's unfortunate it was not a critical success, and yes, it does have flaws... but fellow fans will attest to its appeal and magic. It is, I feel, a genuine funny (and truly fun), feel-good movie. Now that I think, it's been perhaps three years since I last saw it... so I'm due to watch it again. "},{"Title":"My favorite movie","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This has been my favorite movie since it came out. I watched it twice and thought it was O.K., then I started to really get it. Every time I watched it, I caught more jokes. I know nearly every line by heart, I have seen it so many times. I am not a nerd, or some crazy person. Just someone who appreciates hilarious movies. The best scene is when Charlie's father (Mike Myers) tells Tony (his best friend) about the secret society. I laugh to the point of tears at that part. I still can't help but say Fine. Go. You've stayed your hour. every time someone leaves my home. It's just the perfect, crazy ending to a visit, isn't it? Brilliance, Mike Myers. Brilliance.  "},{"Title":"Not to be taken seriously","Date":"29 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  From the start it's clear we're not supposed to take this movie too literally.  Anyone that can appreciate Myer's seemless skips between sarcasm and slapstick will enjoy this film immensely.  Think of Cameron Crowe with a slightly twisted, yet dryer wit, but with the same kind of whimsy.  No, you're not supposed to wonder too hard about how someone can afford such a nice apartment on a butcher's pay.  The focus is on the emotions and comedy, which never fail to deliever.  Another great aspect of this film, for those that can keep up, is the incredibly eclectic mix of humor.  Whether it comes from Charlie's Scottish father, Anthony Lapaglia's 'Serpico' wannabe attitude or Phil Hartman's twisted alcatraz tour guide speach, the jokes come from all directions and serve to make the film incredibly rewatchable. "},{"Title":"Funny Movie","Date":"27 June 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a classic. Mike Myers is hilarious in both roles as Charlie and his father Stuart. Stuart is only in a small portion of the movie, but is incredibly funny. Charlie must be a poet because that is the only job related activity he is involved in all movie. Anthony LaPaglia is good as a sort of modern day straight man. LaPaglia plays a cop who is dissatisfied with his job because its nothing like Starsky and Hutch. Nancy Travis does a good job being creepy, but a believable creepy. She is a butcher named Harriet with whom Charlie falls in love. He comes to believe she is a murderer who kills her husband. It is really such a stupid premise that it is funny. I highly recommend this movie to anyone. This movie is totally worth the 4 bucks to rent or even the $10 to buy on DVD.  "},{"Title":"Mike Meyers silliness without Austin Powers excess - Excellent","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Perfect romantic comedy for the sentimentally challenged or paranoid. No matter how many times I see it (I'll admit to several viewings), I can't help but laugh out loud at Mike Meyers deadpan silliness and over-the-top impersonations (his Colonel Sanders hating, Rod Stewart-worshiping Scottish father is a classic.) The story follows the commitment phobic Charlie Meyers (think High Fidelity with a paranoid, ADD lead) as he finally falls for the perfect woman - who bears an uncanny resemblance to the husband-murdering black widow profiled in the latest Weekly World News (or as his mother calls it, The Paper.) Great supporting players (Check out Anthony LaPaglia, lately of television's Frasier and Without a Trace as a Serpico wanna-be). I'd choose this silliness over another Austin Powers retread anyday. How about a sequel to this one, Mike? "},{"Title":"Joyously funny","Date":"7 October 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mike Myers and director Thomas Schlamme are right on the mark here compared to the insipid Austin Powers series (directed by Jay Roach).  SIMAAM really showcases Myers' talents along with a good script, and all beautifully filmed in San Francisco. Myers and Nancy Travis are great together, and Myers' dual-role is pure, absolute comedy! (Heed! MUUV!!)  That concept works so well here, again much better than in Powers where it's WAY over-used. This is also the first time I've seen a small jazz combo used as a comedy prop. VERY clever!!Watching this at home, I laughed copiously, rather than punching the FF button when watching Powers. Myers is funny; I wish he were more choosey with his scripts (and directors). SIMAAM is more for adults. As a parent, I'd heed the PG-13 rating. "},{"Title":"A great date film","Date":"21 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  How does a poet performing at the local bistro afford an apartment in San Francisco?  The bottom line is, who cares?This is an above average romantic comedy that you'll thoroughly enjoy if you don't ask too many questions and are willing to go with the flow of its idealized characters and situations.  And even if you're not a huge fan of romantic comedy, there's plenty of side jokes and hilarious Mike Myer's sarcasm throughout to keep things lively.  For fans of Mike Myers, this film is a must-see. "},{"Title":"Underrated Mike Myers Classic","Date":"14 December 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mike Myers has played memorable characters over the years (Wayne from Wayne's World, Austin Powers, Dr. Evil, Shrek, etc).  In So I Married An Axe Murderer, you can see a lot of characteristics of future classic characters that he would eventually play.  Myers plays his own father in this film (playing more that 1 character in a movie which he has done throughout the Austin Powers series).  His father has a strikingly familiar Scottish accent similar to the one used for Fat Bastard.I highly recommend this film because of it's humor and it should be considered a Mike Myers classic. "},{"Title":"an absolute Bobby Dazzler","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film is an absolute corker, let down only by a .......we`ve gotta have an Axe Murderer in it if we`re going to call it that..... said the studio executive, tacked on endng. This film features some brilliant comedy set-pieces including Phil Hartman (you may remember him from such films as Sergeant Bilko) as Warden Vicki and Michael Richards.Mike Myers is funny in dual roles and Anthoney LaPaglia is great(especially when complaining to Alan Arkin about his job as Police Detective.Incidently the film was allegedly developed for Chevy Chase & Sharon Stone. "},{"Title":"This is a hilarious movie....","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So I Married an Axe murderer is one of the many masterpieces made thoroughly enjoyable by Mike Myers.  He captures the character of an old, set in his way, scotsman as well as is commitment fearing poet son perfectly.  The other characters (Harriet, May, Heed) add to the experience.  This movie really does measure up to the Waynes World(s) as far as plot, characters and content go, but as far as overall hilarity, i would have to say it doesnt quite measure up.  Thats not to say this isnt one of the best movies I have ever seen.  It is.  My favourite character is Stuart Mackenzie, who entertains us with the jab's at the size of his son's heed and hatred towards The Colenol. Because he puts a special ingredient in your chicken that makes you crave it fortnightly smartass!  If you haven't seen this movie, run, DONT WALK! to the video store and do so, you wont regret it. )!! "}{"Title":"Instantly one of my favorites","Date":"21 June 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I finally saw this movie for the first time 2 nights ago on Comedy Central, and boy, I'm glad I did.  This movie is incredibly funny, thanks to the talents of Mike Myers, Anthony Lapalgia, Nancy Tucker, and others.  Mike proves yet again what a great actor he is as the main character, Charlie McKenzie, as well as doing double duty, playing Charlie's father, Stuart. Stuart is one of the funniest characters I've ever seen with his rendition of If You Think I'm Sexy, not to mention his hilariously funny comments. The plot was great - Charlie, a beat poet, terrified of commitment, finally finds love with the lovely butcher, Harriet.  But he becomes paranoid that she is Mrs. X, a woman that murders her husbands on their honeymoon.  His friend, played by Anthony Lapalgia, thinks he's just nuts.  The movie is filled with great cameos by Alan Arkin, Charles Grodin, and Phil Hartman, just to name a few.  I don't know why this movie didn't get the popularity Mike Myers' other films did - it was certainly every bit as funny as Austin Powers, in a less obvious way.  But it was an awesome movie in every way, and I recommend it to anyone. "},{"Title":"Superb! Can't believe it went straight to video!","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Fantastic vehicle for the talents of Mike Myers. His portrayal of the Scots is hilarious. Everything about this movie is great, in fact I can't understand why it went straight to video in the UK. If it had reached the big screen, Myers' career would have rocketed here much sooner, but still good things come to those who wait!Buy the video! Buy the soundtrack! Buy everything related to it - and prepare to laugh forever!  "},{"Title":"Great","Date":"20 January 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mike Meyer's great movie that was never heard of.  His multi role characters and facial expressions can make anything funny.  He alone carried that no-talent Dany Carvey through Wayne World. A movie to definately see!!!!!!!!!!!!HEED! RENT NOW! "},{"Title":"This is an awesome film!","Date":"14 November 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't really remember what got me hooked on this movie, but it is one of my all time favorites. For those who love to quote movies, this movie is sheer heaven, for Stuart Mackenzie is the most quote-worthy character. Not to mention that those who are fans of Mike Myers may see there is more to his career than SNL and Austin Powers. As a matter of fact, I enjoyed this movie about as much as Austin Powers, if not more.  "},{"Title":"I think it is a funny movie.","Date":"22 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not his best, but still good for a laugh.  Basically it's about a guy who thinks his wife is trying to kill him throughout almost the whole movie and the antics that result of his paranoia. If you really want to laugh a lot more see the Austin Powers movies. "},{"Title":"A funny movie!","Date":"29 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is another funny movie on the continually expanding list of Mike Myers movies. Mike Myers' Stuart McKenzie is the funniest character, as the Scottish, Colonel Sanders hating, kid mocking, and overall funny dad. Charlie McKenzie, the paranoid title character, is also funny. As with all the Mike Myers movies I've reviewed, I recommend this movie for someone who likes funny films. See it!  "},{"Title":"Underrated now, means cult hit later...","Date":"28 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  The title of this film and the first line from its star Mike Myers tells us something about the producers intention to link it strongly with Myers in his Wayne's World roles. We're supposed to say the title as Wayne would and the first line of the movie is actually spoken as if the spirit of Wayne has entered the body of Myers for one last childish remark with a sarcastic tinge. So for the first three or so minutes of the film we are treated to production design and camera work that is so very artful and then dropped into a script and characterisation reminiscent of the Saturday Night Live inspired Wayne's World. But only briefly. The Disappointment derived from this incongruous opening does not last long, this film quickly gets on its feet. The script begins to live up to the production values and the performances by Mike Myers (as Charlie), Nancy Travis (his love interest)and Anthony LaPaglia (Tony, his detective friend) compliment many situational devices beautifully (with help from cameos by Phil Hartman, Steven Wright and Charles Grodin). Charlie's perpetually drunk and grumpy Scottish father is hilarious, as is the police chief who can only try to put aside his paternalism and act more like chiched captain that Tony so desires him to be (so he can indulge in his 'Good Cop Bad Cop' television fantasies). This is a great comedy, which has the added bonus of being very nice to look at thanks to the beautiful direction of Thomas Schlamme and the great production design. It's no Wayne's World, but that's fine, it has its own life and makes that abundantly clear after the awkward opening lines have been buried forever. Lovers of beat-poetry will especially enjoy it, those that have no interest in the Beat Generation will no doubt acquire some after watching this underrated gem. No wonder it has become a cult hit. After all, it has all the right ingredients.  "},{"Title":"aye- haul that huge head of yours and watch this , classy characters, quality cameos, comedy classic","Date":"26 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Charlie, a man who fears commitment, finally decides to take the plunge. Alas, he fears for his life due to his future wife, but it is not a standard I am throwing my life and freedom away fear.... he thinks his wife is an axe murderer. His friend thinks he is foolish so he marries her and is up for the chop or is he????The plot is good, the story very funny but the characters make this a classic. Mike Myers is excellent as always and even those who loath the man should find this funny. Rent it for a taste, Buy it to have on your shelf to cheer you up or when sitting in with the lads for a few beers. 8/10 "},{"Title":"Not the funniest movie in the world but definitely worth watching.","Date":"22 April 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A bit of a bumpy ride, for sure, but the scenes with Charlie's parents (played by Mike Myers and Brenda Fricker) are absolutely hilarious!  Myers should make a movie featuring these eccentric characters.Some of the supporting players are in brilliant, all too brief scenes Alan Arkin as Anthony LaPaglia's sympathetic police chief, and the late, great Phil Hartman as an Alcatraz prison guide. This is an uneven film, but Charlie's parents, the beat poetry, some truly funny lines and those great cameo appearances make this well worth watching.    "},{"Title":"The best romantic comedy I've ever seen","Date":"17 March 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A great story, and a great job by everyone, especially Mike Myers. Actually, I think he carries the film pretty well, but what makes this movie so memorable are the minor/supporting characters and cameos.  They act normal enough to be believable, but then they throw curves at you.  Sure, Steven Wright and Michael Richards are funny, but the police chief (Alan Arkin), the commandeered car guy (Charles Grodin), and Stuart (Charlie's dad, played by Mike) crack me up every time I see them on screen.them. Mike's friend Tony seems pretty grounded, but he still comes up with some great lines.  If anyone could be considered the straight man in this, it'd have to be Harriet, but it works that way.A great movie all around, and one that I'm trying to memorize the words to, at least the good lines (but there are so many!) "}{"Title":"Love that Mike Myers!","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Not everyone can get Mike Myers jokes. It can be hard to enjoy a funny movie if you're the only one in the room laughing. But Mike Myers does it for me. Guess you've gotta be on the right wavelength.EXCELLENT movie. Its funny, romantic and I felt so sorry for poor Heed!And Yay! to Anthony LaPaglia, fellow Aussie, I hope I spelt your name right.ciao.  "},{"Title":"An underrated comedy romance","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So it's got a silly, rushed, flawed ending. That's not the point in this gentle romantic comedy. I think the concept behind this movie is of Seinfeld quality; the premise What if someone who always found a ridiculous reason to make a romantic commitment - actual had a ridiculous reason.The only flaw in the movie is structure - a formulaic plot works as a poor framework for the comedy, and the comedy itself has no real focus. In Wayne's World it was suburban music fans, in Austin Powers it was 60s spy movies and political correctness; with 'So I married...' It's a miss-mash of beat poetry and the coffee house scene, cop stereo-types, parents, scottish humour, relationships - each area works - but the link is difficult to see.All in all - a very funny movie, with the flaw of a contrived ending, similar to most comedic pictures. "},{"Title":"I use this movie as a test to see if someone has a sense of humor","Date":"19 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I can't believe this isn't rated higher. This movie has so much going for it I can't list it all. From Mike Myers portrayal of his dad HEAD, PAPER, NOW to the awesome job Phil Hartman did as Vicki. When it came out in the theaters I watched it and immediately sat through it again because I was laughing so hard I knew I missed stuff. Here it is almost 20 years later and I still laugh whenever I watch this. I wish they could do a sequel of it 20 years later or something just to see him revive this character. Lots of great shots of San Francisco also. If I show this movie to someone and they don't laugh or it doesn't become a favorite of theirs I don't stay friends with them. A good sense of humor and being able to understand the subtleties behind the obvious humor of this movie is a mark of an intelligent mind and I don't have time for lack wits who laugh at the 3 stooges kind of humor and can't fathom why this is comedy gold. "},{"Title":"Grab a bowl of cappuccino and enjoy!","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This film is in there with my all-time favourite comedies. From the brilliant opening scene all of the way through to the end I was hooked and have now seen it several times since. Mike Myers is hilarious, this is up there with his Austin Powers for brute comedy force. Loads of classic lines and Myers even plays his own dad, even though his Scottish accent isn't particularly up to scratch this character is equally hilarious. Also, watch out for Brenda Fricker who plays his mother, such good casting.The acting is as good as it needs to be, solid from all of the cast, no weak links. The script is the anchor and Myers uses it brilliantly to sculpt out some fine characters and drives this film into comedy gold.OK, so it's not stuff of legend like Monty Python and Ghostbusters but I personally rate it just as highly. If I'm totally honest, if you don't laugh all of the way through this then there's something wrong with you. Watch it, and watch it again! Also, you'll never get The La's - There She Goes out of your head for months. Fair warning. "},{"Title":"Awesome, one of my favorites","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I adore this movie. Mike Myers is a comic genius. I pretty much love all his movies but this one is one of the best. Even before it was hysterical for Eddie Murphy to play his whole family, we had Mike playing his own father.  And doing a darn good job of it too. "},{"Title":"Turn Up The Bay City Rollers!","Date":"7 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  If you're ever driving through Salt Lake City, Utah on a Saturday night, tune your radio into 99.5 FM and you'll hear a DJ named Mike Myers.  That's not my real name, but I've always been a big fan of Mike Myers (especially Wayne's World) and since I didn't want to be sued by NBC for using the name Wayne Campbell, I decided to go by Mike Myers.  Please don't sue me, Mike.I mean, think about it.  This is the same guy who brought us some of the greatest characters on SNL, including, but not limited to, Coffee Talk with Linda Richman, Bill Swersky's Superfans, Dieter on Sprockets and of course Wayne Campbell on Wayne's World.Axe Murderer is really the funniest movie that Mike Myers has starred in.  He plays two parts in the movie Charlie MacKenzie and his father Stuart.  From the first notes of Saturday Night by the Bay City Rollers and seeing Stuart dancing around his Scottish Hall of Fame, I was laughing out loud.I was even very impressed with Nancy Travis.  When I first heard this casting, I found it kind of weird, but she did a great job.Add to that a great supporting cast that includes Alan Arkin as the Police Chief (classic role for him), Anthony LaPaglia as Tony Huggy Bear Giardino(watch the movie and you'll know what I'm talking about), Phil Hartman as Vicki, Charles Grodin, Steven Wright and Debi Mazar as Tony's electrocuted date.I admit, I have never been a fan of the Austin Powers movies, so I'm sure a lot of you Austin fans will not find Axe Murderer that funny, due to it's lack of bodily functions, but I'm telling you, this is the funniest that Mike Myers has been in a movie. "},{"Title":"Unknown Classic!","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is one of those films that got a bum rap, and looked over by a majority of people. I very very highly recommend this film to anyone who enjoys a light romp with good acting,great guest-stars, and fast-paced fun! I cannot put too fine a point on this THIS IS A GREAT FILM! One of Mike Myers best! "},{"Title":"How can the rating be 6.2?","Date":"26 March 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" How can the rating be 6.2? The movie is full of fantastic quotes! Piper down, Now he's going to cry himself on his huge pillow., Sexy little bastard. etc.... How can the rating be 6.2? The movie is full of fantastic quotes! Piper down, Now he's going to cry himself on his huge pillow., Sexy little bastard. etc.... How can the rating be 6.2? The movie is full of fantastic quotes! Piper down, Now he's going to cry himself on his huge pillow., Sexy little bastard. etc.... How can the rating be 6.2? The movie is full of fantastic quotes! Piper down, Now he's going to cry himself on his huge pillow., Sexy little bastard. etc.... "},{"Title":"What do you say to this?","Date":"25 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I still don't know what's really to say about this movie. It starts off trying to be interesting, but doesn't do a great job. I though it was nothing, and still watched.The story is mainly about Charlie Mackenzie, who's looking for the right woman, but he's relationships always goes wrong be course, Charlie don't trust any of his girlfriends. When he meets Harriet he decides, he will trust her, but again he stars thinking a lot. This times he's new girlfriend, knows things and do things that makes her look likes a murderer. Now Charlie needs to find out if it's his imagination (again?) or is it true.I have to say this is a great plot, but I still found myself looking at other things, and didn't really pay much attention to the movie, and at some point I felt disappointed in the movie. But when we're at the end and see what it all really was about, I was happy again, and happy that I saw the ending. The ending ROCKED, but it's not enough to make a whole movie good, unfortunately.Do like Mikes Myers...? If you do, then you'll get entertained others should find another movie, to watch. "},{"Title":"Not Myers' funniest film but more hits than misses","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Charlie is a deadbeat poet who's poetry all comes from his failed relationships.  This all turns around when he meets a butcher, Harriet, who might just be the girl of his dreams!  However Charlie notices little things that begin to suggest that Harriet may be Mrs X, a serial killer who marries and then murders her husbands.Between striking gold with Wayne's World and then Austin Powers, Myers struck out with this comedy which is never as funny as his better creations but is still enjoyable.  The plot is a farce at heart as Charlie runs in fear of his potentially murderous girlfriend &#150; or is it his fear of commitment?  It creates a few funny set pieces, but the real humour happens around the edges.  For example the climax in a hotel is OK but the funniest bit is Officer Giardino interviewing a suspect while we hear Charlie's screams in the background.   Luckily there is just enough stuff round the edges to cover the weaknesses in the middle.Myers is weak because he is not playing a character.  He is best when he has a creation to play &#150; hence his desire to do as many as he can of late.  However here Charlie is a `normal' person.  Happily, when he is playing his Scottish father, he is hilarious &#150; but that only happens 2 or 3 times and isn't enough.  Travis is good but Plummer just does her usual bug-eyed crazy stuff.  LaPaglia is funny in his side role, and his relationship with nervous boss Arkin is the funniest stuff.  Helping the side jokes be the best is a list of cameos, some of which don't work, but most do.  Wright, Hartman, Mazar, Grodin, and Richards all do good to keep the thing feel lively.Overall this is not Myers at his best and some of it just isn't very funny.  However, the majority of the film has regular laughs and there's enough to cover the weaknesses and make this 90 worth seeing.  As time goes on the soundtrack gets more and more dated but if you like Myers then you should find much of his sense of humour to enjoy here. "}{"Title":"Slick, over-eager production","Date":"19 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Extremely slight comedy has Mike Myers playing marriage-shy young man who finally makes it to the altar with a pretty female butcher, only to come to suspect she may be a notorious axe murderer (shouldn't that be 'murderess'?). Wayward set-up has a case of the cutes, weighed down even further by heavy-handed gags and Myers overacting in a dual role (he also plays his character's own crusty father). Some good scenes, and a terrific supporting cast featuring Anthony La Paglia (who steals the film), Brenda Fricker, Alan Arkin (unbilled), and Amanda Plummer. As the new bride, Nancy Travis has a naturally grounded, wide-eyed appeal, but she doesn't match up well with Myers; together, they fail to make the increasingly silly plot elements the least bit convincing or amusing. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"A zany and sweet 90's comedy which deserves more recognition","Date":"8 April 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I have to say how pleasantly surprised I was by So I Married An Axe Murderer. I was admittedly quite dubious about the one-joke premise of the film, and thought that the movie would run out of steam very quickly, so delighted I was to find that Mike Myers and co. had crafted a delightfully charming hoot, filled with some laugh-out-loud comedy moments and a surprisingly warm good-natured heart, which really makes the audience invest fully with the characters. More fool me to think anything less of Myers, comic genius of Wayne's World, Austin Powers, and Shrek fame. When he's not being his affable goofy self, he shows some moments of real emotion and tenderness, working brilliantly opposite the lovely Nancy Travis. Travis was a B-list supporting female actress in the late 80's and early 90's, and she really has the chance to shine here in a sweet but unpredictable performance.Some of the more comedic parts of the film come from Myers also doubling as his own dad, a straight-talking Scot (naturally), some crazy set pieces, and the inspired interplay between the characters, which allows the film to flow more comfortably.The soundtrack too is another great strength of the film. Containing such cool tracks like Two Princes by the Spin Doctors, and the predominantly featured There She Goes by The La's, it echoes the groovy hip vibe of the 90's to great effect and works in marvellously with the stunning panning shots of San Francisco (if you didn't want to go there before you may feel like it after watching this), and the growing romance between Myers and Travis.As for the rest of the cast, all the supporting turns shine, especially a lively performance from Brenda Fricker as Myers' mum, and from Anthony LaPaglia in a humorous role as his friend. There's also some great welcome cameos from the likes of Alan Arkin, Phil Hartman, and Charles Grodin, among others, who mine the comic potential superbly.Overall though, So I Married An Axe Murderer works well as a love story as well as a wild offbeat comedy, and it's that warmth mixed in with some delightful moments of craziness and subtle humour which makes this underrated gem a must-see. "},{"Title":"Much Better that I originally expected","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" When I first went to watch this movie I was not expecting much as after Austin Powers, International Man of Mystery - actually I don't expect much from a Mike Myers movie. Also with the title and the blurb on the back I saw the movie as being quite predictable - namely a panicky male running around a house trying to escape an insane axe murderer that he has happened to marry.This is not the case. So, I Married an Axe Murderer is actually quite an entertaining movie. The movie focuses on the relationship between Mike Myer's character, who happens to have a wild imagination and believes that all of the women that he has had a relationship with has some sinister secret and because of this he must break up with them. He believed that an unemployed woman worked for the Mafia simply because she did not have a job.Anyway, he happens to meet this one woman as he wonders into a butcher and decides to develop a relationship with her. All the while the movie builds up some paranoia pointing to this woman. It leads lots of clues making us think that she is the axe-murderer that murders her husbands on her honeymoons, but will then suddenly pull back with other evidence that she is not. By the end of the movie we are not really sure if she is a murderer or not, but Myers believes that she is.The closing part of the movie is very surrealistic, building up and trying to visualise the fear that Myers feels as he prepares to confront this woman. In a way the movie is predictable, but it is really well done, and those who expect it to be bad will be surprised.The one idea that comes from here is the idea that marriage and death being two sides of the same coin. As somebody once said to me when I pointed out that the difference between a Shakespearian comedy and a tragedy is that at the end of a comedy everybody gets married and at the end of a tragedy everybody dies, 'so, there is no difference then'. I used to think that linking marriage and death was an abomination, but when I think about it, I come to understand that it is not. In fact, it is probably a better way to look at it because it helps us understand how this one ceremony will bring about a change to our lives.I liked this movie, it is not the best movie that I have ever seen, but it is entertaining. "},{"Title":"Cute But Contrived Mike Myers Comedy","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The suspenseful Mike Myers' farce So I Married an Axe Murderer qualifies as a cute but contrived comedy about a twenty-something poet with marriage commitment issues. Myers stars as Charlie Mackenzie, a San Francisco native who loves to perform his 'beat' poetry with a three-man band and a slide-show presentation in the background at coffee shops. Charlie's subject matter is his doomed relationships with women. He falls head over heels in love with the comely Nancy Travis and cannot take his eyes off her. Actually, Charlie has botched all his romantic relationships for one arbitrary reason or another because he fears marriage as a death sentence. When he isn't flirting with Travis, Myers plays his eccentric, opinionated Scottish patriarch Stuart Mackenzie who loves to deride his younger son for his enormous noggin. The elder Mackenzie calls it variously an orange on a toothpick, a virtual planetoid, and compares it to a Soviet spacecraft  &#x85; that boy's head is like Sputnik, spherical but quite pointy, at parts. Realizing how derisive that he is toward his son and the complex that he may be imparting to his youngest, he observes with mock sympathy Now tat was offside, wasn't it? He'll be crying himself to sleep tonight, on his huge pillow. Happily, Myers isn't dominate So I Married an Axe Murderer with his dual performance. Co-stars Amanada Plummer, Brenda Fricker, Anthony LaPaglia, Alan Arkin, Phil Hartman, Charles Grodin, a pre-Seinfeld Michael Richards, and Steven Wright contribute brief but memorable bits. When Myers isn't wrestling with the proposition of whether 'to wed' or 'not to wed,' he worries about his latest girlfriend and wonders if she isn't secretly a serial killer. Miss Firecracker director Thomas Schlamme must have seen the Alfred Hitchcock nail-biter Suspicion where Jon Fontaine feared that Cary Grant was a murderer. So I Murdered an Axe Murderer brims with hilarity and talent, but Schlamme and In the Army Now scenarist Robbie Fox never generate any genuine suspense. Nevertheless, this lightweight lark is still worth watching for Myers' genius and Fox's parody of cop movie conventions.When So I Married an Axe Murderer opens, Charlie is cruising around San Francisco in his maroon Volkswagen Kharman Ghia convertible searching for a Scottish delight known as Haggis. He spots a corner butcher shop Meats of the World, strolls inside, and falls in love at first sight with Harriet Michaels (Nancy Travis of Chaplin) who works behind the counter chopping up meat. Trouble enters paradise one evening at his parents' house when his loony mom, May Mackenzie (Brenda Fricker of My Left Foot), reads to him from her favorite tabloid The World Weekly News about a 'black-widow' serial killer who murders her husbands and then vanishes without a trace. When Charlie confides to his San Francisco Police Inspector friend Tony Giardino (Anthony LaPaglia of Empire Records) that he dreads being with Harriet because she may be a murderer, Tony dismisses Charlie's anxiety as characteristic of all his affairs with women. Again, Charlie suffers from marriage commitment and in the past has blamed his break-ups on his girlfriends when in reality he is the cause of their botched relationships. Nevertheless, Charlie begins to link the murderers with Harriet's history of moving around the country and the unsolved murders of a Florida Russian Martial Arts expert, Atlantic City Lounge Singer, and Dallas Plumber Ralph Elliott. It doesn't help matters when Charlie awakens in bed with Harriet one night and she is screaming the name Ralph! Later that morning, Charlie receives a shock when he gets up and tries to slip into the shower with Harriet and is surprised instead to find her sister Rose Michaels (Amanda Plummer of Pulp Fiction) taking a shower. Eventually, things get so bad that our paranoid protagonist breaks up with Harriet.Altogether, the comedy in So I Married an Axe Murderer overshadows the uneven mystery related to the serial killer. "},{"Title":"Mike Myers' best movie. Period.","Date":"26 October 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mike Myers stars in his best movie ever, So I married an axe murderer. I really wish I had this movie on DVD. Mike Myers has done some great movies, but none have ever lived up to So I married an axe murderer. This is a Mike Myers comedy that doesn't have all that many fart jokes. Not much obvious humor. This is a Mike Myers comedy I would like to see more of in the future.The movie is about a guy named Charlie(Mike Myers). One day he meets a butcher named Harriet(Nancy Travis) and they eventually get married. But while they are dating he has suspicions about her. All of her past lovers have been murdered. This movie is so good for many reason. I really wish Mike Myers can go back to doing comedies like this because after seeing The Love Guru, I lost all hope in Mike Myers. But I saw this movie for the first time in years recently, and I thoughtThese were the days when Mike Myers actually did good stuff.So I married an axe murderer****/**** "},{"Title":"underrated","Date":"10 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie was skewered by the critics as unfunny and unoriginal.  I love this movie.  It is not laugh out loud but it has it's moments. We see flashes of Mike Myer's brilliance in it. To see Myers play his father with that pompous ethnocentric Scottish lilt is worth the dvd alone.  The funniest scene is when the father relates his conspiracy theory.The best lines in this movie are when Myer's and his cop buddy discuss Mrs. X (which should have been the title of the movie; it would have played out better).  Tony says Charlie, does Harriet even know the lines of Only You? Charlie replies, I don't know we haven't reached the all too critical only you phase of our relationship, so I'm afraid I can't be much help. You have to appreciate context to appreciate the deadpan delivery of these lines. Nancy Travis is sooo cute.  She has the Sandra Bullock effect. Travis makes you think, h'm she could actually be my girlfriend. It is that fresh genuineness that very, very few actresses have. Anthony Lapaglia's interactions with Alan Arkin are hilarious.I have to give a thumb way up for this movie. Give it a chance, it will grow on you.A 7/10 movie.  "},{"Title":"Mike Myers' Best Film","Date":"24 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" With all due respect to the Wayne's World and Austin Powers series, this is by far Mike Myers best movie.I have never understood why this movie didn't make it big at the box office. I remember sitting in a theatre watching the trailer for this movie and the audiencewas in hysterics. I thought for sure that this was going to be a big hit. Unfortunately initial reviews were not good and the movie failed to take off. But thanks to DVD this movie has become a cult classic. Myers is brilliant in the dual roles of Charlie and Charlie's father. The movie also has a number of cameo's of gifted character actors who while only on the screen no more two minutes, deliver some classic comedic bits. I have introduced this movie to several of my friends and without exception all have loved it. For those who haven't seen it go out and rent it you will not be disappointed. "},{"Title":"charlie, two words, therapy","Date":"3 October 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  this is definately one of my favourite movies and in my opinion, Mike Myers' best movie ever made. I just about know every line off by heart now thanks to DVD.This movie doesn't rely on bodily function jokes (ie Austin Powers ), but on a very clever script.The casting was great and I  loved and laughed at Alan Arkin, Michael Richards, Phil Hartman and Charles Grodin  in their small, but effective roles.I found it funny and enjoyed the twist at the end. Do yourself a favour, please rent this one out. "},{"Title":"See this film!","Date":"3 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  A lot of people have forgotten how to have a good time over the years. This movie brings it all back with its witty humour and an original plot.Before Mike Myers began completely embarrassing himself with the third instalment of Austin Powers, he played many a great character. This movie is not to be missed. A 9/10 in my books. "},{"Title":"Excellent.","Date":"22 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I must say, this is a great movie. Mike Myers is the most talented individual that I know of, and he just further proved this in So I Married an Axe Murderer. The movie had me reeling and dancing, wishing I was in his place. Everything about this movie has me wanting to watch it repeatedly, and I just can't seem to get enough of it. Bits of it were a tad stereotypical, but Mike, Thomas, and the rest of the gang proved to put an interesting enough twist on it to make it unique in its own way. This is most definitely the single best movie that is available out there (however in a close second, check out Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, Gene Wilder is astounding). "}{"Title":"guilty sin","Date":"16 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  My favorite B-movie. If you're a referential person you'll be quoting lines from this movie into your golden years. Head! Pants now! I also love the cameos of Allan Arkin, Steven Wright, Phil Hartman and especially Charles Grodin. I can't tell you how many people don't realize Mike Myers plays the role of the Father in addition. "},{"Title":"hied move!","Date":"13 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This light-hearted comedy is amongst other things a p*** take of all things Scottish and a chance for Mr Myers to show off his much used Scottish accent. While this could all have gone horribly wrong I genuinely love this film. It is wickedly funny in places but it is its overall warmness that makes it a success (unfortunately not at the box office anywhere near as much as it should have been). A real feel good movie.Being Scottish I appreciate the films stance. Whilst mocking all those terrible tartan images which are so cringeworthy at the best of times it never takes it too far and it feels like it is an affectionate laugh at us and our 'culture' rather than an out and out pisstake. Besides Myers is genuinely funny whatever he does and well San Francisco's never looked better has it.Charlie - light a  "},{"Title":"Some excellent scenes make up for a ropey plot","Date":"16 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  An early Mike Myers film, but I think better than the far more successful Austin Powers series, though not as good as Waynes World.Cameos are used to great effect in this scene. Phil Hartman gets only a couple of minutes screen time but his Alcatraz tour guide, Vicki, serves up a hilarious anecdote about Machine Gun Kelly and his romantic endeavours. Alan Arkin, Michael Richards and Charles Grodin also provide the laughs in their cameos.The plot is not the best, but it does not take from the gags which the film is really all about. In case you were worried Nancy Travis plays quite a straight character leaving the humour to Myers et al, which is for the best. Sorry Ms Travis. "},{"Title":"Hilarious and Charming Comedy","Date":"11 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is really funny, and also has a sweet love story to go with it. Mike Myers does his Shrek scottish voice on his senile father, which is totally hilarious. The movie also has some really eerie moments as well.The best part of this movie has to be Phil Hartman's hilarious performance as Vicky, the deranged Alcatraz tour guide who obviously spent too much time around the prisoners.Basically, Mike Myers falls in love with Harriet, the butcher woman who sells him a haggis (a Scottish delicacy which has a reputation of being one of the most disgusting foods on Earth). However, there's nothing to be grossed out about it when you see it - it just looks like a sausage. There's a hiliarious scene that ensues where Charlie starts goofing around with the meat (the DVD chapter for this scene is called Fun With Meat.)Anyway, Charlie Mackenzie (MYERS) is a beat poet who hangs out at a poetry bar called Roads, which happens to be on a street called Jack Kerouac Boulevard. This place serves enormous cappucinos which Charlie likes to make fun of. His friend is a flamboyant Italian detective who is something of a glutton for punishment. Charlie's father, also played by Mike Myers, gives a truly memorable mockery of some kid's giant head. It's like SputnikThen there's the thing in the car on the way to a really creepy place called Poet's Corner, where Charlie does all the talking FOR Harriet. Pretty funny. Then there's a hilarious cameo by Charles Grodin. (see the Quotes section for this page).All in all, a great and fun movie. "},{"Title":"One of my all-time favorites","Date":"13 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I can't even count how many people I have gotten hooked on this movie because I made them watch it with me once.  There are a few movies I have purchased over the years that I can watch over and over and over again, and this is one of them.  I have probably seen it 25 times, and even know the whole movie script by heart.    Do yourself a favor and watch this movie, and if you have already, watch it again.  Mike Meyers is one of the funniest guys that ever lived.  "},{"Title":"meet mike myers","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is the best of Mike Myers's films to date.  I know that it's not the most popular but it represents the intelligent humor that Myers is capable of but chooses not to explore for apparent commercial reasons.  It is a pity that SNL's movie stars have all become Sandlered by releasing teen targeted movies with few genuinely funny moments.  I only hope that with future success Mike Myers will take over Woody Allen's throne.  Hollywood could do worse than release films with integrity by artists whose following grows yearly rather than the current dustbin classics of late.  An artist is young only once; but can remain immature indefinitely. "},{"Title":"A great Mike Myers movie","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mike Myers, as his own father Stuart, is quite possibly one of the funniest characters I have every seen, and it is worth it to watch if only for those moments. The rest is strong as well, with excellent comedic performances from Anthony LaPaglia, Alan Arkin, and the late great Phil Hartman. Not the tightest script around, So I Married an Axe Murderer makes up for any lags with its hearty and frequent laughs, coming mostly from the excellent acting of Myers and the aforementioned performers. I guarantee that anyone who watches this movie will be quoting from it.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful Cast and Quotes!","Date":"19 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is a must-rent and a sleeper phenom!  The very best cast has come together to create a memorable romantic comedy with some of the best quotes in movie-dom!  Of course, Mike Myers has that gift!  His blurbs get repeated at the water cooler the next day... His portrayal as son AND Father is precious, and Brenda Fricker is a marvelous mum, giving the willies and the grins as she leers at Mike's buddy (Anthony LaPaglia)!  My favorite scenes are LaPaglia with Alan Arkin as his Police Boss, doing the Serpico stuff! Wonderful!  "},{"Title":"ROSE! Jailbird...","Date":"22 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Betty.. Judy... Josie and those hot Pussycats! They make me horny... Saturday morn'y! ....Jane, get me off this crazy thing... called 'love.'My God! May all seven rings of Dante's Inferno fall upon those heads which have clicked 6 as a rating! TO HELL I CAST THEE! What an amazing catharsis for Mike Meyers' true talent. Wayne's World? Sure, it was good... part 2 proved to be just as good if not better. (And, if you didn't laugh your ass off to the mere SOUND of weird naked Indian guy... you have problems.) But, damn... What a great movie Axe Murderer is.The opening sequence just sets the tone. We follow what seems to be a TUB of cafe-whatever. Low and behold, it lands right into the hands of one Charlie MacKenzie, a 2nd generation Irishman turned wiseass. He delicately holds the robuste cup and says to us-- the waitress Um, excuse me, but I think I order the LARGE cappuccino... HELLO!... Jeez, look at this thing... It looks like Cambell's Cup-O-Cino.... And the facial expressions, body guestures... oh my! Comedic genius, flat out.Mike Meyers, if you are reading this, you are a great, great comedian/actor. You've done a HELLUVA job with So I Married... and your powerhouse movies, both Austin Powers.... Good stuff, my friend. Keep it up, and tell Dana (Carvey) I said to get well. Hey, it's never too late to do a part 3-- of WAYNE'S WORLD! WAYNE'S WORLD! IT'S PARTY-TIME! EXCELLENT! WAYNE'S WORLD!.... Mike, you're a 10! Behave?! Oh, I shan't!.... "},{"Title":"Quirky and funny!","Date":"2 February 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I love all of the quirky parts in this movie!  One of the best scenes is when Charlie (Meyers) is watching A Current Affair while using a theighmaster!  Charlie's dad (also Meyers) is hilarious with his outrageous Scottish accent and rude personality.  And Rose, Harriet's strange sister, is funny when she offers to make a wonderful breakfast for Charlie. The last 20 min aren't quite up to par with the rest of the film IMO, but over all I gave it 8/10 stars.   "}{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"8 November 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So I Married an Axe Murderer, may not have been as great as Austin Powers, or Wayne's World, but I still loved it. This movie is quite different from his major movies, that everyone loves, but If you're a big Mike Myers' fan like me and you haven't seen it yet, go ahead and rent it. "},{"Title":"I believe that this is mike myers' best movie to date.","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  > I was pleasantly surprised by this movie. Apparently the movie did so poorly > at the box office that it was not at theaters for very long. I first saw the > movie on cable and found it to be a very funny movie. Mike Myers is funnier > in this movie that in any of his more successful movies. Mike Myers also > plays the character of his scottish, immigrant father who is hilarious. > Nancy Travis is incredibly irresistible as the love interest/suspected axe > murderer. There are some great cameos by Phil Hartman and Steven Wright. >  "},{"Title":"Mike Myers is God","Date":"3 July 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is vintage Mike Myers (has there ever been a bad Mike Myers movie?). Mike Myer's characters, Charlie McKenzie and Charlie's eccentric Scottish father, carry this movie which would otherwise be pretty ordinary.The best moments in the movie occur in the McKenzie household where Charlie's father steals the show.  His brutal bagging of William (head) is among the funniest movie moments I have seen.  The songs (women women, if you want my body) provide material for many drunken sing-a-longs. I thought Stevie Wright was also very funny, but the ending was pretty lame.  "},{"Title":"Hilarious!  You will not see Do you think I'm sexy? the same way!","Date":"2 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a very under-rated Mike Myers film.  I have found myself watching this again and again, simply because it is so darn funny!  There is really not a dull moment in it and to top it all off there is a scene with Mike (as his father) an elderly bag-piper, and a microphone which will leave you gasping for air as you laugh! "},{"Title":"Hilarious comedy ranks with the best; must-see for Myers fans","Date":"27 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is definitely one of the funniest movies I've ever seen, and, like other Mike Myers movies, becomes even better with repeated viewings.  If you liked Austin Powers or Wayne's World, you will like this, although the humor is sometimes on a somewhat different level -- not always more elevated, but more subtle.  But many parts will be funny even if you don't pick up on the subtleties.This movie gets a lot of flak from critics for its ending and its structure, but nitpicking about these aspects (which don't seem to me to be flaws at all) is missing the point of the whole thing.  Go into it expecting only to laugh and you will be extremely impressed.   "},{"Title":"Wonderfully funny.","Date":"14 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mike Myers is great.  The movie is fun and funny.  Great Cameos.  This is one to see, but only if you like to laugh.  "},{"Title":"My all time favorite.","Date":"6 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of my favorites of all time.From the awesome acting by Mike Myers and Anthony LaPaglia to the incredibly believable dialogue formed by the writers and directors of the film, this great comedy/romance flick is sure to make even the most rigid humanoid chuckle once or twice.In fact..... I'm watching it as I write this review. Yep, I own it. The best money I've ever spent.The only complaint I have is that there isn't much room to make a sequel. (  "},{"Title":"...","Date":"19 September 1998","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Stuart MacKenzie, the outspoken father of Charlie is one of the funniest characters on film in quite a long time, and he alone makes this underrated Thomas Schlamme(married to Christine Lahti) black romantic comedy from 1993 an uproarious experience. Whether taunting his son Heed, discussing his hatred for Col. Sanders, or jabbering on about conspiracy theories, he's both hilarious and endearing, played by Mike Myers(Wayne's World, Wayne's World 2). Myers also plays the main character of Charlie, a young man afraid of c...ccc...commitment. He meets butcher Harriet and they fall in love. But then Charlie begins to suspect Harriet is a serial killer. His mother(Brenda Fricker), an avid reader of the Weekly World News is no help, but his cop pal Antony LaPaglia(An aussie!) thinks he's nuts. There's plenty of funny cameos too including Alan Arkin, Phil Hartman, Michael G. Hagerty, Steven Wright, Michael Richards, Debi Mazar, and Amanda Plummer has a supporting role, but she's irritating, so who cares? This film is almost on par with the Wayne's World movies, in fact it probably is now that I think of it. "},{"Title":"So I Married an Axe Murderer","Date":"4 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The leading actor has had huge success with characters Wayne Campbell, Austin Powers and Shrek, but this isn't really one of his remembered films, apart from the catchy title. Basically dedicated coffeehouse poet Charlie Mackenzie (Mike Myers) often bases his material on the numerous failed relationships he has had with women, all ending with doing something weird or high paranoia. His Scottish parents, mother May (Brenda Fricker) and father Stuart (also Myers, putting on his Fat Bastard voice), may criticise him for his wrong-doings, but he may have found the perfect girl to end the comments. Meat butcher with a heart of gold Harriet Michaels (Three Men and a Baby's Nancy Travis), and they start going out with hardly any concerns at all. Reports in the newspapers about some murders of newlywed men in the area, and habits of his new girlfriend, get Charlie back in the state of paranoia, and he is not sure he can fully trust his new love. Eventually he settles down and finds it in himself to ask Harriet to marry him, and they do so with no problems, but of course then the murders have some evidence that could indeed have her as the killer. In the end, after so many occurrences that make him, and you the audience, believe she is this axe murderer, it turns out to be her sister Rose (Pulp Fiction's Amanda Plummer), and Charlie is happy to go on as normal, if possible. Also starring Anthony LaPaglia as Tony Giardino, Matt Doherty as Heed, The Great Muppet Caper's Charles Grodin as Commandeered Driver, Phil Hartman as Ranger John 'Vicky' Johnson - Alcatraz Guide, Steven Wright as Pilot and Inspector Gadget's Michael G. Hagerty as Obituary Writer. Myers is alright as the vulnerable loser with amusingly crap poems, I laughed probably more when he was in his other guise, and Travis is okay as the very suspicious girlfriend, the script does have some witty moments to keep you on tenterhooks about the situation, but it's not the funniest film, a slightly silly comedy. Okay! "},{"Title":"Green Haggis","Date":"29 April 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sometimes a movie only develops worth after a subsequent movie worked. I myself disliked Shrek because of the underhanded attempt to undermine the Disney/Pixar alliance, and the smarmy Bill Gates strategy. But some people did like it, largely because of the voices and key to that was the Scots' version of Shrek. Apparently, several full films were made before Katzenberg accepted the version that Myers eventually made. It is the character he created here. This film is rather unappealing, but you can see the character workshop in front of you, Myers working on something. It isn't quite there. It doesn't make sense here, but it will a few years later.I really adore Plummer. She doesn't get many chances, but boy does she grab the camera with her teeth. Wow.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3 You can find something better to do with this part of your life. "}{"Title":"I May Have Married a Black Widow","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Mike Myers stars in So I Married an Axe Murderer, a 1993 comedy also starring Nancy Travis, Anthony LaPaglia, Amanda Plummer, Brenda Fricker, Charles Grodin...and Mike Myers as his own father. Charlie MacKenzie (Myers) always manages to find something wrong with girls once the relationship starts to get serious - they're thieves, they smell like soup, any number of things. When he meets his dream girl, Harriet Michaels, who is behind the counter of a butcher shop, he realizes she may be The One. Then he becomes suspicious that she's an unidentified black widow who's been killing her husbands on their honeymoons all over the country.The best part about this film is the truly excellent work by Mike Myers, who is more than just a comedian - he's a wonderful actor, capable of creating a full character - in fact, more than one - and being completely believable in dramatic moments as well as funny ones. As his father, with a thick Scottish burr, he's hilarious. Myers plays more than one character in the Austin Powers series but in those films, he's funny, playing over the top characters in over the top films. Here, he's called upon to play real people, and he's great. So I Married... has some very funny moments as well as a mystery - I mean, is she a black widow or isn't she - that will keep the viewer interested. All the acting is very good, including Anthony LaPaglia as Charlie's best friend, Brenda Fricker as Charlie's mother and Amanda Plummer as Harriet's sister. The late Phil Hartman has a riotous cameo as a guide, and Charles Grodin does a nice bit with Myers at the end. It's a slight comedy that doesn't stretch to a length that the story can't support. It's silly, it's fun, a great rental. "},{"Title":"If it's not Scottish, it's crap.","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This is my favorite Mike Myers movie. It is much more witty and funny than either the Wayne's World or Austin Powers movies. The movie title does not do justice to the movie itself. Who actually buys haggis, anyway? You would have to go a Meats of the World to find it. Watching Mike Myers as the father was priceless. Every conceivable Scottish parody that could exist was used in this movie. He taunts poor William with the heed like Sputnik. He dances to the Bay City Rollers in front of the Scottish Wall of Fame. But Stuart isn't quite a complete soccer hooligan, though. I do think I remember a picture of the Queen on the wall with darts in it. The first time I saw this movie, I cannot remember ever laughing so hard as the wedding scene. The elderly piper is playing Do You Think I'm Sexy, and he faints from exhaustion of playing the fast tempo rock song. The father (Mike Myers) says, We have a piper down!. Even when the newly married couple check into hotel, Charlie requested the Bobbie Burns room. Oh, and the scenery in and around San Francisco wasn't too shabby, either. I watch this movie regularly and gave this movie to most of my family as presents. "},{"Title":"Comedy Gem","Date":"5 May 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" So I Married an Axe Murderer is a fantastic little movie, hilarious in places and solidly funny throughout. Mostly carried by the likability of the cast and their ability to carry off what is a very limited premise and make it funny. Mike Myers is superb as Charlie McKenzie a commitment phobe 20something who meets his ideal woman only to become convinced shes the deadly Mr's X. Assisted by the his friend who longs to be a cop in the mould of Starsky and Hutch, played by Anthony La Palgia, Charlie has to overcome his fears surely she can't be the deadly Mrs X can she? I would recommend this to any comedy fan and it can be a useful date movie a romantic comedy light on the slushy romance.7/10 "},{"Title":"Harmless, enjoyable, Mike Myers movie.","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" What if a commitment phobic man met a woman that everybody was crazy about, including him? What if she had killed her three husbands? What if he could be number four? Mike Meyers and Nancy Travis are the happy couple. Both are fine, but Anthony LaPaglia steals the movie. His action seeking cop has many amusing scenes with Meyers and with Alan Arkin as LaPaglia's fuzzy warm boss. The scene at Alcatraz between LaPaglia and Meyers with a cameo by Phil Hartman and the wedding scene are funny. Amanda Honey Bunny Plummer is creepy as Travis' sister. Brenda Fricker, Charles Grodin, Debi Mazar, and Steven K-Billy Wright are effective in smaller roles. This is a fun movie, although it does not match Wayne's World or the Austin Powers films. Worth a look for Mike Myers and Anthony LaPaglia fans.*Charlie I'm smitten. I am in deep smit.* **John Johnson My name is John Johnson, but everyone here calls me Vicki.** "},{"Title":"Well-Acted - Mike Meyers is one of the funniest","Date":"22 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Warm-hearted but indiscernible, Charlie (Myers) who is severely afraid of commitment, (largely due to Mafia women, kleptomaniacs that steal cats, and females with beef-vegetable soup aroma) meets the bellicose butcher, Harriet the haggis harbinger (Travis) in a butcher shop. Not planning on more than just an order of Haggis, which his mother(Fricker) hates, Charlie later has an eventful day cutting up cows and linking sausages with his soon to be Axe-murdering wife (so it seems, according to the Weekly World News &#150; which by Mother's standards is known as The Paper. Unbeknownst to him, The Paper was right. Of course suspicion was aroused when Charlie matched up her mysterious and obscure history with martial arts, Atlantic City, and a plumber whose life went down the drain, Ralph Elliot. Charlie gets scared once again from being committed but this time for a seemingly legitimate reason, because she's going to C...leave him. They end up marrying eventually however and his over-enthused but humdrum police pal (LaPaglia), warns him while they're honeymooning that his Axe-chopping wife is precisely so. Scared once again, he tries to stay in the open but all the hotel guests force the couple to retire upstairs to be alone! Then this is when we find out that deranged Rose (Plummer) is really the troubled culprit. An interesting battle between our oblivious Charlie and the malevolent and spiteful Rose kicks off with a couple of foot shots to the crotch. Ouch! All ends well with jailbird sister getting locked up and Charlie and Harriet both become Love&#133;ED! Great Finish.Having a crazed-out, wild-eyed Scottish father (Stuart Mackenzie, not Fat Bastard) really energizes the one-liners for this movie. His insane antics include doing a solo of If you think I'm sexy, and then there was his Pentaveret theory and hating the colonel because of his wee bee eyes, and Oh you're gonna buy my chicken, oh. A superb job indeed he does as the Fazsha, who jaunts around the house trouser less, dances to the Bay City Rollers, and honors Sean Connery on the Scottish Wall of Fame. Priceless. There must've been an addictive chemical in the movie that makes you crave for it nightly&#133; SMART@55!! Mike Myers is something else. "},{"Title":"Did any of you movie geeks see Joan Cusack at the Poetry Club?","Date":"23 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I mean geek with the utmost respect, as I consider myself one. So I'm curious to know if anyone else saw the camera flash onto Joan Cusack a moment, I believe, when Charlie (Myers) was doing his insipid, yet funny, on stage poem about Harriet (the hard hearted 'harbinger?' of Haggis)? I'm a fan of Joan and John Cusack and that certainly looked like Joan in a hat at the club. I've looked all over for her name as yet another cameo, but with no success. Does anyone know? Just another bit of useless cocktail party trivia to add to my list!Well, I have to admit, this movie is one of Mike Myer's best pieces of work! It being an obvious preamble to many of his following characters, many whom were Scottish! His one liners, mostly as Stuart, are some of the most memorable, and his description of Scottish Martial Arts, Fookyoo, is rightly the darned funniest!!!!! "},{"Title":"Pure Classic Myers","Date":"22 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is one of those greats that you can watch over and over again and laugh every time. It is Mike Myers at his (at the time) best. His portrayal as Charlie is made great by his perfect facial expressions. However, the real humor in this movie comes from Myers' performance as his father, Stuart. He is absolutely hilarious whenever we see him. His comments about William's (whose relationship to Stuart is never explained) large head are priceless. And his cry after the wedding is pure gold. no matter how often I see this movie, I laugh hysterically every time. I highly recommend it for anyone who needs a laugh! I just got it as an early Christmas gift, and I have watched it three times. Every time I hear HEED, MOVE, NOW!! I can't hold it back. If you think you don't like Mike based on the Austin Powers movies, then give this one a try. It just might change your opinion. "},{"Title":"a hitchcock comedy with style and charisma","Date":"7 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  so i married an axe murderer may be a horendous title for a movie, but nonetheless the plot,atmosphere and script redeem it in as many ways imaginable. the movie delivers slight sophistication and moderate success.it has a distinctive 90's san fransisco tone and to sum it up, is a light hearted black comedy with an award winning cast and superior script writing.from a critical analysis i would give it 7.3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Mike Myers in his element and an entertaining plot, but not great","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Mike Myers plays his perfect Saturday Night Live role (except for Wayne's World, of course), but the movie doesn't have that many laughs.  The plot, however, is rather attention keeping, and you actually care about the characters.  Mike Myers plays a San Franciscan bachelor with a history of paranoia about his girlfriends' crime records.  He meets the lovely Harriet and thinks she is Mrs. X an infamous husband-killer on the loose, with whereabouts unknown.  He pulls off the role well, and the end there is a big unexpected plot twist, which doesn't make the movie too predictable. All-in-all a 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Funny.","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This film goes on a bit too long, but watching Mike Myers play two different characters is very funny. When Myers is in the father make-up, it is absolutely hilarious. I laughed for weeks over his off color comments and his facial expressions. This film is uneven, but worth the ride for the performances. "}{"Title":"A Truly Good Film from an SNL alumni","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Charlie MacKenzie is a guy who can't make a commitment.  Driven by the characteristics of his former girlfriends, Charlie makes amusingly cryptic poems about his old relationships in a coffee house. His life has been pretty good for now until he meets Harriet who is the perfect match for Charlie. The two of them become a couple alongside the support of Charlie's eccentric but friendly parents played by Brenda Fricker and Myers again as his loudmouthed father and his best friend, an excellent Anthony LaPaglia. But Harriet bares a secret that Charlie begins to suspect. This film is one of the best comedies I've seen because it's witty, smartly crafted, and most important funny. This definitely is one of the best comedies from an SNL alumni. On top of the film are great cameos by Michael Richards, Alan Arkin, Charles Grodin, and Debi Mazar among them. "},{"Title":"These people are nuts, this film is GREAT","Date":"20 May 2003","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I don't understand the mediocre comments from most of the reviewers...This is a sleeper film if I've ever seen one. There's not as much, if any, of the usual slapstick Mike Meyers humor in it. Rather it's filled with great dialog and smart, subtle humor... Also it, as some have pointed out, is a prelude to the character-type roles and stereotypes Mike M. plays in his future films.I love this movie and consider it one of my all-time favorite comedies. If you love movies like Office Space and Best In Show, then you'll *get* this movie. It's the kind of film you have to watch again and again because there's a lot to miss the first time around, and it gets funnier every time you watch it.I give it at least an 8 overall and a 9 for a comedy...  "},{"Title":"Bland comedy works fine as a romance waiting for the final curtain.","Date":"10 March 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I feel this movie had been rushed out in a hurry, messing up what should have been an otherwise enjoyable story about love at the wrong place, at the wrong time. Mike Myers is a tad dull, especially when singing his Woman numbers, but he remains casually fitting to offer a few jolly gags. This is really more of your sentimental date movie than a mystery thriller that is graciously hidden in place. A well deserved plot involving Lady X from a tabloid does greater justice with the film, and soon enough with patience, the sparks fly at the very conclusion. I will laugh only when a movie has a meaningful purpose to tickle my head, not by how acting provides an amusement to simply brand the word comedy on the package. Average at best.  "},{"Title":"My Favorite Mike Meyers Comedy","Date":"23 October 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Also, one of my favorite of all comedies. The Scottish family humor is the funniest stuff, I think. It should be a sit-com, or a recurring sketch on SNL. (possible spoilers)I just love the way Myers says Gargantuan cranium and virtual planetoid in the Scottish accent, and watching Anthony LaPaglia try to keep from bursting out in laughter through the whole scene. I had hoped for years that Mike Myers would re-visit the Scottish family humor because it was tears in your eyes hilarious. I think we got some of that in Shrek and also the big fat villain in Austin Powers. Great cast with lots of known actors and comedians in minor roles, and great locations in and around SF. Though it was a comedy reality, it rang true for me. I knew a guy just like Charlie McKenzie in college, living the cool artist life in the city with no apparent means of support. He just hung out at coffee houses, smoking cigarettes, wearing his worn black jacket with a poetry book in the pocket, and frequenting open mike nights. "},{"Title":"One or two good scenes.  The father is funniest. LaPaglia is hilarious.","Date":"8 January 2005","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" To my mind ...Ax Murderer is one of those films like Clerks or Swingers. Its plot is fairly pointless but you watch it over and over for the few really cleaver sight gags and one liners it contains.Anthony LaPaglia is excellent as an undercover police detective who wants his life to be like that of Starsky and Hutch. He constantly begs his mild mannered supervisor, Alan Arkin, to scream and yell at him like their boss did. When he shows up disguised as Huggy Bear I laughed my insides out.The sequence where Mike Myers introduces Nancy Travis to his family (Myers also plays his own father) is riotous. The sexual undertones of the big heed (head) insults to Myers' little brother are great. It takes a little while to grasp the point of why the the old man keeps insulting the boy for his over-sized head as well as to develop the mental image of Dad telling his wife to show Travis the family photo album...show her the one where he **** his pants in Niagara Falls! The whole idea of such a photo is so absurd and pointless that its pointlessness becomes humor, like jokes about passing gas in a space suit or a pay toilet in a hospital diarrhea ward. Duh. This scene would make the 3 Stooges proud.Best seen with the guys, after having a few beers. "},{"Title":"Good but not great","Date":"14 February 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Of course this movie is not that funny as Austin Powers series, actually I remember only few moments which were really funny, there were lots of jokes, but most of them were not very funny because they were already used in many other films, but this movie is great in some other terms. The story wasn't anything special or original, but the characters were great. The actors did a great job especially Nancy Travis, I think she was a great choice for this role, because she looked kinda mysterious in this film, just like Sharon Stone in Basic Instinct. The soundtrack really raised the quality of this film. This movie has some originality, it started of good, but the ending was very predictable and banal. Anyways I still think that this movie is very entertaining. "},{"Title":"Best Mike Myers role ever....???","Date":"29 April 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Well, let's just say, I don't know if it was one of his best, because he's known throughout the WORLD as Austin Powers International Man Of Mystery. However, like most Canadians, I am proud to say that Mike Myers is one of us, and he has a great sense of humor.This wasn't my favorite Mike Myers role, but it was really funny. Anthony LaPaglia is perfect in this movie as the bumbling cop, it really suits him well. I can't give away the story line, but let me just tell you it has all the right twists and turns.Usually comedies don't have a lot of suspense in them, but this one did, and yes it had me guessing all the way to the end, is she or isn't she? I loved the cameos especially the late, the great, Phil Hartman, being a Saturday Night Live fan, it was really great seeing him in one of his great roles. Charles Grodin is funny as the angry guy in the car, very funny.Anyways, it's a great movie filled with laughs, suspense and of course Mike Myers. I gave this movie a 7 out of 10, because well, it was a pretty good movie, maybe even great, and it had me guessing right up until the very end. "},{"Title":"HEAD, Move!&#133;So I Married an Axe Murderer","Date":"23 March 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Sometimes nostalgia makes a film even better when watching again after a long hiatus. Heck, I didn't even really view it as I was doing work while it played in the background. The memories I had of So I Married an Axe Murderer allowed me to fill in the blanks and create a seamless experience for when I did look at the TV screen. The script itself is very funny and Mike Myers shows all the potential he had a decade and a half ago. Not to say he didn't live up to it, but I may say he has never matched the brilliance of this, his first big non-SNL character vehicle. Sure he will always be Austin Powers, but to me, I'll never forget his beatnik poetry and crazy Scottish family.Myers plays a commitment-phobe who has finally met the woman he believes could be the one to spend the rest of his life with. Unfortunately, his paranoia&#151;and possibly the truth&#151;leads to the discovery that she may be Mrs. X, a serial husband killer at large. The beauty of the movie, though, is that this aspect isn't the one-joke trick harped on over and over again. Instead we are shown Myers' family, his police officer friend&#151;Anthony LaPaglia&#151;and his relationship with his police captain (Alan Arkin steals every scene), and the ups and down of dating his new love. It all comes back to the murderous intrigue, but by adding all the other comedic elements to complement, we never get bashed over the head, so when that plot point comes back it never feels stale.It is the characters that truly succeed to make this film hold up over time. Myers is fantastic as a normal guy, not needing to be a caricature like he seems to enjoy being of late with all his alter egos. What we get instead is maybe a representation of him, an unassuming guy with a sense of humor to win over any woman he meets. His delivery is priceless throughout and he even shows he can do some stunts in the action rooftop scenes towards the end. It's his turn as the father Stuart that is most memorable. Between the horrible Scottish accent, Coke-bottle eyewear, and crass language, you are laughing before he even gets a chance to speak his lines.The rest of the cast is great too. Nancy Travis is the perfect love-interest, playing the dual-life card with enough mystery so that we never quite know if she is really the killer until the ending; Amanda Plummer is crazy and eccentric as always playing her sister; LaPaglia has the dumb cop down-pat; and the who's who of cameos is great. From Phil Hartman to Steven Wright, to Charles Grodin, everyone does his job. It may not be the best comedy out there, but for some reason, if it's on TV I always find myself glued to the screen needing to watch, or listen as with today, once more, quoting every funny line before it's spoken. "},{"Title":"clever, creative, picture show!","Date":"17 December 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The title can scare some folks away when I tell them about this fine film. Don't let it scare you away!It is exceptionally funny,insightful, and actually has a good message on relationships.Mike Myers is brilliant as both the lead character and his father. There are some really hilarious lines and scenes that can be recounted with film friends over and over again. definitely worth the watch. The supporting cast does a great job.Be sure to see it in the unedited uncut version for the real deal humour. Especially the Alcatraz island tour given by the late great Phil Hartman. "},{"Title":"Laugh until you cry","Date":"16 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" By now everyone has seen the Austin Powers Movies, and by their own gen ere they are great. This movie, I think, is just a little bit better. The first time I saw this movie was when in came out in 1993, I was in a theater with my girlfriend which had maybe 7 other people in the whole theater, I think they paid just because this theater had the best air conditioning in North America. I was expecting something a whole lot different than what I was watching. I thought it was going to be a horror movie, to be honest, I thought How to lose a guy in 10 days was more of a horror movie than this one.This movie actually made me cry, I have never cried in a movie, but this one, I was crying from laughing....(and she thought I was sensitive). From the Scottish Father with and his pronunciation of head and Paraniod son played by Mike Myers, to Anthony La Paglia playing a cop, with his sense of humor and his trying to command-ere a vehicle, all of the cameos, this movie...just rocked.I don't want to give too much away, I can't believe that Mike Myers playing his father in this movie sang the Tom Jones song, If you want my body, and you think I'm sexy with bagpipes, I have no I idea how anyone could play that song or even get enough air in bagpipes to play that song.  We have a piper down  So rent this movie, catch it on TV, and I assure you... you will laugh. "}{"Title":"Still a favorite of mine.","Date":"26 October 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" It's been several years since I've seen this movie... of course now, I don't have Comedy Central cheapening it.A lot of the lines I still remember and most of them I laugh at still... this is a rare treat for movie fans even if it's been an entire decade since they've shown this.This may not have been Mike Meyers' best, but it is very memorable and very, very funny... especially if you like morbid humor; I almost peed my pants after seeing that bagpipe player keel over in the middle of a rendition of Do ya think I'm sexy. The only thing that bothers me is that it was too short... other than that, it does well enough on it's own.If you like these types of movies, this is for you.8/10 "},{"Title":"Yeah, baby, yeah!","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" To most of us, Mike Myers is either Wayne Campbell or Austin Powers. So, it may come to some surprise that he played a somewhat different role in So I Married an Axe Murderer. As San Francisco poet Charlie Mackenzie, who suspects that his girlfriend (Nancy Travis) may be a killer, he makes the most of his role. As it is, he not only plays Charlie, but also Charlie's Scottish immigrant father (he was probably priming himself to play multiple roles in the Austin Powers movies). Watching the movie, one may feel like writing some poetry.There are some scenes in the movie that might tense you up. But, they know how to play these scenes so that everything comes out funny. After all, this is Mike Myers here. Anyway, it's not the funniest movie ever, but still worth seeing, if only once. Also starring Anthony LaPaglia, Amanda Plummer, Brenda Fricker, Matt Doherty, Charles Grodin, Phil Hartman, Debi Mazar, Steven Wright, and Michael Richards in a brief appearance. "},{"Title":"One helluva lot of fun!!!!!","Date":"20 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" If you're a fan of Mike Myers then this is high quality Myers oeuvre which you shouldn't miss. The film is a fine example of rom-com mayhem as one would expect from Myers, but lovely for all that (shades of Shrek in here perhaps?). As Charlie's (played by Myers) outrageous Scottish father Stuart (also played by Mike), Myers goes totally and hilariously over the top. During the scene in which Cop Tony (LaPaglia)is invited to tea Myers is so ribtickling that it is clearly obvious that Anthony LaPaglia is genuinely corpsing himself. Mike's wonderful delivery and arm gestures while reciting his really appalling beat poetry Woman! Whoa-man! is wonderfully enhanced by the sight of LaPaglia watching dressed a la Starsky and Hutch. This is a great not-to-be-missed visual cinema moment. I have no intention of telling you the story because it really doesn't matter what the film is about. It's just great watching Myers doing what Myers does best. P.S. I have to admit that for me the funniest bit is the exchange between Cop Tony (LaPaglia) and his far too sweet and gentle boss (Alan Arkin)! Though by far and away the sexiest scene is the wedding ceremony in which LaPaglia cuts a dash in a very becoming kilt! "},{"Title":"Highly enjoyable and far too obscure","Date":"4 May 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" So I Married An Ax Murderer falls squarely into the category of movie that I have shown to other people whose first reactions were at best tepid, that changed to laughs that lingered for days and multiple viewings after having watched it.This movie IS very funny. As other comments have stated, it is not quite the same type of comedy we tend to know Mike Meyers for. Coming after Wayne's World and before Austin Powers, this one went by without much notice, and that's a shame.For so many SNL grads, Meyers stands above them all...save for a handful of grads from the original lineup. He only helps other SNL grads look even worse...if such could be possible. "},{"Title":"What was Charlie McKenzie's occupation???","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" A very funny movie, and one of Mike Myers' best works. Nancy Travis does a good job too, with Harriet's slightly spooky/spooked demeanor that Charlie interprets as dangerous. I really like the movie, but it's always bothered me that I can't figure out if Charlie has a job, and if so, what is it? He drives a crappy VW Carmen Ghia (oxidized and unrestored - cheap - BTW, I had a 68 convertible back in the day, such a cool car), apparently has an apt in SF (expensive), does the 'beat-poet' thing (cheap), is an experienced butcher (interesting), is not shown working or coming home from work or talking about his 'job'(also interesting) but his best friend is a police detective (very interesting). Am I missing something, because I don't recall anything about him having a job or anyone making reference to his occupation (exasperating)???!!!! "},{"Title":"Mike Myers' brilliance is multidimensional","Date":"13 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" This movie is right up there with Trading Places, 48 Hours, Crocodile Dundee, The Gods Must Be Crazy, etc. in my favourite comedies list.It is (thankfully) no blockbuster*, but it contains more comedy gems than a diamond mine. This kind of movie is like a song you hear on the radio, but doesn't quite catch until you've hear it a few times. Once you get to know the words and intricacies of the tune, it ends up on your desert island list.(*IMHO, a blockbuster has come to mean a slurry of hype and crap, leaving me with an overall feeling of disappointment and that I've been conned into dumping another bunch of cash into some studio's coffers) I've seen this movie many, many times, and every single time I see it, I am reduced to tears and convulsive laughter. Even clips will start me giggling (Heed! Paperrr! Now!, or S-A-T-U-R-D-A-Y Night!). I originally saw it at the theatre, and own it on tape and DVD, and even find myself watching it when it's on TV.Mr. Myers' scenes in his Scottish alter-ego is excruciatingly funny, as was his Stuart Rankin character on Saturday Night Live (If it's not Scottish, it's CRAP!) OK, there are a few dry spots and certain scenes do go a bit overboard, but they are more than compensated for. In several scenes, Tony LaPaglia and Mike Myers are reminiscent of Tim Conway and Harvey Corman on the Carol Burnett show, trying so hard not to lose it completely. It's impossible not to laugh along.As with Mike Myers' Austin Powers movies, it's not just what's happening centre stage/scene - watch for things in the periphery, such as the subtle expressions and body language in both the main and supporting cast members (Charlie's mum - Oh, yes!, customers in the Meat Shop, Tony's boss, etc.), scenery, signs, etc. It's all testament to how much much attention he pays to detail.All in all, it's worth watching at least a few times, if for no reason other than to embrace the comedy genius of Mike Myers. "},{"Title":"It is an amazing movie. Well Acted, well directed, funny...what more can I say! Better than Shrek.","Date":"16 February 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" By far this has got to be the best Mike Meyers film I have ever seen. Most people I have talked to disagree but I think they are nuts. Then again those people are the post-Austin Powers Meyers fans. The man really went down hill after this film, Austin Powers and it's sequels were horrible movies. They did not offer any thought provoking comedy, the sequels were the exact same jokes from the previous movie and the actors they got to play the female interests were annoying. The first Austin Powers was tolerable, but the other two were pathetic attempts to make more money without putting too much thought into it. Then there is Shrek. I laughed twice in that film. The first time was when the princess had the signing competition with the bird and it blew up while trying to match the high pitch voice of the princess, then she cooked its eggs. The second time was when they blew up those animals into balloons. The Donkey was annoying, Shrek most likely would've been better cast as Chris Farley (if he was still alive that is) and Cameron Diaz should be given a restraining order keeping her at least 200 yards away from film cameras at all times. Please don't think I'm some cynical little kid that thinks a movie has to be intelligent or completely original for it to be funny, cause I am not in the least (I am a Kung Pow fan for God sakes). I just ask for my movies to do what they are supposed to do, and that is entertain. So, having that been said, you most likely won't appreciate this film if you are a Shrek/Austin Powers fan. But this is the funniest, best cast, best written and best directed Mike Meyers film that is available. "},{"Title":"mixed emotions","Date":"10 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" The movie will be remembered more for one-liners and little sketches rather than the bigger picture. Whilst not a bad film, all involved have done and will continue to do better. It's still funny though, a quotable film more than anything else. Myers sarcasm seems to have a life of it's own, and his Scottish accent is a killer.The acting is kind of tongue in cheek, they're winking at the camera and just having fun, it takes a bit of a serious turn at the end, and it kind of muddles the direction a little, but there are definitely unfunnier films out there, and if you like Myers, you'll like this.  "},{"Title":"WO-man.......wo-wo-wo-wo..........man","Date":"28 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  This is a great video rental.  8/10.    Under-rated and under-seen, if you like Mike Meyers, you will love it.  His father does the Scottish accent in this one.....Eef u want mi boody, En yu thenk Em seexy...  better done than the over-the-top Fat Bastard. "},{"Title":"A decent Mike Myers film","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Knowing nothing about this film, I simply  loved Mike Myers' rendition of the beatnik boyfriend  who somehow has no job but manages to  sustain himself in some odd way. While the  story was a bit sticky in some parts, the overall  performance of Myers (as Charlie and his father)  proved he would be one of the few SNL alums  who survive their protective cocoon. A decent film  to enjoy with a group of friends. "}{"Title":"huh ?","Date":"11 October 2013","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I hate to be the turd in the punchbowl here, a role to which I am accustomed, but just what is it with all the enthusiasm for this lame flick? I just don't find Mike Myers funny at all. I don't know whether it's his comic persona (or lack of same) or the heavy-as-lead comic writing. Whatever (then again I can't figure out why people think Leslie Nielsen is such a hoot, either). Myers is lame enough in the role of Charlie, but his portrayal of his dad, Stuart, is head-scratchingly incomprehensible. I didn't find Anthony Lapaglia as the cop very funny either, and his lines also seemed lame. And I'll never figure out why the great Alan Arkin signed on to this dog; he must have needed the work at the time. This is supposed to be some sort of cult classic. Go figure. "},{"Title":"Wow, the funny parts will really kill you...hahaha","Date":"19 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" So I Married an Axe Murderer (1993)Well, there are some scenes in here so hilarious I have been able to watch them over and over. And there are other parts that are pretty lame. I'll admit to fast forwarding a few times, but I watched it straight through again last night and it's not a horrible movie at all. There are some novelties to it (the opening scene with the camera latched to the coffee cup, or even just the incredibly bad beat poetry performances). And there is a clever basic plot, which keeps you guessing (the first time through).I'm not a Mike Myers fan, but then, he's supposed to be an annoying twit in this one, I think. But that's not counting his role as an older Scottish man (sound familiar), which is does with such brilliance it's hard to not love him. (You can see his co-actors laughing too hard, actually, at times--they were overwhelmed by how funny he was.) This is a genre of comedy that is partly made of up individual skits, or even particular moments that are set-ups for one-liners, and so this sequence of funny situations seems at times a little forced together, and by nature a little uneven. But the funniest of them (and we might not agree on all of these) are really really funny. That's worth a lot. "},{"Title":"Myers' as a straight man and as a cleaned up version of Fat Bastard","Date":"17 March 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Not totally great, but a nice little parody of several Hitchcock movies, especially Shadow of a Doubt. It starts out pretty lame when Mike Myers as Charlie McKenzie recites poetry about one of his failed relationships. Although, it is supposed to be (I think) a satirical view of the bohemian cafés that were such a large part of 90's culture, it looks like Myers actually thinks that he is smarter than everybody else. Yes, maybe he is satirizing bad poetry but it looks more like he is trying to escape his airhead persona form Wayne's World. The poetry is recited as Myers is saying I am the only one who gets this, so up, yours (Sorry about that).Otherwise, this is really kind of funny for the most part. Myers is adequate as Charlie, but of course he is hilarious as Charlie's father. Just listen to him insulting everybody he actually loves and you will see a little precursor of what Eddie Murphy did later in The Nutty Professor. Myers, was smart enough to only play the father and let Brenda Fricker, a marvelous actress play Charlie's mother.There are a few more scenes that are quite amusing. Anthony LaPaglia, plays Charlie's friend, Tony who is a cop. He is quite disappointed that his captain doesn't speak like in the movies, which means that he is too nice. The captain is played by recent Oscar winner, Alan Arkin and he has a lot of fun with it.The scene that made me laugh the most was the one where Charlie and Tony visit a prison. I will not spoil it by a synopsis but just say once again that Phil Hartman's death was a severe loss to the entertainment industry. He totally nails his one-scene part by simply playing it straight. His character's name is a little much, though.Mike Myers has become highly overrated and I think he needs to stop doing the same thing over and over again. I know that a lot of people would disagree but look at the things he has done - sequel after sequel with the same characters often in different movies. "},{"Title":"So I... isn't an awful comedy, but it is one better off not remembered...I just hope that because of the recent success of Myers' latest films, film executives are not led to believe there is a m","Date":"14 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  So I Married an Axe MurdererOne of Mike Myers' earliest non-SNL films, So I Married an Axe Murderer is made up of too many sex gags and not enough wit.Myers plays Charlie Mackenzie, a down-on-his-luck-poet who cannot commit to marriage no matter how hard he tries. Then, one day, Charlie meets butcher Harriet Michaels (Nancy Travis), and instantly falls in love with her. He gets married, etc., and eventually begins to suspect she is a sadistic axe murderer whose next target it poor Charlie himself!So I... isn't an awful comedy, but it is one better off not remembered. Mike Myers' Austin Powers films are full of innuendo, but also have wit. Unfortunately, Axe Murderer contains only one element innuendo. It really has no wit. It is a battling ground for sexual dialogue, and plenty of it.We can never really attach to Myers' character. Charlie is a bumbling poet one moment, who just wants love. As soon as we start to feel sorry for him, he cracks a crude joke, like he's a big shot. It's kind of like when you feel sorry for someone lonely; you try to become their friend. But then you find out that they are not grateful at all, but rather they take your friendship for granted.Travis' character is one-dimensional with no apparent depth. It's hard to really get to know her character on screen.Director Thomas Schlamme had only filmed some live comedy gigs and TV shows before this film, and has since filmed one low-budget film starring Martin Lawrence. It seems appropriate, because this movie runs like a TV show. It tries to take control of the audience instead of letting the audience come in. It also seems that director Thomas Schlamme didn't have much material to work with from scriptwriter Robbie Fox. But I guess he came out okay in the long run; the movie could be worse. Much worse.Myers was fresh off Wayne's World, which was a huge success. So I guess he figured he could do no wrong. But this was a bad career choice for the comedian. It's not an awful comedy, but they had some decent material that just turned average.Perhaps the best bit in the whole film is the mandatory Mike Myers-dress-up-as-two-people moment, where Myers plays Charlie's Scottish father, Stuart. He is probably the best character in the film, if irreverent (The kid's head's as big as a football!)I just hope that because of the recent success of Myers' latest films, film executives are not led to believe there is a market for So I Married Another Axe Murderer!2/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Typical Mess.","Date":"8 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  Silly little film that plays more like a Saturday Night Live sketch than an actual motion picture. Mike Myers stars as a poet who falls in love with a beautiful meat cutter (Nancy Travis) who might actually be a serial killer who marries men and then cuts them up. It is as stupid as it sounds. Myers has dual roles and there are a few small cameos from former Saturday Night Live alums. Just avoids the turkey with a couple of funny moments, but those moments are few and far between. Do something else. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Almost a perfect 10","Date":"4 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  2 things really detract from this movie  Amanda Plummers annoyingness (or perhaps her character's annoyingness), and the cheesy ending.  Otherwise, an excellent romantic comedy!  The jokes are funny, the acting is superb, the plot is smart and interesting, and the soundtrack is great too!  What more could you ask for!  My vote for best cameo Charles Grodin!  (although Steven Wright, Phil Hartman, Michael Richards, and all the others are great too!) "},{"Title":"Clearly not meant to be taken seriously, but just not funny any way you take it","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" Being a bit of a fan of the Austin Powers flicks, and after having very much enjoyed several other films by Mike Myers(among them, both Shrek films), I decided to check this out as it was on TV. I can't say that I hated it, but to claim that I actually liked it, even slightly, would be a lie of epic proportions. The music was pretty good, and the jokes... well, they weren't all intolerably stupid and tasteless... I guess. The film is about a talentless(in my opinion at least, those poems were the most uninspired bull I've heard for quite some time) poet who falls in love with a butcher, only to find out that she might be an ax murderer. Yes, seriously. Personally, I thought the twist was obvious from, well, pretty much the beginning. It didn't really come as a surprise. I don't know if that's because I've watched too many movies for my own good or it's because the writer and/or director just didn't bother with making it a mystery to the viewer. The plot is lame, stupid and not particularly involving. The pacing is very bad; the film seems to move at a pace that would make a handicapped infant snail cringe. Yes, it's really that slow. Trust me. The 'romance' scenes just made the whole thing worse. The acting is nothing special. The characters are poorly written, flat and clichéd. The gags and jokes are rarely ever funny, and every single point is shouted directly into both ears of the viewer, in what is apparently a desperate attempt at trying to make us laugh, which just makes it even more pathetic when they fall flat. I don't know, I just didn't see any humor in the horrid poetry, the main characters' family of moronic misfits who anyone, no matter how forgiving, would be ashamed to admit they were the kids of, or even the wannabe cop who made every single mistake he could when trying to do any actual police work. Maybe I'm too mature, maybe it's just not my brand of humor, maybe I should stop guessing. Some may enjoy this movie, but I'm not sure who. I recommend it to fans of Mike Myers, as they might find it funny; just keep your expectations low. 5/10 "},{"Title":"The movie is blast for all to enjoy.","Date":"18 November 1999","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":"  I have wanted to see this film for years.I always seemed to miss it.The story of Charlie and his love life are fun.The story is well laidout.The plot keeps you on your toes.The family is alot of fun to watch.Harriet is very well played by this actress.Further,the story is fresh and differant than most black comedies.The city by the bay is a nice setting for the movie.I give it 7 out of ten today. "},{"Title":"One of the most under-rated films ever","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Romance","Review":" I love this film. It's so funny, witty and poignant. From the opening cappuccino shot all the way to the climax, this movie will keep you thoroughly entertained.The cast is superb, especially Myers who excels as the hero (Charlie) and Charlie's wonderfully caricatured father. The other characters are equally hilarious all the way from the police captain (who delivers a monologue so funny that I still remember it ver batim more than ten years on) to the crazy, sleepy spaced out pilot.This is definitely a must-see film. The humor more than just slapstick, there are some great one-liners, active visual effects and (of course) the poetry helps. Oh, and I love the soundtrack as well. One of the best!! "}]