[{"Title":"I loved this movie!!!","Date":"25 January 1999","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  I am a big fan of twisted, dark, and weird movies. This film filled in all three quite nicely. It is a stop motion animation film, with live actors. I don't mean that it is a film where stop motion and live action are combined, but a film where live actors are stop motion animated and interact with the more conventional stop motion models. This gives the film a strange, jumpy feel that keeps you on edge right from the start. Also, the makers took the time to make every set seem dirty and stained. They even have insects crawling on just about every surface.On top of this, it also has a wonderful soundtrack supplied by bands like Sheep On Drugs, Startled Insects and a Theme by John Paul Jones, the former bassist for Led Zepplin.The plot is similar to the original Tom Thumb, but told in a more current time and twisted around a bit. This gives the film a strangely familiar feel, which I found wonderfully unnerving. The characters don't really speak so much as mumble, which, along with the jerky motion, adds to the un-ease.All in all, this movie stands right up there with David Lynch and Jan Svankmajer films as a twisted masterpiece.  "},{"Title":"Wicked!","Date":"7 September 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Last night i had the chance to see this excellent piece of animation and I truly enjoyed it. For all those interested in clay/latex animation (Aardman style) the s/fx are awesome.As for the storytelling absolutely wicked ! One of the best adaptations of a nursery tale I've seen, with somber dystopia tones think Aldous Huxley and Brothers Grimm meet Chicken Run.Fantastic flick ! "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"10 July 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Secret Adventures of Tom Thumb is a dark and interesting retelling of the classic fairy tale Tom Thumb set into modern times, but from a surreal, nightmarish perspective. Everything from this is outstanding The animation, which reminds me very much the works of Jan Svankmajer and the Brothers Quay, the atmosphere, which is dark and captivating, and the characters, that may look as monster, but are actually victims of a cruel, inhumane world. The only bad thing about The Secret Adventures of Tom Thumb is that it is too short, leaving you wanting for more. This is one of the most imaginative and the most artistic animation that I've ever saw. I highly recommend to anyone. "},{"Title":"A sad tale","Date":"1 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  This is definitely a visually unique movie, but I also found it to be poignant, provocative, emotionally disturbing, and sad.  The heart-wrenching and unfair fate of Tom's laboratory friend and fellow escapee, which was based solely on the way he looked, almost made me cry.  I was also moved by Tom's innocence and non-judgemental nature, despite the horrors and tragedies that surrounded him. "},{"Title":"from Fringe Video Fanzine Issue #002","Date":"3 June 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dark Bolex Bros. fantasy about the life of a miniature baby born into a world of giant misfits & social freaks who grunt and coo without saying anything intelligent. Out of step time and place, populated by scurrying spiders and other unidentifiable species of insects makes this piece much like the films of the Brothers Quay or the outstanding work of animation master Jan Svankmajer. This is a weird film that blends live-action footage with stop-motion claymation set in a world of dark back alleys; high tech labs, and swampy landscapes of garbage ruins. Tom Thumb is stolen from his home in the seedy part of town by sinister government agents. He later escapes from an evil lab where mutation experiments are performed. Narrowly escaping he finds himself in a land of people his own size fighting the big people alongside Jack the Giant killer. Genuine horror and moving moments that have the power to unsettle and enchant in equal measure. Definitely one of the most intoxicating and mesmerizing animated films I've seen in a very long time. "},{"Title":"This movie rocks!!!","Date":"9 April 1999","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  The way that this movie was filmed using clay-mation and live people is amazing.  The people are jerky and clumsy, and the clay-mation is smooth and fluid.  Too top off that, the entire thing is bizzare and surreal. When I saw it in the theater they showed a short film about Kafka and his Metamorphosis afterwards which was just as fun and twisted. I don't know if it's on the video, but it should be. "},{"Title":"unusual combination of stop-motion and live actors; very creative and entertaining","Date":"8 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" Done in stop-motion, though there are also live actors, and the live actors unusually appear to be done in stop motion as well!An insect flies into an artificial insemination factory, and gets squished and some of its guts drip into one of the specimen jars. Sometime thereafter, a woman in a small hovel gives birth to a tiny boy that fits easily into his father's palm. He's named Tom Thumb, and his parents do not seem surprised or disappointed by his small size. Unfortunately, some men in black trenchcoats, hats, and gloves come and take him away to a laboratory.The laboratory has all manner of strange creatures and parts of creatures being kept alive for weird procedures and experiments. Tom is helped by a small dragon-like creature that is partly skeletal, partly cybernetic, partly raw flesh, and partly normal looking. He meets other tiny people and tries to make his way back home.The world they live in is rather dingy-looking, and there are always some insects present. There is very little dialog, and some of what is spoken is little more than mumbling.Definitely calls to mind the Brothers Quay, Jan Svankmajer, and the team of Marc Caro and Jean-Pierre Jeunet (Delicatessen, City of Lost Children). Quite entertaining, and I wonder how available the other works by this director might be. "},{"Title":"One of the great animation films of all time.","Date":"9 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  Dave Borthwick has made a film that is wonderfully textured and is a masterfully executed motion picture. It is a rare example of magnificent story telling with animation.  This is one of the great animation films of all time. "},{"Title":"Send the kids to bed for this strange nightmarish stop motion masterpiece!","Date":"1 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" The Secret Adventures of Tom Thumb is extremely bizarre. It often reminded me of Czech animator Jan Svankmajer. The story concerns a tiny Tom Thumb who's oddly born to a regular sized couple. They live in the slums in a bleak sort of future. Tom is kidnapped and taken to a science lab of mutated creatures. The lab does horrible experiments to animals and wants to try some tests on poor Tom. Tom has to fight against the evil Jack the Giant Killer, and try to find a way home to his family. Some viewers will find the the film frustrating since the characters talk in grunts and squeak noises. If you enjoyed Eraserhead or bizarre stop motion films like Alice (1988) and Faust (1994), you should definitely witness The Secret Adventures of Tom Thumb. "},{"Title":"Not a contender.","Date":"15 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" From what I've seen in the animation genre, this comes closest to the work of Jan Svankmajer, technique-wise. But compared to what I've seen of Svankmajer, this doesn't come close, if you catch my drift. This one has cheap looks (which in itself doesn't have to be a bad thing, but this lacks atmosphere), uninspired characters (flesh or clay), (too) little imagination, poor lighting and hardly any momentum story-wise. Though certainly it is not all bad, and some small parts were particularly convincing, especially more towards the end. And then I'm simply a sucker for the stopmotion technique, so, for me, it's not that hard to get through - but one may as well be forewarned.A very small 6 out of 10.P.s. The 5 minute bonus short 'The saint inspector' is far more superior in idea and deed. "}{"Title":"Few words","Date":"24 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":"  It's a very scary, and interesting movie. One of my best that I ever seen. All the horroristic machines and creatures are kewl! Great photography, and animation work.  "},{"Title":"not really...","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Animation, Adventure, Sci-Fi","Review":" I came across this movie due to recommendations from the Eraserhead discussion board. So i had my expectations i oughta be weird dark, twisted. Well, it is.It's not a great movie though. It's a very original movie, thaT must be said. But the stop motion simply doesn't work. It's all very lifeless, even the REAL actors seem lifeless.It has a nice story, and the backgrounds and weird characters look great. great detail toO!But when things start to move, all tensions are lost. I bought the DVD, cause usual the discussion board are really helpfull to me ( thanks IMDb and members!), so at least i have the short movie the saint inspector. now THAT's great stop motion movie! so i just pretend that the saint inspector is the main feature and tom thumb is just an OK extra ) "}]