[{"Title":"Grab A Box Of Tissues","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"45 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Untamed Heart is an absolutely touching tear-jerker romance. Every once in a while, I just want to find a movie that allows me to let go and just cry. This is definitely one for the records. The chemistry between Christian Slater and Marisa Tomei is so strong that you just can't help but believe these two people actually care about one-another. Marisa Tomei as Caroline,  a waitress that seems to work all hours of the night and Christian Slater as Adam, her quiet, secret admirer dishwasher with a heart problem. Throw in Rosie Perez as Caroline's smart-ass best friend and what more could you ask for? These characters have such depth that, even though the plot is a bit predictable, you feel so much for them and by the end, you will be reduced to tears. I still tear up every time I see this movie. The perfect film for any sap with a taste for sentiment. It will always have a special place in my heart. A romance to go down in movie history. 9/10!  "},{"Title":"Tomei shines in touching romance about the working class","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"35 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Young, outgoing waitress Caroline (Marisa Tomei) still lives at home with her parents and younger brother.  Although she has had her heart broken numerous times, she has not become cynical about love.  Adam (Christian Slater) is a busboy at the same restaurant as Caroline; he is, however, a shy recluse who doesn't relate to people very well. Yet, when a crisis occurs, it is Adam who comes to Caroline's rescue.  For the first time, she sees him in a different light and they begin a loving relationship.  Caroline is finally experiencing the happiness she deserves and Adam is opening his life to someone else.  Still, something from Adam's past comes forward to haunt them.  Will they find a happy ending?This is an extremely touching and humorous love story about working-class people.  The movie has many candid scenes about restaurant life and the people who work there.  Also, Tomei gives a sweet, irresistible performance that warms the heart.  Although one may need a kleenex or two before the film is over, its loving atmosphere will remain with the viewer for a long time.  Recommended for everyone searching for a film to provide a feel-good-about-life day at the movies. "},{"Title":"For someone who is picky about romances, this one is by far the best of it's time..","Date":"7 November 2004","Score":"34 out of 36 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When I was married, my then wife dragged me to see this movie on Valentines' Day weekend, when it first released. I agreed to go based on the fact that one of my favorite actresses appeared in it, Marisa Tomei. The most I'd seen of Christian Slater was in 'Robin Hood', and didn't care much for him in that.What a change one movie can make for opinions on an actor.I was engaged with this movie from frame one.Cliff Eidelman's score is captivating and very moving in this movie, flowing along effortlessly with the film. Marisa Tomei is pure magic, and Rosie Perez is just right as the screechy best friend.What surprised me most was Slater's performance. Here, he gives a very introspective and introverted performance, that, in my opinion, was worthy of an Oscar nod. The mannerisms with which he portrays Adam as the shy orphan who seems unsure of himself are dealt with great detail and care. He hasn't had a better performance before or since.That doesn't overshadow Tomei's performance in this film. She is simply beautiful, no matter what part she is portraying. She has the Minnesotan accent down pat, and you believe you are in the Twin Cities while watching the film. I feel her performance in this movie was a step above My Cousin Vinny. Too bad the Academy didn't agree.And when Slater and Tomei occupy the frame together, it is, for a lack of a better term, absolute glory. The chemistry between these two actors on screen is so thick you couldn't cut it with a chainsaw.The cinematography, by Jost Vacano, who also did movies like Das Boot and Robocop, while not visually stunning, is very technical, with the use of pull-pans/push-pans and ground perspective shots. A very well-done film all the way around, from Bill's directing to Mia Goldman's seamless editing. Too bad some wiseacre reviewer gave the ending away in a review of the film before release and literally killed it's box office.I own the DVD now, and I can offer one warning Gentlemen, if you watch this movie with your wife/significant other, be prepared to offer up excuses like 'there is something in my eye', or 'it must be my allergies', if you're not comfortable admitting letting the waterworks go. The proclamations of affection between these two are so charming, yet not heavy handed. It's the kind of things you would have wish you'd said to that 'one that got away'.My rating 9 (no movie has ever gotten a 10 from me, but this one almost had me reconsidering) "},{"Title":"Untamed Heart.. A somewhat buried treasure.","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"22 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I absolutely loved this movie, and stumbled upon it quite accidentally. I am a fan of Marisa Tomei and Christian Slater so I decided to give it a shoot as a rental. I now own it on Laser Disc (remember those) I found this movie both touching and heart-warming. I consider it a must see.  "},{"Title":"A different love story","Date":"10 May 2006","Score":"15 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" UNTAMED HEART tells the story of the romance between a lovelorn diner waitress (Tomei) and shy busboy (Slater). It is a sad, sweet movie without the usual gloss and pretension that ruin so many filmed love stories. These are working class people living working class lives. Tomei is touching as a woman who has been hurt once too often but who still holds out hope. Slater gives one of his best performances as the virtually mute busboy with both social and health problems. A heart-tugging vignette at the very beginning, involving the busboy as child in a Catholic orphanage, foreshadows later events in the film. Slater underplays beautifully, and thankfully so as this is Tomei's film all the way. She never looked more beautiful than she does here. Watch for the Christmas morning scene. Tomei wakes up to a special magic thanks to her busboy pal, and magnificently conveys her sense of wonder. Beware, however UNTAMED HEART (BOY WITH A BABOON HEART would have been a better title) is a two-box of Kleenex. "},{"Title":"One of the sweetest, tear-jerking, and romantic love stories of all time!","Date":"4 September 2001","Score":"23 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In my opinion, UNTAMED HEART is one of the sweetest, tear-jerking, and romantic love stories of all time! When Caroline (Marisa Tomei) got raped, I got scared to death. This was because I thought she was going to die. Lucky for her, when Adam (Christian Slater) saved her, I thought it was absolutely romantic. This was because a romance quietly developed between them. Also, they started dating each other. Oh, that was so sweet! Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that I liked it when Adam and Caroline went ice-skating, to the hockey game, and to the New Year's Eve party. Now, in conclusion, this movie filled my heart with lots of love. "},{"Title":"A great portrait of lovers in love","Date":"17 June 1999","Score":"12 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A childhood illness leaves a young man with a serious health problem and a somewhat odd outlook on life. Being rather retiring, he was considered strange by his fellow employees; causing them to shy away from him. Despite all this, he gets to know one of the girls better after he helps her out of a sticky situation. They manage to have a brief yet fulfilling relationship. Very romantic, I loved it. "},{"Title":"A thoughtfully, well-acted romantic weepy.","Date":"11 August 2003","Score":"14 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As an audience we all grow more cynical and demanding, the more films that we see. Our expectations are constantly being upgraded and shifted to new levels of anticipation.  I really did not expect 'Untamed Heart' to have quite the same impact today, as it did when I first saw it.  I was wrong. I still cried. It's still the most heart warming, feel good, romantic comedy I've ever seen.For those who are not familiar with the story, Christian Slater plays the part of the mysterious Adam who works as a busboy in a diner.  All his life he's never physically come into contact with people, and he never speaks. You could say he lives in his own magic kingdom, hermetically sealed from the outside world-so much so that at the age of 26, he still believes in a fairy tale the nuns told him when he was growing up in an orphanage, involving magic rubies trickling down from a magic mountain, and being given a 'baboon heart.' Later, he even admits to possessing 'magic' records that he plays 'whenever the world doesn't agree with him.'In real life it would be hard not to raise a smile at such an account, or at the very least be convinced the person was in need of some serious medication, but it's a testament to the power of the story that like Caroline(portrayed by the Marisa Tomei) rather then dismiss him, we start accepting his childlike understanding of the world. We overlook it when at the start of the film, Caroline asks him questions and he doesn't even respond.  Anybody else would consider that plain rude. We forgive him when he creeps into Caroline's bedroom to watch her sleeping.  We understand when he follows her home repeatedly, keeping at a safe distance to remain undetected. The reason we're able to make such adjustments, is that normal rules here do not apply, because in the world that he lives in, it's not inhabited by mere humans.  He still occupies that fantastic world that we so readily discarded as children, because we had to embrace the darker reality of adulthood in order to cope with our new responsibilities.  So Adam's character, while undoubtedly naive, offers no real threat. As an audience, we know where he's coming from. He's simply trying to make sense of the world around him, and does not understand how to behave any different.Gradually, over the course of the film Caroline brings out more and more from Adam, and because of his unique perspective and vantage point, some of the things he says and does to convince Caroline of his love for her remain long after the credits roll.If we've ever had our heart broken and as a result we try to 'tame' our heart so we don't get hurt again, this is the film we should watch, because it reminds us what love is, and what love can be. Any hurt that we may have felt is nothing compared to the joy we feel when we do get it right. "},{"Title":"Untamed Heart","Date":"21 March 2005","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I watched this film for the first time and I was upset by the way the film started at the beginning because it wasn't what I expected at all.I didn't know what kind of film it was not having seen or heard of it before and I thought it to be all about a woman taming a man and finding love.As the film progressed it was so full of love and romance, fun, laughter, two people enjoying each others friendship and growing into more, just wonderful.I was devastated at the happenings within the film the brutality as well as the goodness within it but the originality of almost real life was what made the film believable.I expected a very happy ending and it took me ages to stop crying because I have a friend who had a similar experience.It is a beautiful film and quite comparable in a way to love story.A love for another human being that was unsurpassable.I would recommend anyone who has even a hard heart to watch this film.I absolutely loved the film and the actors were just superb. "},{"Title":"This film is from the heart!","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of the warmest and truly from the heart pictures I have seen in recent years and from the out set in the orphanage to the warmth you could feel in the could at Christmas this film shines through. The leads are perfect and the direction all but flawless. You could never say that Tony Bill missed his chance in the film business with a carrier spanning more than 40 years with countless acting roles in films such as Ice Station Zebra, as a director he shorly has more great stories to tell and would love to see him at the helm of a non made for TV film once again, where he should be!. "}{"Title":"Now, that's real love!","Date":"8 March 2001","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  As the german title says this is Real Love. I never saw a film with such a believable and strong relationship. And I am happy that this film introduced Marisa Tomei to me, my all time favourite actress. This is her second best performance (the best she did in Unhook The Stars which should have get her the oscar which she actually got for My Cousine Vinnie. I am still wondering why!). I really hope that she will have equal roles in the near future that will bring her more response from the audience who only seem to recognize cuties as Sandra Bullock and Julia Roberts who are always playing the same characters over and over again.     Of course all actors are great in this film but Marisa stands out.If there are some people out there who gave up believing in real love then watch this film. I did give up believing but now I know that one time I will find it too. "},{"Title":"Love, Life, and Beyond (Spoiler)","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Another of Slater's best performances ever. Marisa Tomei and Rosie Perez are both great performers in this movie and are both easy on the eyes in this film. The boy with the baboon heart steals those of the audience with this touching story of a loner (by choice) who finally is brought to life through the powerful social magnet of love. What ensues is an uplifting and ultimately sad but hopeful resolution to live for the moment that we have and live life to the fullest that we can, enjoying all that it has to offer us. This is well worth renting and is quite underrated as of yet in these rankings and overall in pop culture. One of my favorite films of the past 2 decades. "},{"Title":"A true romantic treasure!!  Christian Slater at his best!!!","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just discovered this movie recently! I was looking for a romantic movie and after reading the opinions on here about it, I decided to give it a try and buy it! I did like Christian Slater in Robin Hood, Murder in the First, Kuffs, to name a few, but after this movie he is totally at the top of my favorite actors' list!!! His performance was so true, so moving!! As for Marisa, I didn't really knew her before this movie, but she was also truly amazing in her role!! They make such a cute, believable, perfect couple!! I usually try to keep the tears in when watching a movie with someone else, but this time, I just couldn't!! Truly one of the most romantic, touching movie I've ever seen!! I wish there was more movies just like this one! "},{"Title":"The Best Movie From This Era","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie captured the essence of the day. Although this film was suppose to be depicted from a small town in Minnesota, I have come to learn that this journey actually began long ago in the heart and mind of a young boy who grew up in Northern New Jersey. This young man grew up in the footsteps of what would later become the backyard of what is today's Soprano's environment. Writer Tom Sierchio searched deep into his childhood experiences, thoughts and background to come up with this heartfelt story of a young man with a heart of wonderment. Mr. Serchio helped the viewers understand the various levels of intelligences and the heart which embodies this movie. Mr. Serchio developed a very humble and sincere plot to develop the character of this young man named Adam portrayed by Christian Slater. Mr Slater was outstanding in bringing us the essence of this young man's heart and soul. In addition to the excellent acting of Mr. Slater, we have a young Marisa Tomei stealing our hearts by opening up her soul to this young Adam's purity. The movie is a piece of history and should be cherished by all those who remember the days.Hats off to Mr. Serchio and the entire crew! "},{"Title":"i cried!!!!! Big time!","Date":"6 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  ************WARNING SPOILER*********************i have always been a christian fan but i think that this one has to be one of my favs! ok it didnt have the best storyline the hole animal heart thing, but what got me was the ending,  was it just me or did nobody else see that coming - anyway i think that it would have to be one of the the most tear jerking moments ever!!!!!!!!!i loved it!!!!! although i was still crying half an hour after it finished. it is the perfect movie for a cold and wet winters day and you can snuggle down into the rugs with a box of chocs - and tissues! "},{"Title":"forewarned","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  You are hereby forewarnedif you are a tough guy (at least on the outside,like me)DO NOT WATCH THIS MOVIE with another human being! Except maybe, your wife or steady girlfriend, with proper discretion.The characters said things one to the other about their feelings of love for each other that were so deep and tender and with so much passion and detail, that the words felt like things I have felt and said to women I have loved and lost.They were haunting words and feelings, so strong and overwhelming that your heart feels it will explode if you don't say them and love so passionate, you feel as though you might faint if it weren't for the adrenelin in your blood!I had the same kind of life as the character Caroline, albeit, women who walked out or cheated, so it was personal too.Untamed Heart is a perfect example why many men hate these movies!They destroy all pretense to our toughness and macho if viewed with others,ie(no I'm not crying,I just got something in my eyes).Not only that,we don't like to feel what this movie makes us feel,at least when it comes to the ending.I did not know how the movie ended before I saw it and had I known, I would not have watched it,for I'm really not the tough,hard nosed guy I portray myself to be.This is not a they lived happily ever after movie,which are the only love stories I like,but at least the character's relationship and love for each other remained intact.I want husbands and wives, girlfriend and boyfriend to love each other AND grow old together.Since I can't have that in real life,I want it in my movies.So....be forewarned,this movie hurts so much here(pointing to MY heart). "},{"Title":"The most beautiful love-story I have ever heard of","Date":"4 October 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is something that I was waiting for. I saw it on TV  many years ago. I couldn't get it just when I went to the USA. The first thing I bought this VHS was. Every time I watch it I cry... and that piano-song... it's tunes are forever in my heart. "},{"Title":"Perhaps my favorite movie","Date":"10 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Okay, so I would have paid good money for different ending.  This movie sings to the heart and makes you weep for all that is lost.  True chemistry was definitely found between these two. This movie is for every women who still believes in true love and maybe for some who have stopped believing. "},{"Title":"What is a 'HEART' made for?","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I regret of not watching it in the early period of 90's when it was released. Just after 15 years I got to watch this seemingly heart-touching movie. 'Untamed Heart' is not like a normal love story, its just a story between innocent Adam (Slater) and an unlucky waitress Caroline (Marisa). Adam wishes to live a normal life and use his heart as usual people. But he knows that he has a cardiac problem (considering his heart is of 'baboon'), which made him to stay far away from the people around him. The people hardly care him for his unusual behaviors and characteristics, and all these make Adam to live a lonely life. He works in the same restaurant where Caroline does a routine job as a waitress. But his duty is washing dishes and throwing the garbages from the kitchen. He secretly admires Caroline but doesn't dare to express it. Once late at a night when Caroline was attempted to be raped by two strangers, he got a chance to save her life. This made increase their chemistry of love for one another. Surprisingly, he loves Caroline only with his mind and soul, and not with his heart.Excellent job from Slater, which I never expected from him before watching this over-the-top and sorrowful love story. Earlier to this I just considered him to be an actor born for the generation of action and fighting. He really surprised me after watching this.And I had nothing to say about Marisa as I knew well she is perfectly suited for a better role. Whatever I will mention here will be incomplete about her. She is always awesome. So better to leave it aside.I can imagine how awful it would have been if I had the same conditions as Adam has in this movie. After all, I will keep this movie in evergreen top 10 romantic stories of my life, as it convinced and taught me another definition of 'heart' and 'what it is made for'. "},{"Title":"Sweet","Date":"22 November 1998","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of the best movies I have ever seen.  It's amazing how few good romance movies are out there.  Christian Slater and Marisa Tomei were fabulous.  Rosie was unexpectedly wonderful too.  Untamed Heart was sweet and sensitve.  It mad you laugh, it made you cry.  It was absolutely outstanding. I loved it. "}{"Title":"Untamed Sweetness","Date":"25 July 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I've heard a little bit about Untamed Heart on TV and from a friend of mine, how sweet it was and very romantic. So I figured I would give a rent and see what it was about. While the dialog is extremely cheesy and a bit over done, I have to admit, I was... shudder... touched. It's silly, I'm not into the over romantic type of movies, but actually I have to admit that this was a good one. Untamed Heart gets under your skin and if you open yourself up to it, I'm sure you'll find yourself falling for it as well.Caroline doesn't have the happiest love life. Every boyfriend of her's dumps her and mistreats her; she's just a simple waitress who doesn't finish much of what she starts. One night coming home late from work, she is attacked by two men and is almost raped, but is saved by Adam, a bus boy that works with her. Slowly Caroline and Adam develop a strong love for each other, but Caroline learns a strange secret that Adam was a weak baby and was given the heart of a baboon. When he is attacked by the men who tried to rape Caroline, the doctors warn her that he is in danger of his heart, but all Adam wants is to have his heart full of love from Caroline.Untamed Heart is pretty much flawless, I'm sure that you'll enjoy it. It's very sweet and a loving film that anyone could get into. Even I got into it, which once again I say is weird, you're reading a comment from the only girl on Earth who hated The Notebook. But I did enjoy Untamed Heart, it had good acting and an original story that was beautiful. So please, I do recommend this film if you are looking for a good romantic film.8/10 "},{"Title":"Marisa Tomei stole my heart.....","Date":"19 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw this movie for the first time while traveling.... What tugged at my heart strings is the emotion that Marisa Tomei seems to exhibit in the way she looks at Christian Slater, how she touches him, her passion when they kiss at the hockey game, her playful nature... Where the hell have I been?! Is she like this in other movies? I realize it's just a movie....but everyone should be able to experience that connection. Great acting. Rest of movie is a bit of a typical plot...but her acting over shadows quite a bit.Apparently, I have to add 10 lines.....so.... Here's a few more so the post is listed.Rock On! "},{"Title":"Be Still, My Baboon Heart.","Date":"14 December 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Christian Slater is a young man with rather freakishly long hair who has been raised in an orphanage and now works as a dishwasher in a Minneapolis diner. He rarely speaks and keeps to himself. Marisa Tomei is a waitress in said diner, and Rosie Perez is her earthy but sympathetic sidekick. Slater has developed a crush on Tomei and follows her around at a discreet distance, so when she's attacked while walking home from work he's able to rescue her. Later, her attackers wreak an unpleasant revenge on Slater. All of this brings the two of them together. Slater lets her know, in his recedent way, that he adores her, and she responds by falling for this shy, silent kinda guy. Their love is, how you say, consummated. But there is a problem. Slater was told by the nuns at his orphanage that he's had a heart transplant, with the donor being a baboon. Whether that's the case or not, his heart is now weakened and needs a booster shot, which Slater is unready to undergo. Eventually his heart, simian or hominid, beats its last, but not before he's had a heck of a good time exchanging tender gestures and body fluids with Marisa Tomei.I can't really tell if this is a particularly well-done example of the genre because I watch so few examples. I could see most of the developments coming, and so would you. And the crooning of Johnny Mathis and Nat King Cole's mystical pop song, Nature Boy, from the 1950s really wasn't necessary. We get the picture. Slater is quiet, shy, and mysterious -- like Montgomery Clift in A Place in the Sun -- the sort of man who attracts women, but only in the movies. In real life I would imagine that he would absorb the attention of women who were chiefly neurotics. A research plan for young men who DON'T look like Montgomery Clift Get a menial job, speak to no one, don't meet anyone's gaze, and see what happens. If you save a co-worker from rape, you might get a Thank You note and a box of chocolates.Well, I've made sufficient fun of the movie and it's a bit unfair, like stretching the iridescent wings of a butterfly on the rack. It's supposed to be a sweet and endearing story, and it is, even if it's some mutant form of Beauty and the Beast. At least I was able to get into it, though I hadn't expected to.The Nature Boy business was an irritant, and the baboon heart slipped motionlessly by me, but Slater is quietly effective in the role and Marisa Tomei is quite good and thoroughly believable as a sensitive young woman who serves ham and eggs and reads Catch 22 at home. Rosie Perez is always a kick in the pants too.The film stands as a beacon of hope for those of us who trudge off to work, looking exactly the way we feel, and yet suffer from an intense desire to find love in an unpromising milieu. Or anywhere else. "},{"Title":"Loved that movie","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I saw this movie for the first time a few years after it was made. I watched this movie and totally fell in love with Christian Slater. Yep, it was a tear jerker alright. To describe the movie to someone, it probably sounds corny and you wouldn't think it would be such a great movie. I was surprised how much I DID like it. (but of course, seeing Christian Slater play that part won me over so I'm probably biased there). But no, seriously, I thought it really was a great movie. If I had to list my five all time favourite romance movies, that would be in there, no doubt. I think I've probably seen just about every movie he's been in by now and there's quite a lot of them too. "},{"Title":"an 'inside treasure' of a movie","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Everything about this movie is next to being very, very good! the story itself and how it moves along. The casting is excellent especially in one of my absolute favorites, Marisa Tomei. Christian Slater slips down into character perfectly as you would expect him to. I didn't see who wrote it or adapted it, etc. Or anything else about this movie except for the three main actors in it and the story------several times over again over the years. It's just that good. you can revisit it time and time again. Since I'm keeping critique to a minimum I'll cover the best part of the whole movie. And that is that Marisa Tomei's role as Caroline amongst the other two, C.S., and R.S. shines just enough past them in being what the character is meant to be. The leading character, as well as, the character the story revolves around. She really does a great job making the character very real to you. And Ms. Tomei moves you in different ways throughout the movie. Of course I'm unabashedly bias. Christian Slater matches up really well by virtue of the patience that he shows in every scene and letting the story play out the way it should when an actress has the lead and is leading in a story and with characters like these. "},{"Title":"A Sweeping Love Story","Date":"1 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw this movie for the first time about an hour ago, I loved it! I'm a sucker for a good romance, whether or not it was unrealistic doesn't really matter to me. Every girl hopes that one day her world will be transformed because of a guy as sweet as him. The only thing that sucked was that he died of course, there was no happily ever after, but she got a chance to see how much of an effect one person can have on another person and obviously that changed her forever.I have this book called 10,000 Ways To Say I Love You, in it is a list of the 21 most romantic movies of all time, this movie was on the list, for any of you who find that interesting. "},{"Title":"An Untamed Classic","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" A movie about love in the highest degree. Caroline has bad luck with men and love. Adam has no one to love. Then one night Adam saves Caroline and the adventure begins. At first she doesn't know what to think about this guy that watches over her like an angel. Then she decides to give him her heart. And the audience is sucked right in. Adam tells this remarkable story of his baboon heart while you hear the song nature boy and rain falling in the back ground. Absolutely mesmerizes you. The song nature boy describes the character perfectly. He was a strange enchanted boy, a little shy and sad of eye but very wise was he. It really hits you hard. Then he's attacked and they come to a stand still. He needs a new heart but believes he won't be able to love her the same. So in a way they have a race against death. Trying to love each other as much as they can before he dies. It finishes with a sad thud. I was so moved I cried like a baby. The letter was simple but said everything. Adam will always carry Caroline's heart with him. "},{"Title":"This is sad but nice","Date":"15 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Christian Slater gives a fantastic performance as the shy and reclusive Adam, a boy who apparently has a baboons heart!!! Caroline is the waitress that be becomes infatuated withSpoiler coming upAdam stalks Caroline but in a nice way!!! He's just looking out for her he follows her home and stops her from being attacked. When he finds out how much she loves Christmas he gets into her house and puts a Christmas tree in her bedroom, in normal circumstances this could be considered to be a bit creepy but Christian as Adam is so vulnerable and innocent it does not seem like this. Adam has a dog but he does not know what the dog is called as apparently the dog never told him. Along with Adam's collection of records and his obsession of ice cream he comes across as a character that just needs to be loved. The ending is really sad why did he have to die. Christian Slater seems to get killed of in a lot of his films, I don't know why as he is such a good actor. "},{"Title":"perfect.","Date":"14 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was absolute perfection. there was nothing wrong with it. The story line wasn't rushed, the characters knew there parts and they flowed. It made me want to cry and laugh all at the same time through the whole movie. Adams innocence was so endearing, and Carolines world knowledge proved to make them the perfect couple. when someone like Caroline exists it is better that they meet someone like Adam who is pure and has no bad intentions what so ever. I had never seen a movie I liked better than Untamed Heart and I don't think I ever will. I wish to see more movies with Christian Slater seeing as I have only seen two. And I hope that everyone loves this movie because it deserves all the praise it can get. It's a must see. Go out and rent it.  "},{"Title":"Here we are a lovely bunch of coconuts... (spoilers)","Date":"25 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Swell romantic comedy with some fine young stars of the day Christian Slater, Marisa Tomei, and Rosie Perez, in a pretty sad, but nonetheless beautiful little romantic drama.Christian Slater plays Adam, a once-orphaned boy with a heart problem. Actually, he was a kid with a baboon heart, from a transplant (no joking). Unfortunately, despite the transplant, he still has difficulties with his health. He plays the guardian angel of the shadows for his coworker, Caroline (Tomei), who becomes so smitten with her self-appointed protectorate, that they fall in love and carry on quite a perfect relationship.Both of the characters, exhibiting little, if any reason to dislike them (except for maybe Tomei's excessive dreaminess at times and Slater's excessive quietness and avoidance of even mild confrontation). They're both sweet characters that you root for, the one's you hope things will work out, and that they really will live happily ever after. It is a story about a sinecerely romantic guy and a loving woman who oddly, doesn't find Adam's surveillance of Caroline to be creepy (he's been her guardian angel for longer than she knows). It's a sweet tearjeaker, and one that the cast was just swell in.  "}{"Title":"Purity of heart and of love","Date":"8 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Anytime you hear Nature Boy played as a film opener, you know someone is about to jerk your heartstrings. Yet knowing we are being manipulated, and knowing where the plot is heading, we watch it and weep, even if that was not our intention at the sit-down. Perhaps through this film we re-experience love's first blush; or recall a longing for what might have been, sometime, somewhere, in our own lives. It can be a touching film, if we haven't become too jaded; and cloying if we have. A bonus is getting to hear Nat King Cole singing in that velvet voice of his. It sets a complimentary tone to the plot, when used.Christian Slater is impressive as usual, only breaking character during the hockey scenes when he gets so totally into it that the cool guy self slips past the restrained character facade. He uses his eyes to great effect in this film, far more than in any other, and he pulls off some unlikely lines with such conviction. (Note that Nature Boy underscores these moments) Tomei's eyes are too dark to be really expressive and it makes some think she is a lesser actress than she really is. Her role in this film is as a mixture of bony comfort giver and heart-on-her-sleeve lost girl who wants love so desperately that she always ends up getting hurt.Adam, Slater's character, has a heart condition and believes a fantastic story about a Silverback Baboon King and a jungle adventurer, and it shapes his personality profoundly. Only he can get away with stealing her picture, following her home, and sneaking into her room at night, without coming across as a creepy stalker. His motives are pure and even heroic. In fact, the man with the baboon heart, and the heart bruised girl, unwanted by anyone else, but each other, reminds us that there is someone for everyone, no matter what station in life we tread. Nature Boy, sung by Nat King Cole, and played over the closing credits is hauntingly beautiful, as always. I could listen to him forever. "},{"Title":"simply this is true love","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  to write something about this film is, for me, a very hard job, beacuse this is absolutely my favorite film..in my life I never saw a story that speak about love in this way..soflty,deeply but never too honey to be obvious..M.Tomei is so candid and lovely here an C.Slater seems to be and angel fallin' down to the heaven..after I watch this film I've cried but with the smile on the face..I'm falling in loved to this...on v.h.s  I re-watch it every night before I sleep !!! I simply will love it for the rest of my life!!!!! "},{"Title":"My new Favorite","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film was absolutley beautiful.  I am in love with this movie, and with Christian Slater.  When I saw his name flash across the screen around 1200 am last night, I decided to stay up and watch.  Was I glad I did. This is a beautiful peice of work, all actors (especially Slater and most of all Tomei) should be proud of this incredible film.  What a spectactular plot, and I love Slater's different than usual role.  This is a movie about true love, and their love was pure, deep, and amazing.  I think it is impossible to watch this movie and not fall in love with Slater along with Tomei.  I cried everytime he spoke, for his lines are the truely beautiful ones.  I love the cute I wasn't finished bit. The end was depressing, I didn't really like it, but this is an awesome movie, I recommend it to everyone.  Bring tissues!!  Watch it again and again - I will.Jan B10/10P.S. Christian Slater is sexy. "},{"Title":"a really good movie that really touches your heart and feelings","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  the greatest thing you`ll ever learn is just to love and be loved in return..... the words still sound in my head... Untamed Heart is not just another lovestory... its the story of love...compared to city of angels this movie was perhaps a bit less professional or hallucinant.. but the story still stands and really touched my heart...  "},{"Title":"Curl up on a couch and bring tissues!","Date":"26 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow! Untamed Hearts is a great romance movie with a great mood to the story. If only all the guys were like ADAM!!! This movie is great for sitting on a couch on a rainy day and cuddle with your love one. The movie is easy to follow only if watch the beginning of the movie. I thought Christian Slater's performance was fantastic and you really fall in love with him.  "},{"Title":"Wonderfully Spectacular!","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow! This movie really hits home, and I'm sure it's not just for me! This movie has everything in it. Everything every person wants! Christian Slater does an excellent performance in this movie. It leaves you wanting more, more love, more romance, and makes you take a look at how your life is run. I will definitely watch this movie 1,000 more times!! "},{"Title":"Wow! It was great!","Date":"22 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie was so good! It is my favorite movie, and trust me, I am a very rigid movie critic. But then again, I am a sucker for a good love story. And it can't be just any love story, it has to be good and believable. And the one in Untamed Heart really is! Their love is so pure and amazing. The acting by Tomei and Slater was REALLY believable and that's what made this movie so good. Slater seems so innocent that even the audience falls in love with him. It is a great movie! (Plus Christian Slater is one hot mama!) "},{"Title":"beautiful, romantic  must see","Date":"18 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  wow!  i was recommended this movie, who actually looks like C. Slater. anyhow, I won't spoil the film.  It is an absolutely wonderful love story. Actually human nature.  I could see this again and again.  The acting was brilliant.  Life is good.  Connections made between people are amazing.  A must see, and heartwarming, romantic and about friends. I loved it.  Enough said, your turn.  tx.  <. "},{"Title":"TearJerker","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The 1st time I saw this movie was a couple weeks ago. I didnt really see all of it so I decided that I would buy it. Today I got it and I just watched it. It is the best movie I have seen in a long time. I cried thru the whole ending of it. If you like Romances then this is a must see!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Not Exactly Sure Why...","Date":"31 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  but this is my favorite movie of all time.  But for some reason, I saw it 5 times when it was in theatrical release and now own the soundtrack CD, the VHS, and DVD.  Even caught it on broadcast TV a couple times.Not a lovelier scene in any movie than Marisa Tomei jumping out of bed Christmas morning to enjoy her Christmas tree.Different movies speak to different people in different ways at different times.  Right movie, right person, right way, right time, I guess. "}{"Title":"Flawed but perfect","Date":"12 January 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Yeah, as a writer I know that my summary line (Flawed but perfect) is an oxymoron, but this movie succeeds in tugging at your heartstrings despite several gaping plot holes.  **POTENTIAL SPOILER** The biggest one involves Adam's (Christian Slater) escape from the hospital ... and nobody seems the slightest bit interested in doing anything about it.  It just sort of goes away.That said, the chemistry between Marisa Tomei and Slater is perfect.  (I don't get annoyed, as some commenters do, with his constantly saying I'm not finished so much as his total refusal to speak for large expanses of the movie -- no matter how shy you are, it just doesn't seem realistic). But they make a great couple.Even if the late scene where she's driving him back from the hockey game makes no sense (he's taken on and wasted two thugs, gotten a knife in the gut and survived, generally runs around like a maniac, and now he's just going to fall asleep and ...) it's still poignant.A classic example of a movie that succeeds in spite of its faults.  I'd easily give it an 8.  And just to show how un-credible I am, I'd have given it a 9 if it somehow had a happy ending. "},{"Title":"One of the best romantic movies ever.","Date":"28 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I am a sucker for romantic movies and I really love a happy ending although now and again its good to see a not so happy ending which is what you get from Untamed Heart.  This movie has it all it'll make you laugh, it'll make you cry and it'll remind what real love is all about.  Slater and Tomei are perfect as the young couple who are deeply in love despite all the odds being against them and although i'm not a fan of Rosie Perez i have to say that even she deserves praise for her performance as the best friend. Unfortunately some of the dialogue is a wee bit pointless and everytime it gets to the bit where Slater keeps saying I wasn't finished... I want to fast forward but all things considered i would have to say that this is one of my all time favourite movies and I think that everyone should see this film at least once.  And if it doesn't make you shed a tear or at least sniffle a little then you must have a heart of stone. "},{"Title":"The touching film!","Date":"19 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie 3 times. Always for coincidence. But i'm just lucky about finding it. Slater acts perfectly, he passes the truth about what Adam feel for Caroline. It's a very touching movie! Marisa is also very quilt! They traduce the perfection of love, in it more innocent way. Even more, becouse innocence, is dissapearing nowadays, and so, the movie makes you wonder about how good  discover love innocently would be. And that is the main purpose of movies, make the audience wonder about it and and feel touched by it. And Untamed Heart  can't be more perfect about doing that.So, i would like to Congratulate the cast of the movie, the director and his staff.And i know that after it, there's a lot of people wanting to have someone like Adam or Caroline, or also, wanting to be like them. "},{"Title":"A Good, touching movie...","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This film is one of my favorites. It's one of the best Drama films of all times. OK, admit that Slater's character is a little bit weird, but the rest of the film is great! It's perfect directing and the story is so, so good. It's a very touching movie but it has some laughs to! "},{"Title":"All Time Kitsch Classic Wonder Extraordinaire !!!","Date":"6 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  All Time Kitsch Classic Extraordinaire !! Untamed Heart has to be one of the 80's most memorable films, even more -if that were possible  it is- wonderful than Mermaids with Sweet Winona. I mean, it is HILARIOUS  Christian Later as the original teenage woolfman with a heart ! -and not any heart, too, but a wonky one ! Babetastic Marisa Tomei as  Waitress Caroline ! Yes,  Ca-ro-line !! (-Not to mention the one and only Rosie Perez, a one woman-army who surely deserves her own TV talk-show eight days a week.) Everything in this film is nothing short of delightful  oh, that so-called fight scene even Walt Disney would have deemed lame... Adam setting up a whole Christmas tree inside Our Loveliest One's bedroom without waking her... His anguished face and inability to communicate suddenly overcome... her playing his records with a big smile on her face (he was an angel) after having just buried the love of her life, no big deal...  Doesn't Our Marisa even wear a fluffy sweater, too ?  Talking of her, Marisa Tomei has never been lovelier nor more endearing, and not many actresses would have tackled that role with so much dignity  she never comes across as tacky or even embarrassed by the script. Which Illogical doesn't even describe   just imagine any young woman, who has just been assaulted, waking up to find that someone has spent the night in her room arranging a XMas tree, and... who finds it cute. Cute indeed. Untamed Heart makers, we salute you; and may you come up with many more of the same eye-candy; anybody who feels a bit under the weather, go get the video and it will cheer you up for the rest of the week.As for Marisa... please someone give her a proper part  the girl radiates sweetness. Rating  11 out of 10. "},{"Title":"An enchanting romance.","Date":"25 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  In this Marisa Tomei gives one of the most endearingly sweet performances you'll ever see.  You'd have to have a heart of stone not to want the best for her and Christian Slater in this, the latter playing a mile outside his usual range.  I'd love to see it on DVD one day.If you liked this I'd also recommend checking outThe Very Thought of You, The Winter Guest and Mr Hire (french). "},{"Title":"The Story","Date":"23 March 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is my favorite romance film. It has such a sweet love story. It doesn't end like most love stories...and that's what makes it so special. It was a film that made me believe in true love and some day it will happen to me.I really liked Christian Slater's performance! This is my favorite out of all his credits. "},{"Title":"A Nice, if not a bit slow","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Well... my first impression of the movie is, what a chick flick. And true to my word, it is. But then again, I got hooked on it and almost cried when I watched the ending (please don't tell my friends about this ->). So, I must say that, although it cannot match the romantic movie heavyweights (Romeo and Juliet, Casablanca, movies like that), it's definately a keeper. I recommend it that you watch it with your girl/boy friend. Oh, just one gripe. The story moves a little bit slow. That's all. "},{"Title":"deeply moved your heart","Date":"26 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Of late,I got a job as Video Store clerk. I found Christian Slater's movie Untamed heart. After watching this film...I was sad. Because the ending is too sad... The story is wonderful,it deeply moved my heart... "},{"Title":"Wow!!!!  (Watch Out Might Spoil The Movie For You)","Date":"26 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Wow!!!  That's exactly what I said when i first finished watching Untamed Heart.  I'm a movie buff.  Especially when it comes to romance movies. I've seen so many that the Romance/Drama sections of the rental place are always in need of more romance movies i haven't seen.  I saw Untamed Heart and I was amazed.  This has become probably one of my most favorite love/romance movies i have ever seen.  It's just a wonderful piece of movie. A wonderful piece of love.  I myself am not a very big Christian Slater fan but in this movie he did an awesome job.  just spectacular!!!  i love it love it love it.  and marisa tomei was just fabulous!!  this is such a great movie.  there is a line in this movie that just kills me and it killed me when i first heard it.  it just melted my heart and my eyes started to water and then i full out bawled.  it was good.  )  Caroline  Adam your heart is deseased!  You need a new one.  Adam  but this is my heart!  I'm afraid that if they take it away I won't be able to love you the same.  Caroline You love with your mind and soul, not your heart.  You don't really love with your heart, it's just a saying.  Adam  Then why does it hurt so much here (pointing to his heart) when you're not with me?  OOOOOhhhhh, such a killer line.  I love it!!!!  I love this movie and i'm ready to give it 10 stars!!!!  Greeeeeeaaaaaaaaat movie!!!!!!!!!!! "}{"Title":"Amazing","Date":"1 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is one of my favourite movies ever.  Make sure you have tissues for this one.  Christian Slater is just the perfect man in this movie. "},{"Title":"The first time I'd like to say something...","Date":"17 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Normally I do not like to write a lot...but now I have to make an exception. Now ...one day after I have seen this movie on TV, I have to say that this film is something special. I do not watch romantic movies very often...and a lot of them do not show real life, but ...this film shows it ..(real love!)....it shows what every person (male or female) wishes to get. Before this film I did not know Marisa Tomei...but I can tell you ...now she has a great fan!!!Until now there was just one another romantic movie I wanted to mention... (which is also an excellent movie!)..and I can only tell you the German title, because I do not know the original  Der Mann der Friseuse.I believe that there a lot of people who live together....and like each other...but do they really love? ....let us this leave open.There will be some ...but not many ( that is just my opinion) "},{"Title":"One of the sweetest, tear-jerking, and romantic love stories of all time!","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In my opinion, UNTAMED HEART is one of the sweetest, tear-jerking, and romantic love stories of all time! When Caroline (Marisa Tomei) got raped, I got scared to death. This was because I thought she was going to die. Lucky for her, when Adam (Christian Slater) saved her, I thought it was absolutely romantic. This was because a romance quietly developed between them. Also, they started dating each other. Oh, that was so sweet! Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that I liked it when Adam and Caroline went ice-skating, to the hockey game, and to the New Year's Eve party. Now, in conclusion, this movie filled my heart with lots of love. "},{"Title":"Why aren't there more movies like this?","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie is an hour and a half song of joy for romantics everywhere.Marisa Tomei as Caroline is a gentle romantic who falls in love completely and without pretense. She gradually brings out the shy and quiet Adam giving him the love and tenderness he so desperately needs.Two of my favorite scenes were seeing the joy on Caroline's face when she awakens and sees the Christmas tree Adam put in her room on Christmas morning. Also when they meet on opposing escalators and Adam gently touches her hand as they pass. Neither speak, their facial expressions make the scene work beautifully. This film is unashamedly tender, heartbreaking, romantic, soulful and life affirming. This little gem will pull your heartstrings much more than most big Hollywood movie romances could ever hope to. "},{"Title":"An affair of the Heart - sublime work by Slater & Tomei","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  UNTAMED HEART (1993) *** Christian Slater, Marisa Tomei, Rosie Perez, Kyle Secor.  Extraordinary love story focusing on an unlucky in love waitress (the lovely appealing Tomei in a heart-warming role) and a seemingly shy busboy (Slater in low-key mode) with a strange secret.  Warm and heartfelt with a little too-good-to-be-true approach rises above its ilk with distinction. For the offbeat and romantic.  **only gripe is continuity with a giant surgical scar on Slater that mysteriously disappears half way into the film(!) "},{"Title":"Beautiful!","Date":"16 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Marisa Tomei is certainly one of my favourite actress although she doesn't have many big roles in her career. I know many people doubt her talent but I think she is great. She's got a very beautiful face, a sweet way of speaking and her performance in this film is lovely. Christian Slater perfectly fits to the role he has in this movie. Tony Bill's direction gives charm and beauty to Untamed Heart, making it a irresistible story.  "},{"Title":"Nothing wild here; a generic 'Heart'...","Date":"14 May 2009","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Flighty, juvenile romantic concoction, written by Tom Sierchio as if he'd just overdosed on television movies-of-the-week. Marisa Tomei plays a broken-hearted--though incredibly perky--waitress in Minnesota who finds love again with busboy Christian Slater, a guy victimized by the proverbial Hollywood heart condition. Co-producer Tony Bill is also responsible for the film's flaccid direction; he's awfully fond of 'cute' montages and loving gazes in close-up, and yet allows a potential rape sequence to drag on for far too long. The star-leads are absolutely unbelievable in these roles, while Rosie Perez is wasted in a bland best friend bit (another clich). Drippy, dreary, unmoving, and tame. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Untamed bore","Date":"25 March 2005","Score":"9 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Tony Bill's film 'Untamed Heart' is a hugely annoying, kooky-girl-saves-social-misfit type romance. Christian Slater, playing the aforementioned misfit, gives a hugely romanticised performance that bears no relationship whatsoever to the real natures of people who have been unable to develop normal social skills; even so, no girl wants to live with a weirdo forever so from the moment it's mentioned that he has a weak heart, you just know that there's a soft and weepy get-out clause waiting at the end. The film is also coy in avoiding any sex scenes, even though for once these might have been interesting had the writer had the nerve to script them (instead, he blithely implies that everything is just wonderful). If you close your eyes (which is quite easy to do while viewing this boring movie), it's just about affecting; but never for a moment true to life. "},{"Title":"big romantic loves this movie","Date":"28 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" LOVED LOVED this movie. one of my all time favorites love Marissa's part and the same with slater. i wish they would have more movies together. 10 out of 10 for me and thats a strait guy saying that!!! i am a big fan of romantic movies if there is any other suggestions for other movie please send me a message thanks. love sappy movies and eating popcorn. romantic movies are a breed of movie that is a dying art and should be brought back into mainstream movie making. all those who agree with me give me a hell YEAH!!! thank you. i only wish there were more god romantic movies out there s i'll see any movie at least once so please give me some suggestions "},{"Title":"A touching romance","Date":"24 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Normally I don't touch romantic films cause they nauseate me with sentimental drivel, but Untamed Heart touched my heart deeply. Aside from really schmaltzy moments and dialogue throughout the film, the film's heart is in the right place with its leading man and lady. Marisa Tomei is quirky and unlucky in love Caroline who almost gives up on men after she is nearly raped by two diner patrons. Her mind is changed after she slowly gets to know shy busboy, Adam, and the two fall in love over the course of the film. Christian Slater as Adam is one of his more gentler roles where he rarely speaks, which nearly drove me waiting for him to actually speak. He is gentle, tender and so painfully shy you just want to hug him. By the close of the movie, I collapsed in tears at the tragic conclusion, wanting to comfort Marisa Tomei's Caroline in her grief. A underrated treasure that is enjoyable and bring the tissues! "}{"Title":"Moving portrait of an outcast","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Released in 1993, Untamed Heart tells the story of Caroline (Marisa Tomei) who works the night shift at a Minneapolis diner. She's a beautiful and likable young woman but, for some reason, is unable to maintain the romantic interest of the guys she dates. The answer to her love problems turns out to be right under her nose in the form of the diner's quiet dishwasher/janitor, Adam (Christian Slater).Untamed Heart is a must for fans of Marisa Tomei (see the film and you'll see why) and the romance between Caroline and Adam works, although their sexual union is premature IMHO, but real-time has to be condensed into a 102-minute film so I guess it can be overlooked.What struck me most about this film, aside from Marisa, was the character of Adam. He's an outcast; he doesn't fit with the crowd; he's quiet and mysterious in a misfit type of way; he's an easy target for people to mock; he's content to adore Caroline from a distance; his love for her doesn't change as she keeps making mistakes trying to find someone to love; he secretly acts as her guardian angel and doesn't care about getting credit.Why is Caroline attracted to such a person? Because opposites attract. We're naturally attracted to people that have what we lack and vice versa. Caroline is open, talkative and comfortable with practically any social setting; Adam isn't. Adam is aloof, meditative and unconcerned about fitting in -- qualities Caroline lacks.You'll see people like Adam in real life if you open your eyes. At a local restaurant I sometimes catch a glimpse of one of the kitchen workers, whether taking a smoke break outside or whatever. He's in his mid-30s, maybe older, obviously intelligent with a striking appearance, but he's quiet and aloof from the people around him, with an air of mystery. This is a person, like Adam in the film, who doesn't fit into society's mold -- college doesn't work for him despite his intelligence, nor does a conventional job; he just does what he has to to live.The film is very successful at bringing to life this type of outcast in the character of Adam. I found it quite moving. I understand and can relate.Not everything in the story works, however, which is why I knock off a star in my rating. For instance, it isn't even remotely believable that Adam would be able to secretly break into Marisa's house and set up a Christmas tree in her bedroom while she's sleeping, especially in light of the fact that there are other family members sleeping there as well. Dumb. What were the writers thinking? The film was shot on location in NE Minneapolis.GRADE B "},{"Title":"Melodramatic romance at its most melodramatic","Date":"1 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Caroline (Marisa Tomei) has her heart broken yet again. Adam (Christian Slater) is the introverted silent busboy working in the same diner. Then one night, she's harassed by a couple of guys and Adam comes to her rescue. Adam is an orphan who was told by a nun that he has a baboon heart. They fall in love. The two guys come back to attack Adam and in the hospital, he's told that his damaged heart needs a transplant.This is romance at its most melodramatic. Marisa Tomei is a master at making googly eyes. She has the giggle and the sweetness. Christian Slater is going mostly for the quiet type. They make an appealing couple. The story hits all the girlie fantasy about a silent broody guy who rescues the damsel in distress. And he needs her in return. You are my peace. It doesn't get more melodramatic than that. "},{"Title":"Quirky,  Could have been better, but is intriguing","Date":"9 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I'm not going to heap praise or scorn upon this film. It deserves a little of both, but it's an okay film.I guess it's successful in one sense at least -- Christian Slater's character does creep me out. But, he also made me think about all the people in our midst who are just a little odd and who are living very lonely lives because of it. So, overall, I would have to say this was a fairly good performance by Slater.Although she's busy enough, I've long felt that Marisa Tomei is an under-appreciated actress. I wouldn't say this is one of her finest roles, but she's good enough in it.Rosie Perez is here as a supporting actress. I don't follow her much, but it seems that every time I do see her in a film that she's playing sort of the same character. Is she type cast? In terms of the story, my complaint is that Slater's character is just a bit too weird to make it work really well. Sort of like the screen writer couldn't finesse anything...just went to an extreme caricature. I note that a couple of our reviewers pointed out that for a winter-time film there were an awfully lot of green leafy trees in a few of the shots. True, although I wouldn't have thought about it if it hadn't been mentioned here.This is an okay film, but it certainly won't end up on my DVD shelf. "},{"Title":"Sweet and Kind Movie!","Date":"8 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Really a very sweet and a very kind movie. As it shows Christian Bale whom everybody predicted to be a big name star but really with the wrong roles he choose prevented that. As Marisa Tomei did not live up to her Oscar winning role in My Cousin Vinny! Still really good with Bale playing Adam a simple minded young 26-year old who is shy, works two jobs, and has never talked to anybody after growing up an orphan with nuns. Marisa is the tough talking Caroline who has had her heart broken one too many times by a bunch of losers.Then after two lowlifes try to rape her, Adam who has been quietly watching out for her as she does not know it at the time. But after she realizes it is him, both begin a quiet and silent relationship.That none of her friends know about. As Adam hardly has any friends at all. But still, Adam will only talk to Caroline as he feels Caroline can relate to him.The movie ends on a bitter sweet note. As the supporting cast lead by Rosie Perez adds nice support to it. Not Oscar worthy but a great and sweet movie. "},{"Title":"Tom's Diner","Date":"18 July 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Sweet at times, Untamed Heart is a largely incredulous romantic drama about a shy guy called Adam (Christian Slater) who falls in love with a cute waitress played by Marisa Tomei.The film is tapping into powerful, primal twin fantasies. Adam is quiet, sexy, strong, and protective, carrying Marisa home, defending her from rapists, showering her with gifts and showing her ceaseless affection. Females in the audience drool when he's on screen.Marisa, meanwhile, is a bundle of sex, walking around in bra and panties, oozing a careful mixture of cuteness, innocence and sexuality and batting her eyelids like a doe-eyed puppy. Guys in the audience drool when she's on screen.Our idealised couple, playing their parts for all the loner's in the world, of course fall in love. They spend Christmas together, kiss, and then Adam dies of a heart condition. From here the film turns into Arthur Hiller's Love Story. While the film is moody in places, has a number of very good scenes, makes interesting use of a Suzanne Vega song, features an atmospheric, noirish diner, and contains cute performances by Slater and Marisa, its impossible to take a film seriously which randomly resorts to heart conditions and out-of-nowhere rape scenes to cook up drama. This is a film which knows that saving a woman from being attacked (and kicking the attackers butt!) is every male's macho fantasy (and every woman loves a man who will fight for her!), and so literally throws that scene in to bring about its couple's union. Literally.7.5/10 &#x96; The Twilight of the 90s. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic and bizarre as a romance, but very sweet as a fairy tale.","Date":"5 January 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One more time this comment does contain spoilers!I just saw this for the first time; I enjoyed the romance but felt a little bewildered by how implausible the whole thing was. Perhaps I should have watched it in 1993 to really understand it. Or more to the point, it's best approached as a fantasy, and not as a realistic romantic story.First off Both characters are just plain naive. And yes, I know that's what the whole movie is about, but it could be a turnoff for some, so you've been warned. These are adults in their 20s, but they seem more like 14 years old enjoying their very first crush. So be prepared to just accept the assumption that these people are essentially kids in puppy love.One thing that really bothered me - SPOILER! - was the revelation that the boy had been stalking the girl even up to the point of breaking into her house to watch her sleep. That's seriously creepy. Fortunately Christian Slater plays the innocent well enough that we can believe his motivations were totally pure and romantic, but that doesn't change how weird his behavior really is. If a boyfriend of 2 weeks told me he'd broken into my house to watch me sleep, my reaction would certainly not be a big bewildered hug. No wonder she had been such fodder for other, more abusive men in the past. As usual I begin with my list of complaints, so now for the reason I did in fact love this movie this movie is just plain sweet. Only sweet, no more and no less, but if you're looking for something to make you cry and believe in love, you'll be very satisfied. It does pure tender romance perfectly, and is surprisingly well crafted. The chemistry is believable and the acting is great all around; I willingly suspended my disbelief when it turned out - of course - that the silent and presumably retarded boy is in fact very intelligent and perceptive.That type of beauty-and-the-beast storyline is pretty much what these romances are all about, complete with very traditional gender roles, helplessness, and codependency. If you can tolerate such a naive and simplistic view of love, you'll enjoy the quality of this film. It just feels good, unrealistic as it may be.Warning don't let any teenage girls see it, lest they develop an unhealthy knight in shining armor or I can change him obsession. The characters don't have time to grow together - by the end of the movie, they are still in their 20s, holding even deeper faith in the innocence and purity of true love.As a real-world romance this would get a 5 or less, but as a fantasy romance, it's a solid 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Fantastic","Date":"28 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw this movie last week for the first time and what can i say??? I so loved this film-it is one of the best films i have ever seen-seriously. It is a classic love story-a real weepy. I think the story line is so satisfying-you find yourself gripped by the romance on the screen and as soon as it's finished you want to watch it again and again. I would highly recommend this film to anyone and everyone. Christian Slater if just brilliant in it-his performance is so sweet and touching-it makes you simply fall in love with him. Anyone who likes romance flicks will just adore this film. It is quite simply a must see movie-i recommend you go and and buy it-you will not regret it. "},{"Title":"A movie to melt the hardest heart.","Date":"22 January 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A perfect blend of reality and fantasy in this cynical world we live. Marisa Tomei and Christian Slater gives career best performances as two people who discover that rare thing - true, deep, and mutual love. Everyone should find something here to relate to, the insecurity of life, loves, rejection and the cruel twists of fate that life sometimes serves. I know I did. A genre classic that deserves to be a part of any collection. If you like this, I also recommend 'Say Anything' and 'Before Sunrise' for the perfect romantic trilogy. "},{"Title":"simply this is true love","Date":"18 August 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  to write something about this film is, for me, a very hard job, beacuse this is absolutely my favorite film..in my life I never saw a story that speak about love in this way..soflty,deeply but never too honey to be obvious..M.Tomei is so candid and lovely here an C.Slater seems to be and angel fallin' down to the heaven..after I watch this film I've cried but with the smile on the face..I'm falling in loved to this...on v.h.s  I re-watch it every night before I sleep !!! I simply will love it for the rest of my life!!!!! "},{"Title":"Depressing tear-jerker fueled by two great leads","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Untamed Heart is a basically engaging love story that is quite corny and hokey at times, but it is compensated a good deal by its two main stars.  Christian Slater is one of my favorite actors and Marisa Tomei is one of my favorite actresses.  So naturally, it was a joy to see them on screen together.  However, I still think Slater was slightly miscast, though his performance was impressive.  I just felt, as I started to ponder the film's credibility more and more, that if this were a real situation I don't think the character of Adam would be as handsome as Christian Slater.  But it can happen by coincidence.  That was just a minor flaw I was able to point out.  Yes, this is a pretty sappy romance with one too many I Love You monologues by Tomei's character.  The story is relatively predictable.  The ending is depressing, but it's one of those sad endings you can kind of see coming.  *THIS MAY BE A POTENTIAL SPOILER*  Slater gets put in the hospital after the guys he beat up (for trying to rape Tomei) stabbed him, in a vow of revenge.  Since he has a defective heart, the doctors want to give him a heart transplant.  But he violently refuses.  He wants his own heart.  Even though this heart is believed to be from a babboon.  So he rids himself from the hospital bed, escapes and comes limping to Tomei's doorstep in terrible shape, exactly when Tomei calls up fellow waitress Rosie Perez asking if he's at work.  His heart's in bad shape, but he still loves Tomei with all his heart--Well, with whatever's left.  OK, that was mean.  But I'm still laughing.  There's some unnecessary dialogue and moments where the drama is pushed to melodrama--in other words, it has elements of a Lifetime Movie of the Week.  The opening scene contains the usual breakup and a pretty obvious setup.  Tomei gets ready for a hot date, overdoing the makeup and making sure she looks like a princess, then she hops into her boyfriend's truck and he gives her EVERY romantic cliche in the book.  It's not you, it's me.  Gee, I never heard that one before!  OK, I know I'm listing a lot of flaws.  I probably scared you away from renting this movie, and now it's time to clear things up.  If you're a sucker for romantic tear-jerkers, you'll absolutely LOVE this movie!  I'm not a sucker for ANY movie.  I'm a huge movie buff, and I don't discriminate against finding flaws in any genre of movies.  So I hope females don't read this and say, He's a guy.  Naturally, he's not gonna like this movie all that much.  I actually found this movie strangely engaging, probably because of the two performances.  And there were moments of chemistry between the leads that really did spark.  So this is more than a guilty pleasure.  There are cliches, but it's not drowned with cliches and corny sentiment.  Is it worth watching?  Yes.  But if you're a guy and you're watching this with a girl, be sure to purchase a box of Kleenex before heading to the video store.My score  7 (out of 10)   "}{"Title":"An opening experience","Date":"17 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I have seen this movie and I think it's excellent work done by Tomei and Slater. When I first saw this movie I had to say to myself I must have this movie, it's a must have to my collection! Christmas time, trying to find belonging. Some of the scenes made me shudder a bit, but once I see it over and over I'll get the hang of it. The high school incident always seems to haunt me. Marissa Tomei is hot, especially in My Cousin Vinny. She should have gotten an Oscar for this movie as well. Christian Slater was awesome for playing Adam. He may have been an outsider, but he was very helpful despite his sick nature. At least he got a chance to be close to people.It was sad that he died, but it showed he had fulfilled his wishes all the way through I give this film (****1/2)out of five stars. "},{"Title":"An Urban Fairy Tale","Date":"5 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is the only Page with negative comments on this GEM. Who are these people? Their comments are so ludicrous, one even talking about heart surgery...Duh! This is a modern Urban Fairy Tale; that's what the late Gene Siskel called it. But it's also an extremely touching story of true love. So what if his scars don't look right. The story is the thing here! It's a wonderful story, and only made better by the performances of the cast. Marissa Tomei has never been better and is so believable as Caroline. So is Christian Slater in what I would call his best role ever. Rosie Perez adds a touch of sass and the rest are equally believable. I watched them film this movie on my way to work, where the house/set was in Northeast Minneapolis. I passed the vans and trailers every day for a few months. I thought this would ruin the film for me, but when Marissa appears on screen she takes you away into her world. This should have had some Oscar nominations, but those voters don't see every movie. They don't know what's going on. If you want to enjoy a good movie, buy or rent this one. "},{"Title":"nice movie, but Tomei... miscast?","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It sort of reminded me of Awakenings, of course it didn't get even close to it, but really Slater(Adam) was good there, and i just felt everytime i saw Tomei that she didn't have any feelings for anything that was going on especially in the last half of the movie, truly she was acting e.g she didn't seem chocked or had any kind of loss when she went back to his place at the end of the movie, she was smiling, i thought maybe she meant that he left her with more feelings of joy than pain but i couldn't even see that in her eyes, it was like she lost a dog or something.This movie coulda been a whole lot better if they focused more on Adam's readings and knowledge not just mentioning the north star and mars...i didn't feel like i lost something or hurt at the end of the movie, u could easily predict that. Overall, it's a nice movie, but don't expect great depth or any of that. "},{"Title":"Average tearjerker","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Average love tearjkerker drama with a good cast but exposes the limitations of Tomei's acting.Slater is convincing here though and a fair warning that for viewers who love romance drama's,this movie will push your cry buttons.Could have been above average if this movie was not as slow as it was and if it had a better screenplay.Only for fans of tearjerker romance drama movies and big fans of the lead actors..... "},{"Title":"Hmmm...","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie when I was a teenager and I thought it was a painful movie to watch at best. I might have thought it was a bit better if someone had done their research on Adam's heart operation. Am I the only one who noticed that the scar was incredibly hokey? Perhaps I'm the only one who cares. I mean, the doctors would've had to saw through 8 or 9 ribs to get at his heart. Typically, for open-heart surgery, they cut down the length of the sternum. My brother had an operation for transposition of the great arteries (TGA) at about the same time period Adam had his..the scar is incorrect. That was enough for me to be completely turned off by this movie. "},{"Title":"Dullsville","Date":"11 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  A few years ago, an old girlfriend made me watch this horrible movie.  Ever since, I have been wondering why I agreed to see it.  I recommend this film for insomniacs.  "},{"Title":"Terrible terrible film","Date":"25 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This movie was ridiculous from beginning to end. The characters were all so unlikeable that there was nothing to make up for the corny unimaginative story. The Slater character freaked me out so much. how could she fall for me. he practically stalked her prior to the relationship. The whole hockey date night made me laugh though, possibly the cheesiest movie moment ever. The relationship made no sense either. She is sick of dating loser and weirdos so she picks a psychotic, creepy, socially inept busboy. Someone explain how anyone can like this piece of trash. The only reason I gave it a 3 instead of a 1 is that I have a huge crush on Marissa Tomei. "}]