[{"Title":"John Guare's Children","Date":"29 June 2005","Score":"75 out of 96 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A writer at the centre of one of the most elegant, entertaining, thoughtful and soulful tales to come out of Hollywood in a long, long time. John Guare's children are based , it seems, in real life people. How lucky for Guare to have found the great Fred Schepsi as their perfect foster father. Will Smith plays a man without identity, choosing one for himself, with such care, with such gusto that everyone remains enthralled, first of all us, the audience. Stockard Channing's Ouisa discovers a new side to her own self in front of our eyes. It is a performance of guts and beauty. Donald Sutherland's Flan is a first for the movies, we've never met a character like him on the screen. The scene in which he listens to Will Smith's Paul explain his thesis is a triumph. We see Flan falling in love. It is chillingly beautiful. Then, of course, the aforementioned Will Smith, he moves with a borrowed self confidence, like his character and it's impossible not to love him. He has the elegance of a Cary Grant and the charisma that we all now associate with Will Smith. I only regret that he didn't go for the kiss. That would have completed the shocking sum of all his parts. I love this film. I love John Guare for writing it. I love Schepsi (he's an old love of mine Cry in Dark Plenty) The superb editing, the wonderful tangoish score and the work of the production and costume designers makes Six Degrees of Separation one of the most rewarding movie experiences. On this terrible summer of World at Wars, New Batmans and some other horrors, do yourself a favour. Rent the DVD and stay for dinner at home with the Kittredges. "},{"Title":"'I want life to be experiences, not just anecdotes'","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"59 out of 74 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" SIX DEGREES OF SEPARATION is an outstanding play transformed to the screen with dignity but with a script that keeps us in the live theatre instead of in a motion picture. Not that that is a bad thing the script by John Guare is brilliant. It simply seems a little static, with its marvelous plays on words, repeated phrases, and disjointed movements significant unto themselves but not really taking advantage of cinematic possibilities of flow.Essentially the tale of how a married couple who deal art (Stockard Channing and Donald Sutherland - both in peak form) are so caught up in their superficial lives that they are taken in by a handsome young African American con artist (Will Smith) whose various antics bring the couple round to reexamining their shallow existence. Most of the story is related over art dealings and dinner conversations and are peopled by such luminaries as Kitty Carlisle, Ian McKellen, artists Chuck Close and Kazuko, Mary Beth Hurt, Bruce Davidson etc - a really fine ensemble. There are many social comments clustered in this story and it continues to play well after its origins on the stage and fifteen years after the movie was made. This was one of Will Smith's entries into film as well as one of the gifted Stockard Channing's finest roles. Highly recommended for repeated viewings. Grady Harp "},{"Title":"the longing of the social classes for each other","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"50 out of 67 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Puzzling offhanded moody film. I was struck by what seemed the underlying assertion the deep if unconscious longing of the divided social classes in the country -- the wealthy and the disenfranchised -- for each other. The deep longing to heal the rift of separation that the whole class system perpetuates through how people behave, who they associate with, who is considered desirable. The rich couple and especially Stockard Channing's character of Louisa is caught up in an affluent world of witty pretentious empty existence -- one they are exceedingly skilled at, and are able to milk to good profit. When they meet Paul (Will Smith's character), they are drawn to his directness, his charm -- he is skilled at being relaxed and conversant in their cultured world, yet he lacks the pretense of the elder members or the (satirically exaggerated) spoiled disaffection of the younger members, their children. They both relish telling the story &#150; and their friends seem undyingly riveted by it -- and Loisa especially tastes of a richness, a directness, a spark to life that she does not have.Will Smith's character of Paul also longs for a life he does not have, their Upper East Side life. For the wealth, certainly, but also for the very real values of education, ideas, and that spark of art that is separate from the worldly commercial side of art's buying and selling. The slap that Louisa joyously gives to the hand of God in the Sistine Chapel.Both sides are profoundly hurt by the rift, the gulf, that exists almost never to be crossed between Paul's ghetto and the Kittridges' beautiful penthouse. There may be a mere six degrees of separation between them &#150; but as Louisa meditates, how to broach them? How to find the people that came connect you? (In Six Degrees it is interesting and telling that it is the gay member of the set that serves as the crossover person, the means by which Paul can make his more profound crossover. Somehow, those who are owning-class gay stand with a foot in both worlds &#150; they have a large degree of entree into the worldly affluent classes, yet they are also outcasts.)As a comment outside the movie, it's my opinion that the class system is kept inexorably in place so that the wealthy might never have human relationships as equals with those whose labor they exploit, so as to avoid the pangs of conscience about benefiting unjustly from their labor. (One of Gandhi's seven root causes of injustice is Wealth Without Work. In a just world, every person reaps the product of her or his own work; while to be wealthy, one generally must have people working for you from whom you derive some percentage profit of their work.) But while this may sound radical, my further belief is that not only does this system hurt the poor, it also hurts the wealthy in profound ways. They get the wonderful apartments and private access to the Kandinsky, but their lives are empty and they don't see a way out, they must keep going to the obligatory mannered dinner parties at the price of a life that feels rich and alive with imagination.  "},{"Title":"Absorbing script and performances","Date":"5 June 2003","Score":"41 out of 53 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the film that made even the most harshest critics admit that Will Smith had real potential as far as being a serious actor is concerned. This is the story of a young gay hustler named Paul (Smith) who knocks on the door of Ouisa and Flan Kittredge (Stockard Channing and Donald Sutherland) and tells them a story of being mugged and also being the son of Sidney Poitier. He says he knows their children from college and remembered they lived there so thats why he came. After a lot of talking and impressing them he cooks them a nice dinner and they invite him to spend the night. They also loan him money but in the morning they find him with another man and they kick everyone out. The Kittredge's talk to their friends and find out that they all encountered Paul as well but were afraid to say something because they were embarrassed. The films title refers to the fact that we all know everyone by six people or degrees. The main focus of the film deals with how this young man made these characters take a good hard look at themselves and the relationship they have with each other and their children. The writing is very sharp and for most of us what is being said onscreen can easily go over our heads. Its a very intelligent script that forces the characters to see things that they seem to take for granted. Directed by Fred Schepisi who has shown a real knack for filming plays before and he also has shown to be very good at making films that are more character oriented. I remember one of his first films from the 70's called The Devils Playground and was impressed at that time by his direction. What really stood out for me though were the performances. Will Smith seems to tackle this complex script with an all to easy manner. As I watched his performance it was clear that he really understood the script and his character. You don't see that everyday from such a young actor, especially one that has limited training. But for me the best performance comes from Stockard Channing who was in the play as well. She's always been a very strong actress and a very underrated one at that. While watching her character in this film Channing does a wonderful job of allowing the viewer to watch her characters attitude change from the first scene to the very last. It really is Channings film and she received a well deserved Oscar nomination for it. Its one of the best in her career and its the driving force for the film. Casual film watchers may be put off by the sharp dialogue at first but I hope they stay with it, its a very good film about self realization and all the actors here are terrific.  "},{"Title":"A very good story, with brilliant performances, well worth watching.","Date":"9 December 2002","Score":"34 out of 47 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  At once you can see this was a stage play, with the concentration on dialogue, and although it stands out somewhat here, and there is a slight edge of everything being just a notch above the usual, the visuals and acting bring you into this great story quite easily. Will Smith acts his pants off, well quite literally in some scenes, but he is superb in this role, and acting along such names as Stockard Channing and Donald Sutherland, both of whom are spectacular in their roles. A story based around the idea that everyone is connected to everyone else by a maximum of six other people, it's just finding those six that make the link, and this is turned into an extremely interesting story, told in a series of anecdotal discussions between the main characters and their friends and business partners at various different social occasions. You find yourself drawn and fascinated to the tale as it unfolds, almost feeling as though you are one of those people, eager to hear the next step in the tale. However, I felt somewhat disappointed in the ending, almost as though it didn't fit and came out of nowhere. Yet the ideas of the stranger giving the couple more than they gave the stranger was a good one, I just think what they finally got wasn't what the story needed&#133;but then, sometimes that's life. A very good story, with brilliant performances, well worth watching. "},{"Title":"absolutely stunning","Date":"28 January 2002","Score":"17 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie is absolutely stunning. Very original in plot, colors, and directing, with a superb soundtrack. It discusses how we are all no more then 6 degrees of separation from eachother. Yet this aspect is only the plot. In reality it adds another perspective on our daily lives. Through Ouisa Kittridge it teaches us how mundane our everyday events are, that we all need something drastic to happen to bring us out of sleepy everyday into a fun, exciting, new being. We are equated to John Kittridge who lives his self involved life not noticing the people around him - not the hippy couple in the park who happen to be artists, nor his kids away in college, not even his wife's true personality. Through Ouisa we are shown how we all look for something new to enter our lives, even a sham like Paul can turn us around, give a new meaning to the mundane. Of course the tango musical theme combined with extensive monologues by Paul forces viewer to dance with and listen into the characters, almost becoming one. (9+/10) "},{"Title":"This was a brilliant play","Date":"14 August 2003","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I saw Stockard Channing do this play on Broadway, and it remains one of the best theater experiences ever.  It's really the story of her character Ouisa gradually seeing that her life is just pretty surfaces, and in meeting this young con-man with whom she makes an intense emotional connection, that she wants more than her marriage, her friends, her life.  The dialogue goes like the wind and you barely get a chance to catch your breath; some of the dialogue is spoken as a soliloquy.  It's John Guare's mastery of the language at its best, better than The House of Blue Leaves.  I'm much more of a movie person than a theater person, but this play really sang.Unfortunately the translation to film is only partially successful. Whereas the play is a spoken confessional of Oiusa Kitteridge, the movie emphasizes Paul (Will Smith).  Smith does a good-to-great job with this character. The transition from a verbal to a visual medium robs the language of much of its power, and rather than re-write it as a movie, it's sort of a 'half-transition,' which doesn't really please anyone.  The other problem I had with it was Donald Sutherland; who wasn't half-bad.  But John Cunningham, who played the role on Broadway, was sharper, harder, a GAMBLER...Sutherland just comes across as a nice guy that gets a bit upset that he's been conned.  And the emotional blow that comes at the end of the play when you realize that Oiusa's perfect marriage is falling apart just doesn't come across.Still fascinating for its premise and worth a look; even this watered-down version never fails to entertain. "},{"Title":"This is the kind of film that deserved much more attention...","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"24 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't understand why the public and the critic didn't celebrate Six Degrees of Separation. It is a very, very good and unusual dramatic comedy about, among other subjects, the high society life and the ambitions. I liked this film very much and I highly recommend it. However, there is a hollow ending and so I gave it a 9 out of 10. The same way a must-see. "},{"Title":"A few degrees off target...","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  ((((SPOILERS))))David took a great joy in living the life he lived, said attorney Ronald Kuby, who knew Hampton for more than a decade. It was performance art on the world's smallest possible stage, usually involving an audience of only one or two. -- Obituary for David Hampton, Associated Press Saturday, July 19, 2003 In SIX DEGREES OF SEPARATION, Paul, a con artist passing himself off as the son of Sidney Poitier, has a wonderful monologue. He goes into detail describing a nonexistent thesis he claims to have written about the book The Catcher in the Rye and about how its themes have become a manifesto for violence. It is a beautifully written piece by playwright/screenwriter John Guare that Will Smith does so well that you might not at first realize that it is really about the character that Smith is actually playing. Catcher's Holden Caulfield is a liar, but he hates phonies; wants to be liked, but mostly shows contempt for others; and he complains that people just don't see what is obvious. Holden sees himself as one person, but reveals himself to be someone quite different. So does Paul.SIX DEGREES, play and movie, is based on a true incident. David Hampton pulled the Sidney Poitier scam in the early 1980s and insinuated himself into the lives of various affluent New Yorkers. His hoax was eventually revealed and the result for Hampton was a jail sentence and, thanks to Guare's fanciful play, minor celebrity status. Told mostly from the viewpoint of the generous, star-struck and gullible people that Hampton scammed, personified by the fictitious Flan and Ouisa Kitteridge (Donald Sutherland and Stockard Channing), the film apparently expands on monologues from the play, opening things up so that the tale slowly becomes a minor New York urban legend. As the Kitteridges compare notes with other victims of Paul's masquerade, the legend grows and the story shifts from anger, to amazement, to giddy amusement, before turning suddenly tragic.For the most part the film is a gentle comedy, not that far removed from the screwball farces of the 30s and 40s which found basically good people falling for lovable rascals who brazenly assume false identities. The message was that respectability is only skin deep; true integrity lies much deeper. SIX DEGREES embraces that ideal by making Paul's con game basically harmless, a plea for acceptance and identity, not a petty swindle. As long as the film maintains this sense of innocence, it is an utterly charming tale. But like Paul, the filmmakers reach beyond their grasp and the film falters. The film has problems, which standout all the more because of the intelligence of the overall quality of the production. It is jarring, for instance, when we are introduced to the various children of the main characters, because they are shown to be loud, bitter and antagonistic. Since the adults are shown to be so nice, albeit self-absorbed, it is hard to believe that they are all supposedly to be lousy parents. Certainly these college kids are meant to represent a contrast to Paul's overt politeness, as well as illustrate a generation gap, but the kids are just too overwhelmingly unpleasant and ungrateful. Their scenes ring false.Also, Ouisa at one point angrily insists that the entire story has to be more than just a cocktail party anecdote; yet in the end, that is all that it is and that is how the film unfolds. It is a stylishly told tale, made all the more intriguing because it is based on the truth, but the film strives to romanticize it all of out of proportion. It is suggested that what would rightly be no more than an amusing footnote in these characters' lives, should be treated as mythic tragedy.  The film ends on a particularly ridiculous note, wherein Ouisa apparently walks out on Flan because he doesn't share her belief that Paul's story has been a life transforming experience. We are to assume from the ending that her encounter with Paul has been a liberating experience that has awakened her to the shallowness of her life and the emptiness of her marriage. This is absurd, especially the latter part; Flan and Ouisa are depicted as being deeply devoted to each other throughout the story, making her sudden exit inexplicable. But feminist cliche dictates that liberated women must abandoned their husbands. Channing is, as always, just wonderful in the role of Ouisa, and she almost makes the character's impulsive behavior seem credible. But, in the end, we are left befuddled like Flan, not irate and angry like Ouisa. It is a pity that Guare and director Fred Schepisi weren't satisfied with simply letting the story be a gentle satire on our celebrity driven society. It seems they had to somehow justify making the film by creating fake drama out of real life farce.   "},{"Title":"Outstanding Performances, Confused Screenplay","Date":"30 July 2006","Score":"17 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" In New York, the art dealers John Flanders ('Flan') Kittredge (Donald Sutherland) and Louisa ('Ouisa') Kittredge (Stockard Channing) are ready to have a business dinner with their South African friend and client Geoffrey Miller (Ian McKellen), when a wounded young black man comes to their fancy apartment telling that he had been just robbed in Central Park and asking for help. He introduces himself as Paul (Will Smith), a friend of their son and daughter in Harvard and son of Sidney Poitier, and the couple invites him to stay with them. During they night, they find that Paul is not who he claims to be. When they investigate the life of Paul, they find the hidden truth.The first time I saw Six Degrees of Separation in 1993 or 1994, I was very impressed with this movie. I liked the concept of the six degrees of separation between human beings, but mostly the acting of Will Smith, Stockard Channing and Donald Sutherland. The very difficult and long lines were brilliantly presented by this trio of excellent actors and actress, almost as if they were on the stage. Further, the name of Stockard Channing in a film for me is a synonymous of high quality. Today I have just seen this movie again, and I maybe I am more critical with the years, but I found the screenplay quite confused. For example, the relationships of parents and sons and daughters are extremely aggressive from the side of the Harvard students, and I have not understood the point in the story. The affection of Louisa ('Ouisa') Kittredge for Paul Poitier- Kittredge could be a projection of what she would like to receive from her apparently ungrateful son and daughter, but her daughter actually talks to her. Anyway, this movie is intriguing and original and deserves to be watched. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil) Seis Graus de Separação (Six Degrees of Separation) "}{"Title":"The pampered rich folk of Manhattan get skewered alive","Date":"26 February 1999","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The pampered rich folk of Manhattan get skewered alive in this elegant adaptation of John Guare's hit play.  Based on an amazing true story, the film concerns a wealthy Manhattan couple (Stockard Channing and Donald Sutherland) whose lives are turned upside down when a young black man (Will Smith) who claims to be a friend of their children's drops in after having been attacked in the park.  He says he's Sidney Poitier's son, cooks up a gourmet meal, quotes Catcher in the Rye, and endears himself to this couple.  As the film progresses, one stunning event after another occurs, culminating in a beautifully cathartic ending.  Sutherland gives one of his best performances, but it is the luminescent Channing who steals the movie. It is so nice to see this gifted actress -- looking more beautiful than ever -- in the lead as opposed to playing someone's best friend.  Her impeccable timing and innate charm elevate an already dazzling screenplay to heights unimaginable.  Six Degrees of Separation is as witty, thoughtful, and relevant as any film made the entire decade.   "},{"Title":"The inspiration for this play/movie.","Date":"6 May 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Six Degrees' Inspiration Hampton Dies Sat Jul 19, 314 PM ETBy LARRY McSHANE, Associated Press WriterNEW YORK - This was no stage production, and there was no happy ending.David Hampton, the ersatz son of Sidney Poitier whose pursuit of the glamorous life inspired the award-winning play Six Degrees of Separation, died last month in a decidedly desolate fashion alone in a Manhattan hospital bed, friends confirmed Saturday.David, like many of us, had a real need to be somebody important and special, said attorney and close friend Susan Tipograph. He did stuff to be somebody in his mind ? somebody important, somebody fabulous.To me, he was fabulous.The black teenager earned notoriety by charming his way into New York's white upper crust, presenting himself in 1983 as the Oscar-winning Poitier's son and a Harvard University student. The scam inspired John Guare's acclaimed play and a movie starring Will Smith.The reality was quite different Hampton came from a middle-class home in Buffalo, a city he once dismissed as lacking anyone glamorous or fabulous or outrageously talented. His father was an attorney, not an actor.Hampton, 39, died at Beth Israel Hospital, Tipograph said. He had been living in a small room at an AIDS residence, and was trying to start work on a book about his life.Hampton was glib, charming, funny ? the skills of the consummate con man. He talked his way into the homes of several prominent New Yorkers, including the dean of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism and the president of public television station WNET.Once there, he reveled in the posh surroundings and fancy meals. He accepted money and clothes and regaled his hosts with stories about his famous father.David took a great joy in living the life he lived, said attorney Ronald Kuby, who knew Hampton for more than a decade. It was performance art on the world's smallest possible stage, usually involving an audience of only one or two.After he was taken into custody in October 1983, police said Hampton had six previous arrests in New York and Buffalo. Hampton, just 19, pleaded guilty to attempted burglary and was sentenced to 21 months in prison.Guare, inspired by the bizarre tale, opened his play in 1990 to immediate critical praise. It won the New York Drama Critics' Circle Award, an Obie, and was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize.But on the day the play was nominated for four Tony Awards, a court order was issued telling Hampton to stay away from Guare, who said he'd been threatened.Hampton felt entitled to a cut of the cash generated by his work, and he sued ? unsuccessfully ? for a $100 million piece of the play's profits in 1992. There was victory in the defeat It introduced him to another of Manhattan's bright lights, radical lawyer William Kunstler.Hampton was later arrested for leaving this message on Guare's answering machine I would strongly advise you that you give me some money or you can start counting your days. A jury acquitted him of harassment.I think he felt used by Mr. Guare, said Tipograph. I'll let history judge that.The 1993 movie version of the play earned Stockard Channing an Oscar nomination for best actress. Channing recreated her stage performance as a wealthy Manhattanite taken in by the scam artist.In recent years, Hampton kept in touch with friends and stayed in trouble He faced charges of fare-beating and credit-card theft. One alleged victim told The New York Times that Hampton, using the name David Hampton-Montilio, duped him out of more than $1,400 in October 2001.When pretending to be somebody else, he dazzled people, Kuby said. For an evening or a couple of days, he mesmerized people by bringing them into his totally fictitious world of stardom. "},{"Title":"The Con, The Greed, The Homosexuality","Date":"6 September 2007","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Every once and awhile, seemingly always at the oddest of times, I finally sit down to watch one of those films that everyone's heard of, but no one has seen. And every once and awhile I find a film that stirs my passion for storytelling.Six Degrees of Separation will most likely never be understood, as the themes and allusions are often colored and complex. Even this writer doesn't begin to fully understand everything Guare is trying to say. It is however, quite disappointing, that in all of the internet chatter Google may churn out, the themes of homosexuality are ignored as if they have absolutely no bearing on the story. They are as vital a part of the story as is Louisa's breakdown scene, and Flan's realization that he does actually love Paul.So, when you're at the video store, bored with the drivel Hollywood pukes out these days, pick this film up. Pay close attention to the cracks that begin to form in the characters, and run your fingers along those cracks to the end, and you may find yourself caught up in a story with a star shaped meaning. But be careful, it is the type of story that may have you looking inside yourself and who you're connected to. "},{"Title":"What was that all about?","Date":"29 September 2001","Score":"14 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I kept watching the movie, waiting for a point or purpose.  I ended up with an empty bag.The movie drags you along the entire time, alluding to some greater twist or message or meaning, but there's nothing!  There's no other word for this movie but stupid...'pointless' doesn't describe the gravity of how dumb it is.I supposed you'll like this movie if you're highly artistic and found The Muse funny and view New York to be a cozy nook of our universe.  For the rest of us, save your time and skip it. "},{"Title":"Complicatd is not synonymous to intellectual...","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"15 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Nonsense. This is one of those movies I am too stupid to understand... The film starts from nowhere, goes nowhere and ends up nowhere. The film tries to be intellectual for the sake of being intellectual, and not because it has something to say. As a matter of fact, it has nothing to say, apart from the fact that rich kids are alienated from their parents in modern society and spoiled by having, which is rather obvious, and this is just a footnote of under 5 minutes in a movie that lasts 2 hours! The rest is... simply nonsense.One gets the feeling that this film is something like modern art; the viewer is not supposed to understand because he is an inferior creature to the artist who is the only one who has been enlightened. Since humans however, do not like being inferior creatures, they say they understand (even if they don't) and praise the genius of the artist simply so that they too can feel as enlightened themselves... This is in my opinion why most critics praise this and similar movies, books, paintings, etc...On a positive note, one has to say that Will Smith's performance in his cinematic debut is fantastic! This is definitely not something one can see every day. It's a pity his later roles where all mainly commercial and therefore devoid of much depth, because here he has proved he can act! "},{"Title":"I thought the movie might get better....but no","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"16 out of 29 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie is a pretentious, vacuous waste of time. There is nothing interesting about the characters or the plot. The film seems to take its only delight in shocking the audience with its own repugnance. I believed that this movie was funded by the makers of Prozac, as they would be the only group with a financial interest in seeing this movie produced.The only reason I wanted to see this movie was because of the title Six degrees of Separation.This is supposed to mean that through six human contacts any person in the world will know any other person.Sadly, this movie never even explores this idea.Instead, we get to see Will Smith play a ridiculously unbelievable gay con man.He cons his way into the homes of Donald Sutherland and Stockard Channing for the sole purpose of befriending them.That's it; he's not after their money but rather their friendship.Why? Apparently it's because he's a flaming effeminate psycho.Unbelievably, they gave Stockard Channing an academy award nomination for her role. Their is absolutely no reason to do so. Her character was barely even part of the story.A very unbelievable and uninteresting story. "},{"Title":"Takes the form of a dour sociology lecture, more than anything!","Date":"13 August 2004","Score":"17 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  All you've got to do in order for the bourgeousie to clasp you to their bosom is appeal to their vanity and avarice.  Dead on-target though that assessment may be, it makes for an insufferably grating few hours of film-watching.  Having to squirm through footage of fine actors INTENTIONALLY masquerading as obnoxious twits may not EXACTLY be my idea of torture, but it came perilously close to it on occasion.The only possible redeeming feature of this I can see would be as a vehicle to showcase Will Smith's talents as a straight dramatic actor.  Having offered this as some form of mitigation, if you really do want proof of his capabilities that badly, then Ali is a much better and more worthy demonstration.  If ever there were an argument for pretentious and stultifying dull playwrights to confine some of the vacuous twaddle they peddle strictly to the theatre and nowhere else, then ladies and gentlemen, this movie may well be it.  I found it to be staggeringly tedious and irritating, but if you're looking for something to set your teeth on edge, then this could just do the trick - It's seriously about the only thing it managed to achieve in MY case!  2/10. "},{"Title":"Blaaa, blaaa, blaaa, blaaa, blaaa, blaaa.....etc.","Date":"6 September 2002","Score":"19 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Six Degrees... tells a meager story of a pseudosophisticated art dealer of sorts in Manhattan (Sutherland) and his pseudosophisticated wife (Channing) who find a young black gay man kerplunked in their lives causing them to mentally scurry about not unlike Pooh (Oh, Bother!) and recount the experience to their friends...etc. Six Degrees... is theater on film with incessant dialogue rolling off the tongues of ultraglib characters, staginess, and obvious scripting none of which are exceptional. This flick lacks the stuff which sets films apart from stage and is likely only to be appreciated by devotees of the theater, dilettantes, critics, and the like. (C) "},{"Title":"Overlooked and thoughtful examination of many salient barriers","Date":"19 January 2011","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A fantastic script bolstered by excellent performances, pleasant visuals, and steady directing. Once 'Six Degrees' truly gains momentum and once the characters become fleshed out (usually aided by the insertion of complementary characters), the issues tackled in the film start to weigh heavily.There are so many worthwhile concepts at play here, particularly the latent desire for those separated by a societal barrier (race, class, age, etc.) to reconcile and to look more closely at one another.The ending was fantastic; it may be frustrating to some viewers given its ambiguity, but that's what I loved about it. The events that occurred in the film would not be done any justice by neatly wrapping them up at the conclusion. There are too many disparate forces and influences on the characters, especially Ouisa. The important thing, however, is how she embraces her new experiences and allows them to challenge her and contemplate if her life is how she wants it to be.Highly, highly recommended. "},{"Title":"What ABSOLUTE Trash!!","Date":"15 October 2010","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I watched this movie because of the title - 'Six Degrees of Separation' does sound interesting.Well, to put it shortly, it's just a bag of pseudo-intellectual trash. A waste of time, money and effort on everyone's part.The characters are fatuous, the storyline ridiculous. The plot starts nowhere, goes nowhere and ends nowhere. I kept waiting for something, anything, to happen. Nothing did. Frankly, I demand 1.5 hours of precious time back, even if for sitting on a park bench staring into space!My rating for it is 1 on 10 - just because you can't do a zero rating. "}{"Title":"Great Acting in a Confusing Mess","Date":"17 April 2006","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Sorry, I cannot get on the bandwagon for this mess of a film. I just did not care one iota for it. Granted the acting all around is superior. But the plot, the storyline. Too improbable, too unrealistic, too far fetched as if anyone would let a complete stranger into their homes in New York City. Please, get real. The antics of the college kids are too ridiculous for even words to describe. It is the story of an underprivileged young man who wants to rise above his station in life by fooling the unsuspected rich people he comes to learn about. An inventive and imaginative script, but just too ridiculous for me. The Paul character seems to have charm magnified 1000 percent that he can hoodwink others--even so much as to have sex in a horse drawn carriage with a very straight man. His charm is that powerful, that captivating that he beguiles everyone getting them to rethink their values and mores at the end of the film. The end of the film. I could not wait until it ended. Excellent acting in an confusing and unreal plot. The kindness of strangers is manifold here. "},{"Title":"A movie about a lot of lost people","Date":"12 July 1999","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Will Smith(Paul) comes into the lives of Stockard Channing(Ouisa) and Donald Sutherland(Flan) and makes them, Ouisa if not Flan, realize how meaningless their lives are living on the ritzy upper eastside, loaded with dough. Sutherland and Channing play the roles perfectly together.Of course Paul is lost in what he's doing too; he's smart but sick, and Ouisa & Flan together make a great sick couple so full of themselves.I'm not watching it again. "},{"Title":"Will Smith Can Act?!?!?!","Date":"17 August 2000","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  That's the rhetorical question that I think most people will have wandering through their minds while watching this film, a favorite of mine. Yes, friends, Will Smith indeed can act, and he does so quite well in this film. So well, you wonder why he keeps picking flicks that show up during the Summer months versus the flicks that show up in the Fall. If you don't see this film for any other reason, watch it just to witness Will Smith break away from his usual mold. "},{"Title":"Fails to keep your attention","Date":"30 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Six Degrees of Separation is about a rich fifth avenue couple, the Kittredge's, who are conned by a young black man one night and spend the next few weeks finding out as much as they can about this boy. They go around telling the story to everyone they come across and find friends who went through the same experience days before. The movie is very slow moving, with many of the important scenes carried out through endless dialogue and very little else going on. Originally being a stage piece, the heavy dialogue is to be expected; however, the adaptation to screen leaves you wanting a little more. In spite of it's flaws, Six Degrees of Separation gives an interesting insight on how superficial lives can be and how we sometimes take what we have for granted. "},{"Title":"Annoying Sound","Date":"21 December 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I can't get past the horrid sound editing on this movie. It's like they dubbed in all of the conversations and left out all of the normal background noises. The sound is a bit off. One shouldn't notice the sound in a movie - the editors should hang their heads in shame. "},{"Title":"Most underrated movie of all time?","Date":"24 February 2008","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I usually don't write reviews on movies. In fact, this is my first review on IMDb. The reason I felt I had to do something this time is because I think this is one of the most underrated movies of the twentieth century.The movie centers around the wealthy New York couple Flan and Ouisa whose life is disturbed by a young man that comes bursting into their apartment one night, claiming to be the son of Sydney Poitier. This is the beginning of a magical evening, which in turn makes Ouisa search for the meaning in her life. Many reviews complained about the chaotic feel of the movie, but the chaos actually symbolizes the lack of direction in Ouisa's life, or as she says it herself There is plenty of color in my life, but I'm not aware of any structure. More generally, this movie directs all of us to be more conscious and try to look for who we really are.All in all I think this is one of the best movies of the twentieth century and it should be a real waste if you'd decide not to watch it due to its 'low' mark on IMDb ;). "},{"Title":"A Rather Good Movie","Date":"8 January 2002","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I enjoyed Six Degrees of Separation. Very smart dialogue. I like a movie that draws one into it by philosophy and critical thinking rather than vilonce and special effects. I admire Will Smith. Considering the time line in which this movie was made he was known for Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince of Bel Air what a departure for him. I am sure he was thinking of his future in his decison for this role.  Donald Sutherland deserved oscar consideration for his performance and Stockard Channing was not bad either. All in all a very good Movie.  "},{"Title":"Six Magnitudes of Self-punishment","Date":"15 December 2006","Score":"8 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One out of three is actually pretty bad. Has 1 thing going for it Will Smith is great. Otherwise, what a swill-bucket! It manages to be about the worst offender in two of the worst gawd-this-flick-sux categories. First, almost everyone in the flick acts like a total moron most of the time. Sutherland acts like a coherent person would a few times, but then he just reverts right back to moron- mode. Only House of Sand & Fog can match this for requiring everyone to be moronic in order for the movie to move forward. Second, it is just pompous celibacy of the kind common to people trying to act educated. Putrid, pompous, puerile, pretentious pablum. From the first scene to the last. Every single scene. How did they accomplish that? Only My Dinner With Andre comes close, and even that had some good stuff stuck in the private-parts of the pablum. As I reviewed Andre, at least it has some honest truths. (but the reality is that the people who will give it a 10 are the exact people who these truths are most honest about. Hypocrisy defined.) This bucket has nothing but swill. I guess I can say one other good thing about it. It continues the tradition of movies that somewhat accurately portray the inhabitants of the two worst places I have ever lived. People, over the age of roughly 35, in NYC are mainly pompous celibates. People in SW Connecticut are mainly obnoxious A-holes with no family life nor concern for the people around them. Try naming a few movies that take place in SW Conn. where the people are presented warmly, etc. Go ahead, try. "},{"Title":"Literate but meandering misfire","Date":"10 December 2006","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Guare adapted his own hit play about a young black con-artist (Will Smith) who infiltrates the world of upper-crust, white New Yorkers, earning their trust and respect (and money) before his scam is revealed. Stockard Channing and Donald Sutherland play a vacuous couple of privilege whose lives are fatefully changed by the smooth-talker, but while they are obviously a successful (and, one presumes, educated) twosome, Guare can't help but make them easy targets. The writer's literate set-up is better than his follow-through, which has a hazy point (the wealthier we are, the more shallow or foolish we become?). Director Fred Schepisi stages this like a TV show with flashy editing, yet there isn't anyone here we can relate to. Schepisi darts around in search of interesting chatter, but the whites are all rich ciphers and the kid the only one using his brain. Channing, as well as Heather Graham and Richard Masur, is worth-watching, but the rest of the film is stunted by a perplexing awkwardness. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"still one of my favorites","Date":"29 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" from production design by Patrizia von Brandenstein to direction from Fred Schepisi to the last performance of Kitty Carlisle Hart as a doyenne hostess, really first rate. Also first on screen appearance I think, for Heather Graham and Eric Thal, two kids from Utah. As for the back of the head kiss between lead Will Smith and the brat pack's Anthony Michael Hall, it came out this week that Denzel Washington advised Smith not to kiss Hall but frankly, I didn't miss it. Nice cameos from Sir Ian McKellen, Richard Masur, the always wonderful Mary Beth Hurt and Bruce Davison. It mostly takes place in a penthouse overlooking Central Park so that's why I love it so, that and a score that really gets under your skin. Stockard Channing will want to forget some of the 80s outfits but all in all, I could watch this one anytime. Watch for future director JJ Abrams as a bratty dorm phone thrower. "}{"Title":"Good storytelling, bad story","Date":"17 August 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Movie starts as an interesting story. I thought that Pol will rob rich people, and that is why he trained so much. I hoped that he would do some great deceit. but no, as the movie goes along, it become clear that behind it is a story not worth telling. Poor gay guy who only wants to enjoy rich people company, not cool. especially because those rich people are full of them, and not care about lower class, and doing everything not to become. Ending is too poor. Some would say that it leaves it to imagination, but I say that it lacks imagination. 6 stars only because it has great actors that did fine job, and story at first that got me curious. On the second hand, maybe I should put 5 stars, too bad for grades in between, 5,5 is the correct answer. Not totally waste of time, now I know some interesting facts about some things, and of course those 6 degrees of separation ) "},{"Title":"i was intrigued by this film","Date":"17 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" i voted this film very highly, an 8 to be exact. i might be the only one that thought Will Smith did a fine job within this movie. His character rehearsed his lines, therefore sounding rehearsed. So that robotic argument is virtually out the window, considering that's what his character was to be and sound like. Did anyone write about the possibility of Paul having any mental illness? It seems like people missed that the character of Paul needed mental help and that is one main reason louisa or oisa or whatever her name was felt for the kid. She was also impressed with his ability to learn so much and be able to change his way of speech and become so articulate in a matter of just 3 months. Personally, i cant think of a movie i've seen where i thought Donald Sutherland ever did a bad job either. I will agree with one thing though, the acting of the kids of each family was god awful. "},{"Title":"Creative Story, Good Acting","Date":"1 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Though Six Degrees of Separation is not something I would call extraordinary, the story is no doubt among one of the most creative kind, while the powerful performances are no less important to present such a story.Will Smith plays the mysterious guy, somehow trying to spend a short period of time with people he does not know. Perhaps the purpose is questionable here, but it does not seem fraud is the reason.Somewhere along the line of a creative story, we are given powerful performances. Will Smith is incredible and so is Stockard Channing who plays a wife who comes into contact with the mysterious guy. "},{"Title":"This film feels incredibly relevant today, nearly 20 years","Date":"21 November 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Occupy Wall Street might use this film for fund raisers. It presents the livIng hell of being rich and shallow, and it gives me the creeps much more today than it did when I first saw it. There are some interesting references that date it. For example, the Rainbow Room ejects Will Smith for dancing the tango with a male friend, an act which no such NYC establishment would likely do today. Along those lines, Michael Anthony Hall hands in a very courageous performance as the gay kid who falls for Will and sets his antics in motion. I remember how sensational that kiss between them seemed at the time. Will's character has universal appeal. He is the ultimate con man and hustler, but he is so successful because he is charming. Maybe if rich people today would allow themselves to fall for what is charming, they would delight in helping the struggling people of the world today rather than worrying so much about selling their Kandinskys. Stockard Channing turns in one of the great film performances of the century, showing how a One-Percenter can experience a spiritual epiphany. In this sense, Guare is a modern Dickens, deserving of all the accolades he received for this script and screen play, which reminds us that we are six degrees of separation not only from Kevin Bacon but of every kid in Zuccotti Park or Tahrir Square. How much of your life can you account for? With tears in her eyes, Stockard Channing asks Donald Sutherland this question with the same direness in her voice that Jesus must have had when he addressed the rich guys in the Holy Land. "},{"Title":"Like No Other","Date":"22 February 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I guess we can see the genius of Will Smith right from the start. This is a film about a chameleon who is able to create for himself identities suited to an intriguing game he is playing. He really wants to be loved, but has become so deeply entrenched in his charade that he soon isn't sure what he wants. He is a master of subterfuge with a smile and a wink. He claims to be the son of someone who is relatively reclusive and unapproachable. This gives him the opportunity to invade people's lives; but for what? It's his victims that grow because of him. He is searching for a family but needs so many assurances. He chooses the super-rich, which makes his job much harder. The performances by Donald Sutherland, Stockard Channing, and Smith, himself are quite incredible. I began by absolutely hating these people. They are so smug and pretentious that they make one gag. And that's why their redemption due to this invader is so poignant. They grow to love this young man in their own ways, despite the fact that he appears dangerous (is he; I don't know). Of course, the six degrees is the theory that we are all related in some way if we go back six generations. The thing asked is, how can we then be so different. A real surprise. "},{"Title":"New Respect for Will Smith","Date":"13 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have gained new respect for Will Smith, as an actor, after this movie. Not that I didn't have much before&#x85; As much as I adore his personality among other talents, I really didn't expect him to pull off this role with such ease. Considering the difficulty.Paul is one of our main characters, who suddenly appears at a rich couple's home (who are art dealers). He's stabbed after a mugging and dressed in fine clothing, he claims to be the couple's son and daughter's friend from Harvard. After going through detailed knowledge about their children, he woos the dealers and their business guest with his charm, knowledge, and deep insight into the world (at this point Will Smith delivers some great monologue). Later the plot ensues and you find out the Paul is not who he claims to be&#x85; and the mystery unravels through dinner conversation and anecdote.This movie is based on a play, and through the movie you can clearly see the strength of the dialog carries the story as well as the actors who deliver them. I love the movie for its depth in simplicity. How it uses conversation to draw you in rather than the typical action. It uses conversation to reveal the action and mystery that you so desire.My favorite character in the movie is Ouisa Kittredge played by Stockard Channing. She's the main character who is closest to Paul and grows after this experience with Paul.Do not be mistaken, this movie is NOT about a bunch of rich snobs coming to their way after being exposed to a black boy with promise and potential but no means. No, there is perhaps 5% of that in this movie, and there is no strong pretenses with this film. It goes deeper than just a sympathetic rich white lady, much deeper indeed.This film may not be for everyone, but it is for those who love good dialogs and monologues and for those who love plays ( or at least don't mind them).(the kid's were stupid and pointless one dimensional characters, but that's my only qualm). "},{"Title":"i liked this movie","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  i liked this movie because its funny like when everyone thinks Will Smith is a student but he's really a con man and then when the kid talks about his pink shirt (if you've seen the movie then your probably laughing right now too!!!!) the kandinsky painting is clever but its too obvious its a metaphor but then the phillosophical things make up for it like when Donald Sutherlend says can i go back to the second grade and the part where Stockard Channing talks about making life into anecdotes.  its just like a play on screen and it's not as good as picasso at the lapin agile or waiting for godot but its still very funny.  if you liked my dinner with andre then you'll love six degrees of separation.  "},{"Title":"Interesting Concept...","Date":"18 November 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I watched this film because I thought the theory of six degrees of separation (that everyone in the world is separated by only six people) sounded interesting. I found the film to be quite intriguing, even funny at times and surprisingly, Will Smith's acting was bearable.The directing by Fred Schepisi was excellent. My only complaint with this film is the ending... "},{"Title":"Wow.","Date":"31 December 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" There is only one thing I can say about this film. Wow. I was blown away by this film. This contains some of the best acting I have seen in quite some time. Stockard Channing is brilliant. No one else could have played that role quite like she did. And Donald Sutherland made for an excellent screen partner. They played off each other very well. An excellent script. I loved when Ouisa and Fland were telling their story about Paul. Annoying marriage batter. Great stuff. Then there is Will Smith. I have seen Will Smith crash and burn in some movies, but I consider this his best movie by far. He really makes you feel for Paul and come to see him in a different perspective in the story. You hate Paul, then you love him, then you hate him, etc.... It is a very emotional movie which will take you on a wonderful ride. But be prepared to do some self examination.A solid 10 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Really got me hooked","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I stumbled across this film as I was flicking between channels. Attracted by the amazing cast I decided to watch a few minutes of it. I was totally hooked! I watched the whole film and thought it was fantastic. The narrative of it is very clever and the way Flan (Donald Sutherland) and Ouisa (Stockard Channing) tell it is wonderful. Will Smith shows off his excellent acting skills in a part quite different to many he had already played or has played since. The supporting cast bring it to life with the likes of the genius Ian McKellen, Bruce Davidson and Heather Graham.After being hooked into it at the start it kept me interested all the way through. An excellent piece of film. Well worth a watch. "}{"Title":"Chaos Control","Date":"26 August 2007","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A charming young man named Paul (Will Smith) insinuates himself on a rich art collector named Flan Kittredge (Donald Sutherland) and his wife Ouisa (Stockard Channing) at their posh Manhattan penthouse. The film is based on a stage play; most of the scenes take place indoors; and the script is heavy on dialogue.One might conclude, with justification, that the film is a spoof, or satire, of chic, artsy types. Paul is an intruder, albeit a smooth-talking and charismatic one. He introduces an element of chaos into the controlled lives of Flan, Ouisa, and their high society friends. Indeed, part of the film's charm is listening to the babble of these rich snobs, amusing in their haughty, insular attitudes, as they react to Paul's behavior.But, if it has a satirical plot, the film also has a serious message; namely, that as individuals, we are all bound to everyone else on the planet by a trail of six people. That's a very erudite concept. Yet, the film's plot does not carry through on that lofty message with any degree of profundity. On the other hand, given Paul's rather obscure motivations, a variation of that message might be more consonant with the actual theme of the film, as applicable to Paul ... how everyone is a new door, opening into other worlds.The overall plot of the film seemed a tad confusing and disorganized at times. Paul's persona conversion in just three months did not seem credible. And some of the film's younger actors overact their roles.However, the costumes and detailed production design are terrific. Jerry Goldsmith's tango background music, with all those violins, is wonderful. The film has excellent color cinematography, with some good shots of Manhattan. And, as a real bonus, Kitty Carlisle makes a cameo appearance toward the film's end.Watching Stockard Channing act is always a pleasure; her terrific performance here is one of the main reasons to see the film. Six Degrees Of Separation likely will appeal to more sophisticated, urban viewers, people who appreciate cinematic detail, subtle humor, and rich, elegant film sets. "},{"Title":"Sutherland - brilliant performance","Date":"22 January 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have seen this movie more than once and was highly impressed with the acting , in particular Donald Sutherland who is quite underrated. This also was early evidence of Wil Smiths great versatility. The movie also stars the wonderful Stockard Channing who is arguably one of the finest actresses in that particular age group.If you have enjoyed this movie then try reading the  Inspector calls by J.B Priestly It has a similar feel to it If anyone can assist me , I want to know if klute  is available on DVD.I believe that klute was a trendsetter for thrillers of its genre "},{"Title":"Will Smith and Stockard Channing shine in this script-driven film.","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  SPOILERS - Six Degrees of Separation is a play on the concept that any two people in the whole world are separated by no more than 6 people. Channing's character explains to her daughter that what is frustration is uncovering the links. As I watched the film, I mused because it seems to be true. I was on stage in college with Daniel Von Bargen, who plays a police officer here, he knows Channing, who knows Martin Sheen (current TV series) who has done a TV special on the Vatican, so he must know the Pope, or at least someone who does. Presto! the Pope and I are separated by 6 or fewer people.Will Smith plays a troubled young man, Paul, who has no identity of his own, finds out about a series of rich NYC families, and sequentially convinces them he is a friend of their children. In turn they take him in, feed him, give him a night's sleep until the next day when he is supposed to meet his father, Sidney Poitier, at 7AM sharp at the hotel. When that runs out, he imposes himself upon a struggling couple (Heather Graham) who gives him money, then the man jumps off a fire escape and kills himself. Finally, he is taken off by the cops, but since no one knows his real name, they can't find him to help him.The most interesting parts of the film are the conversations between Paul and Channing. She is a caring person, wanting to help him. Her husband (Donald Sutherland) is superb as the art dealer who only wants to make a buck, or a few million, and just get Paul out of his life. In the end, she realizes that she and her husband are simply too different, and as she walks off we sense that she will have a new outlook, and the marriage will probably not last. So, is that what this film was about, Paul being the catalyst to help others realize what they are?  But, what about the suicide?  I enjoyed the film, was a little disappointed in the way it ended, I wanted to rate it 8 but settled on 7.  In any respect it is a fine film, with good acting, and which makes one think!I had seen it several years ago but remembered hardly anything from it. It has some elements of The Talented Mr Ripley in it. "},{"Title":"Challenging Assignment","Date":"11 November 2002","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Converting this hit Broadway play to film posed a real challenge.How to open it up so that it worked as film, was Director Fred Schepisi's challenge to his production crew. What was successful onstage needed to be properly converted.The original playwright John Guare also scripted here, and did a respectable job with a tough assignment.  The production ended up being edited in a kind of patchwork quilted manner, often with mixed results the constant juxtaposing and vacillating of scenes seemed to become redundant at times.The cast did good work, though.  Each lead--Donald Sutherland, Will Smith, and Stockard Channing--brought his and her own distinctive persona to their respective part.To focus in on Channing, she certainly has enjoyed a remarkably varied career, with an almost breathtaking array of fully developed characters.  Although she's been in the business working constantly for over thirty years to date, she still looks great.  Her emotional range is enormous, and every part she tackles is intelligently realized.The currently long running tv series, The West Wing is a case in point, in which she constantly appears as creative and energized as in the first episode.  Even after playing Six Degrees for four years at Lincoln Center, her film work here looks completely fresh.In an interesting bio on Bravo, Channing revealed that she's happy to be where she is sort of on the second-tier of the star ladder.  As fine as she is, she doesn't have It like, say, a Julia Roberts--but then she admits to being happy not surrounded by armed guards of photographers all the time.  Thus she can walk down a street in relative obscurity.  Yet when viewers see her in a production, they recognize that face and that voice.  (Personally, I always thought she might've had better career luck going by her real first name, Susan.)Six Degrees is admittedly quite a talkfest for film, a kind of an intellectual exercise, not for all tastes.  One has to really focus in and keep the brain attentive.  For those who have the energy and willingness to do so, Six Degrees of Separation offers a most intriguing and enjoyable dramatic experience.   "},{"Title":"Reasonable farce with teeth worth waiting for but long in coming","Date":"10 January 2003","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Paul and Ouisa are liberal, upper-class art dealers in Manhattan.  One morning they awaken in a panic to find their house ransacked but nothing taken.  They go to a friends wedding and tell a story of a young black man who turned up at their building claiming to be friends of their children.  He charms his way into their lives, cooking for them and telling stories.  However they find out that he has also named dropped his way into their friend's homes and done the same.  They try to find out how he knew so much and made the connections to them.Will Smith is not best known for acting.  Ali is a return to acting for him after Independence Day, Wild Wild West etc, however 6 degrees was his first film and he bravely chose a role that was so very different from the role he had carved out for himself in Fresh Prince.  Based on the stage play this is an enjoyable story with an emotional end, it sort of works as a farce.  At times it is a little annoying because I don't like the pretentious brown-stone life of the central family.  The plot is enjoyable but doesn't always stand up.The saving grace of the film is the dialogue that comes constantly.  It can be a little pretentious but most of the time it is good.  The end of the film is a bit of an emotional punchline that ruthlessly attacks the chattering classes that we have witnessed for the past 120 minutes.  However this is a little clumsy because it has been a farce for the majority of the film then suddenly has teeth &#150; it would have been better if it had run the whole way through rather than just the end.The cast is mostly very good and full or well known faces.  Smith is excellent in the lead and proves he can act &#150; when the real face of Paul is exposed I realised just how good Smith had been.  Channing does well in the role she had on stage and Sutherland compliments her well.  The support cast all do well in Woody Allen style roles but don't hit home as real people &#150; instead New York upper-class caricatures, which work in the frame of a farce but not really as characters in their own right.Overall this is an OK comedy/farce that saves it's pretty sharp teeth for the final reel.  The film feels a little unsure of itself at times but for the most part it is enjoyable but could have been better.  It is best seen as proof that, no matter how many big dumb blockbusters he does his lazy `black attitude' acting in now, Will Smith is a very talented actor. "},{"Title":"Centigrade","Date":"14 April 2002","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Spoilers herein.This is quality lowbrow entertainment.The production itself is annoying the play is not converted to cinema, merely filmed. The director doesn't have the energy it takes to drive the ideas behind this, slight though they are here. This could have been transformed into intelligent, deep material by an insightful director and more importantly multilevel acting. Self-aware ensemble synthesis could even have happened in the absence of a strong director because there are so few characters -- three, five or six depending on your philosophy of theater.But alas, the whole thing is sunk by Will Smith, who is a naive actor he probably believes the play is about a guy.It could have been a play about great ideas and where they touch the soul through narrative -- and how they get watered down for convenience so destroy the soul. But we never get this because the play about narrative has been watered down from dimly visible great ideas into narrative itself.See one of the Wallace Shawn efforts instead. "},{"Title":"A thoughtful movie, with many degrees of interest!","Date":"14 June 2004","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A brilliant premise features Will Smith (very young, at the time) able to cunningly enter the New York high society and trick them into accepting him as a part of them. The movie title refers to the theory that, taken 2 people at random from the globe, be it the Pope and yourself, an eskimo and the President of the United States, there can be at most 6 people separating them. Therefore the trick of getting in contact with any person can be reduced to the finding of 6 people. In practice, Will Smith gets particularly lucky, as only one person will be needed to accomplish his task, of stepping into the world of the rich bourgeois New York society. In particular, the life of a family of art merchants (Donald Sutherland and Stockard Channing) is literally swept by his arrival, which opens a crack in their life and start making them reflect about their own existence.The movie is witty, amusing, passionate, rich in surprises and in elements of interest, as it addresses the problem of existence (how much of it you can account for), the role of fantasy and imagination and the relationship between parents and children. Great story, with brilliant acting from everyone and a nice violin soundtrack perhaps my personal favourite movie of all time! 10/10 "},{"Title":"Close to brilliant","Date":"4 August 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is close to being brilliant. It is a totally unique film. And to top it off, a first class performance by Will Smith in what I would call his breakthrough film.Smith plays a young Black man who works his way into the lives of a number of people in New York City. Mostly his victims are the rich and successful, although one young couple befriends him, which ends in the death of the young man from suicide. In all cases, Smith's liaisons are designed to make him money. But later in the film you begin to realize he's not just a con artist; he's a deeply needy young man who lives in sort of a fantasy world. He wants all the good things in life, but only really sees his way free to get those things through hustling.However, it's not just Smith's performance that stands out here. The primary couple that he befriends are brilliantly played by Donald Sutherland and Stockard Channing (certainly her best role). They're a totally absorbed rich couple who have no sense of realism beyond their own art-filled world of the rich.Supporting roles are played by Ian McKellen (who coincidentally has one line where he mentions The Lord Of The Rings nearly a decade before that film series was filmed), Bruce Davison, and Richard Masur. There's not a bad performance in the film.My only disappointment in the film is that in the end we don't know if Will Smith's character is alive or dead.Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Great role for Will Smith in sharp social commentary","Date":"1 May 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ouisa (Stockard Channing) and Flan Kittredge (Donald Sutherland) are upper class Fifth Avenue NYC private art dealers. Their prized possession is a two-sided Kandinsky. They recount the story of their dinner with wealthy South African investor Geoffrey Miller (Ian McKellen) to a growing crowd. Paul (Will Smith) interrupts the dinner showing up at their door claiming to have been robbed in Central Park. He supposedly is studying at Harvard with their kids Talbot and Woody and is the son of Sidney Poitier. All the while, he is shown practicing his con. Then they catch him in bed with Rick (Eric Thal) and they kick him out. However Miller wants to connect with Sidney Poitier. Then their friends Kitty (Mary Beth Hurt) and Larkin (Bruce Davison) come to them with the same story. They find Dr. Fine (Richard Masur) with a familiar encounter. The kids find out that it's their high school classmate Trent Conway (Anthony Michael Hall).It's an eye-opening performance from Will Smith and it's actually one of his best. He's being the slick performer and it's playing up his natural charisma. It is probably one of his most daring character and one which he has not gone beyond. I do wish he takes some chances in non-conventional roles to expand his repertoire. Channing and Sutherland are also terrific. It's sharp social commentary. On a minor note, J.J. Abrams overacts a bit as Dr. Fine's crazed son. His ridiculousness is somewhat funny. The kids generally yell and overact too much. "},{"Title":"It's a nice story. If you like stories within stories. Inception.","Date":"28 April 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Six degrees of separationSo there's this guy. He is just right. Then he goes to this couple's house and cooks them dinner and they all have a nice talk about art and books. Ian McClellan is there and he is trying to be South African but knows his accent is bad so doesn't say much. Then it is morning and the woman finds the nice guy bumming a stranger in the bedroom. Then everyone flips out and Donald Sutherland picks up all his trinkets.Then the next hour of the film is the couple telling a story. They tell the story to the kids who are SEETHING about them giving away the pink shirt which was for his new body.So then the newspaper says that the first guy, the nice guy, bummed some other guy and took his money after they danced in the rainbow room which is so unfair because he was just being nice as usual and likes a nice bumming. Then after a few more cocktail parties and stories the nice guy calls up Weezer the lady and says, you are my father do you want me to make you dinner again then they get stuck in traffic and Donald Sutherland cares about the nice guy when they see him get arrested but then he doesn't care anymore because really he is heartless and just wants to sell art to foreigners who don't even want to buy the art and just want to hear about the nice boy. Then Weezer is upset because she can't find the nice guy because he is a liar and is schizophrenic and he has hanged himself (probably) with the pink shirt in a prison but she is not family. Then she screams at Donald who tries to say just let the lady buy the art  but she is having none of it and goes and looks at the flowers and then it ends. 3/10 "}{"Title":"Wow for all the wrong reasons","Date":"28 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Of all the movies I've seen this one has to be the most contrived and pretentious. Like the fast paced and totally unbelievable dialogue for the 60s sitcom 'MASH this movie is like that on steroids. In a nutshell, PEOPLE DON'T TALK LIKE THAT! The best way to describe is it's a combination of that annoying snappy, quick witted, (again) unrealistic dialogue of Neil Simon AND (try to visualize) Woody Allen lampooning people who are impressed by their own self importance. The characters are either obnoxious or self absorbed. I find all the characters to be incredibly self important. It's a horrible movie and felt the need to shower when it was over, yecccccch. While watching the film I continued to ask myself ..what is this? Now the good news ,,, it's so bad that its a must see, looking at other reviews on this site I seem to be in the minority. Of. Ourselves it's others who are full of themselves too, Sorry guys I'm right and you're wrong . I grade this movie F? And the F stands for something else "},{"Title":"Six Degrees of Separation","Date":"31 May 2012","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Nearly 20 years ago, SIX DEGREES OF SEPARATION should be regarded as Will Smith's breakthrough role into the mainstream Hollywood, the film is adapted by a renowned play by John Guare, directed by Aussie Fred Schepisi (from A CRY IN THE DARK 1988) and Channing reprises her role in the film edition which has guaranteed her sole Oscar nomination so far. Ever since the opening strain, there are echoes of high-class snootiness abounds which sets the keynote of the whole conversation-foiled phoniness among its quite antipathetic characters, namely the Kittredge couple, then when Will Smith's young intruder emerges, the tension never alleviates although it seems that from the surface the harmony is unfeigned at the beginning and Smith's identity as Sidney Poiter's son is ever questioned, simply since he knows their children's name and his eloquent run-down of his father's filmography, but presented by Smith's black color, the unspeakable sensitivity of racism is well-written and underscored. Added that the paraphrase of CATCHER IN THE RYE is more or less a stratagem of showboating, so when all the boast ends, the ugly truth manifests himself, a satirically comedic story continues with a welter of less spectacular vignettes. Written from a true story, John Guare's screenplay is less staggering than the integral cast, Channing is superb in her final revelation scene but elsewhere, her ability is curbed and sometimes even a bit OTT, Sutherland is more natural and his role is much worse in both moral and ethnic gauges, still another great performance for his undervalued career. Will Smith is the linchpin to influence his low-life leverage onto these upmarket snobs, his performance is not so astonishing on account of the greenness and rawness, but he is luminous in front of cameras, although the fake gay-kiss is a let-down, Hollywood's conservationism is just as dreadful and stinking as its unimaginative blockbuster monopoly. Funny thing is that in the film, Smith make a spiel on the importance of the supremacy of imagination, which plays a grave part in distinguishing human from other species, but now has being over-abused in the mundane media, but the whole theory is too feeble to be taken seriously, neither by upper class nor by those less self-concerned great amount of masses. So who is the real audience of the film? The filmmakers behind it had not a clue! PS a young J.J. Abrams is in the film as well, as an actor, who could expect that? "},{"Title":"You just need to find the right six people to make the connection!","Date":"1 February 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" At one point, in one of the most memorable moments of Six Degrees of Separation the rich lady played by Stockard Channing says this I read somewhere that everybody on this planet is separated by only six other people. Six degrees of separation between us and everyone else on this planet. The President of the United States, a gondolier in Venice, just fill in the names. I find it A) extremely comforting that we're so close, and B) like Chinese water torture that we're so close because you have to find the right six people to make the right connection... I am bound to everyone on this planet by a trail of six people.In a sudden event that changed her life to the point of realize that we are separated by six other people, before all of this happen 'Ouisa Kittredge and her husband Flan (Donald Sutherland) lived a perfect and wealthy life in all the New York luxe as Art dealers until a injured black man appear on their door claiming to be stabbed while walking near by their house. How did he got there and why did he got there? Because he studies at Harvard along with the Kittredge sons. Paul, this young man (played by Will Smith) is taken by the couple who gets impressed by his eloquence, his mannerisms and knowledge of arts, Kandinsky double paintings and because he happens to be....Sidney Poitier's son! But the world keeps on turning at its usual in Kittredge's house just when they realize that this guy is not what he says he is, after being discovered sleeping with another man in their house. But, after some strange illusion of coincidences the Kittredges along with friends who met this strange man they get desperate to find out who is this guy who seduces everybody and then disappears, taking something with him but at the same time injecting a marvelous and different experience in the lives of all of those rich families.John Guare's play is adapted to the screen with elegance, a funny charm, never ironic or satirical, and a brilliant drama that knows how to be more than just a statement over the empty lives of wealthy persons that becomes interesting when a stranger man appears; it is a look into everyone's lives and the events and things that can changes us in a positive way even though we don't know that it was a good experience in the moment but later there's that click in the head and you say I get it!. It makes you understand the world around you and change things, experience different things, look in a different perspective. It has the same quality of Pasolini's Teorema but it is less dramatical, more positive and funnier!The quality of the performances presented here are at its best Stockard Channing is amazing reprising his role in the play as the rich woman who entertain her friends with the stories involving Paul; Donald Sutherland is always excellent and competent in all of his roles and this is a great role for him. He really should play more millionaires in films because he has a powerful presence on the screen, charming the viewers even while playing bad guys (which is not the case here). Completing the principal casting we have the young Will Smith dominating in an important role, and one of his best performances of all time. The supporting cast includes Bruce Davison, Mary Beth Hurt, Ian McKellen, Richard Masur, Eric Thal, Heather Graham, J.J. Abrams (way before he creates a series called 6 Degrees and LOST) John Cunningham and Kelly Bishop (stars of the original play making a cameo in the film). Fred Schepisi direction is fantastic, and the musical themes composed by Jerry Goldsmith suits the film very well.Six Degrees of Separation is another case of an excellent but almost forgotten film that many people will never heard of, or never watched. And the strangest thing about this fact is that when of this release it was well received by critics, almost a consensus in brilliant and positive reviews but it didn't live up to be a more recognized film even with nominations for the Oscar and Golden Globe (Best Actress). My theory lack of home media distribution, lack of exhibition on TV and perhaps some viewers were really shocked with the plot. This film didn't connected with a larger audience, which is sad, but at least it connected the right viewers to see that this is a masterpiece, still relevant to this date. 10/10 "},{"Title":"Six degrees of preparation","Date":"2 August 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The fact that the actual title comes from, as Channing's Ouisa informs us at some point, everybody being six persons - friends, acquaintances, lovers - away from celebrity, that is someone famous, is like an intended, over-prepared, pointless irony it rather reads like six degrees of preparation, or six degrees away from greatness.The film has no consistent pace, is merely a play transfered - and not worked through - to celluloid, and a mediocre, portentous one, for that matter.Where it should have been an ensemble effort, it gets muddled mid-way by a flash back on how Smith's Paul was discovered a slight variation on the Pygmalion myth/paradigm, but weighed down by Smith's sudden moodiness, too much and too suddenly of a man, especially for a gay, polished character. This lacks subtlety, and subtlety along with gusto is what the film was most in need. If this was intended in tune with other quasi-farcical moments, it was a ghastly error.An improbable phone-call between Ouisa and Paul muddles whatever premise and goes on forever. That much for dramatic economy.Yet Channing and Sutherland shine through, and Channing gives a tour-de-force in a nutshell during her final, small monologue, which may well be the film's moment. Afterwards smacking with a stupid closure (slapping a tree's leaves the way she did the moment of creation between God and Adam at the Sistine Chapel) of a ho-hum symbolic-and-so-manhattanite-released conclusion.This sounds worse than it is, and maybe it is, going from extreme, supposed subtlety, some good, very good lines, to cardboard situations and skimmed if not skipped direction. Watch it for its good moments and since the word imagination garlands the film with some of its best lines, imagine the film it could have been. "},{"Title":"Strong Performances, but could have been a bit better","Date":"7 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Flan (Donald Sutherland) and Ouisa (Stockard Channing) play a typical upper class, rich, yuppie couple in New York City. On one faithful night, a young man named Paul(Will Smith) comes to their house saying he has been mugged and that he goes to school with their children at Harvard University and is the son of veteran actor Sidney Poitier. He is quickly loved by Flan and Ouisa due to his charm, wit and knowledge of literary works such as Catcher In The Rye. However, after finding him and another male in their bedroom, they kick him out. As they speak with some friends, they find out that Paul is in fact a con-man who charms his way into the homes of the upper class and throughout the film, the couple, along with other people who have encountered Paul, try to find and have him arrested while Ouisa also finds out about herself. Six Degrees Of Separation was adapted from a play of the same name, made by John Guare(who also wrote the screenplay for this film), which was in turn inspired by a real life event which happened to a friend of his. The film was directed by Fred Schepisi. Let's start with the positive. The acting in the film is top notch. We have big names such as Donald Sutherland who has proved himself to be an excellent actor in countless other films such as Ordinary People. Stockard Channing, who you might remember from the musical/comedy Grease also plays a good role. But the biggest surprise in this film is probably rapper/actor Will Smith. At the time of making this film, Will Smith was known as the rapper Fresh Prince. He also starred in the popular comedy series The Fresh Prince Of Bel Air. This was his first dramatic role, and he was simply brilliant. My biggest problem with this film was that&#x85;it just was not that interesting. The plot itself was somewhat intriguing, however I did not like the way it played out. There were quite a few times in the film where I was completely lost and did not understand what was going on. The film also dragged in a few places and I feel some portions could have been either trimmed or completely taken out of the film. An example of this is during a scene where Will Smith's character is staring at the camera and reciting a very long list of the films of Sidney Poitier. I understand it was essential for his character to have knowledge of Poitier and his work if he was to pretend he was Poitier's son, however we (the viewers) could have lived without that scene. In conclusion, Six Degrees Of Separation is a fairly well made film with strong performances and a somewhat intriguing storyline, however I found it a bit boring and overlong at times. "},{"Title":"Extremely boring","Date":"1 May 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is nothing but an interminable sequence of flashbacks where a middle-to-older age couple tell and retell the story of how they were duped by a young man into believing he was Sidney Poitier's son.I saw it because the combination of Donald Sutherland and Will Smith seemed great, but it must be the worst film of both of these two great actors.In the end, this movie is nothing but a very pretentious psychodrama about how a very pretentious couple of not very successful art dealers came into contact with a boy of lower social class and ended loving him. There are many far better films than this one in that theme. There is even a line where one of the characters is compared to Henry Higgins that will give a tip to those who want to look for an alternative. "},{"Title":"Long winded, boring, hardly worth watching","Date":"19 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" For yr11 adv English we we're made to endure this terrible excuse for a film. I recall that only one of us was actually able to appreciate any of it. Perhaps we were all just too immature to understand the complexity of this film but upon watching it again I can hardly see how critics can adore this train wreck.I cannot relate to any of the characters and I doubt I could empathize with any of them if by some cruel twist of fate I was one. Ouisa is an unrealistic combination of random emotions and childish ideas. Her line Chaos...Control...Chaos...Control...You like?...You like? is one of many that just drove me and my peers to hating her. Flan and his ridiculous obsession with his Kandinsky painting and his stale, generally uninteresting personality is yet another prime example of bad characters making bad films.Will Smith, was perhaps this films only saving grace as I have enjoyed some of his other, more entertaining films. Unfortunately his unnecessary unexplained ending along with his lack of a MIB tuxedo or awesome alien adversaries meant that he was no better a character than any one else in the film.We watched this film for our topic of journeys and there is no literal sense of journey therefore every ounce of journey had to be inferred, read between the lines so to speak.Six degrees of separation is a bad movie. Morally, Ethically, Literally, Techniqually, just awful all round. "},{"Title":"It Changed My LIfe","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film not only looks at a mentally disturbed youth on the streets of America, it also looks at intelligence, sensitivity, articulation, and heart. This is not the best role Will Smith has ever taken, but it is his best performance, ever. I also have to say that it is by far his most human one. This is truly interesting, but beyond that, it, without effects, CGI monsters, or multi-million dollar explosions, completely entertains.More importantly, it teaches tolerance, eloquence, and how to obtain the ability to love. This film introduced the Six Degrees of Separation theory which haunted Kevin Bacon so completely until he realized it was a form of adoration rather than belittlement. Channing, Sutherland, and Smith are excellent herein, and it is their performances which rise to the top like the best cream.This is extraordinary in its lessons, lovingly taught in such a way as to disallow your knowledge that you have learned anything until it's too late.This is still surprising.It rates a 9.0/10 on the Drama Scale from...the Fiend . "},{"Title":"Challenge Your Paradigms","Date":"19 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is one of my favorite movies because it really challenges the viewer. Flan and Ouisa are entrenched in their own rich and extraordinarily sheltered world of art dealing, until a young man barges into their lives. This movie, though it does slow down in parts, is certainly worth the time. It forces us to rethink the lives we lead, and how we are inextricably intertwined with everyone else on the planet--whether or not that fact is convenient. Paul, the intruder, dazzles Flan and Ouisa with his outgoing personality, cooking skills, and in-depth knowledge of Catcher in the Rye (a PERFECT novel for Paul to admire). As the plot unfolds and more of Paul's history is revealed, the viewer will certainly become mildly uncomfortable. It's worth it, though. We don't learn anything or grow unless we are out of our comfort zone. "},{"Title":"A Very Well Done Adaptation","Date":"20 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The first time I saw the play was in grade 11. My party was an hour late and only saw a little under the second half. It wasn't until many years later that I actually saw the movie and I must say it was very well done.I personally, love movies that make you think; movies that function on multiple levels and have intricate story lines, narratives, themes, etc. I must say that I have seen this movie about 3 times and each time a new layer of meaning opens up. Essentially this movie is about a con-man played brilliantly by Will Smith who finds his way into high society, but only for the payoff of some sort of validation. His true intentions are never revealed, which another device used in this story to make it quite appealing (not everything is closed up in a tidy little package, which IMO makes this story more realistic and believable).In essence Will Smith is looking for an identity; for what reason we know not of. His character (whose real name is never revealed) is charismatic and brilliant in his role as a con man and it seems he could do or get almost anything he wants, by simple manipulation, his intellect, imagination and charm. However although he could through his skills nefariously obtain money, power or almost anything it seems, he is seeking (with the wrong tools), the one thing he could get through using his natural talents, that being validation. 'Paul' (Will Smith) and the audience are whisked into the world of high society. The Kitridges (sp?) are the main narrators here, but this story also unfolds through a series of shifting narratives, which function brilliantly to give us new perspectives on events, not only from the perspective of the high brows, but also from the perspective of the other characters. This shifting narrative also functions as the main device to flush out all the characters, the set and setting as well many of the themes of this movie, which range from psychological, social, emotional, philosophical and even some spiritual ones.What I liked about this movie was it really shows us a way that movie could be done, instead of the insipid movie plots that are made almost exclusively (and I use no hyperbolae here) for people of a grade 6 education level. Nothing is fully resolved here; many complexities and themes are seamlessly fashioned here to make this story work flawlessly. This is done by fully and completely immersing the audience in two different worlds one of order and rigidity and one of chaos and free form much like the Candinsky in this movie these worlds are painted on the same canvas. "}{"Title":"the longing of the social classes for each other","Date":"31 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Puzzling offhanded moody film. I was struck by what seemed the underlying assertion the deep if unconscious longing of the divided social classes in the country -- the wealthy and the disenfranchised -- for each other. The deep longing to heal the rift of separation that the whole class system perpetuates through how people behave, who they associate with, who is considered desirable. The rich couple and especially Stockard Channing's character of Louisa is caught up in an affluent world of witty pretentious empty existence -- one they are exceedingly skilled at, and are able to milk to good profit. When they meet Paul (Will Smith's character), they are drawn to his directness, his charm -- he is skilled at being relaxed and conversant in their cultured world, yet he lacks the pretense of the elder members or the (satirically exaggerated) spoiled disaffection of the younger members, their children. They both relish telling the story &#150; and their friends seem undyingly riveted by it -- and Loisa especially tastes of a richness, a directness, a spark to life that she does not have.Will Smith's character of Paul also longs for a life he does not have, their Upper East Side life. For the wealth, certainly, but also for the very real values of education, ideas, and that spark of art that is separate from the worldly commercial side of art's buying and selling. The slap that Louisa joyously gives to the hand of God in the Sistine Chapel.Both sides are profoundly hurt by the rift, the gulf, that exists almost never to be crossed between Paul's ghetto and the Kittridges' beautiful penthouse. There may be a mere six degrees of separation between them &#150; but as Louisa meditates, how to broach them? How to find the people that came connect you? (In Six Degrees it is interesting and telling that it is the gay member of the set that serves as the crossover person, the means by which Paul can make his more profound crossover. Somehow, those who are owning-class gay stand with a foot in both worlds &#150; they have a large degree of entree into the worldly affluent classes, yet they are also outcasts.)As a comment outside the movie, it's my opinion that the class system is kept inexorably in place so that the wealthy might never have human relationships as equals with those whose labor they exploit, so as to avoid the pangs of conscience about benefiting unjustly from their labor. (One of Gandhi's seven root causes of injustice is Wealth Without Work. In a just world, every person reaps the product of her or his own work; while to be wealthy, one generally must have people working for you from whom you derive some percentage profit of their work.) But while this may sound radical, my further belief is that not only does this system hurt the poor, it also hurts the wealthy in profound ways. They get the wonderful apartments and private access to the Kandinsky, but their lives are empty and they don't see a way out, they must keep going to the obligatory mannered dinner parties at the price of a life that feels rich and alive with imagination.  "},{"Title":"You're only six people away from someone famous","Date":"18 October 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  In this somewhat more tender role, Will Smith demonstrates that he is not just a home boy, rapper or comedian, he is also a straight actor. Apart from the fact that his character expresses his gay intentions, Smith plays a believable part in this film which successfully explores the premise of being six people away from someone famous. Bearing in mind that Sidney Poitier has been married twice, it is believable that Smith would be the illegitimate son of a secret alliance. For this reason, you begin to believe and care about his character, and you follow the story right to the end of the film. "},{"Title":"Impressed by Will Smith","Date":"10 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Six Degrees of Separation is a very entertaining and interesting movie. Based on a play, it is very talky though, but it suits the theme of the movie. It is very interesting to see Will Smith play a character like Paul, and I'm very impressed by the fact that he plays this serious character with as much ease as the funny hero characters he usually plays. (7/10) "},{"Title":"Thank you, Will!","Date":"14 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Watch this terrific movie if only to see Will Smith actually ACT! He certainly gives a superb performance in a role that is unusual when compared with his later ones. On the whole, the film is appealing, warm, and at times very witty. Complemented by solid performances by Stockard Channing and Donald Sutherland. "},{"Title":"Reaching a high level of awareness","Date":"3 August 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The premise of the film is that we are all connected to each other. While this may seem like a wise but unentertaining point, the film is quite entertaining. Through a series of flashbacks, we learn more about the people relating the flashbacks than about the mysterious Paul who brings these people together. Like THE TRUMAN SHOW, we have an interesting mix of existentialism, surrealism, and symbolism. Paul becomes an unusual Christ figure for Ouisa since he saves her from the empty life she has fallen into and opens up a whole new existence for her. Her symbolic high-fiving of God represents what we can all achieve if we lift ourselves out of the mundane and trivial illusion we call life and really being to live. "},{"Title":"Well-intentioned but laboured","Date":"13 November 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Six Degrees of Separation is a complex running argument-with-itself about the pitfalls of liberalism and whether this couple and their powerful (political-trope) guest can deal with the fact of well-intentioned permissiveness that comes after promoting the theory. It's a sort of benign Trojan horse drama, although it feels rather unreal by the end. Will Smith finds himself amongst aristocracy... acting aristocracy, that is. His character Paul also inserts himself amongst the New York social elite for the night but things are not what they first seem. This is a stage play brought to the screen and feels like it where Sutherland, Channing and Ian McKellen have a feeling for scene and dialogue building Will Smith is less assured. This is a hard thing to say - Paul is an isolated character and part of his appeal is his knack for hot-wiring the rhythms of the ensemble before they settle. Though Smith is well-suited for this it's a rather thankless ask. The film feels lumpen as a result. 4/10 "},{"Title":"Liked the movie (rather!) but not the people.","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Kittredges, wealthy art dealers, isolated in their NYC penthouse, and rather out of touch with the real world are visited by a charming young black man, claiming to be a friend of the Kittredges' children at Harvard and needing a place to stay. Complications develop as the boy turns out to be something other than what he has presented himself as. The superficiality of the Kittredges and their set is brilliantly depicted. Stockard Channing, Donald Sutherland, and Will Smith give superb performances. But humanity and warmth is missing from the lives of the Kittredges and their set. It is telling that when Louisa Kittredge surprises the Will Smith character in bed with someone else she is horrified; she cannot accept human contact on any level other than cocktail party chitchat. I enjoyed a lot of this film, but in the end found it muddling.  "},{"Title":"Yuck...","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Oh for many more degrees of separation from this self-indulgent exercise.&#133;.  It felt like being stuck between the writer and a mirror, and half the time I couldn't bear to look.   There's something claustrophobic about theatrical adpatations at the best of times, but the sense of intruding upon vicarious narcissism here was&#133; well&#133; just creepy.  Why didn't they leave this sick metaphor for middle-class New-Yorkers wanting to be Cultured Brownstone Eastsiders where it belongs somewhere all the creepy theatrical people can doughnut their witty friend at the bar in the interval, rather than trying to drag in nice anoymous classless cinemagoers with their knowing synchronized glances? "},{"Title":"Chao... Control. Chaos... Control. You like, you like?","Date":"6 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  My sister and I went to the video store to rent a movie called The Six Degrees of Separation. She hadn't seen it, but said that it was something that just kept coming up in conversations, people referring to this film. I think it's about this guy who wines and dines his way into rich people's lives, she said. We asked the video store owner(who has impeccable taste in movies) to add to this summarization. That's about right,  he began, then paused. Hmmm...well, just watch it. I can't explain.Neither can I, after watching this movie again and again, explain it any better. It is impossible to right a spoiler review for the movie, because the movie is utterly impossible to explain. It is an experience, the Kandinsky featured in the movie. It is thought-provoking, beautifully written, touching and funny. Knowing what happens in the movie does not express the meaning of the movie. It is a struggle to capture the imagination in our lives and hold onto the experience. And Stockard Channing is fantastic the only one in the movie who realizes anything.Don't worry, it's a good movie. Just watch it. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"3 July 2005","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I think the reason some people are confused by this story is because they don't know the history. This movie is loosely base on a true story. In the late 80's early 90's in New York there really was a young man posing as Sidney Potiers' son. The gentleman in question was feature on an episode of the Phil Donahue show. He was able to get in and befriend the high society world that he so admired. I saw the actually show myself and even I was impressed as hell with him. The difference is that the real-life person grew up in a well to do very privilege home himself. I wish the movie reflected more of that. Will Smith has said in past interviews that he wishes that he had taken the character further. Even explore the homosexual aspect. I enjoyed the movie, but I think thats because I knew the history. "}{"Title":"Awful.","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  An endless stream of empty dialogue spouted by thoroughly irritating one-dimensional characters. By far the most annoying aspect of this film, however, is the insufferable intellectual smugness of the playwright that pervades the entire piece. Needless to say, it is wholly unwarranted. "},{"Title":"well done, sick movie","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Will Smith, Stockard Channing and Donald Sutherland are very good. The characters are sick; what they do is sick; how they act is sick; what they say is sick. If you're sick, you'll love it. All others stay away.A frustrating flick, unless you appreciate sick. It gets a 3. "},{"Title":"one of the most important movies about existence, and it forces you to make a choice, too!","Date":"28 January 2005","Score":"7 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" this movie is a crazy one. i think it delicately and very imaginatively ponders on one of the facts of human nature that has long been forgotten. existence, man... you watch laughably obnoxious guys agitating one another and legitimize how they dropped bombs and killed 100 000 people on a small island and then stand before a flag and sing anthems with sparks and flashes of idiocy in their eyes...and then you watch this movie..and there you go.. you never really existed. this is one of the movies that forces you to make a choice. and it is, perhaps, one of the most critical choices one could make. to be or not to be, well william had it all. who are you? what are you going to do with your life? to what extent do you actually exist without other people? how free are you? are you only what you had been doing as time passed by with you incessantly planning things, or are you what your heart tells you to be? life is the time that passes as you keep planning things, as lennon says, and how exactly does that apply to you? the picture has two sides, yes, and in this system, this cage,whatever you wish to call it, this invisibly internalized system whose grip on us gets stronger day by day has soaked into our individual lives so much that we have turned into blank sheets who have become what we are told we have to be. we, then, completely forget about what we have been, what we were. and so life becomes a series of blind-fights you put up with anyone, even with a random guy on the street whose name you don't even know, at whose face you don't even look. cause you have to stand straight and face forward. all those things that we do to fake it. to fake that we are lonely sons of bitches who play in their own comedies without ever knowing it's a comedy.. and then the strangest guy intrudes your life and sings you back what you had denied your real self. people are so different and yet so alike. think of maslow's pyramid. and they are so scared and they are made so lonely by constructs and schemata that they are so keen on surviving as to refuse the most sincere kind of connection with other souls cause, damn, it is so hard to believe people. so what do you do? you start wearing a mask and it gradually becomes your face..like the way it was with the theater kids in the movie. and you fake it. you fake it just to get recognition and approval, whatever. just to belong. to be loved. and you repeat this with every one. you turn into a sick person, the normal person, with only one side of the picture. well, the movie not only makes quite clever references to *spoiler*--salinger's the catcher in the rye but the whole movie is based on the book's theme--*spoiler*.. what is it that makes you hold on? well, i guess it is time that we look for the threads...like those placenta like aura kind of things that donnie(darko) saw. may your mind be wide open. "},{"Title":"I love this movie!","Date":"11 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I really do love this film. Although I am only 15 I believe that all ages should watch this movie because it was so ,well um words cant describe how good it is. If only I had a copy of my own but if I did I would be afraid that I would only have time to watch it once and a while. As soon as I have the time to run out and get this movie I will share this wonderful drama with my entire family and friends. The obstacle that stands in my way is that I cant seem to find this excellent movie in stores so I must do with out until the time comes when I end my search. I think the stores should put this movie back on shelves because they would probably be selling out like crazy. Erica J Ps thank you for reading my comment because it is greatly appreciate it. And if at first you had a negative opinion about this movie you should either watch it or watch it again. "},{"Title":"Six Degrees of Separation","Date":"24 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" During the days of The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, and just before getting the big break in Bad Boys, this was probably when the film industry really took notice of the up and coming black American star, from director Fred Schepisi (Roxanne, Fierce Creatures). Basically the Kitteredges, Louisa 'Ouisa' (Grease's Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Stockard Channing) and John Flanders 'Flan' (Donald Sutherland) are rich art dealers in New York. They are ready to make a big deal with South African friend and client Geoffrey Miller (Sir Ian McKellen), when they are interrupted by a young black man named Paul (Will Smith) coming into their fancy apartment. He says he was robbed in Central Park, and after they help aid his wound, he starts telling them about himself, claiming to be a friend of their son and daughter in Harvard. Secretly though, we see from some flashbacks, he has practised everything he is going to say to Ouisa and Flan, and how to say it, and they believe every word, even his claim to be the son of Sidney Poitier. Paul does absolutely everything to charm the couple, and Geoffrey as well, including making a home cooked dinner, and they kindly invite him to stay the night, while Geoffrey has been tempted to go through with the deal with Flan. The next morning however Ouisa and Flan find out that Paul is not everything he claims to be, when they find him making love to a man, and they are sure he was fibbing about much more than that. The Kitteredges try to investigate Paul further, and along the way they realise that they are not the only ones to be almost conned by this very talkative and very clever black kid on the block. After many revolutions about Paul, and people saying that Paul did do some good for their lives in some way or another, Paul calls Ouisa and Flan at home to make his confessions, they did try to see things from his side, but in the end there can only be tragedy. Also starring Mary Beth Hurt as Kitty, Bruce Davison as Larkin, Richard Masur as Dr. Fine, The Breakfast Club's Anthony Michael Hall as Trent Conway, Heather Graham as Elizabeth, Eric Thal as Rick and Lost creator J.J. Abrams as Doug. The title, also called the Human Web relates to the idea that everyone is at most six steps away from any other person on Earth, so that a chain of, a friend of a friend statements can be made to connect any two people in six steps or fewer. Anyway, Smith is the driving force of this film, he is perfect in his role as the supposedly knowledgeable con, Channing is also good as the wife in the con, and Sutherland does alright as her husband. It's a film that makes you think about how you know and find out about people in your lives, and it is a likable drama. Good! "},{"Title":"More than six out of ten.","Date":"11 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not a fan of rap stars turned movie actors (the jury's still out on Eminem and Queen Latifah in my opinion) but Will Smith turned in a sterling performance in this film that I watched for the first time tonight. He played a blue collar homosexual conman who invaded but possibly enriched the lives of isolated upper class fools, while pretending to be the son of Sidney Poitier.  As his deception unravelled, the effect of his entrance into their lives deeply affected those involved, marvellously played by Stockard Channing and Donald Sutherland. The film was expertly acted and directed, though as often is the case with play-to-film adaptions it did seem like a filmed play. The subject matter and the acting should however enthuse anyone who hasn't been to see it. "},{"Title":"Fairly Good","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This was the film that got Will Smith started in movies, he gives a surprisingly good performance, also the film is rather uneven.  The plot is rather simple, and the film is quite entertaining.  Donald Sutherland and Stockard Channing are well cast as the rich couple that is conned by a black man(Smith).  The supporting cast is first rate as well, youll see Heather Graham(Boogie Nights, Austin Powers 2), Richard Masur(The Thing, My Girl), Mary Beth Hurt(The World According To Garp, Affliction), and even Anthony Michael Hall(The Breakfast Club, Sixteen Candles). Overall, not a bad film, ***1/2 out of *****. "},{"Title":"Intelligent and Philosophical","Date":"24 March 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Very good comedy/drama/play film that attempts to illustrate to viewers the power of human connections leading to occasional EPIPHANY(sudden new view of reality).Very effective in this regard as long as the viewer has a taste for Philosophy and has had a reaonably mature understanding of life.The directing,script and screenplay were very good but the cinematography was only above average.Very entertaining if one happens to be a fan of this type of genre or a big fan of any of the lead actors.If not,you may see this film as slow,over the top,and boring.The film reaches out to the positive energy in a person and may be viewed as spiritual as well......  "},{"Title":"Awfully painfully, uncomfortably to watch, a pretentious, obnoxious movie!","Date":"31 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a disgusting movie with so many phony hypocrites in it. If you treat it as a social satire but in reality, you just couldn't find so many disgusting human beings in one city. If New York was targeted as the hypocrites center of the universe as the movie itself described, then you must keep away from this cesspool of phonies. I just couldn't hang on to watch this movie, because almost in any moment I might puke. The characters were so disgusting, so exaggerated, so dramatically ballooned into so self-important pretentious. If rich people could become so disgustingly inhuman, then I'd rather stay in poverty. At first, I thought this movie was with a touch of Woody Allen's movies, but then I've found out this was a totally different beast, a twisted and mutant interpretation of the rich and the rich wannabes. The dialog was just so over-the-top pretentious and obnoxious that hurt every nerve of my hearing. Could be people become so pathetic that they would have to sit down or stand around to listen to the crap of the couple and the phony young guy played by Will Smith? Who would be so stupid to suffer such torment crap out by these people?This movie is a complete ridiculous joke! "},{"Title":"interesting plot","Date":"3 October 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Although we've never seen this movie it seems to be very interesting and suspenseful. The plot outline really catches our attention. I think it'll keep us on the edge of our seats. Will Smith is a very good actor for being his age so we would definitely enjoy watching him act in this movie. Critics say that Will Smith was a phenomenal actor in Six Degrees of Separation and really played a big role in transforming the play into a great film, keeping the audience at the edge of their seats. What interest us the most, about Six Degrees of Separation, is the separation of human beings. Reviews help us to believe that this is an outstanding film, however, we would have to see it to be able to respond the same way that critics responded to it. "}{"Title":"Taut  & Witty","Date":"7 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Very solid acting, and Stockard Channing shows an immense depth. The message of the movie is the danger of living life as a series of anecdotes or cocktail stories. Under that main current swirls several eddies of secondary observations on the human experience, including how we are connected to each other, how we often fool ourselves, and how it is easier to distract ourselves with 'situations' and 'events' of life, rather than engage ourselves in 'living' life.Ian McKellen gets a notice and who thought Wil Smith could do drama, but he's surprisingly good. One of Donald Sutherland's best performances in his uneven career. "},{"Title":"With Emphasis On Separation","Date":"25 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Rich or poor, we  long for a feeling of connectedness with the rest of humanity.  External distraction, ambition, greed and desire takes it's toll and even parent-child relationships can end up like those depicted in this film. Yet a complete stranger touches them to the core with his cleverly fabricated stories and irresistible charm designed to play off  that very longing. While it's the same longing within himself that motivates his charade.  And so the world goes round in mixed up confusion. Great look at the existential angst of modern society done with intelligent, sardonic humor. This is one of the more thought provoking comedy/dramas you'll find. It's a searing look at modern interpersonal relationships and how they can be so lacking of any true human significance, centered more in material gain, business opportunities and social climbing. Stockard Channing deserves all the praise she has garnered for her role and Donald Sutherland and Will Smith are excellent as well. If this one slipped by you during it's original release, as it seems to have for allot of viewers , be sure to check it out!   "},{"Title":"Brilliant","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have about 400 films in my collection. My wife and I watch at least one film a day. Six Degrees of Separation is on my top ten list - it might even be number 1. And Will Smith is in it. That is the most difficult thing to understand. "},{"Title":"Good acting - but too clearly a so-so stage play.","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A small time street conman (Will Smith) talks his way in to an uptown New York apartment with the aim of hustling a few bucks and a free meal - but things develop in ways neither party could have predicted.I always says con-men and gigolos know more about the human condition than most university professors. While the professors live in their ivory towers preaching to note takers, the con has to work his/her knowledge in the cold world of reality.This film, developed from a play, gives mixed messages. The central couple are art dealers, so they know a little about hustling, charming and selected truths themselves. Meanwhile the black con Paul (Will Smith) is very street level. All he has is a silver tongue.(David Hampton - which the story is based on - died of AIDS without a penny in the world.) The story is interesting enough for a while, but the lack of drama soon makes itself felt. In all con stories there is only two threads of drama Will the mark go for the con or not. In most such stories the author goes in for a bit of both - to get in the maximum drama. I won't say what happens here.The green edges of the chattering classes are exposed and the acting is first class, but I wasn't sure what this adds to the sum of my knowledge. Paul is a failure and maybe suffering from a personality disorder. He is in the wrong game because a silver tongue could take him far in this world - all goods need selling.I praise this film more for being different more than being good. It is a mediocre script and the tricks it can pull are limited. Its main plus is proving that Smith can act quite well when given the time and the space. "},{"Title":"A film that cannot be ignored","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have just finished watching this movie for a writing course I am in.  I must say that I am unsure as to what to think.  This is one of those film you walk out of not knowing how to feel.  It speak to almost everyone.  It discusses issues of class, race, sex, gender, orietation... and a plethora of others.  I highly recommend it to anyone.  But I must warm you that you will need time to think about it and let it soak in "},{"Title":"Bitter and intelligent","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This film is one of the most intelligent things that I´ve ever seen. Everything is chic in this pícture, the screenplay, the actors' performances and the message that it brings. Stockard Channing should have won an Academy Awards for her role of a society lady that receives in his house a guy that claims to be the son of Sidney Poitier. Their relationship will oscillate between the friendship and the search for a mother figure. "},{"Title":"conning ever afterwards","Date":"13 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Before Will Smith became associated with fighting aliens and rapping, he starred in Six Degrees of Separation as a young man who comes to a rich couple's house and pretends to be Sidney Poitier's son. But more than just focusing on him conning them, it looks at how his presence makes them have to reevaluate their lives.It seems that mostly, director Fred Schepisi went downhill from here. He was already well known for movies like A Cry in the Dark. Since this one, he's had some good spots like that one with Michael Caine and Bob Hoskins (I can't remember the title right now), but IQ - while acceptable - was basically a popcorn movie, and It Runs in the Family apparently sucked. But this one is certainly good. "},{"Title":"Will Smith Can Act","Date":"18 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This movie came as a complete surprise to me, as I had watched it after seeing Will in Fresh Prince and MIB. I was stunned at his earnestness and believability in this role. Smith himself has said that this was one of his better roles and now states that he regrets not filming the kissing scene. A must see, even for those not fans of Will Smith. Indeed, a must see even for those who dislike Smith, this film will at least expose you to a genuine, heartfelt side of Will Smith. The rest of the cast is superb, the shake-up that is caused in the high society that Paul enters is very believable. Sutherland's and Channing's performances are commendable. "},{"Title":"worth watching","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Even if you don't like Will Smith at all (Sutherland is great, of course) this is an amazing story - fast, funny and reasonably deep. Lacks a bit of an ending, though. You wonder if you would do better belonging to those spoilt kids. You wouldn't fancy Afghanistan, but then? Everything about Rome is great, even if the studio copy of the Sixtinian Capella could be a better one. As long as the Kandinski is painted on both sides I don't complain. "},{"Title":"Brilliant work highlighting Western Civ's trivialization of our human-ness.","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Very solid acting, and Stockard Channing shows an immense depth.  The message of the movie is the danger of living life as a series of anecdotes or cocktail stories. Under that main current swirls several eddies of secondary observations on the human experience, including how we are connected to each other, how we often fool ourselves, and how it is easier to distract ourselves with 'situations' and 'events' of life, rather than engage ourselves in 'living' life. "}{"Title":"Death to Theatre!","Date":"3 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  You heard me -- in fact, if I had my way, I'd institute a five-year (at least) ban on all adaptations of quality stage plays into movies, as well as ban all major-league theatrical directors and actors from starring in movies. Six Degrees was just one too many times I've seen a play that got serious attention from the middlebrow pundits of my fair city turned into a movie that wasted a lot of talent only to prove how shallow and pretentious the original highly acclaimed play actually was.We're all connected. Gee. And isn't it nice that dubious black kids like the Will Smith character are around to fulfill their life's mission of transforming the lives of bored rich white people like the Stockard Channing character. What does he get in the end? A trip to jail. As for her, she gets a slick fadeout shot courtesy of classy Aussie director Fred Schepisi. Cheap self-laceration for comfortably well-off.Six Degrees joins Agnes of God, Children of a Lesser God, Fool for Love, and assorted other contraptions whose film adaptations merely prove that film has a knack for exposing the creaky workings of quality drama for the cheap fakery they really are. Ditto for Channing's acclaimed Broadway performance, which simply looks like a lot of scenery chewing over some claptrap dialog when seen on the screen.Want to waste your time brow-furrowing over the self-important inner lives of a lot of cardboard rich-Manhattan stock characters? Then see Six Degrees. Otherwise, have a martini and slip in a video of something that wasn't designed for the tasteful upper-middle class suburban theatre tourist -- like maybe a good John Woo flick. "},{"Title":"A film that cannot be ignored","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I have just finished watching this movie for a writing course I am in.  I must say that I am unsure as to what to think.  This is one of those films you walk out of not knowing how to feel.  It speaks to almost everyone.  It discusses issues of class, race, sex, gender, orietation... and a plethora of others.  I highly recommend it to anyone.  But I must warn you that you will need time to think about it and let it soak in.  "},{"Title":"Perhaps the most overlooked movie of excellence in a decade.","Date":"30 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is an outstanding work of art.  It is that rare melding of every facet of film making into a completely realized whole.  The film makers took on the toughest of assignments a movie of ideas and delivered at every level a first rate accomplishment.  Superb acting, excellent direction and production values of the first order. "},{"Title":"My View on six degrees(spoilers)","Date":"13 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I Love this movie; There is so much more to it than meets the eye and when looking into the depths of the movie you so the intricate dance of subtleties that (in my opinion) make this movie joy to watch. This movie shows both the peoples capacity for kindness, but also our gullibility to kindness. We see the relationship between the higher society parents of today, who are far out of touch with their children, and their children. The subtle representation in this movie is seen throughout the movie and show's many of the different things brought up in the movie.The kindness of strangers reflects throughout the movie, it makes the movie progress. Each family brings him in and helps him out with only his word that he is a friend of their kids. They put him up in their house (and two of them trusted him enough to leave him alone) given only their child's name. Although focusing on the rich it even show's the poorer kindness with Rick and Elizabeth, who take him in with barely enough means to get by themselves. Ouisa shows a giant capacity for kindness when she stands up for Paul's memory at the diner party declaring it was an experience, I will not let him become an anecdote, oh that reminds me about the time that impostor came into our lives, tell me the one about the boy and again when she agree's to take him into the station so he is not treated poorly.The converse of their kindness we also see the representation of the rich peoples relationship with their children. The Kittridges give away their sons favorite pink shirt to Paul, and have no idea comment on their daughters I'm moving to Afghanistan cry for attention. You can see that it is a cry for attention when Tess is on the phone and says I'm moving to Afghanistan, I'm throwing away everything... and hangs up. Larkin is not even concerned with the happenings of his child's life I don't want to know, I don't want to know and would rather stay oblivious to it. The group of parents and their children are together when the kids erupt with rantings against their parents you don't understand, you gave him my pink shirt etc but they are more entirely concerned with Paul.The distance in the parent to child relationship is one of the many things shown in the subtle representation frequent throughout the movie. The Candinsky's painted on both sides The double sided painting represents life, there's two sides to everything. The painting can represent the movie, the chaos representing the chaos of those trying to find Paul and control being the control Paul shows sneaking in and out of their lives. Collage is the art form of the twentieth century- everything is somebody else's again represents life, but rather todays life opposed to a general statement about life itself. everyone is taking parts of everything else and just claiming their own. We no longer have a genius on every corner (Goeffery) but rather we just have a rainy night in Boston where everything is put together. This movie itself is a collage of ideas embedded into each other and given flow. "},{"Title":"Will Smith, Stockard Channing, and Donald Sutherland were outstanding!!","Date":"12 December 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I finally rented the movie after searching through Hollywood Video for a few minutes last week. Will reminds me of my son, Ali, the same coloring, body build and haircut. I'd heard about the movie for years, and thought it was based on a true story of an impostor claiming to be Sidney Portier's son. My husband knew Will's character was gay; I didn't know and didn't care. The move was wonderful. Is is based on an actual person? Or had I imagined such a person years ago when the movie first was released? Some people may think Will is gay. Such is the power of his acting skills, the writer, casting director, and directors. Stockard was brilliant, as well were all of the cast members. Six degrees of separation...I believe that having met most of my movie and music idols when I lived in Hollywood, California during the 1980's. "},{"Title":"Among the greatest films of the 90's","Date":"24 December 1999","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  There may be some who see the characters in Six  Degrees of Separation as unbearably shallow; who  find the creature comforts of the Kittredges and  their discussions about art effete; who focus on the  sickliness of a young man who would envy them and  try to enter their world under false pretenses, but  what I see is how difficult a task it was to get us  to relate to these people and what a prodigy the  makers of this movie have pulled off.Six Degrees of Separation is not an easy picture  to like.  Ouisa and her husband are well-off and  affected.  The interloper Paul is cunning and  heartless.  But the mess that ensues with their  meeting seems to usher in a breath of brisk air into  the lives of each.  The Kittredges begin to see how  musty their existences have become, and Paul begins  to understand deeply what pain his deceptions have  created.  The ruminations about life and art that  writer John Guare touches on seem way beyond the  scope of my meager comprehension, yet you feel you  know--intuitively--that they are something of the  highest order.  (I'll never forget what wonders he  wrought with his Atlantic City.)  And there isn't  enough I can say about director Fred Schepisi.  In  fact, there is no plainer way to say it; he is one  of the greatest directors working in movies today.   (There is no one alive today that could have made a  movie like The Russia House with the same  astounding dexterity.  And Six Degrees is just as  complex a sensual experience.)It was clear from the sitcom The Fresh Prince of  Bel-Air that Will Smith had star potential, but  what wasn't clear was that given the right role, he  would open up in the minds of some of us a new set  of possibilities in the world of acting.  Smith  exhibits an acumen as Paul that's on a par with a  performance like Dean Stockwell's in Compulsion.   He's that good.Donald Sutherland has never affected me in quite the  same way as he does here.  He's the right actor to  bring John Guare's contemplations on art to the  screen.  The camerawork and pacing of the scene  follows Guare's lead on the theme, and Sutherland  gives in to the moment with delicacy and breathless  ardor.Stockard Channing, on the other hand, has a more  difficult task.  She needs to play a cultured woman  protected from adversity and give it emotional  weight.  She almost manages it, but the ending of  this picture fails her, I think.  It needs the same  sophisticated hand that the rest of the movie has.   Maybe her going back to see Paul in jail, or going  to a place where they play somber music only Ouisa  can appreciate and watch her drift off into another  world than the one she lives in.Suffice it to say, Six Degrees of Separation is  one of the greatest movies ever made in the 90's.   With Heather Graham in a much meatier role than  we're used to seeing her in; Eric Thal; and Lou  Milione as the Kittredge's surprise houseguest. "},{"Title":"Worst Movie of All Time","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"12 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Yes.. This is the worst movie of all times. The plot and dialogue are pointless.... You leave the theater dumber. Please for the love of god, do not watch this movie.Will Smith portrays an individual that posses as the homosexual nephew of Sidney Poiter.   Trust me.  I wrote the the movie company and demanded my money back. "},{"Title":"boring, tiresome","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I'm not sure why play writers and script writers feel the need to write stories about ultra rich people.  Not that it would have helped if the main characters had been middle class living in the suburbs.  This movie suffered from the same problem that so many do; there's nothing about the characters that you can empathize or connect with.  So you end up spending the entire movie listening to these empty people natter on about nothing.  It really got bad when we had to listen to the adult children of the parents screaming at them and telling them how stupid they were.  Screaming at them in public places.Really dreadful. "},{"Title":"Walked Out--Again","Date":"7 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Do yourself a favor and don't waste your time on this movie. We tried to watch it when it was first released. It was so awful we walked out and got our money back. Twelve years later we happened to catch it on television, and thought, What the heck, we'll give it another try. It was briefly intriguing to see all the actors earlier in their careers. However, the film was still as bad as we remembered--worse, really. We turned it off even faster. I have no idea what happens in this film, because I could never sit through it to find out. The characters that interact with Paul (Will Smith) are such hopeless idiots, it is impossible to sustain any interest in them. In a real world, Paul would never be able to worm his way into their lives. "}]