[{"Title":"Not The Best But Not That Bad Either!","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"17 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" First of all, let me say that the first Weeeknd At Bernie's is a tough movie to follow up. The premise (while by the end of the first movie it may have seemed worn out) was fresh for its time and the humor was totally there. As for the sequel, I was glad to see Richard and Larry still hanging out together. It was also nice to see that their characters didn't change much. Richard was still the brains behind the operation and Larry was still as crazy as ever. Yes the plot was kind of silly (to put it mildly) and the whole voo-doo thing was kind of lame. However, the 2 people chasing Larry and Richard added some new humor to this film that the first movie kind of lacked. Who made the movie? Well Bernie DUH! Bernie provides lots of good laughs with his silly dancing, and even though he is dead, he brought lots of life to this movie at times. Beyond that, the music in this film really helped it along. With the music, it really made you wish you could go on a vacation wherever the boys were at. To put it another way, the music REALLY helped this film. While this movie isn't the greatest comedy ever, it really does not deserve all the horrible things people say about it. Richard, Larry and Bernie make this film worth watching at least once. Now if only they would have made a soundtrack to go with the movie. And before you ask, yes the music was that good! ) "},{"Title":"sequel surpasses the original and moves in a very different direction","Date":"29 April 2007","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" you know,I'm a bit mystified.this sequel to the original has an even lower rating.for my money,this movie surpasses the first one.we have the three main characters,Richard and Larry(Jonathon Silverman,Andrew McCarthy)and of course,the dead guy,Bernie(Terry Kiser)however,the difference is this movie has a better story,and although it could still be called a black comedy,it has a lighter tone to it,and is hysterically funny quite often,thanks largely to Kiser,who brings a whole nother(i swear it's a real word)dimension to the dead guy.there are more pratfalls and physical comedy in this movie.there is a sort of running gag involvong Barry Bostwick's character,which is quite amusing.i won't say too much about the plot,except that it continues pretty much right from where the first one ended.also,this movie is not a rehash of the first,but rather goes in a different and very creative(in my mind)direction.as a matter of fact,i kinda was hoping a third one would be made,just to see what they could do with it.anyway,i give Weekend at Bernie's 2 a strong 8./10 "},{"Title":"He is DEAD, people! A CORPSE!","Date":"3 January 2005","Score":"12 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" OK, the ending of the first film did (sort-of) leave the door open for a sequel. That being said, it was more of a joke. I know, it was a hit and all, but couldn't they just make the dead person someone else? Now before you freak out and say Replace Terry Keiser???? Are you crazy??? Just listen. Bernie is DEAD! Long dead! It doesn't take a Sri Lanken fisherman to tell you the body get bloated and rots! Right away! Anyone ever heard of riga-mortis???? That stiffening that happens when you die? OK..... They COULD have made our two heroes visit Bernie's twin brother Ernie to tell him what happened. Ernie dies and for some reason they have to cart around HIS corpse. BUT NO.... Now they break Bernie out of the morgue. But Bernie is on the move thanks to some Voodoo curse that makes him dance around when he hears music. Oh the humanity. Whoever wrote this garbage was on some serious drugs and whoever green-lit it was on more. Now we know, corpse humor can be VERY funny, the first movie proved that. I actually would give the first one a 7. This one however is in one country and will live there forever. Hopefully it will die there. If you have made it this far into my review, bless you. You have way more free time than I do, and that is saying something. Bottom line. This Movie sucks donkey pp. "},{"Title":"lifeless","Date":"23 July 1999","Score":"17 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  What an awful follow up.  Sure, you want the Bernie character lifeless but not his script.  Klane, who wrote the first, does the same here and gets to direct.  Camerawork is not his problem, its his laughless dialogue, something he had no trouble with in part 1.  Here he depends too much on slamming Bernie about in a variety of ways.  He gives McCarthy and Silverman no goofy lines to go along with the visual stuff like last time.  The only real gag that netted a chuckle from me was the Bernie Boogie, at least thats what I called it.  When Kiser hears music his body starts moving about in a silly dance.  But aside from that theres not much here. "},{"Title":"Goofy sequel. Very early 90's style.","Date":"26 July 2009","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This sequel was more goofy-humor oriented than the original that had tongue in cheek humor mixed with black comedy.In this sequel you can't forget about quality because you will get insanity instead. There is no need to tell that the plot is a total joke that deals reviving Bernie with voodoo. Could that work?! Well, it does but the results are not very favorable. We get silly situations mixed with the main character's stupidity surrounded by a goofy vibe.This sequel should only be recommended for HUGE fans of the original. If not, stay away from it because it's not even half as funny as the original.At least, Jonathan Silverman, Andrew McCarthy and Terry Kiser are back. They're the best thing from this almost-mess.If nostalgia is a common denominator in your film experience, then you should watch it; otherwise, it should be kept as an obscure sequel. "},{"Title":"Silly, funny and fun","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Don't take this comedy seriously, it's a laugh a minute and has beautiful scenery. I love this movie. Follows the story of the first with two quys that still want Bernies money, but now he's dead. Doesn't matter they still take him along. With there screw-ups and the VooDoo and it's a laugh all the way through. "},{"Title":"Disappointing","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I watched this film for only one reason, which was that the original was fantastic. This story had a lot of potential which wasn't really used at all. Without as many laughs, and quite a bad story, I found this movie rather a let down. It was occasionally funny in places, but it's nothing special, and over all, disappointing. Stay with the first movie, it's much, much better. "},{"Title":"No rigor mortis here!","Date":"13 May 1999","Score":"12 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Bernie is still dead, and is now needed to provide a key signature in St. Thomas.  Larry and Richard are more than happy to escort their former boss. The scenery is great, the music pleasant, and the humor runs at a surprising rate! "},{"Title":"Ahem","Date":"20 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It's difficult to resist a sequel with a tagline like 'Bernie's back... and he's still dead!' Well, I thought so, anyway. Your mileage may vary.This bafflingly redundant follow-up to the underrated original does offer a few genuine laughs in the middle of a desperate plot that bends over backwards to keep Bernie up and about, even resorting to a voodoo spell. The laughs come cheap and fast Bernie falls flat on his face, is attacked by a shark while hang gliding, and gets crammed into a suitcase; still, it's not like the first movie was a highbrow kitchen sink drama. So, it's likable enough, thanks largely to the efforts of Andrew McCarthy and Jonathan Silverman, but it's still slapdash stuff with scenes seemingly missing left, right and centre judging by the way the characters move from place to place. Was this movie necessary? No, it was not. Is it any good? Not really, no. But it's painless enough. "},{"Title":"It was funny, but I have seen funnier.","Date":"21 April 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought it was funny when Bernie was dancing around without people knowing that he was dead. That is the only reason I remember that movie. It was okay. I am not too critical of comedies, because most are simply designed to make us laugh, and if they succeed without being overly cruel or vulgar, they are generally not bad movies to watch. "}{"Title":"Wow, what a terrible movie","Date":"11 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This has to be THE worst sequel, or at least one of them, that I have ever seen. I wasn't expecting another Weekend at Bernie's (which was a classic, btw), but I was expecting some decency, considering the main 3 characters all came back. First off, this movie was supposed to take place instantly after Bernie's death, since they actually went to the morgue to see him. Yet, no joke, Andrew McCarthy and Jonathan Silverman looked 10 years older. I know it was only 4 years between movies, but they seemed to age A LOT between the two movies. It was almost comical how much they aged in a matter of days. Shoot, even Sly Stallone, 10 years between Rocky movies didn't age that much.Secondly, McCarthy and Silverman seemed to forgot how to play the characters properly. The movie was basically a continuation of the first, yet they were acting completely different. Both actors did a terrible job of channeling the original energy of Larry and Richard. Lastly, the entire premise of the movie was RIDICULOUS! Bernie cursed and would start dancing when music came on? Good God, this was a tough one to make it through. 4.4 overall rating here is VERY generous for this debacle of a movie! "},{"Title":"Seriously did the first movie need a sequel at all?","Date":"14 February 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Andrew McCarthy and Silverman are back and in desperate need of a paycheck which is the only reason they could have ever wanted to appear in a sequel that was not needed or should have been made. The first film ended, the man was dead, the story was over, but they somehow create a very flimsy premise to bring everyone's favorite corpse back from the dead yet again. Yes, he is sort of brought back from the dead in this one as he walks yet again anytime he hears music, basically a zombie that does not crave human flesh, but music. The two dudes from the last movie are back too, and this time they may as well be criminals as they basically want to steal Bernie's corpse to try and access some stuff as Bernie may have some money hidden somewhere. They may as well be bad guys with their motives in this one. There are two guys who use voodoo to reawaken Bernie and a voodoo lady who puts a curse on them. Yes, it is as bad as all that. Still, there are a couple of laughs to be found here and there, just not enough to make this a good or okay or tolerable movie to watch. Like I said before, some movies should not have sequels to them and this is most certainly one of them. The first one was rather enjoyable to me, but even then they seemed to be stretching the premise thin, here it just breaks apart as the whole zombie thing is simply ludicrous. "},{"Title":"One of the most pointless sequels I've ever seen!","Date":"18 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Larry and Richard are blamed for insurance theft and fired in the process. Larry comes up with a dangerous scheme to not only get their jobs back but, but find money in the Virgin Islands to make them rich. Unfortunately for them, two bumbling buffoons (Steve James & Tom Wright) have conjured up a voodoo spell to bring Bernie back to life. It backfires when they mess up the spell and Bernie can only move when he hears music. Meanwhile, a company security officer (Bostwick) is after everything as well. This is the 3rd time I've seen this movie! That makes no sense, I know! I always feel that maybe I'm missing something. As a fan of the original movie, I've always been bemused about why they decided to go through with this movie. I know Andrew McCarthy's burgeoning, 80's career had hit the skids at this juncture, but it was an awful decision. Look. I really liked the original and I know it was a surprise hit. I don't think anyone clamored for a sequel though. Everything that made the original work so well is nowhere to be found here. It seems so forced and contrived that it's not even funny. Not only that, there was no need for a sequel! Everything was solved in the original! There is usually a hint of sorts that a sequel will commence. I didn't sense that in the first movie. It's filled with plenty of cringe worthy slapstick that is not funny in the slightest. The only thing I was mildly amused at were the gags at the morgue. They try to repeat the formula of the original, but it feels corny. There are only so many things you can do with a dead person before it gets stagnant. Not to mention the voodoo thing is very stupid. Jonathan Silver and Andrew McCarthy's act has worn very thin. McCarthy's cocky persona was fun in the original, but it's overbearing in the sequel. He mugs his way through a lot of it and doesn't seem too inspired. Silver is dull as the straight man. The chemistry they shared is gone. Terry Kiser's physical acting is remarkable, but him dancing to music gets old very quickly. It isn't his fault he had nothing to work with! He has no lines at all. Barry Bostwick is fine in his role. Steve James & Tom Wright do fine as the idiots, but they weren't very funny. Thank god they had the smarts to stop here! Hopefully McCarthy doesn't get any bright ideas about his glory days to try to get a sequel done. Bernie's dead! Watch the original and leave this movie in obscurity where it belongs3/10 "},{"Title":"Weekends at Bernie II isn't stiff or dead weight. It's honestly pretty funny.","Date":"12 October 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It doesn't feel like overkill like a lot of critics has said about this sequel, to 1989's Weekend at Bernie. I love both the Bernie films. You really have to turn off your brain to enjoy them. They are really stupid and silly, but lots of fun. The film actually got a lot of quite loud laughs from me. Directed by Robert Klane, the movie leaves off from the events of the last movie. After returning from vacation with their recent deceased boss, Bernie Lomax (Terry Kiser); Larry Wilson (Andrew McCarthy) and Richard Parker (Jonathan Silverman) find themselves blamed for Bernie's theft of two million dollars and fired. They investigate even more and discover that the money is somewhere in St Thomas in the Virgin Islands. Meanwhile, in the U.S. Virgin Islands, a voodoo witch doctor Mobu (Novella Nelson) is hired by mobsters to find the money Bernie stole as well. She sends two idiotic henchmen&#x96; Henry (Steve James) and Charles (Tom Wright) &#x96; to go to New York, get Bernie's body so they can use a voodoo ceremony to reanimate him, as an attempt to get Bernie to show them, where he hid the money. Unfortunately they mess up and Bernie can only move when he hears music, and they lost the body to Larry and Richard. Unbeknownst to Richard and Larry, a company security officer, Arthur Hummel (Barry Bostwick) who believe Larry and Richard knows where the money is, is also on their trail. Now it's a rat race to the hidden treasure, as the three groups try to outsmart each other, and claim the prize in the end. A lot of people thought, a sequel to an unlikely comedy would be impossible to make, without it, feeling old. Surprising, the producers actually pulled it off, and it is funnier that the original. Yes, the dark humor is tasteless and plot is ridiculous as hell, but still, it's funny as hell to watch. The slapstick humor is some of the best. I love the whole carriage scene. I was laughing my head, off. I love the cartoon opening to the film. It really establish, how cartoony the film will be. Too bad, it was kinda half-assed made. The animated studio that did it, didn't even bother to animate the crew's production titles. This creates for a really bad effect where the names are animated but the production titles are obviously added in. It's really off-putting. Like an old school cartoon, Bernie's body is never gory after all the violent acts that his body takes throughout the film. In many ways, you have to suspense your disbelief, to buy into the fact that Bernie doesn't rot away or fall apart in this film. After all, the film is full of dumb moments. It's funny, how much the movie tries to get away with logic. Good examples of theses, are how Bernie's body able to be flew to St. Thomas in the first place or how Bernie able to hear music through a normal Walkman in deep underwater. Others things like the whole voodoo curses are just weird. Why does a blood of a virgin stop a man from dying? How does a pigeon cause a dead man to dance? The movie makes little to no sense. Maybe, I'm looking too much into it, but the movie could be a metaphor for itself. The voodoo ritual represents the producers trying to bring the idea back to life. The movie theater where the ritual is performed represents the movie theater where the audience is sitting, because it's where the producers are trying to recapture the 'magic' of the first film. The people who fight over Bernie's corpse so they can find the hidden millions are representative of all the people trying to cash in on the success of the first movie. The beatings that Bernie receives are probably supposed to be reminiscent of 'beating a dead horse,' which has obvious significance. The acting in the film is mediocre at best. It's not the worst, but clearly, could had been better. The music score is pretty catchy. I love how the movie influence a dance movement. Inspired by the movement of the movie's namesake, a style of dance was created called Movin' Like Bernie. Homemade movies went viral on the internet, from children to soldiers serving overseas. Even professional athletes began performing the dance. Overall I have complicated feelings about this movie. The movie is not yet dead. It's still watchable. Check it out, if you want to. "},{"Title":"Good","Date":"1 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It does not disappoint or disrespect the legacy of the original movie. Often, a movie will come out that receives so much hype from critics and moviegoers that if I don't see it within the first 48 hours of its release, I won't see it for quite some time. For this reason I didn't see ET for at least 10 years after it was released. But I have seen WEEKEND AT BERNIE'S II. There isn't enough room here to discuss plot points and most of you already know the gist anyway. Just know that this is a fantastic comedy. The twists and turns keep you guessing until the very end. I think the movie does a superb job of portraying the story and issues without preaching to the viewer. That being said, it's impossible for an educated viewer not to see the flaws. "},{"Title":"Swim with the fishes......","Date":"7 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Larry and Richard return to New York only to be blamed for Bernie's theft of two million dollars and fired.They investigate and discover that the money is somewhere in St Thomas in the Virgin Islands.Meanwhile the Cartel Bernie was stealing the money for hires a Voodoo Queen to help them find the money. She tells them to steal Bernie's body and raise it from the dead to lead them to the money.Unfortunately they mess up and Bernie can only move when he hears music.Richard, Larry and Bernie all go to St Thomas to find the money with the aid of Claudia only to be followed by Hummel, a company security officer, who believes that Larry and Richard stole the money....Talk about flogging a dead horse! The film must be one of the most pointless sequels ever and one of the most unnecessary. On paper though, it could have worked, and no mater how much you laughed at Bernie the first time around, Larry and Richard have more of a swagger, thus making the scenes with the three in less urgent.Nevertheless, Bernie dancing does raise a few laughs, and the two leads are as good as ever, but it just really doesn't have the magic and the endearing qualities of the first.RIP Steve James. "},{"Title":"What was the point?","Date":"23 March 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Weekend At Bernies (Part 1) has always been one of my all time favorite dreadful movies.. i class it as one of those films that are so tacky, they are kind of great...... Which is more than i can say for this sequel!I just don't get the point of it. There is nothing new or different about this movie.. they achieved nothing by making a second film..All i can think is, They thought a lot of money was to be made by making this... I wonder if it was worth it?I guess if you'd never seen the original, this film would be OKAY.. In a bad way!... but as a follow up to the original.. it just kinda sucks. "},{"Title":"Not quite zombie humor, but close...","Date":"9 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Not a lot of people liked this movie, but just as many people did! It is a sequel to an improbable comedy that I would have thought impossible, but they actually pulled it off, and it is funnier that the original. Of course it is tasteless, silly, and ridiculous. It is a one-gag comedy that milks the one gag for all it is worth, like Chuck Jones did with Fearless Freep. A salute must of course be given to Terry Kiser, the real star of the film, who flops and sags and dances his way through these two preposterous movies. Playing a corpse is always an admirable skill, especially a corpse hauled all over the stage or screen. Kiser does it brilliantly. If you aren't offended by this kind of humor, go see it. "},{"Title":"Bernie's swan song","Date":"30 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Not half bad 'sequel' to the funny original.'Bernie' (Terry Kiser) is still being propped up so he can flop over and fall down thus creating even more trouble for our heroes 'Richard' and 'Larry' (John Silverman and Andy McCarthy). This time around the boys must use ol' Bern' to procure Bernie's hidden wealth located in a Caribbean safety deposit box while concomitantly ditching two other guys who want Bernie's body for their voodoo magic. Written and directed by Bob Klane. Klane's script sucks, but his direction is OK, provided one is not very demanding.Pretty scenery of the U.S. Virgin Islands. "},{"Title":"How low can you go?","Date":"15 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" It's right after the first movie, and Bernie (Terry Kiser) is now in the morgue. Larry (Andrew McCarthy) and Richard (Jonathan Silverman) is suspected of colluding with Bernie by the company's investigator Arthur Hummel (Barry Bostwick), and are fired. Meanwhile a couple of bad guys try to use Voodoo to get the $2million. They reanimate Bernie but only when rhythmic music is playing. Then they lose Bernie on the subway, and he's returned back to the morgue. At the same time, Larry and Richard discover where Bernie hid the money. Only Bernie needs to get it from the bank in person. That when they decide to get Bernie from the morgue....The first one was a one joke comedy, and it was only passably funny. This one is even less than that. The only funny thing is the sight of Terry Kiser bopping around at the sound of the music. That last about 2 seconds. Then it gets stupider and stupider. This was never a smart franchise. I'm not talking about the characters, but rather the comedy. It's a one joke concept without much to back it up. But the stupidity in this movie really piles up. For example, it seems much more simpler to just try to pretend to be Bernie instead of dragging his dead body to the bank. It never quite improves. "}{"Title":"Maximum antics, minimum laughter","Date":"31 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Bernie hasn't changed much since we saw him last. He is still deader than a doornail in Weekend at Bernie's II. After one very solid comedy, its name is now tainted with a sequel leaching off of it. Not a bad sequel, but far from a good one. After finishing the first film, I picked up the DVD for the sequel and thought A sequel that comes four years after the first one, about the same dead guy? How the hell will they explain that one? Well, this time the insurance clerks Richard and Larry (McCarthy and Silverman) are using their dead boss Bernie (Kiser) to find $2 million dollars in the U.S. Virgin Islands. After being resurrected by two voodoo artists, Bernie walks towards the treasure whenever music is played. His bow-legged, slumped over style of walking when dead has spawned a dance called Move it like Bernie.Turns out the mob and a representative from the insurance company want this money too. So Rich and Larry need to get there before the money is stolen. It's the classic maximum antics, minimum laughter sort of the deal. Numerous events and antics keep happening minute after minute. But only one in five appear to be somewhat funny.I must compare Weekend at Bernie's II to Dream a Little Dream 2. Both of the sequels were made years after the first to try to cash in on the first movie success. While both sequels aren't very good, at least Dream a Little Dream's sequel makes a bit more sense for existing since it's a comedy. With this, it's about two goofballs propping up a dead man and dragging him around like he is alive. Material wears thin and reality catches up. I find it hard to believe the girl in the conga line didn't notices he stinks.The most fun I had was the end chase scene through the forest preserve, and even some scenes were sporadically funny. Seeing McCarthy and Silverman portray the characters they started was another amusing thing. Not to mention some great music to tie the film together. But ultimately, this film needs a reality check, a humor check, and a reason check. It doesn't satisfy enough to meet comedy minimums.Starring Andrew McCarthy, Johnathan Silverman, and Terry Kiser. Directed by Robert Klane. "},{"Title":"Weekend away from Bernies","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" When I saw this film, I could not believe that they travel with the dead boss and the body doesn't start to stink. Even when the lady was laying on the beach with him overnight, she didn't smell him. Obviously, no one in this movie can smell.The acting wasn't the best and the white haired guy kept getting arrested but the two guys with the dead body did not. The only part that I liked was when Bernie was dancing around, I thought that was funny, but other than that the movie was bad. Bernie actually looks like a professor I had in college, but the professor was more interesting than this movie.It would have made more sense if Bernie was constantly drunk or retarded or something. Then no body would have to waste the weekend watching this. "},{"Title":"Not a great sequel, but some laughs are in store...","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  ***spoilers  ahead*****The first Weekend at Bernie's was an absolute hit. A cult classic comedy loaded with humor, crazy situations, and kept the audience involved the entire time. Weekend at Bernie's Part II had some great moments, but this movie seemed to go in the wrong direction.  To make a sequel enjoyable, the viewers need more from the first film to make a connection. Only Richard, Larry, and Bernie were back. Where were many of the major characters from the first film?? The mob boss, the girlfriend who was fooling around with Bernie, and Gwen, who was Richard's love interest, should have been back to build the story. Even some of Bernie's beach pals (remember the nut who wanted his car?) could have made cameos.  This time, however, things changed for the worse. Barry Bostwick was essentially the new Paulie (who was the hit man in part I) and did a horrible horrible job. Paulie should have returned in some way or form. Can you say prison breakout?  Instead of Richard having a love interest or continuing things with Gwen, this time it was Larry trying to make it with the girl on the island. HUGE mistake, as there was no chemistry or any sense that the relationship might have worked. Larry seemed way to silly to even attempt date or romantic scenes!! Not even close to believable.  I fully agree with one viewer who suggested that Terry Kiser (Bernie), who was hilarious when he was alive, should have been in Part II in a flashback mode or something playing the part of the living Bernie. He was great in the first one and had very little chance to improve the part this time. The two clowns who were chasing Bernie's body around and carried out the voodoo were terrible. The whole idea of voodoo was super silly, except for it giving Bernie a chance to move around a bit and not be a lifeless corpse the whole time.  Also, the soundtrack for Part II was awful! The first one had great party/beach music. Why not capitalize on that? Who could forget the some like it hot/cold/never know song from the first one?  WAB fans should still see it but true comedy happened in the first film. "},{"Title":"A disappointment after the first.","Date":"25 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay.  I have to admit that the first Weekend at Bernie's had to be one of the funniest inane movies I had seen to date.  It was delightful in it's simplicity.  It did not have a moral (really) or a point (really) or much of anything else for that matter.  The only important thing is that it made me laugh uproariously.Weekend II was well, disappointing.  It WAS funny but not the side splitting laughter achieved in Weekend I, mostly, I believe, because most of the basic pranks had already been done, to death... pardon the pun.  There was really nothing unexpected aside from Bernie's sudden hiccups of locomotion. "},{"Title":"Excellent Film","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  An excellent sequel to a funny movie.  If you liked Weekend At Bernie's, then this movie does an excellent job of filling in missing pieces from the first.  A great movie.  Now if it would only be released on a Digital Video Disk along with Weekend At Bernie's. "},{"Title":"A classic if you like to see the dead getting smacked around.","Date":"12 August 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  -Warning possible spoilers in here(but I don't think it will effect your enjoyment of the movie if you know a bit of the 'plot')- I heard that this movie was awful, I watched it anyway, I only managed to watch up to about a 1/4 of the way through cause it was on tv and I had to go out, but that was so funny I had to buy the movie and see the whole thing, and I'm glad I did! I know, maybe it is a bit immature to laugh when Bernie's re-animated body suddenly stops being re-animated and just smacks to the floor, BUT IT'S FUNNY! It looks like a SitCom more than a movie but a very funny one, it's just SO stupid! And stuffing him in the fridge *CRUNCH* oooch. Oh and Bernie boogieing along underwater HAHA! Recommended if you enjoyed watching Bruce Campbell getting smacked around in the Evil dead movies, okay it's not up to that par of excellence but him falling over *SMACK!* OMG it's just really chucklesum ) Although okay I'll get back on myself, it's not a masterpiece and it doesn't ever really get more than chuckles(although they last the whole movie) so I'll have to knock it down to 7 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Funnier than the first!!","Date":"11 December 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Well, maybe not, but it definatly doesn't deserve to be on the top 100 worst list, top 150 maybe. First time I saw it I probably laughed just as much as I did with the first. Its all about Bernie he really makes the movie. I really liked it, so don't always trust what everyone says, check it out, if you can find it, and you just might like it, (kind of a guilty pleasure I guess) "},{"Title":"Is as bad and pointless as you already know it is","Date":"17 August 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Larry and Richard are pretty pleased with themselves for supposedly uncovering the fact that Bernie Lomax was stealing from the company. However, $2million is still missing and the company's internal investigator, Arthur Hummel believe that Larry and Richard know just where it is. Meanwhile the cartel also want their money and decide to go to extremes to get it back &#150; employing a voodoo queen to raise Bernie from the dead.I know why I decided to watch this film but I am struggling to come up with a reason to review it. Is anything I know about the film now different from what I expected? Is it fair for me to criticise it for faults that are obvious from the opening credits onwards? What right to an opinion do I have considering I'm the sort of person who knowingly sits down to watch Weekend at Bernie's II? Regardless though, I should put down some thoughts since this is one of those films that has no reason to exist and will (hopefully) just slip away with a decade or two. The plot is one big massive shoehorn to get Bernie's corpse back up and around. I say shoehorn because not only does it involve voodoo but also something about Bernie becoming animated when music plays &#150; setting up all manner of hilarious scenarios. Of course this is where it all falls to pieces because it simply isn't funny in the slightest and retreads all the ground it covered in the first film (and even then it was basic).The cast don't really help, especially the tiresome mugging of Silverman and McCarthy, two actors for whom it speaks volume that these films pretty much represent the high point of their careers. Silverman is bland and dull while McCarthy thinks that laughs will just flow like wine if he just keeps shrieking, pulling faces and wearing garish costumes. Kiser has a thankless role and I spent lots of the film wondering if he cries when he tries to sleep. Beyer is pretty but also pretty vacant but at least Wright and James are amusing at times. Bostwick can be funny but here he isn't, mainly because the film has nothing of value for him to do. The only other person of note is Dourdan, who probably owes very little of his CSI success to his work in this film.Overall an unfunny, stupid and pointless film that is everything you know it's going to be. There isn't anything of value here at all and only very undemanding viewers who are in silly moods, juvenile AND drunk will enjoy it. "},{"Title":"Full of more terrible ideas than any other movie in history.  However, that might be the point.","Date":"1 February 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This has to be the most terrible movie EVER made.  How terrible could it be?  Well think of the first movie, think of a sequel that has no reason to exist.  Add voodoo, chase scenes involving stealing the corpse, and a conga line with Bernie in the front.  Think of the most terrible acting in history, irritatingly bad music, and the lack of any sort of a basic plotline.  Oh, it's worse.  It's much, much worse.  OK, they threw in the jokes that worked in the first one, most concerning the complete abuse of the corpse.  However, this movie threw other ideas that don't make sense, such as voodoo for no particular reason whatsoever.  This movie is particularly hilarious if you miss the scene where Bernie has voodoo stuff done to him.  The scenes involving the dancing Bernie are so hilarious for no other reason besides they are so stupid.Not only does it have one terrible idea, but it will surprise you with how many terrible ideas it was able to come up with.  There ends up being about 8 different plotlines that make no sense, and you have no idea what the movie is about or where it is going.This movie is terrible in every conceivable way.  Why does the voodoo only make Bernie dance?  Why did they bring Bernie to Hawaii?  In the first movie, at least they were fearing for their lives.  The scenes that involve acting are the most boring and show how terrible the actors really are.  And it certainly is conceivable that Lysol will certainly make a corpse smell minty fresh.  And think of how abused the corpse must the corpse be.  They appear to have absolutely no respect for the dead.  However, if you miss a couple of key scenes, this movie will provide the most uncontrollable laughs in your life.  There are even a few genuine laughs as well, particularly those that include the mortician.  Characters like him seem to know how terrible the movie is.  They seem to know what the audience is thinking and base the laughs around that.They must have known how terrible this concept was from the beginning, so they had to make it as terrible in every conceivable way.  If I gave someone an assignment to make the worst movie ever made, and they came back with this movie, I'd pat them on the back and give them an A+. My rating 6/10(for it's camp value, and the laughs I had during my first viewing.) "},{"Title":"Lost Weekend....","Date":"25 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Peter Wolf (former lead singer for The J. Geils Band) did the music for Weekend at Bernie's II.And he isn't the only one that's hard-up.The only reason this particular sequel was made, I'll wager, is because they thought of some more funny jokes they could do with dead bodies.  Too bad they couldn't think of anything good to do with the living ones.No one, not McCarthy, Silverman, Beyer, Bostwick or James (remember him in the American Ninja movies?  Long time ago, huh?) comes off very well.  Not even as time wasters in-between the comic moments when Bernie (Kiser) is manipulated by voodoo or other means.I thought the first film was bad enough, but it might as well be Battleship Potemkin compared to II.How bad is it?  Not even Jamaica looks good here.That bad.No stars.  No, I won't do it.Now will someone PLEASE bury Bernie before he makes another sequel??!?!! "}{"Title":"The word 'lame' doesn't even begin to describe it.","Date":"16 September 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  It's tempting to view this film as a daring avant-garde experiment. I like to think that the director was trying to see if it was possible to take all the conventions of comedy film and produce something that was completely, utterly, entirely unfunny.The answer, to judge by A Weekend at Bernie's II, is a resounding 'Yes'. This may not be the worst film I've ever seen, but my brain seems to have repressed all memory of the others. Weekend hovers just on the borderline; bad enough that the thought still causes pain, but not quite so bad that my internal censors have obliterated it from my consciousness.The plot involves a walking corpse, two protagonists who might just as well be walking corpses, a collection of villains who suffer a succession of 'comic' mishaps, and a pretty girl with nice breasts. There's some voodoo involved, a tropical location, and some money which all the characters (including the dead one) want to get their hands on. It's basically just a weak rehash of the standard hidden money and awkward unwanted object plots (in this case the awkward unwanted object is a dead body that exhibits rather more life than anyone else on the set), and primarily serves as a means to string together a series of slapstick set pieces. The slapstick is both entirely predictable and unfunny, and the humor as a whole seems to be pitched at the low end of the fourteen-year old level (i.e. 'smut lite' and people getting hit in the balls).It's difficult for me to imagine what the director and the cast thought they were doing when they made this, or why they went ahead and released it once they'd made it. I doubt anyone involved with it earned very much, but surely between them they could have got together enough money to buy up all the prints and have them burned.This is a movie that has nothing whatsoever to recommend it. It's not even enjoyably bad. It's just a non-movie in which nothing interesting or funny happens. I gave serious thought to walking out, which is not something I often do. If I'd seen it in a cinema, rather than on a long-distance bus doing a steady 60mph through the Mexican desert, I might even have done so... "},{"Title":"This is how bad this movie is...","Date":"30 July 2004","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I ordered a large pizza tonight from a well known pizza place (that will remain nameless to save its reputation) that was offering a free DVD with the pizza. So, from the limited selection, I decided on Weekend At Bernie's 2.The DVD came in a paper sleeve. Not even a plastic jewel case. After watching it I realized that the movie didn't even deserve the sleeve. THAT'S how bad this movie is.The premise is stupid, the dialogue is bad, and not even the slap-stick humor performed on a corpse was even smirk invoking. Others have said that the only laugh they got from this movie was when Bernie was dancing. Stand in front of the mirror and dance around like a complete moron. Do you make yourself laugh? Then you STILL won't like this movie. It's awful, absolutely awful.As far as the careers of the people involved, just ask yourself one question where are they now?If you can answer that question, then you'll understand how bad this movie is.Watching this movie is like having gangrene infect my eyes. Spare yourself the anguish. Let it collect dust in the video store and rent ANYTHING else.No stars.  "},{"Title":"Worst film I've ever seen","Date":"27 April 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Words cannot express how poor this film is.There is no plot, the acting is appalling, basically the whole film is the same joke, that Bernie comes to life when music plays, repeated over and over again.With a running time of 97 minutes, it's about 95 minutes too long.It might have been OK as a short sketch on a comedy show, but the premise is way too flimsy to work for that amount of time without boredom kicking in.The guy who plays the corpse works very hard, but this really is a poor film, even by American standards. "},{"Title":"The Best Film in the World ... ever!!","Date":"29 May 2001","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I thought weekend at bernies was funny until I saw the sequel.  How any one can come up with the idea of a film about a dead guy is one thing but to have a sequel takes real talent.The first one made me laugh the second one even more so.  I especially loved the scene where Bernie manages to remove two sunbathers bikini's.For a dead guy bernie proved to have more life in him than most of the characters.I thoroughly recommend this movie if you don't take life (or death) too seriously.I am also an avid Chevy Chase fan which gives you an idea of what kind of person I am.Chevy truly is king of comedy!  "},{"Title":"Stupid fun.","Date":"24 May 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" OK, so the first Weekend At Bernie's was kind of stupid, and this one is even more stupid. So what? They're not pretending to be anything else. They're fun. And, when it comes right down to it, the humor is in better taste than what I've seen in a number of more recent comedies (even some so-called family ones). No potty humor, and no typical sex jokes.I admit I wasn't expecting much from this one after what I'd heard, but I was pleasantly surprised -- especially by how completely this is NOT a rehash of the first film.Not a masterpiece, but not nearly as bad as you've heard either. "},{"Title":"Shake Your Groove Thing, Bernie","Date":"18 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" If you saw the first film (and why would you watch the second if not the first), you know this movie is about two guys who have a dead friend named Bernie, who they like to cart around in order to attract women. Now they are also joined by two men from the Virgin Islands who turn Bernie into a zombie.The people I was watching this film with generally thought it was awful. I thought it was mildly entertaining. Of course, I was drunk and distracted by those around me (including some attractive young ladies). But unlike the guys in the movie, I couldn't impress my guests with a dead corpse.Why did I like this movie? Well, every time the Virgin Islands men played music, the corpse of Bernie would do a little dance and walk around. I found this very interesting a zombie Bernie! I don't know if it was voodoo or Santeria (guess I missed that part), but it was pretty much the only angle you could go with a sequel, unless you wanted a rotten, smelly decomposed thing being dragged around. And I liked it! They made the witchmen lovable and humorous! I could write a better review if I hadn't been drinking or being distracted by young ladies, but the general impression I got was that this film was fun and I really liked it. I would gladly watch it again or even watch a Bernie double feature. "},{"Title":"Larry and Richard are back in this somewhat lacking sequel","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This movie was a good idea but didn't quite live up to it's hilarious part 1. Part 1 was genious (forgive my spelling) the way they could perfectly capsure the way we might sometimes think but never actually do. The sequel is a good movie to talk through and laugh at some parts. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"20 August 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  This film was excellent just as funny as the first one.But you have to watch the first one or you won't get a thing about it.Watch and laugh "},{"Title":"revenge of the killer sequel","Date":"25 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Worth watching, but barely half as good as W@B I, even though the summer 'feelgood factor' is still very much abound, there are far fewer jokes.'I suppose you were in a different conga line?'  "},{"Title":"Could have been so much better.","Date":"15 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Man this movie had so much potential, the first one was great, the only thing that made me watch this movie was my love of the charcters of Larry and Richard. Wish they explained what happened to Gwen. Watch the first one instead, don't waste your time with this one. "}{"Title":"hilarious","Date":"10 April 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  i thought this was a very funny movie.it made me laugh.no one won an oscar but if you want to see entertainment that doesnt take itself seriously then you will love this movie.i watched this movie with my nephew and he loved it,especially when bernie danced.he is 5 by the way and im 35 and we both loved it.the people who pan this movie must have a terrible social life.it wasnt meant to be serious(watch the first one).its just funny.if you dont take yourself seriously you will love this movie.so go rent this movie and laugh and feel good.it doesnt make you think just LAUGH.the plot is silly but its meant to be isnt that what comedy is about.no oscars here but lots of laughs. "},{"Title":"Wickedly Funny.","Date":"26 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  I had this long, drawn out explanation of how i was going to rant at people who didn't like this movie. But i figured it'd be hopeless. Because where there are good movies, there are morons who don't like them.This movie was funny. Simple as that. To not laugh at this movie, and not find it to be one of the most hilarious films out there, you should stop watching movies. Right now. And go drink cement.This movie has the atmosphere, and needed comedic element that i feel makes the movie great. I'm telling you now, ignore the idiots. And watch it for yourself.Watch it.Love it.And dedicate a poem to it. "},{"Title":"WEEKEND AT BERNIES II Rigor mortis and maggots set in","Date":"14 January 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Okay, people look at me and roll their eyes when I tell them I LIKE WEEKEND AT BERNIES. I actually have never enjoyed Andrew mcCarthy and Johnathon Silverman in anything more. I feel they are likable charactors that play off eachother well. I also think the movie is damn funny, mostly the sight gags at Bernie's expense and the writing is funny.(To Bernies mistress How was he? ReplyNever better!) A fan of the original or not even I had to go Wha...? when I saw the poster trumpeting WEEKEND AT BERNIES 2. HOW??? How can this madness go on??? Those guys had Bernie for 3 days in the original...out in the HAET and maggots and stench did not find Bernie. Surely he must be half-rotted by now. The sequel was on cable one day and I watched it with my young nephew and nieces. My nephew loved it for one reason and one reason alone when Bernie hears music he somehow (voo doo curse?) gets up and dances. This was the only amusing bit in the whole unfunny unneccesary flick, and I dont even think THAT was funny. I remember a grown 20-something year old friend of mine who smokes A LOT of pot saying he loved it when Bernie danced. I wanted to hit him. So if your 8 years old or stoned you might like watching dead Bernie dance, all others STAY AWAY! "},{"Title":"Terrible Sequel to the Impressive Original","Date":"22 September 2000","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Weekend at Bernie's II is so disappointing that it detracts from the original.  This time Jonathan Silverman and Andrew McCarthy resurrect their deceased boss (Terry Kiser) so they can find a buried treasure in the Bahamas.  The screenplay is not as good as the original's (which was no masterpiece either) and the direction of the film is all over the map.  In short, a sorry film that makes the viewer appreciate the first even more. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"16 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Did it really need a sequel?? The answer is no, but although it wasn't needed, it was still funny sometimes, and i liked it somewhat. 6 out of 10. Rated PG for language and brief nudity. "},{"Title":"Don't be misled, this is a beatiful picture","Date":"20 June 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  No one could ever deny the hilarity of Weekend at Bernies, but I know that many of you were wondering, How can they duplicate the magic?  I won't lie, I was briefly--just briefly--concerned that making a sequal to the original would be a mistake. It took me exactly one minute to realize that my earlier fears were completely unfounded.  Seeing Bernie, who again was played beautifully by Terry kiser, brought me near tears with his absolutley on-the-mark timeing.  Ladies and gentlemen, this man is a genius.  I don't think that I'm spoiling anything by saying that, yes, Bernie is still dead. And that's what makes mister Kiser's performance that much greater (playing a dead man who is under a voodoo curse is no walk in the park!) Bernie dances. Bernie waterskis. Bernie flirts with gorgeous women. ALL WHILE BEING A CORPSE!  I could go on and on about Mr. Kiser's performance, but I will let you experience it on your own.  Adrew Mcarthy and Jonathen Silverman are both back and are funnier than ever as well.  Those two play so well off of each other that I would be surprised if a sitcom was not in the works. I'll end here by saying that this movie will change your life, it's really that fantastic. And please, for your own sake, find the director's cut, you wont be dissapointed.  "},{"Title":"The smell of a dead body.","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" The smell of a dead body. That is what I used to describe how bad this movie stunk. I can't believe they were actually considering a third installment based on how weak the premise was for this dud. Bernie is up moving around thanks to the workings of some voodoo doings. Just play the music and Bernie is on his feet and moving about! What a lousy concept. I was willing to dismiss the fact that Bernie would be smelling ripe and attracting the green flies, but to have him up and about at the sounds of reggae, that is just too much. Weekend at Bernies was no classic, but it was a funny movie that can be enjoyed for laughs. Weekend at Bernie's 2 just takes the whole concept a little too far. On a side note, MAD TV once did a trailer for a spoof called, Weekend at Tupac's. That was funnier than Weekend At Bernies 2. "},{"Title":"pretty good 80's flick","Date":"21 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" I do not know what is wrong with all these haters out there. This was a pretty darn good 80's movie. Jonathan Silvermand and Andrew McCarthey do their usual thing, but Bernie's part in this movie is just hilarious. I crack up at just the way he moves, not to mention all of the insane situations he gets himself into. The two African American gentlemen in this movie do a very good job as well stealing their own laughs as additions to the cast. I have to rank this movie fairly high because, though I don't own it, whenever I see it is on, I stop to watch. I'd say at least give it that and you will discover that it is worth the watch. "},{"Title":"Terribly unfunny sequel...","Date":"6 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":"  Weekend at Bernie's II is there for no reason. It's a cash-in sequel, a conglomerate's idea of entertainment that they shovel into the mass market. The jokes aren't funny, the situations aren't funny, the movie is just stupid. Avoid at all costs.* out of * * * * *- John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Same movie as the first, just worse.","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Oh man, a perfect example of when 'suspension of disbelief' goes too far! Whats more stupid and unbelievable then a dead guy being mistaken for being alive by everyone he come in contact with? Making a sequel with all the same people, including the same dead guy. Why see this? Well if your bored on a Saturday afternoon and lack the will to move and this comes on TV and the remote is all the way over on the other side of the room and your too lazy to actually get off the couch to go get it to change the channel, then maybe, I suppose that could be a reason for watching this movie. Other than that, short of someone threatening your life, it is not worth it to watch Weekend at Bernie's II. "}{"Title":"hey, read the plot...","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" This a sequel to a story starring a DEAD man that, somehow, is taken as a living person. Once we got that out of the way, facts such as rigor mortis lose all importance since this is the world of cartoon-ish comedy. This is not supposed to make sense the movie mocks itself, it mocks, the actors, it mocks the viewers and it mocks the amazing plot around which everything works. One does not expect it to be coherent or even border-line logic it is a story about a dead man that is possessed by voodoo powers and dances whenever music is played. Must I add more? Feel free to shoot me, but it is hilarious P "},{"Title":"Needless, silly, but also totally harmless","Date":"16 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Fantasy","Review":" Weekend At Bernie's II survives on the running gag of Bernie who's dead and the two idiots with some sort of plan to make things right. It doesn't hurt to sit and watch, it's rather harmless, but you know it's not the best use of your time either. In fact, I don't know why this movie came to be. Was there really that much demand for a sequel? Some people champion this flick, and flicks of it's type, why I don't know, but there it is. Draw your own conclusions.The best part, and running gag, is when Bernie's corpse comes alive to music and dances. It's rather cute given Bernie (played by Terry Kiser) has no dialogue too. So my recommendation? What you see is what you get. Fans of the original will find something to like while others may be left out in the cold wondering what exactly the joke is here. "}]