[{"Title":"Destined to be a cult classic!","Date":"20 May 2000","Score":"14 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Son In Law didn't do so hot in the box office, but that only means the masses were wrong. This movie is one of the few movies that Pauly Shore really excels in, with some of the funniest lines I've ever heard. Although the ending is sub-par, the antics of Shore carries the movie. "},{"Title":"Green Acres Goes Grunge","Date":"31 December 2003","Score":"11 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  People rag on Pauley Shore for being a bad actor. On the contrary, he wasn't an actor at all, but a swell entertainer. You could stick him in a dumb situation and he could just jump in, act naturally, and have a whole lot of fun doing lots of stupid things. That's what makes his movies so damned funny.The story isn't anything new. A city boy is planted in a rural South Dakota farm town. He's an outcast at first (and likewise they're alien to him), but eventually they mesh and he rubs off a bit on them and vice versa. But, here, Pauley (as Crawl) follows his college friend to her home in the boonies for Thanksgiving break. Trying to avoid her boyfriend who just insists on getting married, she comes up with some story that they're actually engaged. Her parents are blown away by it because obviously they'd rather see her settle down with the townie than with the very strange Crawl. In the end, everything works out fine, obviously. The actors are swell. I particularly enjoyed Patrick Renna as the once-obnoxious little brother with a rad sense of humor. And of course, Pauley Shore was good at what he does making people laugh.Thumbs up. "},{"Title":"Pauly Shore deserved an Oscar","Date":"9 July 2002","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Along with In the Army!, this ranks as one of  Pauly Shore's best movies, if there is such a  thing. While the whole West Coast-meets- Midwest-culture-clash isn't anything new, this  film proves to make the story a little more  entertaining with the wild and unpredictable  antics of a then fresh Shore. While the change  in values probably would have gone in the other  direction, the whole concept was rather entertaining.  Not only was Shore's interaction with the family  hilarious, it also had Carla Gugino and Tiffani- Amber Theissen (she'll always have the Amber  in my book) in two ravishing and early roles. One  of those films I have no problem watching when  it is on TV. "},{"Title":"It will keep you laughing!","Date":"4 September 2005","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" One of our all time family favorites. When we need a laugh...we just put this one in and laugh all way thru like it is the first time we've seen it. This film has good, clean family humor. Pauly Shore is brilliant! With no plans for the thanksgiving holiday, Crawl (Shore) is invited to spend the holiday with a conservative coed, Becca. Crawl, being a big city boy, must adjust to the farm life if he is to fall in love with Becca. But, Crawl isn't the only one who is learning new things. Crawl teaches Becca and her parents how to be more open about their feelings and accepting others. This is fun for viewers of all ages. "},{"Title":"Cheek chillers. You likes?","Date":"12 December 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Despite myself, I really kinda like this movie. Pauley Shore is invariably laugh-out-loud funny, and here is no exception. He is just excellent at playing the weirdo with a heart of gold.His performance in this, although nothing out of the ordinary for him, is so good, it seems to lift other cast members' performances. Perhaps this is because he's the kind of guy it's easy to bounce off of.The clichés about country life in this movie are hilarious and the way Shore's city boy, Crawl is so at odds with the way of life, is funny too, but it's not only he who's a fish out of water; comedy also comes from the fact, that to any ordinary person or people, Crawl is a freakish nightmare of a person. That's why this movie works in such a great way we love Crawl, he's a breath of fresh air, but we can also sympathise with the Warners. He is one hell of a culture shock.Although this movie is classic Pauley Shore, so there's no great brain power needed to enjoy the movie, enjoy it you do, and there's even a never judge a book by it's cover type moral here somewhere. Not bad, not bad at all. "},{"Title":"Funny, offbeat movie with a real message, 7 of 10.","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"12 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Before I saw Son In Law I only had a vague idea who Pauly Shore was. Now I know. He is a superb comedic actor. In this movie he plays Crawl, an upperclassman dorm counselor, who is a bit eccentric. He meets freshman Becka from South Dakota and they become fast friends. He helps her break out of her small town mold. In a Thanksgiving visit to her parents' home, he pretends to be her fiancee to save her embarassment of a sort with an old boyfriend.I loved two things about this movie. Pauly Shore and the comedic situations are the first. The second is the message. How generations of men had perpetrated the same offenses against each other, and Crawl helps them see a better way to treat each other. He gets Becka's mom also to feel alive again, and rekindles romance between the parents. The whole movie is a fresh approach to comedy, is a joy to watch. I rate it a strong 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"I loved it! Pauly Shore is hilarious!","Date":"27 February 2005","Score":"7 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I love it! I love Pauly Shore. It seems some people don't agree. It's humor, and he's not like everyone else. The movie is great. I love the story line and most of the people in the movie. It's funny from the first time she meets him at school. I like the fact that she chooses him over the guy back home. I like that Tiffani Theissan isn't a bad girl in the end. All the secrets are let out. Only the people you want to see are left in the end. (except for those of you who don't like Pauly Shore.) Even if you don't like him, there are funny parts, and her family tortures him through most of the movie. She's country girl gone wild and needs to be heard. She finally makes it. It's got just the right amount of love and romance. I give it an 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"cute, fun movie","Date":"16 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I didn't expect much when I decided to watch this movie, so I was surprised to find myself thoroughly enjoying it. A couple of scenes had me laughing almost uncontrollably. The characters were engaging (no pun intended); however, the story is predictable. The fun of it comes from watching Crawl (Shore's character), a ditzy-yet-wise California dude a country college girl brings home for Thanksgiving, trying in his awkward (yet endearing) way to fit in to their lifestyle. I was also surprised that in all this there was a message. If you have a chance, see this movie! "},{"Title":"shore's best","Date":"6 October 1999","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  this is pauly shore's best,and funniest movie. it has some funny jokes,but the movie is more entertaining than it is funny. pauly shore is funny,but not real,real funny. as long as the movie is entertaining,pauly shore doesn't have to be real funny. i give son in law *** out of ****  "},{"Title":"Surprisingly good","Date":"28 April 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I've sat through several Pauly Shore movies, but this is the only one that I've liked.  Of course, it helps that he is far less irritating than usual, perhaps even a little likeable.  The rest of the cast does a fine job, especially underrated Carla Gugino.  The film itself is basically a harmless and silly comedy, and although few of the jokes are especially funny, the film is quite entertaining overall. "}{"Title":"This Movie A Good Example Of Why Shore's Career Went Downhill","Date":"30 July 2008","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Here's another of these modern-day ultra-sleaze comedies in which dysfunctional families are supposedly hilarious. Know wonder people once asked, What ever happened to Pauly Shore? Well, Shore didn't disappear, but his career took a nose-dive, that's for sure. Movies like this one, didn't help.In Son-In-Law, Shore plays an incredibly-obnoxious character called Crawl, and yet he's the most likable of the family! His father is a profane idiot; his mother is totally incompetent, his young brother is a sex maniac and his college-age sister is a real snot.Watching an hour and a half of totally-unlikeable people was tough to do. I certainly wouldn't watch this again, or recommend it to anyone but die-hard Shore fans. Adam Sandler took Pauley's shtick and went a lot further with it.The following is an excerpt from the IMDb title page here under biography and it explains why I am not the only one who was disgusted with this movie.........but his lunacy was dismissed as crude, dumb and, for the most part, unfunny. His film career quickly tanked. This downhill spiral was not helped by the failure of his failed Fox sitcom Pauly (1997) in 1997. Lambasted unmercifully by both critics and media alike, he was soon becoming a running joke and forced to lie low and ride out the storm.... "},{"Title":"Not Terrible","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This is the only Pauly Shore movie you should ever see. O.K., it's the only one I've ever seen, and I think I've made good choices. I normally find Shore's shtick kind of tired, but he is very funny in this movie. Actually, the script is pretty funny, and Shore doesn't overwhelm the other actors with his ... what do you call it? Tomfoolery? Anyway, this is a funny, if ultimately forgettable film. --Frink-3 "},{"Title":"Pauly's comedy just isn't funny","Date":"7 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Pauly Shore and his comedy style just doesn't work for me personally. The movie in of itself isn't awful, it's just not very good haha. I did like Carla though, she was really good in her role, she was very likable and sweet. Pauly is likable at times, but he was annoying at other times. The comedic material in this movie just doesn't work, it's got some sweet likable characters but the comedy does not work at all. I really didn't chuckle or laugh once. Travis was played well, the typical hot dopey jerkish college jock. Sure, he is hot as all here, but his character is s**t. But he plays it off well. And the parents are played well by the actors. The script and dialogue between the characters is pretty lackluster, nothing all too special, less then mediocre. But the occasional sweet moments bump up the score on my scale. 4/10 for Son-In-Law. "},{"Title":"Pauly Shore fun","Date":"2 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Country girl Rebecca Warner (Carla Gugino) from South Dakota starts college in Los Angeles. Her parents (Lane Smith, Cindy Pickett) are shocked by the wild liberal atmosphere. Her father is especially concerned about the resident adviser Crawl (Pauly Shore) living across the hall. Crawl takes care of homesick Becca and they become best friends. Another shock for the family happens when Becca returns home for the Thanksgiving break with Crawl and a whole new look. Her boyfriend Travis tries to propose. She pushes Crawl to help but he comes up with a bad lie that they're already engaged.Pauly Shore can either be fun or be very annoying. He certainly has many detractors. I think he's fun in this one more than anything annoying. He's very good at being a fish out of water. Most importantly, he's not a simple slacker. He tries to fit in which is endearing. The story is fine. Overall, there is more good than bad as long as one is not an automatic Pauly Shore hater. "},{"Title":"It's OK...","Date":"1 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" For me it's a typical comedy-drama-romance film of the early 90s. It is quite amusing, although Pauly Shore isn't the type of actor I really like; his ugly figure in this movie (I haven't seen him anywhere else so far) doesn't seem that funny to me and doesn't help in the romance/drama part of the film.After an awkward start the film gets better towards the end. Carla Cugino is quite good but a bit sourpuss. I bet that if Tiffani-Amber Thiessen was the lead female character, the film would have been much better. In general I think that the choice of the two leading actors didn't really help a film that has an interesting plot. "},{"Title":"Shore Up the Country","Date":"24 February 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Pretty high school valedictorian Carla Gugino (as Rebecca Warner) leaves her wealthy small-town family for a college in Southern California. Living in the fast lane agrees with Ms. Gugino. She hooks up with RA (Resident Adviser) dorm slacker Pauly Shore (as Crawl). They become so inseparable Gugino invites Mr. Shore to spend Thanksgiving break on her farm. The family is shocked by Mr. Shore's appearance and behavior. They want Shore and Gugino to break up, but the prospective Son-in-Law has other plans...The co-stars' courtship is strange, with Shore and Gugino seeming more like platonic pals. Shore calls Gugino fresh meat and jokes about arousal when spying a beautifully-proportioned woman at the beach, so we assume he's straight. Gugino has no trouble kissing Tom Cruise-type ex-boyfriend Dan Gauthier (as Travis). A final scene reveals the depth of their relationship. There is enough herein to partly amuse an adolescent audience, with young Patrick Renna (as Zack) looking juvenile chic in his Seduce Me, Please tee-shirt.*** Son-in-Law (7/2/93) Steve Rash ~ Pauly Shore, Carla Gugino, Lane Smith, Patrick Renna "},{"Title":"Geeky Randy's summary","Date":"3 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Crotch&#x85; I mean, Crap&#x85; uh, Crawl (Shore) is a dorm residential adviser at the University of Los Angeles who turns South Dakota farm girl Becca Warner (Gugino) upside-down, showing her how to cut loose and be herself. In return, Becca invites the lonely Crawl (who has lots of friends but no family) back to her home for Thanksgiving with her family. However, Crawl adapts more easily to small town life than the farmland community can adapt to him. Hands down hilarious no matter how many times you watch it, and the rural setting allows the film to date incredibly well. The entire cast fits their roles perfectly, especially Paulie Shore, who couldn't be a more hilarious outcast of the Midwest!*** (out of four) "},{"Title":"Can I get some butter please....","Date":"11 August 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Country girl Rebecca begins college in Los Angeles. There she meets Crawl, a student who is crazy, unpredictable and wild. During the holidays she brings him with her home, as she feels sorry for him. Her parents have never seen anything like him and are shocked when Rebecca tells them that they are engaged to be married. It was the beginning of Pauly Shores short run trying to make it big, and obviously some studio thought California/Encino man was a good showcase for him, and so gave him a contract. This was the first movie, and much like Adam Sandler, you really have to like the man to like the movies.The film consists of people you recognise from other things, Carla Gugino looking really young, and Shore doing his stoner shtick that he did for the next three cinematic releases.As a standalone vehicle, a fish out of water comedy isn't a bad choice, and having a city boy come to the farm should spell hilarity, but it just spells out mild chuckling every now and again.It's the formula for easy nineties comedy, ninety minutes long, three perfunctory acts, something bad happens to out hero just before the middle of the third act, and there is a Scooby Doo ending.It's pretty clunky, dumb stuff, but its kind of sadistic fun to see a studios gamble failing with every film that was made.Brendan Fraser even makes a cameo, just to let people know Shore was in at least one good film.... "},{"Title":"When a Radical goes to the Bible Belt","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" At the start I thought that this movie was going to simply be a college flick, but instead it turned out to be a culture clash movie. The focus of this movie is the radical youth coming out to the traditional bible belt country of the United States and letting everybody know that he isn't all that bad anyway. Unfortunately in real life, such a thing will not happen, as the radical would be considered to be Satanist and turned into a social outcast.The movie is about Rebecca, a country girl who goes to Los Angeles to go to collage. On her first night she is ready to leave because everything is so different, but the Residential President of the college, Crawl, convinces her to hang around for a little while longer to see if she really hates it. In the end she changes and after three months, returns to the country with Crawl for Thanksgiving. This sets the scene for a huge culture clash, as Crawl's city ways clash with the traditional country ways.The focus of the movie comes when Rebecca's boyfriend decides he wants to get engaged, but Rebecca is having second thoughts. So Crawl suddenly says that he is going to marry her, which is of course a lie. So the now ex-boyfriend conspires to get back at Crawl and get Rebecca back. What we learn is that this guy isn't the perfect guy, and in fact is a two-timing, traitorous rat. This isn't overtly obvious, but there are a couple of times when the movie drops hints that he is dating Rebecca's best friend. The most obvious hint is when he dumps her after it seemed that she slept with Crawl in the barn.This is an enjoyable movie. Not something to write reams of commentary on, especially since it does not fully explore the cultural chasm between the city and the country. Rather it tries to show that the chasm is not really all that wide, and all the conservatives need to do is to accept the radicals. This is obviously written by the radicals because they show a spirit of tolerance for everything and it is the stuck up conservatives who need to change. My opinion is that we both need to work to accept each other (which is never going to happen). The radicals need to see that the conservatives like their traditional way of life, while the conservatives need to accept that the radicals wish to take a different road than they do. In the end though this is never going to happen. "},{"Title":"Son -In Law, A Great Addition To Anyone's Family","Date":"21 January 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This comedy will go down as a classic, just like Caddyshack, Meatball's and, UncleBuck to name a few. The first time I saw this movie I rented it. I thought well this looks like a winner and it was. Today it is hard to find a comedy that will make you laugh just like the one's from the 1970' and 1980's. It came out in 1993 and I can relate to this movie because that was the time I was in college too. It begin's with Becka going off to college, in California. Enven though her father Walter, played by Lane Smith, tries his best to change her mind and go to college in South Dakota. She goes to California where it's kinda a culture shock for her; and she hates it at first wanting to come home home. The RA played by Pauly Shore talks her out of it and she has made her 1st friend and saved herself from a mistake.The movie then gets close to Thanksgiving and the coming home to see her family and face the fact that her boyfriend from home might propose to her. She finds out that Crawl, Pauly Shore, will be staying on campus through the holiday. She kinda feels sorry for him; asks him to come home with her. She feels this is a way to get to know her family and also to get out of saying I do when she doesn't.When arriving home her family R shocked by her and Crawl. She's changed her appearance and feels relieved. The family freaks out by what she's done and at first can't stand Crawl, especially Walter. It takes awhile for the family to accept what she's done and it takes them longer to accept Crawl as a friend and supposedly a family member. When they go to dinner at a party of some kind her boyfriend tries to propose and Crawl gets in the way. He claims that he already asked her to marry him.Both he and Becka play along and as the movie goes along the Walter starts to warm up to Crawl, especially after the square dancing party. The next day Crawl goes fishing with Walter Sr. and Walter Jr., Lane Smith. They start to bond by talking about Walter's relationship with his father. The next thing they are talking when granddad appears to be having a heart attack. They, Crawl and Walter run to his aid. While Walter runs to get his father's pills, Crawl begins to attempt CPR on Walts dad thinking he needed it. When he begins to give him mouth-to mouth they both scare the s**t out of each other,This was one of the funniest parts of the movie When Walter asked his what happened, Crawl explains, he was trying to give his dad CPR, because he majored in it for a semester, he knew what he was doing. When they got home Crawl knew they both bonded and realized he needed to tell the truth but how.When Crawl goes th his bachelor party it gets worse. He gets drugged by the farm hand Theo and Becka's boyfriend. The next morning he wakes up in the barn with Beck's school chum. Beck'a finds them both and freaks, and tells her parents what happened. We come to fiend out this was a ploy for Becka's boyfriend to win he back and it eventually fails. The truth comes out in the end with an awesome ending.This movie is a great movie for the whole family. Pauly Shore and Lane Smith, winning pair. I believe this was one of Lane Smith's best movies and he is Hilario's too. Today he is missed but he will never be forgotten. The whole cast was great, but Lane Smith was tops, he kept me laughing to the end. This is a great comedy with a great ending you will not be disappointed ). Kris L. CocKayne ) "}{"Title":"If you don't like this kind of humor...keep on crusin'","Date":"21 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" When it comes to Son in Law, it's a mixed bag. Its premise is cute, but its delivery is a little strange. It's a comedy with Pauly Shore, so you're not going to get very clever humor. You're going to get below the belt jokes a lot of the time which is perfectly acceptable. As long as you know what you're getting into, you have no right to complain about the jokes.Now do the jokes work? Most of them do, but most don't come from the lead actor/actress. The most jokes come from the girl's brother played by Patrick Renna, famous from The Sandlot. Such a weird little thing to say that the character in the movie who isn't on the cover or mentioned anywhere on the back is the funniest character in the film. And, at the time, he was only known for his role in The Sandlot and I doubt many kids who took the time to see that film did the same for this one.The film is about a farm girl named Rebecca Warner (Guigino) leaving her South Dakota farm to go to College in California. Her parents, mainly her father (Smith), are skeptical about this College and worry that is may tamper with her original roots. She meets Crawl (Shore) who is the residential adviser of her dorm. Crawl is an off the wall kind of friend, and Rebecca thinks it's brilliant to bring him home to her strict family.In California, Crawl fits right in. In South Dakota, Crawl is a fish out of water. The rest of the movie is compiled of Crawl's misadventures to try to impress the family of Rebecca. One scene includes him of stealing one of the families machines and taking it for a joy ride throughout their field with John Denver's Thank God I'm a Country Boy playing in the background. I'm not proud to say it, but that scene was hilarious.There is also a strange, not very well put together love subplot with Rebecca and her boyfriend. There is nothing to even show that Rebecca even loves or cares about her boyfriend. Most of the movie is her blowing him off on various occasions. Also, we are lead to believe that Rebecca is in love with Crawl. Honestly, that isn't too believable because there is nothing about Crawl's appearance or personality that could make him attract a girl like Rebecca. We are constantly told she is a smart and potential-filled girl who wants to be a journalist, but somehow, she falls for someone with no hopes, dreams, other than getting through to the next day.Son in Law doesn't have the humor or chemistry Bio-Dome or Encino Man did, but it's better than Jury Duty and a little better than In the Army Now. The one satisfying aspect of this is you can see Link (Fraser), the caveman from Encino Man (done two years prior to this), in a cameo role. That and the fact this is Shore's Weasel personality at full force. That can be a pro or a con. I, for one, had no problem with it.Starring Pauly Shore, Carla Gugino, Lane Smith, Cindy Pickett, Tiffani Thiessen, Dan Gauthier, Patrick Renna, Dennis Burkley, and Brendan Fraser. Directed by Steve Rash. "},{"Title":"why is this movie 5.1 out of 10?","Date":"27 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I can't believe how low of a rating this movie has. I just watched this movie for the first time in years, and if anything... this movie has more great comedy in it than the garbage coming out these days. Pauly Shore is hilarious, Lane Smith does such a hilarious job too, well the entire cast was great. Sure the story line might be a tad bit predictable, but what's funnier than seeing someone like Pauly Shore handle farm life? This is definitely one of the top movies of 1993. Great humour, great cast, great music... it's definitely not like the movies made today where its all about male sluts hooking up with girls constantly or all sexually oriented. This is a true comedy classic. Clearly those who voted so low don't have a sense of humour.10 out of 10 for sure. "},{"Title":"Some people are idiots","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" It amazes me that anyone would not find Pauly Shore entertaining but then, some people live in a city that supports a pedophile mayor. That person has his little Oregon jerk vocabulary and a basic stock of unwashed hippie clothes. Mainly, he is just obnoxious.That said, I watched this movie because I was up and there was literally nothing else on but infomercials, otherwise I would have watched Matlock or Murder She Wrote. Anyway, the film was more than OK because Pauly the Wheez was awesome and didn't just played it as a comic actor instead of, well, Pauly.Anyway, I'm sure Pauly fans will like it anyway - but if you are not a Pauly fan, stay away from this crock of manure.I had to leave this comment after seeing that another user actually gave this film a 3/10! (Maybe it was Pauly!!) Personally, I gave it a 10/10 because this movie is awesome. "},{"Title":"Son In Law - Review","Date":"29 May 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" I just saw Sin City for the first time this week and couldn't help but notice how attractive Carla Gugino still is, once I found out she was 39 years old!! After Googling her name, I stumbled upon a video clip picture that for me was instantly recognizable. SHE was the stunning brunette in the Bon Jovi clip for Always (1994). For 16 long years, I finally found out it was the gorgeous Miss Gugino (after not knowing all this time) who not only was in that clip, but also featured in a Season 5 episode of The Wonder Years. More recently, she was also in Night At The Museum with Ben Stiller. Going into the video store this afternoon, I decided to get out Son In Law which I recall seeing as a teenager and quite enjoyed. After the revelations of the past week I again was surprised to find a young Carla Gugino in the lead role next to Pauly Shore. This is your typical 90s looking movie, just about watchable but nothing spectacular. Pauly Shaw's character Crawl is pretty much the same as his character in Encino Man. But like most people who have commented on this movie, they can't help but mention the equally stunning Tiffani-Amber Thiessen from 90s sitcom Saved By The Bell. Someone mentioned in this thread she should have been in the lead role but the fact remains is Gugino over time has had a more prestigious acting career than Thiessen and her role in Son In Law shows this. In saying that, Thiessen is certainly memorable in this movie and easily sits in my Top 20 Hottest Females of All Time list. If anything, its great to see both of these girls in early roles and I don't agree with some people who have regarded this as one of the worst movies of all time. Sure, Pauly Shore at times is annoying but if you want to see a truly bad movie, go check out Adam Sandler's very first effort Going Overboard. "},{"Title":"a funny blast into the 90s","Date":"9 February 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This was such a funny movie, which was soon forgotten about, probably because there are so many teen and young adult comedies, such as this. The movie is not quit as predictable as one would think. Crawl is an unattractive, but fun and caring and most importantly a very devoted friend. Still, an unlikely match for Rebecca, who has an attractive and seemingly kind boyfriend back home. When he helps feel more at ease at school, by showing her around the neighborhood and encouraging her to socialize more, they become buddies, but it is completely platonic. When she realizes her boyfriend might propose, she does not feel ready, he seems to like her boyfriend, but she seems to be enjoying her free laid back party life at college is not yet ready to live a life of marriage and responsibility. You kind of learn what a good friend Crawl is when he tells her he will help get her out of getting married. When her boyfriend proposes to her, in front of the whole family, she kicks Crawl and puts him on the spot. He tells the whole family that he proposes to her, and gives her his diamond ring, which it tunrs out was his the whole time (he must have come from money or something. Well they never really show a close up of the ring). The message of the movie seemed to be not to judge people by their looks and not to judge people before you get to know him. Rebecca's boyfriend, who her parents love, turned mean when we find out he druged his new girlfriend after Rebecca,(Amber Thesan) and Crawl, so that Rebecca would have broken up with Crawl, thinking they were a couple. Although they were not, Rebecca was mad at him, which when you think about it, was kind of unfair, since they were not a couple, but I think they were starting to like one another. And I think she thought there was more. The movie never showed them actually become a couple, they left it open for the viewers to decide. They never even actually kissed at any point, although there was one part where they almost did. That was one thing most viewers seemed to misunderstand. Many people saw it and said, that he would be a nightmare for fathers to see their daughters bring home or a shock, but they were just friends the whole time, even towards the end. And she did not introduce him as her boyfriend; still they never told her parents they were not engaged. Rebecca almost did. Even if he would never become her boyfriend, they could have still been friends. In the 90s for some reason femanin men were in, and there was this big stereo type that woman liked femanin men (not that there is anything wrong with that), think it came from the fact that women like the kind sensitive type, which Crawl proved to be, through his friendship with Rebecca. but when I saw the movie, I must admit, if I went for looks, I thought I would have gone for the first boyfriend. Still it was a creative movie, that tried to teach a lesson on friendship and judging others. "},{"Title":"I saw the son","Date":"16 January 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Son in Law is a fairly entertaining country-boy/city-boy comedy starring the now much-maligned Pauly Shore. It's a basic twist on an old formula here, young girl from conservative small-town America goes to college, meets druggie super-senior boy, brings him home for Thanksgiving, ends of up deceiving family into thinking they're engaged. Of course, Pauly's character ends up pulling the usual gags as he tries to make himself a farmer.There are plenty of flaws in this film, but it manages to make itself a pleasant and entertaining nonetheless. The fish-out-f-water comedy is driven by stereotypes of country and city life, and the two main characters are never really developed as characters. All we ever learn about Rebecca, the female lead, is that she is a college freshman impressionable enough to transform from conservative to rebel on the strength of a few trips out with her RA. That RA, in Pauly Shore, is never explored in the script very much either, but makes much more of an impression due to Shore's extravagant performance. His dopey, burned-out, uninhibited character is the kind that I might have considered unbelievable if I hadn't actually met people like that in college (likewise, the played-up college scenes at the beginning might have seemed over the top if they hadn't resembled a real college dorm slightly exaggerated).The movie turns on Shore's noisy but mellow Californian character, and most of the comedy comes not from the dime-a-dozen plot but from placing this particular crazy nut in a variety of incongruous situations. Often enough this works and while Shore might not be the greatest actor in history he certainly manages to put on a reasonably effective broad-comic persona. The best characters, actually, are Rebecca's family, which actually show hints of complexity and realism in their violent but understandable reaction to Crawl's intrusion into their lives, and their gruffness turning to friendliness.Don't expect any big surprises of heaps of subtlety from this mainstream comedy, but truth be told I had fun watching it "},{"Title":"... as useless as searching for meaning in a Pauly Shore movie.","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This quote comes to us from Alicia Silverstone's character in Clueless, a mid-1990's American teeny-bopper update of Jane Austen's Emma. I saw that film before I saw this one, and I never understood what it meant until I saw this latter. Here, one will find every cliché under the sun. The idea of a sweet, pretty, innocent small-town farmer girl going to university in Los Angeles (or anywhere else, given the state of modern universities) is indeed ripe for excellent material, but this is definitely not it. Character development is about as deep as a kiddie pool.Oh... and as for the jerk suitor? Frankly, in retrospect, I respect him for having the guts to try to take back his girl from such a twerp, however sinister the means! "},{"Title":"Son in Law","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" In rural South Dakota, Rebecca Becca Warner (Carla Gugino) graduates as her high school valedictorian. Becca decides to attend UCLA, which slightly worries her parents Walter Jr. (Lane Smith) and Connie (Cindy Pickett). Her steady boyfriend Travis (Dan Gauthier who is best known as Brian Hanson from Saved by the Bell Hawaiian Style) is also sad to see her going to school so far away, and secretly starts to see Becca's best friend, Tracy (Tiffani Amber Thiessen who is best known as Kelly Kapowski from Saved by the Bell, Saved by the Bell Hawaiian Style, Saved by the Bell College Years and Saved by the Bell Wedding in Las Vegas). Upon arriving in Los Angeles, Becca experiences some culture shock both in the city and in her dorm. She meets her resident adviser Crawl (Pauly Shore), an eccentric perpetual student who shows her around. She also meets a girl who is a lesbian and has a girlfriend and sees them affectionately kissing each other. She eventually embraces her new surroundings and gives herself a makeover, buying new clothes in SoCal fashion, cuts and dyes her hair, and even gets a tattoo. Soon, however, she's faced with returning to her sleepy South Dakota farm and an inevitable marriage proposal from Travis over Thanksgiving Break. These mixed feelings lead to her spontaneously asking Crawl to come home with her.Needless to say, Becca's family and Travis are shocked by her new lifestyle and appearance, and by Crawl. Soon, Travis makes the expected marriage proposal, but Becca can't answer and Crawl steps in by saying that he has already asked Becca to marry him. This causes a lot of tension between the family and Crawl. He tries to fit in with the farming life, but he is ridiculed and forced to do jobs such as slopping the hogs and shoveling manure. However, Crawl loves the farm life and enjoys every minute of it. Walter and Crawl eventually get to have a heart-to-heart talk while fishing, and when Grandpa Warner has a heart attack, Crawl attempts CPR to save him. Afterwards, Walter and Grandpa Warner accept him, as does Becca's younger brother, who connects with Crawl's love of PC's and breasts.Travis, still seeing Tracy, is determined to break up Crawl and Becca's engagement. He slips Crawl a mickey, as well as Tracy while she strips in front of a lot of guys at the bachelor party, and gets the farm's hired hand Theo to place the unconscious two in the barn under the guise that they had slept together. Becca finds the two in the morning and jumps to that exact conclusion. She tells Crawl to leave, and it's not until Tracy tries to drive her car does she notice that something is wrong. Her seat is pushed way back, and she immediately deduces what happened the previous night.Tracy and Crawl enter the Thanksgiving dinner at the Warners with this evidence. It isn't long before Theo admits to the deed and Travis is caught as well. The Warners kick them out of the house (i.e. Becca and Tracy both dump Travis and Crawl beats him up in front of everyone (Becca, Tracy, Zack, Walter Sr., Walter Jr.,Connie and Theo) and Walter Jr. and Connie fire Theo), Becca and Crawl reconcile, and everyone (Becca, Crawl, Walter Sr., Wlater Jr., Connie, Zack and Tracy) sits down to enjoy Thanksgiving. "},{"Title":"A  mysterious allure.","Date":"17 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Something about this so-so film draws me to it. Every time I see it on, I watch it. It can't be Pauly Shore, because I find no draw to his other movies except In the Army Now. It can't be the story line because there was nothing special about it. I actually liked the girl better before she went to college. There is something about this movie that draws me to it every time it comes on. There are a few chuckles here and there, like Buff the wood, buff the wood.... Don't leave me hanging! and Crawl asking if the chickens are extra crispy or original recipe. Tiffany Amber Thiessen is hot in this movie, but she is does nothing to make me watch it for her. All in all, a very average film but with a mysterious draw. "},{"Title":"Downright predictable fish out of water   ...........","Date":"6 November 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Frantic, somewhat mean spirited, infantile humor abounds in this city boy turned wannabe farmer tale. It is not outrageous enough to appeal to the Will Ferrell crowd, and not interesting enough to carry the feature length. The most I can praise Son In Law would be to say that for the most part it avoids toilet humor. The main problem is that all of the characters lack warmth, and Pauly Shore is so abrasive that he is a most unlikable hero. There are a few amusing bits involving farm animals, and that's about it. The story, what there is, is so simplistic and predictable, it makes Jury Duty seem like Gone with the Wind. - MERK "}{"Title":"Lame Comedy","Date":"1 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Perfect double bill for the horribly corny Beverly Hillbillies is this equally atrocious, lame brained 'comedy', Son in Law. Country girl Rebecca goes to wild California to attend college, only to be assaulted by the lifestyle. 'Resident Adviser' Crawl helps her settle in, and soon the two are good friends. Bec decides to bring the wacky Crawl home for Thanksgiving, with obvious fish out of water results.The only other comic angle Steve Rash (aptly named ) achieves here is a sexual one. This he bludgeons us with, but to no avail. Both comic aspects fail dismally, and you know the film is groping when Crawl hijacks the combine harvester and writes his name in the corn field.Dramatically the movie falls short too, with several attempts at family and personal counselling from Crawl misfiring. Between them Pauly Shore and Carla Gugino manage to raise a couple of smiles, but little else, while the rest of the cast are mere fodder. The problem is it's nearly impossible to actually like Crawl, and you'll find yourself spending the whole flick wondering why Rebecca would want to spend a moment with him. However, if you're a fan of unintelligent comedy, Son in Law is right on the mark.Sunday, November 10, 1996 - T.V. "},{"Title":"i'm making my friends rent this.","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" when i first saw that this movie was going to be playing on TV, i only new of pauly shore as this joke of a comedian who wore really weird outfits back in the day. i still decided to watch it and i was impressed. shore brings a fresh breath of air to the screen. in this movie, he plays crawl a college adviser that probably needs his own adviser as well. carla gugino, in an underrated role, plays becca, a midwestern farm girl with a simple family and a movie-cliché boyfriend travis. when she heads off to ucla, she meets crawl and he quickly turns her into a bubbly, blonde Californian girl. she decides to bring crawl home for the thanksgiving break. when travis decides to propose, becca needs a distraction. crawl then decides to make everyone believe that him and becca are engaged already. this leads to crawl spicing up the romance between becca's parents, befriending her brother, and even getting the dancers at the local bar to get a little loose. i'm not going to reveal the end, but i liked it. anyway, don't rent it if you want a poignant performance; rent it if you want to laugh your butt of and enjoy an often-missed part of 90's humor. "},{"Title":"Gaaa! Crap!","Date":"23 June 2012","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" Country-girl, Gugino meets rock 'n' roller, surfer-dude (comedian Pauly Shore) while attending college in California; they fall in love (for reasons that remain a mystery to the audience) and she brings him back to the farm to meet his future in-laws. Shore spends most of the film's running-time making animal noises and pronouncing words in a slightly unconventional manner because the writers couldn't be bothered to come up with any jokes. To top it off, the leading lady is also a bitch who heartlessly dumps her boyfriend for the sake of our charming genetic- defect, and while this movie does try to justify this by making him a cheater. The problem is, she doesn't find out until the end, so for all she knew, she could have been breaking the heart of an innocent man. Let me tell help you out here movie; merely making one character an ass doesn't exempt the other from being a bitch. Also, merely exaggerating the length of a word (buuuuuuuudy) isn't funny. Lazy humor at it's, err, laziest. "},{"Title":"entertaining and funny","Date":"19 May 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Son In Law is the best Pauly Shore and the only Pauly Shore movie I recommend.Son In Law combines comedy from Shore as well as the rest of the cast to moments that will just say wow I didn't know Pauly Shore could do that I wish his other movies were as good as this one because his comedic talent is great.The biggest highlight of Son In Law came by way of the performance of an actress named Carla Gugino. Watching Son In Law years after it was released, it is something special to watch her because she brings her beauty and electricity to a movie; most of which she has brought to future films.Son In Law will make you laugh, cry and scowl; it is worth watching. "},{"Title":"funny","Date":"30 June 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I think this is Pauly Shore's best stuff, he played the part perfect. I really enjoyed this movie, Patrick Renna is really funny as Zack the annoying little brother. Son In Law is a good comedy worth your time, but the only thing I wish Tiffany Thiessen was the farm chick instead of the one they had. "},{"Title":"The Best of the Best","Date":"22 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I have to say this movie puts Star Wars, Lord of the Rings and even the Godfather movies to shame, this is one of the best movies ever, and I am astonished that Pauly did not receive at least an Oscar nomination. This was a well-written movie, with great performances(especially Patrick Renna, who was outstanding in his role as Zack). I highly suggest people to watch this movie. Thank you Steve Rash and the whole crew who made this movie possible.I believe that it was from this movie that Patrick Renna's career took off. His acting performance was incredible in the recent Sobe commercials, and I think he got the part because of this movie.So I definetely recommend this movie to everyone who wants to see a ground-breaking movement in the movie business.   "},{"Title":"This movie is wonderful because I was in it.","Date":"20 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  I was cast as the Surfer Dude in the beach scenes.  Almost got cast as the muscle guy, since the real muscle guy was really really late that day. Pauly had my brother and I (the skateboarder in front of the tattoo place) do some vj stuff in between takes live from Venice since he was still doing his MTV thing.  This movie is really good as well.  Would it have made my top 100 if I wasn't in it........? "},{"Title":"Great Movie","Date":"5 January 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This Movie was Great and Funny.  Pauly is Funny.  The best Looking Girl is all the way Tiffani, she is totally hot in this film and she proves she can act with this film.  This Movie is a must See Comedy.... and its not all about Tiffani, its a great Movie in general but Tiffani adds the zest to this Film, cause she does her scenes very well and she is all the way sexy........ "},{"Title":"Very funny","Date":"18 July 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Son In Law is the best Pauly Shore movie I have seen since Jury Duty.Son In Law combines comedy from Shore and the rest of the cast to moments that will just say wow I didn't know Pauly Shore could do that I wish his other movies would have been better.Carla Gugino is something special to look at because she brings her beauty and electricity to a movie that is not only laugh out loud funny but heart-warming. Son In Law will make you laugh, cry and scowl; it is worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Worth to see","Date":"3 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Good work by Pauly Shore.  See it, I`m sure you´ll laugh. A quite nice comedy.   "}{"Title":"entertaining","Date":"26 August 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Son In Law is the best Pauly Shore movie made.Son In Law combines comedy from Shore as well as the rest of the cast to moments that will just say wow I didn't know Pauly Shore could do that I wish his other movies were as good as this one because his comedic talent is great.The biggest highlight of Son In Law came by way of the performance of an actress named Carla Gugino. Watching Son In Law years after it was released, it is something special to watch her because she brings her beauty and electricity to a movie; most of which she has brought to future films. "},{"Title":"Not great, not horrible.","Date":"4 September 2003","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  Shore remains one of the mysteries of film history.  Looking like what would result if Richard Simmons and Weird Al Yankovic had a child together, he is the unlikeliest of movie stars.  Yet somehow, for a time at least, he managed to carve out a career for himself as a comic leading man.  This film is often cited as one of his least annoying, but even here he is sometimes hard to take.  He plays a way-out, overaged college student who winds up coming home for the Thanksgiving holiday with a pretty freshman from the country.  Once there he offends, then predictably wins over, her family and friends......most of them anyway.  The film is undeniably predictable and familiar and the material is very slight.  Yet somehow, in spite of its hurdles, it manages to entertain to a certain point and actually contains a few laughs.  Shore, as agonizing as he is, does occasionally score a thoughtful moment or two among all the slapstick and crude language.  Gugino is lovely.  Her presence adds immeasurably to the overall geniality of the film.  The actors portraying her family do a very nice job as well.  Smith as the father is suitably outraged by Shore.  Pickett adds dimension to a pretty standard role.  The best are Renna and Adams.  Renna plays the obnoxious younger brother role to the hilt.  It would be hard to come up with a brattier persona, but he puts a fun spin on it.  Adams get a late career gem of a part as the cantankerous grandfather and steals many of the scenes he is in.  To the director's credit, none of these characters get shorted in their opportunity to present themselves.  (In other words, Shore isn't the ENTIRE show here.  The supporting cast gets to shine as well.)  Also present are hunky Gauthier as Gugino's former boyfriend (often looking like Tom Cruise in All the Right Moves) and sexy Thiessen as the local easy mark.  The movie is already dated in terms of its clothing and other aspects.  Shore gives Pickett a makeover and it's hard to see why anyone thinks she looks better than before!  Fortunately, the thing doesn't drag on for too long.  It's just a short, sometimes funny, sometimes sweet, sometimes stupid movie that is blessed with a few enjoyable performers and a refreshing lack of undue sex and drugs.   "},{"Title":"If You Have Seen One Pauly Shore Film, You've Seen Them All.","Date":"30 October 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The annoying Pauly Shore befriends college freshman Carla Gugino in Los Angeles and then goes back to the country with her for Thanksgiving (he was invited because he had no one to spend the holiday with). Gugino's home-town boyfriend proposes marriage and she tries to discourage him by saying she is really engaged to Shore (a complete lie of course). Naturally the family is not crazy about Shore to begin with, but slowly they start to accept him and his strange California ways. Another one of those endless fish-out-of-water films that is more tedious than entertaining. Still probably the best Pauly Shore film yet (that is not saying much at all though). 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"Pauly Shore at his best","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you like Pauly Shore, you'll love Son in Law. If you hate Pauly Shore, then, well...I liked it! "},{"Title":"Description of Actress","Date":"9 December 1998","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is extremely funny and it also contains the best looking girl, this young man has ever seen.  Tiffani-Amber Thiessan is a great actress and she has the looks that stop traffic.  Tiffani completes this movie, which contains funny scenes put on by Shore. "},{"Title":"Thoughts on the Acting Performances","Date":"10 December 1998","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  The cast was well picked.  Pauly Shore is hilarious and does a good job of bringing the plot of the movie together.  However, Tiffani Amber Thiessan is who really makes this movie special.  Her talented acting combined with her great looks makes this movie a definite see. "},{"Title":"Unbelievably Bad. This deserves a big Bronx Cheer!","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"6 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  It amazes me that anyone would find Pauly Shore entertaining he is basically one joke that gets stale *real* fast. He has his little California jerk vocabulary and a basic stock of lame jokes. Mainly, he is just obnoxious.That said, I watched this movie because I was up sick and there was literally nothing else on but infomercials, otherwise I would have turned it off after 30 minutes. Anyway, the film could have been OK if Pauly could have just turned off his spiel and just played it as a comic actor instead of, well, Pauly. Anyway, I'm sure Pauly fans will like it anyway - but if you are not a Pauly fan, stay away from this crock of manure.I had to leave this comment after seeing that another user actually gave this film a 10/10! (Maybe it was Pauly!!) Personally, I gave it a 3/10 because they didn't have any mike-in-frame shots, didn't drop the camera, and the supporting cast was pretty good.  "},{"Title":"Worth seeing if you're in the mood for it.","Date":"7 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" The girl leaves her home in, I presume, Lincoln County, South Dakota, and goes to college in California. The South Dakota scenes were filmed at, I presume, Wasco, California. The location would pass for South Dakota except for the fact that in South Dakota at Thanksgiving time it's 20 degrees F and the corn should be already harvested. Also, I thought recent high school graduates weren't supposed to be allowed in bars, but I guess that can happen some places. The combine was probably more likely a $125,000 machine than a $250,000 machine back in 1993. There isn't much trout fishing in eastern South Dakota. Other than those minor details, I'd say the movie was fairly realistic and entertaining. "},{"Title":"Your stomach will be aching from all the laughing you will do from watching this movie","Date":"26 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" This is like something I have NEVER seen before. It had me cracking up the whole time I don't think there was one scene that I didn't laugh through. It is about a girl from the country in South who goes off to a big town for college. At the school she befriends the RA across the hall. When she realizes that he has no family to go to for Thanksgiving she invites him to come home with her. Rabecca and her family and her serious boyfriend all go out to dinner one night and Becca realizes what her boyfriend is about to do...Propose. She urges Cral to do something so he stands up and shouts something like... Sorry mate but you are too late I already asked Becca to marry me a couple of weeks ago back at the school and she said yes. That all turns into Chaos. Please watch this classic it is totally worth it... I swear. "},{"Title":"Swim Away from Shore","Date":"18 October 2005","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":" On his recent maligned reality-show, Mr. Shore conceded his filmic oeuvre is best enjoyed stoned. No, he must have said best watched. While a healthy toke might see you through the end credits, there is little pleasure to be found, save some sporadic chuckling at the picture, not with it. Titular hyphenate absence is the least grievance. Other hyphenate, wholesome Tiffani-Amber Thiessen (I dare you to rub out that Saved by the Bell patina of purity) is miscast as a rural vamp; she's too round of face for treachery. Mr. Shore, himself occasionally displays the odd talent for mimicry (I thought I recognized a Jimmy Stewart in there), however it is never aptly used. The trite fish-out-of-water formula has yet to be rendered with less grace. Our hero, Crawl has precious little wit to account for expeditiously charming his agrarian antagonists. Ultimately, I had to announce it's been ascertained THE WORST MOVIE EVER. P.S. As another fish, Adam Sandler fared better with Mr. Deeds. It may take a Shore to appreciate a Sandler. "}{"Title":"It's bad.","Date":"22 December 2002","Score":"4 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  This movie is one of the worse movies of all time. I'm kind of upset this movie isn't on the bottom 100; it deserves a spot at least number 60 or 70 on that list. This isn't just a film I think is bad in a campy-fun sort of MST3K way; it's just bad. This is one of the few films that I really, really HATE. Freddy Got Fingered is in the same category of bad.So the story in this one goes that the daughter (Gugino) goes to California to go to school and comes back with Crawl (Shore) and he tries to learn to be a farmer. Then the boyfriend tries to set Shore up so that the girl will leave Crawl and go back to him. It ends and what's left of the audience can leave.The main purpose of this movie is for Pauly Shore to mug for the camera and try to be funny; but I'd say about 100% of the time he fails at that. Their horrible inaccurate and out of date view of farms and farming is offensive and there's nothing in this movie worth seeing. If you think of seeing it don't. The one time I saw the movie it felt like I was watching it for 5 or 6 hours. If you've already seen it; you have my sympathy. "},{"Title":"You just can't take a city boy to the country.","Date":"8 April 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  If you are a Pauly Shore fan, you will laugh your butt off. If not, this is a silly mess wasting some very good talent. A cute coed(Carla Gugino)from South Dakota invites her California college dorm counselor(Shore) home to share Thanksgiving. Notable cast members Lane Smith, Cindy Pickett, Mason Adams and the drop dead gorgeous Tiffani-Amber Thiessen. Watch where you step. "},{"Title":"Change of opinion","Date":"29 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Drama, Romance","Review":"  When I saw this movie for the first time, it was dubbed in Spanish.  I wasn't fluent, but understood enough to know what was going on.  I thought the movie was kind of funny.  A year or so later, I happened across it again, and was able to watch it in English for the first time.  Now that I could watch it fully, I thought it was humorless and not very entertaining, and I have no intention of watching it again, in any language. "}]