[{"Title":"entertaining and poignant, a great film","Date":"29 November 2004","Score":"84 out of 93 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I'm a History teacher and we use Swing Kids as an introduction to the topic of alternative youth groups in Nazi Germany. I'm not saying that the film is 100% accurate, obviously some dramatic licence has to be taken, but its not far off. Many people on this site have questioned the accuracy, and validity of the film, especially mentioning the lack of consideration of the treatment of the Jews. However that is not what this film is about (if that is what you want see The Pianist or Schindler's List - also excellent films).This film is looking at how some German youths avoided the Hitler Youth and the nazi regime insofar as they could, and what they spent their time doing (dancing, listening to swing music and being with their friends).It does show some useful aspects about how the Hitler Youth were expected to behave and the propaganda they were exposed to, as well as about swing youth and their attitude to the regime.It is an entertaining and poignant film which explores friendship,romance and growing up against the backdrop of one of the most vilified periods in modern historyBasically Swing Kids does what it does well. Maybe it isn't a Schindler's List, but it does have its merits.Watch it and you'll find them!BTW - could I just point out, many people on here have referred to the Holocaust, as though it is interchangeable with the Nazi regime, and have used the phrase in their reviews. Just to clear up this the holocaust specifically refers to the gassing of Jews at extermination camps from 1942 onwards, essentially the Final Solution. As this film is set in 1939 it is prior to this. "},{"Title":"A Useful Approach","Date":"20 October 2005","Score":"58 out of 64 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" The central characters in this movie are unpolitical teenagers who have no concern with the larger political issues of Naziism and simply want to enjoy themselves. Their only perspective is that Nazis are stuffy, conformist jerks and no fun at all. For this reason, a number of mainstream critics (among them Ebert and Berardinelli) trashed the picture for trivializing the crimes and horrors of the Third Reich. These critics, I think, miss the point.The value of the movie is precisely that it is trivial. There is no hindsight. The audience, like the characters, is caught up in the everydayness of everyday life in a totalitarian state. The Nazis are the government, and as far as anyone can see in 1938-39 they are going to go on being the government forever. The war hasn't happened yet. The Swastika flag flying over every post office and courthouse doesn't give them a little shudder of horror; it's as normal as the Stars and Stripes is to us. All sensible, respectable people who aren't Nazis themselves go along with the Nazis, because they have no reason not to.Auschwitz hasn't happened yet either. Sure, there are concentration camps out there somewhere, but that has nothing to do with normal, ordinary people who behave themselves. Unless you happen to know a Jew or a political dissident yourself, what the government is doing to people like that isn't your problem. The teen-aged lead characters find themselves in opposition and in trouble, not because they have any principled objections to the government, but simply because they find respectable culture boring and want to amuse themselves. The first reaction of authority, in the person of Kenneth Branagh's kindly Gestapo man, is that all they need is a good talking to, a second chance, and a little constructive guidance in the Hitler Youth and they'll grow up to be good citizens. He's fifty percent right; Thomas does respond positively to the comradeship and healthy outdoor activity he finds there.The ultimate choices made by the two boys are governed not by principle but by their personal situations. Thomas has been rebelling against his cold, pompous, wealthy father, whom he loathes, and he ultimately decides that being a dutiful Nazi and denouncing the old man to the Gestapo offers him much better revenge than dancing to illegal jazz records. Peter recoils from the Hitler Youth (and from his former friend) because his own father had disappeared, perhaps into the camps, after the Nazis took power several years earlier.There's's no hindsight in the movie's perspective, and no heroism. Instead, it gives us ordinary, everyday people dealing with ordinary everyday life as they find it, from the viewpoint of a high school student. The movie leads the adolescents who are its target audience to ask themselves an unpleasant question -- would they be any different, any more politically aware, if they were in the same situation? Indeed, would they even realize it if they were actually in the same situation now? The implicit answer is that they probably wouldn't be all that different from ordinary non-political German teenagers in 1938, minding their own business, going about their own lives, and at most trying to carve a little more personal space than the government wants to give them. That's disconcerting and not at all flattering, which is why Swing Kids is worth watching. "},{"Title":"Excellent portrayal of swing and moral struggle","Date":"24 December 2003","Score":"41 out of 48 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Anyone who has stepped on to the dance floor with a live swing band playing knows just how well Swing Kids captures the electricity of a night of swing. Anyone who has strapped on their best duds an hour earlier knows knows the romance and anticipation captured perfectly as Peter Muller (Robert Sean Leonard) dresses for his last night of swing. This movie was in no small measure part of the impetus for the swing revival in the mid 90's, and I personally get in the mood for a night of cuttin' rug with Janis Siegel's incredible rendition of Bei Mir Bist Du Schon from the film. But what makes this film truly superlative is its honest dealings with ordinary Germans' motivations for complacency towards or participation in Nazism. In Nazi Germany it was in everybody's best interest (save the Jews) to play along. From Peter's mother who just wants her to children live happily and avoid the terrible fate of their father to Thomas Berger (Christian Bale) who finds acceptance and encouragement for the first time, they do so for the reasons that would tempt each of us sorely. The horrible truth of the Holocaust is that, like the Germans, very few of us possess the selflessness and moral courage it would have required to oppose the evil tide of Nazism. Swing Kids is almost alone in its portrayal of this chilling truth among Holocaust and World War II films. Robert Sean Leonard's portrayal of this moral struggle for understanding and courage is very moving. (Of course, there's noone better at playing angst-ridden. c.f. Dead Poet's Society.) As he dances his last dance, with the weight of the world on his shoulders, the world spinning around him, he finds a rare kind of release that is perhaps found only on the dance floor. And yes, his brother's cries, Swing Heil! Swing Heil!, in the final scene give me a lump in the throat every time. For all these reasons and more, Swing Kids is an excellent film. "},{"Title":"it is authentic enough","Date":"26 May 2003","Score":"36 out of 42 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  i have read the comment about SWING KIDS not being authentic. well, after doing a bit of research on this topic (swing scene in germany in the third reich) i have to say that there was quite a big scene there. yes, the film might have exaggerated a bit (the hair was not quite as long and they had to cut down on the way they dressed even though they tried as much as they could on the zoot suit front). but it is a fact that there were dances in different cafes and they didnt like the Nazi regime. so i would say give the film makers some slack and a bit of artistic freedom! they tried to portray a group of youngsters that found cure in music and stuck together in a difficult time. i really appreciated this film as normally you wouldnt know about them at all!!! two thumbs up from me as well!!! "},{"Title":"Connected with me on two levels Swing and Judiasm","Date":"6 October 2004","Score":"30 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I have always been a very big fan of swing music and am a Hollywood Jew. I.e., not very religious or observant of the ancient traditions, but still a Jew in humor and emotions. So this movie never fails to make my tear up. To imagine a time and place where not only your seeming friends turn on you, but you can't even listen to your kind of music is a special kind of hell on earth. The dance and music sequences are wonderful and I can't see or hear them enough. Solid sounds, daddio! However, the film wisely preempts the reverie and jerks you back to the Nazi repression each time. It suggests how those poor Swingkleine must have felt. The sweet and sorrowful blend here.Someone criticized this picture for not showing enough death. I think the boxes of human ashes and the random Brownshirt raids show enough of that! This picture isn't about the Holocaust -- it's about trying to survive when your society goes seriously wrong. I will always think of Swing Kids when I hear the truism It don' mean a thing if it ain't got that SWING. Do-wah do-wha do-wah do-wah do-wha do-wha do-wha do-WHAAAAA.  "},{"Title":"Good moments, could have been better","Date":"7 April 2006","Score":"26 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I really don't understand a lot of these reviewers. The movie far from trivializes anything about the Nazis, it simply tries to portray a moment before the bloodiest war in history on a smallish scale.Would it be better to just have a movie that says Nazis are bad and they killed six million Jews.? No, because that wouldn't be a movie.It's like when people complained that a mini-series about Hitler's life that was supposed to be shown on TV would humanize Hitler. Well, news flash, he WAS a human. That's the worst part, a human could do that sort of thing. What good is it to call evil-doers monsters and then leave it at that? When Swing Kids succeeds is when it's portraying the conflicts of youth as their country goes mad. Can anyone honestly say they feel NO sympathy for those who were forced to join the Hitler youth? It's easy to say you would have done different.And the idea that the music being key somehow trivializes the events of WWII, um, it's based on an ACTUAL subculture, swing kids. There were lots of them and at first they were fairly lacking in politics, but later in the 40s when they were cracked down on more so by the Nazis some were more active.It's not like the movie makers pulled the concept of kids, Nazis and swing out of their asses, which is what people seem to think.And at least it was something, at least it wasn't giving in totally. Remember these were young kids, high-school age, nobody can expect them all to be Sophie Scholl.Where Swing Kids lacks is its occasional excessive heavy-handedness. The ending is a bit excessive, something more subtle would have been better.But as I say, the conflicts between the three main leads are fantastic and bring up questions of what you would do in such circumstances. I think the boys's indifference in respect to the Jew being beat up in the beginning of the movie is a good touch. This is NOT about the holocaust, because it was just starting and was largely unknown at the time. I hate when people can't lose what they know to watch a movie.I recommend everyone to read some swing kids history, just look them up, it makes the movie much better and more interesting to know the facts.This is a fairly good movie with very good acting, great great music and costumes, a great story that was influenced by deeply interesting history, and too much heavy handedness.But seriously, who can resist a movie put out by Disney that includes the line of dialog You're turning into a f*cking Nazi!? "},{"Title":"Uneven, but powerful","Date":"11 November 1999","Score":"29 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Four German teenage boys (Leonard, Bale, Whaley, and Batrok), living under Nazy reign in World War II, secretly play Swing music, American stuff that's been forbidden, and embrace the concepts of the musical heritage. But this is clearly an act of rebellion, so they must do it in secret clubs at night, avoiding the Gestapo. Their relationships and the outcomes are the study of this film, which is both uneven and, ultimately, very powerful.Roger Ebert detested this film for the fact that, to him, is unclear in it's message. He feels that the motives behind these teen's rebellion are stupid It seems as if Hitler hadn't banned Swing music, then they would have thought that he was a swell guy.Actually, this observation on Mr. Ebert's behalf might be the film's point. They thought Hitler was a loser because of he didn't let them play their music. Through this fact, they learn that there is a much bigger problem here, and they know that they can't conform to it. So how do they rebell? Through the music that they cherish.Along the way, two of the boys, Leonard and Bale, are forced to join the Gestapo. Leonard doesn't embrace the teachings, but Bale is slowly brainwashed into conforming. Whaley is a cripple, and he therefore observes the Nazis from a different position. He soon begins to despise his two friends for their uniforms. While his character might be an arrogant jerk, it is clear that he's got a better idea about the evil that's going on than anyone else. Bartok is just sort of along for the ride, just wanting to hang out with his friends and play in his music...oblivious to what happens with the Jews or Nazis.So here we have four chief characters that pretty much represent probably the most basic attitudes of German citizens during the war Brainwashed, aware, torn in between, and indifferent. The characters are well acted, and the balance and chemisty between them work. The message at the end is very clear and VERY powerful....I am often reminded of its subtle excellence, though I haven't seen it in a good while.Unfortunately, the film itself is uneven. Almost too much time is spent on the swing music itself. So much that it takes away from the message of the film. The music should have only served as a backdrop, and endless scenes of dancing almost threaten to take away from the impact of the theme. Almost is the key word. All in all, this is a most intriguing film. Kenneth Branagh appears unbilled, as a central Gestapo character.*** out of **** "},{"Title":"Love the Movie with All My Heart!","Date":"8 December 2002","Score":"21 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  One of the basic reasons I like this movie is because it was one of the first movies I watched with my older brother that we both enjoyed. I don't have a lot in common with him, but this one movie opened up lots of opportunities for other movies.Other than that, I love this movie for its unique point of view. We always get the movies like Saving Private Ryan or Pearl Harbor, which are very important stories in themselves (and good movies of course) but how often do we get a movie about people who were part of the war from the beginning. people that didn't necessarily have a direct threat, but were still greatly affected. The story of Peter and Thomas and Arvid are wonderfully done. Peter is the kind of person any girl would like. Thomas, the rich brat that speaks his mind too much, helps put internal conflict in the group. Arvid seems to be the voice of reason, seeing what the Nazis are doing and doesn't want to be a part of it.The acting is great, of course. Peter, played by Robert Sean Leonard, is portrayed as soft spoken, confused, and even a little bitter. Thomas, played by the beautiful Christian Bale, is the kind of people that drive me nuts - just go along with it. We can have it both ways. It is virtually impossible to have it both ways. The guy who plays Arvid is a lovely actor, obviously talented, and shows emotion so well you'd think he went through this himself. The history of the movie might be a little tweaked to make a few interesting scenes, but to see what the Nazis were doing to the youth of their country, brainwashing them and telling them to spy on people, is appalling. No wonder a few former Nazi soldiers still think they were right.The music is like a whole nother character. This movie is what really got me to enjoy listening to swing music. Even though I can do very few steps, I realize now the feeling they got when they heard it and I get the same feeling, just not quite as strong probably.All around, this movie is wonderful. I love showing it to my friends, and it is very interesting and jerks at your emotions. "},{"Title":"Excellent insight on the youth in Germany...","Date":"17 January 2000","Score":"19 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie does a great job of showing a different angle on the WW2 time period. The struggles the youth of Germany went through during that time were portrayed very well. People complain that this movie doesn't show the horror of the holocaust and the awful persecution the Jews faced, but that is not what it's trying to do! We all read or hear about what the Nazis did to the Jews (& other minorities) and think that the Germans must have been horrible people to have even gone along with this. But this shows how the propaganda they were constantly fed--as well as the activities & sense of belonging the HJ (Hitler Jungen) experienced--could slowly twist their minds to the Nazi way of thinking.  One of the excellent things about this movie is how it shows how the main characters change. The changes in Peter & Thomas come very slow and natural, and only when you get to the end (and maybe re-watch it) do you realize how drastically they have changed their views. (Thomas especially)There were some not-so-great things about the movie, like some characters or scenes which, when you think back, seem to have been included for an unknown reason. But the good points of the movie out-weigh the minor nit-picks. The swing music and dancing in the movie was awesome, and I thought all the characters were acted very well by the actors. They did a good job of showing the confusion that the young Germans must have felt, not knowing who was right.  All in all, I really enjoyed this movie, and I think it makes you think as well.  "},{"Title":"Strangulation Of Culture","Date":"7 March 2008","Score":"9 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I do love swing music and love the music and artists from the era. So did my parents who were contemporary with it. But they had the good fortune to love it in the USA. It was a dangerous thing to like Benny Goodman, Count Basie, Duke Ellington and most of all Arthur Shawronsky who the authorities did know was Artie Shaw. But these squares were the Gestapo and Swing Kids is about the youth who loved American swing music at considerable cost.Robert Sean Leonard, Christian Bale, Frank Whaley are three friends who are into American swing at a time in their country when such jungle music was Verboten. Swing Kids is the story about how all three were dealing with the growing strangulation of culture. One of the opening scenes takes place at a forbidden swing club where the kids are cutting a rug to Benny Goodman when word comes the authorities are near. Without a beat the band turns into a typical German Oompah band, the kind of music Herr Schicklgruber deemed acceptable to German youth.Which was being swallowed up by the Hitler Youth and the social pressures to join are enormous. Something that we in this country cannot fathom. I'm not a big fan of the current Pope, but about the only thing I'll give Benedict XVI a pass on was joining the Hitler Youth. At a certain point the wiggle room got less and less. Barbara Hershey as Leonard's mother gives a good performance as a woman keeping company with a Gestapo official for a little more comfort. Her husband and Leonard and David Tom's father had been arrested by the Gestapo a few years back and died as a result of their custody. The Gestapo official is played by an unbilled Kenneth Branagh who took no billing for his part deliberately.Swing Kids has a timely lesson for today if some in federal authority will care to learn it. The fundamentalist Moslems just as the Nazis hate our decadent culture. The answer is keep importing it into places like Iran by the cargo ship load. Don't bomb them to death, just send them our music and films.By the way our own fundamentalist Christians hated that music as they hate the music of today. Something about authoritarianism of whatever stripe just hates contemporary culture, whatever it is at the time.Swing Kids is a valuable lesson about freedom of expression wrapped up in a good entertaining package. "}{"Title":"Some people have obviously missed the point of this movie","Date":"31 January 1999","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Ok for you people who refer to all the Germans as worthless human beings and talk about how this movie didn't focus on the holocaust, etc....WAKE UP! The point of this movie was to give another perspective on the war. Not all Germans were souless killers. Throughout the movie you could see the consciences of the main characters being pushed and pulled about what was happening. Over here in Western culture, everything is portrayed in black and white  all the Germans were completely evil, and we were the good ones. No one is denying that the Germans committed some horrific atrocities, but there were some who resisted doing those crimes, and others who actually believed that they were morally in the right because of centuries of ingrained anti-semitism. Geez, North America was anti-semitic then too! Swing Kids looks at Germany from the inside, and the different forces that were at work. Everyone knows what happened during the Holocaust....this movie wasn't about that. I think people should look at all different viewpoints before classifying all the people in a certain group (ie all of the German nation) into one cubbyhole of evil. "},{"Title":"This movie is super-mergentroid!","Date":"30 October 1998","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Oh my god.That's all I have to say.This movie is up there with countless others as great Nazi Germany/www2 movies. It's so heartfelt and beautiful that I was crying buckets throughout the whole thing. It feels like an Invasion of the Body Snatchers, except it really happened. Robert Sean Leonard is one of the most brilliant actors in the world, even though he's highly under-rated. Esspecially check out the dance scenes, unlike other swing movies, this one seems far less choreographed and pre-planned, it gives the film spontaneity. My favorite scene though is at the end when Willy's saying good-bye to Peter screaming Swing Heil, Peter! Swing Heil! I just lost it.So for the love of God, please see this movie which is staggering in brilliance. It's super-mergentroid! "},{"Title":"A Subset of a Much Bigger Subject That Made a Good Story","Date":"17 May 2010","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Swing Kids underperformed at the box office, received bad reviews, but today maintains a cult following. Reading the reviews from the film's 1993 release, critics seemed to be ticked off mostly by the fact that the film depicted a seemingly trivial demographic in a horrific time and place. Their argument was understandable if such mass genocide and political corruption was taking place, why would we want to know about German teenagers who were obsessed with American swing music? My question is, why would we NOT want to know about them?Had Swing Kids been released some time after Steven Spielberg's epic Schindler's List, critics may not have been quick to bring up that point. However, Cabaret (1972) was also about Berlin counterculture amidst the rise of the Nazi party, and no one seemed to have a problem with that film.Swing Kids is by no means a perfect film, but it also shouldn't be dismissed specifically because it doesn't take place in a concentration camp, and no one can be seen being tortured or killed. It's a small footnote, but by no means an uninteresting story.The movie centers around Peter Muller (Robert Sean Leonard, who I couldn't help but think bore a striking resemblance to Jim Carrey in this movie), a German student barely out of his teens who, along with his friends Thomas (Christian Bale) and Arvid (Frank Whaley), love to stay out late and dance to big band swing music. They wear their hair long, own zoot suits, and are rebellious against the Nazis at first for rebellion's sake. They don't seem to be phased by the Nazi's propaganda against the Jews and other ethnicities until later in the film, although that point is not clarified well in the beginning.Peter reluctantly joins the Nazis when his mother's significant other, Herr Major Knopp (Kenneth Branagh), pulls some strings after Peter's arrest involving a stolen radio. His other option is to be sent to jail, or perhaps even a concentration camp. Thomas enlists as well just to join Peter, but they ultimately don't give up their night life of Benny Goodman and Glenn Miller. However, the more Peter learns about the Nazis, the more he hates them. Thomas, on the other hand, falls into the Nazi propaganda over time.The overall story is told pretty well here. Robert Sean Leonard is good as the moral compass of the story. Nowadays, I'm used to seeing Christian Bale in either villainous roles (American Psycho (2000), The Prestige (2006)), or as heroes with a noticeable dark side (The Dark Knight (2008), Terminator Salvation (2009)). However, here Bale plays a guy who is a genuinely good friend at first, and his good acting made me forget about his later roles. At the same time, when his character becomes entrenched in the Nazi life, Bale somehow made this dramatic transition smoothly without seeming contrived.Frank Whaley is also effective as the crippled friend Arvid, who can't join the Nazi army even if he wanted to because of his condition. Arvid plays jazz guitar, and knows a lot about American jazz. He is frequently bullied and beaten by Nazi soldiers his age, but still has energy to rebel. Whereas Leonard is the moral compass here, Whaley is the heart. I can't give away what happens to Arvid in this movie, but you really do feel for him as the movie progresses.Swing Kids has a very good story, and characters good and bad that you really care about. Among the major weaknesses in this movie is the fact that it takes place entirely in Germany, yet none of the characters actually speak German. Normally that fact would not be a problem, but my issue was that the good guys here spoke with either American or British accents, whereas the villains (such as Branaugh) spoke with a heavy German accent. It's as if Hollywood hasn't gotten over the idea that German or Russian accents sound evil, even long after World War II and the Cold War ended. In this story, it goes without saying that accents shouldn't matter.This is why I think the movie would have worked better as a foreign film made by Germans, rather than an American film made by the Disney company. If everyone was speaking German, allegedly evil accents wouldn't be an issue. On the other hand, Cabaret had good guys in it that had German accents. Why couldn't this film?Also, perhaps I'm asking too much here, but the written epilogue at the end wasn't enough for me. Of course, as I mentioned earlier, not every film that takes place during World War II has to be dark and depressing, but it would have been nice to have received a glimpse of what these swing kids went through in concentration camps, how they coped, and whether they got out alive or not. Maybe such a broad subject could still be the basis for another movie, but just two written sentences before the credits broke the Golden Rule of Storytelling Show, Don't Tell.This film would have benefited from being shelved for at least a year, and perhaps being released a little while after Schindler's List made its run. Compared to concentration camps, young men in Germany who loved American music seems insignificant in comparison, but by no means does it discredit the alternative history lesson from being told. Critics could have been more open-minded to the movie, but the good thing is that the film now has a cult following. It still nags me that the film wasn't in German, though. At least it has historical accuracy on its side. "},{"Title":"Just one thing...","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Say what you will about this film - say it's boring, say it's the greatest film of all time, say it was mediocre, say it was awful - i mean it, say WHATEVER you want (after all, we are, every last one one of us, entitled to our opinions); But know this one absolute fact the very last scene in this film makes this movie great. If you couldn't stand the movie, when you get to the end, you're thinking, I wasn't gypped. & if you loved it, when you get to the end, you're thinking,Just when I thought it couldn't get any better.... Perhaps you find me silly or melodramatic, but it would be morally wrong for me not to send out this information into the universe. So, Robert Sean Leonard's last dance, so to speak, is cinematic genius, film history, an honor to watch. Thank God beauty still exists in our menial lives. "},{"Title":"All those other people that say it is bad are not right in the head!!!!!!!","Date":"4 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is one of the best movies I have ever seen.  While being surrounded by stuff from the Holocaust in school we watched this movie.  If you need a good cry watch this movie, my friend and I cried all the way through it, during class.  This movie follows the beginnings of World War II very well, granted a crack in the sidewalk might be off. There are many comments for this movie that analyze to much, for example, there is to much swing music.  There is a reason that there is a lot of swing music.  The reason might happen to be because the movie is about SWING kids thus they listen to SWING music.I give this movie a 10 out of 10!!!!!!!!!My e-mail address is listed above in case anyone has any problems with this, I would be more than happy to talk about it. "},{"Title":"Swing Heil!","Date":"13 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" WARNING THIS COMMENT CONTAINS SPOILERS, CLEARLY MARKED IN THE TEXT.I can honestly say that no movie has ever moved me in the same way that this one has. We watched it in history class, and at the beginning my friends and I, who didn't know what swing kids were, thought that the title sounded somewhat jazzy and lighthearted.How wrong we were. As the movie changed from the story of three teenage friends to the story of the choices every person in the nation had to make, we were all utterly captivated. True, I go to an all-girls school, and so the presence of Christian Bale probably didn't hurt our liking of the movie. But it wasn't just that.The story, set in the late 1930's, is about the Swing Kids movement in the youth at the time that Hitler was gaining power and Germany was becoming more and more fascist. Fascism was all about conformity, being the same everyone else and putting the state in front of yourself. Swing dancing was and still is clearly about being an individual, and as a result, the swing clubs were slowly being banned. The swing kids remained defiant, even making up their own mockery of the Nazi salute Swing Heil! SPOILER ALERT Each progressive scene at the Cafe Bismarck gets worse. The first shows a happy evening, the second a close call, the third the official closing of the club, and the last is the end of the movie.SPOILER ENDED The movie focuses on three teenage guys, Peter, Thomas, and Arvid. As the movie progresses, it's clear that the three are all searching for something. Thomas, who has a cold relationship with his father, is looking for acceptance. Peter, whose father mysteriously disappeared, returned home, and died, is looking for answers. And Arvid, a cripple who plays the guitar, is looking for a way out of a society that is beginning to sicken him.The rest of the movie is about the choices that each one makes as the fascist society progresses around them and forces them to decide what stance they want to take.SPOILER ALERT When Peter attempts to steal a radio for his friend Arvid, he is given an unofficial ultimatum--join the HJ (Hitler Youth) or your mother and younger brother will be in danger. When Peter joins, Thomas joins too, saying that he did it because of his friendship with Peter and says that they can be HJ by day and swing kids by night.SPOILER ENDED Throughout the movie, it is clear that the three friends are drawing apart, and in the end, each makes a different choice, finding in that choice what they were looking for in the beginning.The entire movie, while maybe not entirely historically accurate, is still an amazing film. The swing music played in it is not just an element of the background, it sends its own message. The acting is mostly flawless--my only minor point is that Emil, the HJ leader, is not very convincing. But what makes the movie really work is the powerful emotions drawn out of the viewer--happiness, despair, horror, hope, betrayal. It's the only movie that has ever made me cry.As my history teacher said, In many ways, the movie is somewhat cushioned. It only shows a small part of the time period and in some ways isn't incredibly historically accurate. But it's incredibly personal, and that's what gets you. An excellent movie, 10 out of 10. Words simply fail me. "},{"Title":"u fool","Date":"14 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  swing kids is an excellent movie. it does capture the swing mentality well. It wasn't about the jewish. it was about not being a nazi. they weren't jewish. they were from upper middle-class families and rebelled against their fathers. and this is what the movie is about. rebellion against your relatives, family, ppl you would normally follow, love, your father ( so to place him in the role of the nazi is a well thought out decision)And the music, the most important thing. Most importantly not letting anyone tell you not to dance and listen to the music you like. i recommend this movie!!! "},{"Title":"Following The Greatest Evil","Date":"16 August 2001","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  In reading the reviews, there appears to be some disbelief that the Nazis saw the Swing movement as any real threat. In Peter Profield's excellent 1991 Himmler biography, he makes it quite clear that the official party line was that Swing was a subversive evil, as much as any White Rose activity. As for inconsistencies in Bale's character, understand that he is merely a joiner. When the Swing Kids seem like the trend, he's into them. When the Jugeund seem like the better trend, that's what he wants to do.....typically adolescent. "},{"Title":"Outstanding portrait of an era, and coming of age.","Date":"2 September 1999","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  To BarryB-4 You couldn't have missed the point by a wider area.The swing music and dancing is not the point of this movie. This could just as easily have taken place in the 50s in America, with Rock n Roll as the backdrop.What it was about to me, was the dehumanizing process of fascism, and how blindly following a leader or a movement can turn an otherwise well-balanced, even likable individual (Thomas) into something terrible, and make them do things they would otherwise never do.The German people of that era are demonized too often. It's easy to say I'd never go along with that! but the fact is that it was not that simple for most Germans, especially as it progressed into the war, and like an avalanche, it got bigger and more powerful and destructive. By the end, it was go along, or be sent away or possibly killed, and the movie portrays this pressure masterfully.The sacrifice made was not for the music itself, but rather for the freedom to enjoy it. In fact, I think that Arvid's comment, Nobody who likes swing could ever become a nazi and what follows illustrates that it's not the music that was the most important thing. The music was an excellent rallying point, but it's the people and their energy that make a movement. "},{"Title":"Swing Heil!","Date":"23 August 2001","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one of my all time favorite movies!  The music and dancing is great. And the story is too.  One of the main reasons it got a bad review is because it didn't really say anything about the sufferings of the Jews. Hello people this movie isn't about the Jews it's about the swing kids and the everyday people and what they went through, and the desisions they had to make while dealing with the Nazi rule.  Go along and not get hurt, Or rebel and be persecuted.  Arvid Is Awesome!!!  I still cry everytime I see this movie.  You have to see it! "}{"Title":"Very emotional movie","Date":"10 October 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I've read some of the reviews and feel I need to give a history lesson to some of them. This was 1938-1939. The Nazis hadn't gone berzerk with the killing of Jews and Gypsys etc. They may have been doing it in secret, but it wasn't common knowledge. That being said, the attempts to cleanse their society was indeed in full swing. *pardon the pun. They wanted nothing to do with outside influence, the training of the next generation was Hitler's plan. The HJ were to be the next generation of leaders, policemen, and general authority figures.Youth will rebel, it seems they always do to some degree. That's what these kids were doing. The movie is a very small view of what was going on. It's not the big picture.... it's basically Peter's struggle with who he is, who his father was, and his immediate environment. You can't really say the movie isn't accurate, because none of you is Peter.I love the movie. I love the music and the heart Peter puts into it. He loves the music... as he loved his father. And the Nazis tried to take both of them. "},{"Title":"Beautiful and Inspirational","Date":"6 August 2008","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I watched this movie for the first time last night. A History buff, I had never heard about the swing kids movement in Germany, but when my friend handed me the DVD at the library and I read the back, I instantly saw that this film could be right up my alley. I also must confess...I'm a big Robert Sean Leonard fan. I was introduced to him in House, and also love Much Ado. I saw Dead Poet's society but was very disappointed in the ending, because I felt RSL's suicide ruined the whole story. Anyway.. I was not disappointed in this movie. I loved watching the dance scenes, I loved the slow development of Leonard's character.. I loved the struggles, the very human struggle between survival and standing up for what you believe in. I don't know what else to say, I just loved the story. It inspired me. The ending made me choke up. Beautiful, Inspirational story.. "},{"Title":"This film deserves A LOT more attention","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This was a real eye-opener! Even to old fogies like me, Swing is associated with being the music of our PARENTS. In Swing Kids we see it being very much the Rock'n'Roll of the 30's, with all the attendant counter-culture and generational rebellion elements that implies. When you add to that the setting of the film in the ascendant days of Nazism in Germany, the contrast is both amplified and rendered a much more serous business than just adolescent highjinks. I suppose when you strip away everything else, this is a loss of innocence movie, but that doesn't do justice to its meticulous production values, uniformly excellent acting, or tight scripting and direction. If the theme is old, the angle is new and very apropos I was enrapt from beginning to end. (Look for Noah Wyle just before he became a medical student on ER!) "},{"Title":"Why only a 6.1? This was  a pretty good movie.","Date":"12 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I remember watching some of this movie in high school(way back when, 2001 I think) when we were learning about World War II. Many of us students kept asking the teacher what it was like to live in Germany at the time and wondered if everyone in Germany was a Nazi? So, they started this movie, but I had something else that day to do, so I only saw a part of this movie. I'm glad though that my mom picked it up recently because this movie had been stuck in my head for so long.It's about the Swing Kids, a group of teenagers and young adults who refused to join the Nazi's, yet they lived in Germany while watching American films and danced to swing music. They also wore their hair long and didn't agree with the rest of Germany on Hitler's views. There is a group of friends, Peter, Arvid, and Thomas, Peter is forced to join the Nazi school, Thomas joins with just to keep him company. Day by day they are drilled and slammed in the head with German propaganda. Peter and Arvid try to stay strong, but Thomas is starting to loose it and becomes a Nazi himself.Swing Kids has a great story of morals and ethics, what happens when something so strong can split a friendship, but something so wonderful as music, swing to be exact, can bring them together. It's a beautifully acted and heart breaking story. I wish the rating was a little higher, yeah, it's not a perfect film, but it was a lot better than a 6.1.8/10 "},{"Title":"Could easily be the basis of a Senior high / College course","Date":"26 December 2005","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" The emotional impact of this movie is extraordinary. I have seen it maybe 10 times and even being a hard hearted 50 yo male wont stop the torrent of tears and it can take hours to recollect your soul after seeing it.I have asked all my partners to view this with me. Almost insisted on it. They have all been wonderfully affected by it. My current partner was in emotional recoil for 24 hours and had to watch it again alone the next day to process the emotions. Swing Kids provides stimuli for discussion of many divergent themes- power of popular culture (in this case Swing music)- the historical early Hitler years in Nazi Germany vis a vis teenagers- the way a whole society can be seduced by otherwise unacceptable ideas.- HOW IDEOLOGY CAN OVERULE CLOSE FRIENDSHIPS / FAMILY CONNECTIONSI challenge any convert of any religion / ideology (or any affected friend) to watch this movie. In this one regard, Swing Kids will cause a re-examination of priorities. Certainly it will shine a light on both perspectives.For me the brilliant uncovering of themes and the emotional impact of the plot made any examination of the finer points of film making completely unnecessary. Suffice to say that nothing gets in the way of the overwhelming emotional impact of Swing Kids. "},{"Title":"Nazis don't dance","Date":"3 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" The party's over for the rambunctious, carefree Berlin teenagers who love dancing the night away to American swing music once the Nazi party comes into power (seems they've banned jazzy music from the States in a WWII-era twist on Footloose, wherein an uptight reverend banned rock & roll and youthful celebratory dancing). Two young men, best friends, find themselves on opposite sides of the fence, although it takes square-jawed, 'moral' Robert Sean Leonard an awfully long time to come around. Direction by Thomas Carter is astute and fluid, and the production is well-polished, but this earnest cast ends up just going the motions (what else can they do with the robotic dialogue?). The scenario turns out to be as artificial as the cobblestone streets and the downbeat, we're-licked-now-but-will-be-victorious finale. ** from **** "},{"Title":"Close teenage friends get alienated in 1930s Nazi Germany.","Date":"20 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Taking the biblical reference, in this story we have a Peter The Rock and a Doubting Thomas. It is 1930s Germany and the teenagers have latched onto banned music, swing music, much of it by Jewish-American musicians like Benny Goodman. But Germany also wants its young men to become members of Hitler's Jugen (HJ) as a way of preparing them to become Nazis when they grow up.The nominal lead character is Robert Sean Leonard as Peter Müller. But the best performance here is by Christian Bale as his close friend Thomas Berger. They are part of the larger group of swing kids who gather to play swing music and dance. A risky activity at this time.The core of the story centers upon Peter who recognizes the evil of the Nazi propaganda, and resists it, while Thomas resists at first but eventually is swayed. The two friends increasingly are at odds, culminating in a fight near the end.This is both an entertaining movie, even though it involves a very serious subject, and also a historically significant one, as it relates to the Nazi doctrine. I suppose, looking at it now, it was the severe viewpoints, the supremacy of the race, that got more and more Germans to turn against it and resist. As well as most of the rest of the world. "},{"Title":"An insightful movie told from a refreshing perspective; the realistic and less than perfect characters are the film's strong suit.","Date":"11 November 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Robert Sean Leonard, Christian Bale and Frank Whaley give stature to the Swing Kids, a movement of German teenagers who rebelled against the Nazi-ideology by playing an dancing to swing music in clubs( forbidden for being 'black and Jewish music'). The threesome comes from substantially different standing and differ as night and day in personality as well. Bale brings to life another extrovert character(Thomas), dancing tightrope on that slim line between self-confidence and arrogance. Whaley's character (Arvid) is intelligent and musically gifted, yet bruises like a peach, his emotional fragility a result of a crippled leg which condemns the artist from ever dancing to the music he loves and plays (the tragedy of the deaf composer and the blind painter all over again). These two characters occupy two ends the scale, and are both dangerously unstable, unlike our third and main 'kid' Robert Sean Leanord's character (Peter), an ambitious and idealistic youngster, a type commonly referred to as a 'golden boy', the whole world awaiting to be conquered by him. Yet he also has an Achilles' Heel his father's death early in his childhood. As often the bond between the gang seems stronger than it is, everyone gets along great when there isn't a care in the world, theirs only consists of smoking cigarettes, guzzling drinks and dancing with girls in hip clubs. When they try to lift a radio in another one of their mischievous antics, Peter gets captured and his hand is forced into joining the 'Hitler Jugend', Thomas happily tags along stating 'we can have the best of both worlds, HJ by day, Swing Kids by night'. Arvid, the most insightful of the gang, warns them of the dangers of getting brainwashed by Hitler's foul propaganda but it could not be helped, soon Thomas takes a turn for the worse and tension in the once so close-knit group mounts. Playful remarks regarding Arvid's handicap turn into insults of impurity, Thomas is so caught up in the world of cool HJ gadgets and perks that he neglects to notice he's being manipulated.The thriller elements don't form the core of the movie, they're useful as a means to an end, to keep the viewer focused so he doesn't miss a second of the interesting characters, the interactions and dialog are really what matters the most. The lack of attention for politics makes 'Swing Kids' special in the war-drama genre. It's a bold yet smart choice. This approach (and the soothing swing club intervals) made it easier to watch than most in the genre, which I think keeps the movie from alienating young audiences. It's pleasant to watch the history of pre-war Germany through the eyes of rebellious young citizens and subsequently (as a young man) being able to identify more with and relate to the characters. The government in place at that time was accepted, just like we accept the supreme command now, it's highly plausible kids could see more light in standing up for a sort of symbolic value namely 'Swing Music' (rather than forming political movements), which of course is connected with freedom of arts...and so forth with freedom of expression. 'Swing Kids', though certainly engrossing and accomplished, is fairly uneven and at times loses the audience's attention with gratuitous melodramatic scenes. Near the end the focus strays from intelligent dialog and interactions towards silent melodrama. Paired with Robert Sean Leonard's underwhelming performance (yet again), it's a small blemish on an otherwise highly recommendable film. "},{"Title":"Far better than the rating would make it appear","Date":"27 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I admit a propensity to like movies about this era. World War II and the years leading up to it represent to me the most romantic time in recent history. The passion of the period gave rise to countless films -- some timeless classics and some not worth remembering. This is one of the former. I can't watch Swing Kids without feeling empathy for the youth of Germany who were caught up in National Socialism and lost their souls in the process. While I know little about the reality (or unreality) of this film's portrayal of the young Germans who idolized Swing music and rejected the Nazi view of its degeneracy, I do know that the film makes its point effectively while pulling at the heartstrings. This isn't to say it's overly sentimental -- far from it. Even characters with whom the viewer might sympathize do have their flaws. I think the best cast character in the film is the Gestapo man who befriends the Muller family. His brand of evil is so innocuous as to be virtually invisible ... sometimes even to himself (as at the dinner party when his own decadence was pointed out to him). Swing Kids is well worth watching if only for that single performance. Put it on your queue and you won't be disappointed. "},{"Title":"Excellency... in a movie","Date":"7 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" one of my favorite movies in the world.if you haven't seen it... See it.The movie tells us a much forgotten story, of making resistance against a government that was all-ruling. It talks of people making decisions that would affect their lives. It gives us hope that young people in the world can make choices that are so right. I wish all people could see it. it gives us hope. Withouht hope we couldn't survive.It also gives an accurate portrait of the choices that young people had to make when they lived at the time, and it shows the brutality that the HJ showed on different people. "}{"Title":"this movie is the best","Date":"14 September 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This is one of my all time favorites. it is so entertaining. it tells history from a different pov than the history books. the pov i'd probably have myself. If there is 75% of the population doing something, I will always be in the other 24% that aren't doing it, and probably the crucial 1% who never will. If ever a kid felt like that had to fight their parents, fight the system, fight the world to have self expression through their music and style...which is probably most of us, this movie will just break your heart. try fighting the real Nazis to hang on to what you perceive as your culture. this movie makes me cry and it makes me want to dance. i got into the big band thing and the swing dance thing big time after i saw this. I still love the music even though I don't dance as much as I ought to anymore. this movie is so good. it teaches too. it isn't mindless pop fluff. i think this movie should be required media in high school like poems in English class or vids in science. people ought to know. swing heil! "},{"Title":"Characterization was great!","Date":"29 July 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I thought this movie brought out great characterization from Whaley, Leonard and Bale. But to be quite honest, everyone in this film did a great job acting out their roles. I felt like the plot moved along nicely. Each scene sent a clear message of what was going on. Carter did a really good job on bringing reality into this movie. I have watched this film on numerous accounts and what I liked most was that Carter gave a clear idea that friendships were going to be tested. In the beginning, Bale, Whaley and Leonard each gave the audience an impression of who they were and I think that's what moved the story along nicely. I gave this movie an 8/10 for an overall status. "},{"Title":"Poignant and Thought Provoking","Date":"28 March 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I don't know how anyone can watch this movie and say it's not a good film. There are so many elements that make it great. I fell in love with this movie in 1993 when I was only 13 years old and it has been one of my all time favorites ever since. I think all actors (especially Robert Sean Leonard)did an amazing acting job. I think it is important to see different aspects of WWII and this is a unique perspective--showing how many Germans were not all of Hitlers mentality but even if they weren't in the beginning it is important to see how his brainwashing tactics eventually affected even the youngest of Germans. Anyway, I think this is an under rated film.  "},{"Title":"I loved this movie!","Date":"7 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought that this movie was incredible, and the acting was really top-notch.  I really felt inspired to start a musical revolution, you know? My friend and I started swing dancing last night, because I made him, because of this movie.  I loved it and wish more movies were like it. "},{"Title":"One of the best stand-on-principle movies!","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Swing Kids is one of the best dance, sound-track, and films recently made. The dancing is fantastic as is the music.  In the era of no moral standards, Swing Kids is a great movie about talking a stand (or dance) on principle. We are watching a historical-fiction here, so don't get caught up here in the dates and facts. This film is best viewed with a good sound system. Sit back, tap your feet and enjoy. "},{"Title":"Sit back, relax and enjoy this wonderful movie","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  After reading the comments posted by people about Swing Kids I was inspired to write my own. I agree with the folks who complained about the accuracy of the movie...obviously there are some serious flaws. I also agree with the teenagers who loved the movie...just without the omigod Christian Bale is like, so hot! part. What people need to realize is this movie's focus was about friendship and the overall problems that young people faced during this time period. So sit back, put your World War II Facts notebook away, and enjoy this movie.  "},{"Title":"WOW!!!","Date":"28 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  oh my god!  I watched this movie in history class I thought that it was one of the best movies that I have ever seen!  It perfectly portrays life back then and it showed the triumphs and faults of friendship.  Friendship and loyalty is everything in this movie and it made me think about it everyday when class was over.  It was so hard for me not to cry in class.  So if you do watch it, bring tissue because I know you will cry.  It is a great movie and I would recommend it to anyone.   "},{"Title":"A truly great inspiring movie about standing up for what you beleive in!","Date":"7 October 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a great movie; some won't like it because as the previous person stated it is full of a bunch or pretty boys and while some of the acting could be better, the characters really pull you in to the movie.  I give it 4 out of 5 stars, because the story is great and inspiring.  Personally I love World War 2 Nazi movies, and this really is a good one!After you watch this movie it helps you truly say Swing Heil! and inspires you to stand up for what you believe in no matter how many are against you.  "},{"Title":"A film that portrays 1939 Germany, in a unique perspective!","Date":"20 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  It is pleasing to see a film that portrays the conflicts that good Germans felt has they lost control of their country to Hitler.  This was being filmed at the same time as Schindler's List.  Now Schindler's List is a truly brilliant film that through it's images and music can't help but move the viewer to the horror of Hitler's vision in WWII.  Swing Kids hasn't got the polish of those images, but don't be taken back that it's a story of a dancing teens in a Post World War version of Grease.  The movie has great music, and filmed in Prague, isn't without it's flavour.Without giving the entire plot,  it shows the German Machine building in 1939, and the power of Propaganda.  This was a clever film in it's ability to show you a tale that most people wouldn't be aware of.  I think the cast, is very good, although typical of Hollywood, Germans are played without accents, by English and American actors, which mixed  with real European settings is a little distracting.  Overall a pretty good picture worthy of a view! "},{"Title":"Underrated. The joy of swing & Nazi era both depicted well.","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Thomas Carter shows us swing at its most exciting. These kids were swing fanatics. Their dancing shows it, and today's young people just might be astonished by it.AND he has captured the chill of the most mesmerizing period of 20th century history. "}{"Title":"Incredible","Date":"5 August 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  The acting is superb, with everyone from Christian Bale (the great kid loved in Newsies) to the pre-ER Noah Wyle. The performance from the lead is great, as his world around his crumbles. But I have to say the role that struck me the most was the gimp friend- trapped in his own world of music while Nazi's would rather be off with him.This movie truly stuck a chord with me. Not that I didn't already know how terrible the Nazis were, but that these kids just wanted to be teenagers and listen to their music and got persecuted. The idea of banning swing is more prevelant now than ever. The persecution and imprisonments that seem so unjust in this movie can be reflected in today's culture of teenagers with Marilyn Manson and the like. This film truly opens your eyes to the stupidity of some things that are done.This movie isn't for sale anymore- and if you can find it in Blockbuster then you're one of the lucky ones. I saw this movie on Cinemax (or one of the similar channels) so my advice to you is to pay attention to those channels- don't miss this spectacular piece of film. "},{"Title":"Relatively Accurate","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Small Spoilage Alert.This film attempts to show the effect of Nazi fascism on pre war Germany by demonstrating the effect that the repression of civil liberties and indoctrination into a seductive organization has on a select group of German citizens.The movie demonstrates how freedoms were selectively and forcefully removed from German citizens to further increase the German state's control over the way people lived their respective lives and the Government's ability to indoctrinate the citizens into accepting their ideologies.These ideas are displayed in the movie by selecting a group of people from the time and age and elucidating upon their story.The Swing Kids were a group of German young adults who rebelled against Hitler's totalitarian state and were considered dissidents to the German government.  They wore long hair in western haircuts and they wore clothes that were common in America and England in rebellion.  Their ideology was considered a threat by the German government to the state of despotic control over Germany.But most importantly, they bought and listened to swing records.  Their music was a form of non-verbal opposition towards the German government which was expressed by going to Swing clubs at night.There are several sub-plots that emerge during the course of the film1) The possible love relationship between Peter Muller (Robert Sean Leonard) and Evey (Tushka Bergen) which is largely irrelevant and will not be pursued to any length. 2) The mysterious death of Peter Muller's father, however, is much more relevant to the story.  We discover that his father was killed by the Nazis for his communist ideals.  The abhorrent irony is that Peter eventually joins the Nazi youth league.Outside pressure (and a visit from the Gestapo) forced Peter and his other fellow Swing Kids into joining the Hitler Youth League.  Here they were exposed to large amounts of Nazi propaganda, which began to influence the decisions of the group.  This shows the powerful effect propaganda can have on even the strongest minds if they are constantly exposed to it.The swing kids now lived a half-life; well behaved students by day and swing kids by night.  This is was risky business and they narrowly escaped raids on the swing clubs.There was general crackdown on `extremist' music and ideas in Germany. This lead to one of Peter's disabled friends to being severely beaten by the Hitler youth.This, and the realization that his father was murdered by the German government led to Peter's eventual physical attack on German police officers and to his arrest, showing the Nazis' brutally efficient methods of dealing with dissidents.The movie was produced by Walt Disney studios - well known for family films. We can safely assume that they would not produce a film that was gratuitously excessive in gore, so there is a large possibility that the violent events in the movie were understated when compared to reality. Also, a high age restriction on the movie would restrict the already meager forecasted gross box-office takings.Swing Kids was produced by Americans for the world's largest consumer of movies - America.  If there were any ideas or issues that pertained negatively to America, they would be downsized.Overall, Swing Kids is a fairly accurate portrayal of events in Nazi Germany in the 1930's.  "},{"Title":"A Thought Provoking Tale of Friendship, Honor, and Loyalty that got overlooked.","Date":"30 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Swing Kids tells the story of Peter, Thomas, and Arvid (played wonderfully by Robert Sean Leonard, Christian Bale, and Frank Whaley respectively). They all live a carefree life fueled by the American swing music of the late 1930s. But living in Germany in 1938, these boys see the change that is coming and it is Hitler's reign that first tears them apart. Peter is caught by Hitler's military police when he attempts to steal a radio for Arvid and he is thenforced to join the Hitler Youth. Thomas joins so that his friend will not have to go through it alone. They go along with the HJ way of life during the day, while still living it up in the illegal swing clubs at night until Thomas falls victim to the HJ ways and starts believing in Hitler's ways causing conflict among the boys. Arvid's loyalties do not lie with Germany and stronly opposses the Hitler way of life. Peter must decide what he believes in and come to terms with the death of his father at the hands of the government six years prior to the story. I would like to say it has a happy ending, but any story about the rise of the Nazi's in Germany can not fully end on a happy note. It is an educational film that should be examined and studied by those who want to fully understand what really happened in Germany and learn the untold story of the few who oppossed. "},{"Title":"delightful","Date":"13 December 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is a great movie about the swing movement in Nazi Germany during World War II.  It not only has an engaging plot and wonderful characters, but also a lot of great music (and even a little dancing..).  This movie also explores the themes of freedom, friendship, and to a small degree (thankfully) hatred/following blindly/typical cliche nazi themes. Overall, I would give it an 8 out of 10.  One question though WHY ISN'T THIS ON DVD?? "},{"Title":"Heart-Racing!","Date":"25 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Rented this video because I like 1930's history and the drama of the story made my heart race as the characters had to decide their loyalties. As German youths are swept into the Nazi frenzy, they are forced to interpret, as an individual, what is humane and what is not, or forced to accept the Nazi ways just to survive. In the beginning the swing music is something fun and exciting, but through til the climax, it is the swing music that expresses an individual repulsion and rebellion against the Nazi mindset. A real character study of family and friendship loyalties in a time of extreme crisis.  "},{"Title":"A touching story of teenagers living in Nazi Germany","Date":"28 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I absolutely love this film.  It's such a great story, very touching you can't help but cry every time.  The acting is amazing, and so is the cinematography.  Definetly a great film that everyone should see. "},{"Title":"One of the best movies i have ever seen....","Date":"28 April 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  .... and i mean ONE OF THE BEST! I was surprised to find negative reviews in this section. Why? I do suppose that Noah Wyle doesn't make a very good HitlerJugend but the overall message of the movie is to show how some kids fought the evils all around them and stayed strong to what is right.10/10! "},{"Title":"Terrific dancing with a great story line.","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  It's not often that you can see such spectacular dancing with a riveting story to go with it. I saw Swing at the Ahmanson Theater in Los Angeles last night and the music/dancing reminded me of this movie. Would like to buy it on DVD but it hasn't been released in that format. "},{"Title":"The side of WWII we don't often hear about","Date":"8 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I was only eleven years old when I first saw this film and it really floored me. It's a very engaging and heart-breaking movie. I surely would have thought that Robert Sean Leonard and Christian Bale would have become the big stars they deserve to be from thier performances in the film, each on being amazing. They remain wonderful actors if not well known, but that has no baring on the accessibility of this film ; giving us insight on the struggles of Germans who protested Nazi control. The characters are very rich and we share thier love for Swing music and the release it represented. The dancing and music are fabulous. We also share in the pains and joy of friendship. All in all this is a very entertaining film for people of all ages. "},{"Title":"movie of swingers in the midst of Nazi Germany. swing heil!","Date":"20 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Wow! I just came across this movie on tv and it was awesome. First, Christian Bale and Robert Sean Leonard are both very talented actors. The movie is touching and shows you how the Germans felt in the beginnings of the war. It is a great character study on how they viewed themselves in comparison to every other race. Rent this movie or see it somehow. It is superb. "}{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Oh my gosh! This is such an awesome movie! Christian Bale is absolutely gorgeous in this movie (As usual)! Robert Sean Leonard looks pretty good, too) But anyway, this is wonderfully acted and the dance scenes are amazing! You should totally go buy this movie and the soundtrack! )) "},{"Title":"very cool movie","Date":"2 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Swing Kids is an awesome movie.  The actors are incredible and present their characters amazingly.  This movie is very emotional and shows the true feelings of people during that time.  My favorite aspect of the movie is the dancing.  The characters are so into it and it drives them through this whole, terrible thing. "},{"Title":"Most underrated film today","Date":"21 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I came across the film Swing Kids while I was in the early stages of learning to swing, and was looking for some scenes to learn from.  Not until I took it home and watched it did I realize how powerful this movie really is.  And yet, I had heard nothing about it except that the dancing was incredible.  Why is this, I wondered.  I think what it is, is how much people try to suck out of it before deciding whether it is a good film or not. They pick at it and search it for its flaws.  Well wake up folks, it isn't perfect.  Why do we do what we do?  Why do we assume, because perhaps it isn't 100 per cent historically accurate, or because the sacrifice for swing doesn't seem like much of a sacrifice, that it is poorly made and must be discarded?  When will we watch the movie, and realize that people, this was one hell of a story.  The kind of story that still to this day, I know if I pop it into my VCR, and watch it for the 100th time, it's still going to shake me to my core in a way that puts me back to 1939 Nazi Germany. The sacrifice for swing, wasn't merely a sacrifice for keeping their records, or being able to have an exciting social life, it became the symbolism of going against what you were being forced to become. Going against what you know is wrong.  So let me just suggest to everyone, in not only this movie but others as well, it's about time we stop noticing all the problems and start enjoying movies.  'Cause if the story's there, it's all you need.  A little jumpin' and jivin' in there, well that just makes it all the better. Swing Kids, highly underrated, but still the best movie out there today, in my opinion of course. "},{"Title":"Footloose in the Thirties","Date":"28 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Whoever said that Swingers started this trend of swing needs to rent this little film.While SK does have some weak points, it offers endless oppurtunities for discussion with your friends, and even a learning experience (for DANCING!! I'm not THAT much of a dork!!).  I, in fact, learned to swing dance from this film, and giggled when everybody else jumped on the bandwagon.Anyway, I digress, the point that I was trying to make is that this is the Footloose of the '90s, set in 1939.  They danced for expression, joy, and rebellion.  The point of the film was that in Nazi Germany, where there was no freedom in your choices, for the Swing Kids, the only time they felt free was in their zoot suits, dancing on the hardwood floors to Benny Goodman! "},{"Title":"Definitely worth watching!!","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This film was one of those that I sat in total awe for the entire running time. The dancing, the drama, the actors...the whole experience was amazing. Christian Bale was moving and you didn't know whether to love him or hate him.  Robert Sean Leonard was convincing.  You could feel the angst in his decisions and felt sorry for his predictiment.  And of course the music and dancing was unforgettable!! "},{"Title":"More than just a film on dancing","Date":"11 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  In the start this film was a great way to see wild Lindy Hop, but now, the deeper meaning of the movie has sunk in.  Our own personal journey through what we believe is right and good, even against all odds is prevalent throughout this movie.  Whilst Peter's journey through this film was not easy, it was the more true to self.  He stood by what he believed in and although he was defeated in body, his heart and soul had no regrets in what he did. "},{"Title":"Swell!!","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is just great!! I see someone else that reviewed it hated it... well, that dude is just sour. There's no reason why not to like.. seein' Noah Wylie as a Nazi ain't so great.. but it's kinda interesting!! Robert Sean Leonard (the main character) is just..... wow. Yes, I like RSL... a lot. The story is true (at least it's based on a true story..) the music is all swing (duh) and there's some really great dancers! It comes on HBO sometimes... so watch it and tape it!! you'll wanna watch it over and over and over.... "},{"Title":"Incredible!","Date":"9 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I quite enjoyed this movie on a number of levels, for one thing the music and dancing was quite entertaining, but more importantly excellently portrayed how normal, living breathing people can do the most horrible things with enough encouragement...a fact that I find particularly gruesome, and unfortunately true...Christian Bale's acting is, as always incredible as well! "},{"Title":"AWESOME!","Date":"4 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I thought this movie was really good, because not only did it have awesome dancing it really showed how the Germans felt. It showed how loyalties can be crossed and the power of friendship. "},{"Title":"fantastic film, incredibly historically accurate. I am a masters student specialising in the history of the Third Reich","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" People do not seem to realise that this IS a historically accurate film, if they had made it any other way it would have not done justice to these genuine people who really existed and really fought the evils of National Socialism (swing music was the rock n roll of the day and because of its American, often Black roots, the Nazis despised it). The ending of the film is very very poignant if you know anything about the history of the Third Reich. Do yourself a favour and read some history before claiming this is a 'boring' or 'typical' story. Whilst the characters are fictional the whole feel of the film is very genuine and representative of the difficult decisions people had to make to survive. I actually found it to be a very moving film, and I am always 'that guy' who picks up on any historical inaccuracies; this one was genuinely fantastic, I would give it 8/10 for truly capturing the feel of Hamburg (one of the least 'nazified' cities in Germany at the time) just after the annexation of Austria and the Sudetenland and just prior to the invasion of Poland. Don't watch if you only like ridiculous Hollywood action war movies full of explosions. Do watch if you like beautiful movies brimming with emotion, seething with anger at a seemingly unbeatable foe that has become the norm and overall celebrating the immense courage and spirit of humanity even in the face of such evil. The Swing Youth need to be remembered, Other reviewers do not seem to realise that this wasn't a ridiculous little organisation that didn't mean anything. Swing Kids would be sent to concentration camps or simply executed as early as 1937, and were almost always sent to death camps once the war started, yet they carried on fighting the good fight. Swing Heil!!! "}{"Title":"A new look","Date":"24 January 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" What does a good man do when the evil around him is overwhelming and he doesn't have access to the higher corridors of power that can help him act at least to some extent against it?He succumbs to the propaganda. He compromises in order to survive/for his family. He kills himself before they kill him. He goes down fighting, standing upright for what he believes in.This movie is a profound look at the options honorable Germans had in a Germany going the Nazi way. It is an introspective look at the options we all have when things go this way around us.All that is needed for evil to triumph is for good men to do nothing.Peter Muller did what he could to resist evil. He was powerless to change anything. He went down fighting the way so many unsung Germans did. They deserve for the world to know their story. It is the extreme of heroism, because they died, not for themselves or by persecution. They died for others, they died for their 'friends'.Thank you, film-makers, for this wonderful film. It will never be a commercial success because the public at large wants victorious endings, but I am glad you remained true to the truth of those times. I am glad you did not flinch in showing us the true fate of these swing kids. It has brought home to us just what it cost these people to 'swing' with all their hearts. "},{"Title":"resources & accuracy","Date":"9 November 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I love this movie. After I have been studying Nazi Germany I realize how much it does portray it pretty accurately. They mention the Hitler Youth, the strength through joy program, and they show Nazi hate toward not only the Jews but also handicap people. It also shows how many Germans willing backed Hitler, how it was dangerous to oppose him. The movie even made a point that when Peter's father went to a work camp he was sent home and died there because they are different than concentration camps. With the accuracy that I see in the details of this movie it is hard for me to believe that the Swing Kids did not exist to some extent. However I have not been able to find resources that tell about them. If anyone has found resources please share them so that others can see for themselves the truth about the Swing Kids. "},{"Title":"Better than my expectations.","Date":"18 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" So I first was going to watch this movie in my grade ten history class when we were doing a unit on the holocaust. Now many people comment this saying that the movie was not historically accurate because they didn't mention how horrible the holocaust really was. But this movie was not about the holocaust, it was about the numb period before the holocaust, where people didn't know much about what was going on, and their main focus was to rebel against the Nazis or possibly listen to them, join the HJ and in the end, become everything you were against in the first place. This movie shows teenage rebellion at its finest and introduces many to the awesome world that is swing music. In fact after this movie I have been listening to swing music like I've known it all my life. Which has really only been a short sixteen years. I like to think that I have a real taste for movies. And if I do, then this is probably one of the best movies ever made because I really do feel that way. It brings you back and makes so much sense out of the music and the time period. If you are reading this review in hopes to find one that will convince you either to watch it or to skip to a new release, I encourage you to watch it. Because 'it don't mean a thing if it ain't got that swing'. "},{"Title":"One of My Favorite Movies","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is excellent, for anyone who enjoys swing music, and dancing. It contains both, and is pre-war era, 1930, and has a lot to offer,in many areas.It is about 'teen kids', mostly, who rebel against the German way of life, and takes place in Hamburg, Germany. All they want to do is to be allowed to dance, and play their music, like any normal teen. But, they have to fight for this pleasure, and do it in hiding, from the Germans. The consequences, if caught, were drastic, sometimes, even to death. This movie showed how some dealt with it, and some others got tired, and couldn't live the lie any longer. "},{"Title":"A group of rebellious adolescents living in 1939 Germany who share a passion for swing music find their carefree lives being compromised by the rise of the Nazi Party.","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I watched this movie with my history class while we were studying the time period of Hitler. I thought that this was a very good movie. It was a little depressing though, but it's a movie about the time period of Hitler, you'd expect it to be depressing. This storyline made me realize how truly horrible it was back then. There were many tear-jerking moments, but it was a very passionate movie. Peter's role was portrayed perfectly. He caught the audiences attention, and was very believable. (not to mention very good looking! D) Throughout the movie you feel so bad for his friend Arvid, and get very mad at his other friend Thomas.Everyone hoped for a happy ending, but that's not how it was back then. So of course it ended depressing as well, but it left you with a sense of courage and hope. Overall amazing movie, great believable storyline, with great dancing scenes, and tear-jerking scenes as well. "},{"Title":"Seen at a personal level","Date":"15 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This movie is incredibly powerful because of one thing it focuses on one group and not everyone. Think about it through Stalin's quote when a reporter asked him how he could kill his own people Easy. One person dying is a tragedy. Thousands dying is a statistic. Here's the point If the film makers showed every German in the movie that hated the Nazis, the watchers would say at the end So what, then they would walk out, and shrug it off. When the film makers show the film at a personal level, the viewers relate to it. They begin to feel the emotion and pain that the characters are dealing with. This is why it's a brilliant movie. "},{"Title":"It don't mean a thing...","Date":"16 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This is a wonderful outstanding movie. When i first bought it i was a little skeptical because i had never seen it before. I really only wanted to see it because of Christian Bale. I ended up LOVING IT and watching it again the next day.This movie shows the struggle between two friends and how they can be split apart by politics and propaganda. I'm not the type that likes violence so much but i can tolerate it to a certain extent. This was just enough although i was very scared i was going to see something graphic because thats what the dramatic music did to me.There were a few wonderful dance scenes especially the last one. The Last song was great because it shows how Peter is going to be himself and he doesn't need anyone to be happy he just is, I know who my friends are. In this same scene Thomas was also revealing his change. Thomas turned into the Anti-Semitist that loved to hurt and kill. He liked to see people bleed. At first he was a normal swing kid but then he became an HJ and a friend of Emil's and started leaving Peter behind.The acting is really outstanding. The character of Peter is portrayed so beautifully and when he wept so did i. With the character Arvid you can tell that he was really heartfelt and headstrong but a very likable person because he stood up for what he believed in. Their group also had a little sidekick which i don't know his name he really had no purpose other than to be there and i thought he would make some sort of comeback by the end but he didn't. There was also peters little brother who was so sweet he was like the little tag along and kept the swing alive he was a part of a new generation of swing... GO Little Brother! Although made in the 90s this is a great film and i think everyone should see it because you can take away a lot from it. Its outstanding and heartfelt... SWING HEIL!!!! "},{"Title":"Wonderfully done!","Date":"1 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw this movie about two months ago and my impression of it has not changed at all. There were some holes and that is my only complaint. The acting is excellent and the story line fits. I have read many speculations that this movie does not capture what the Holocaust was about and the people who say this must realize something. That is not what this movie is about. The movie takes place in 1939, before the numbers of death rose that high. I also read that someone said that they were rebeling just because the Hitler didn't like there music. It had much more depth than that. The music was a symbolism; their freedoms were slowly being taken away.Oh, but don't get me wrong. There is much more to this movie than that. Swing Kids happens to be one of the best movies I have ever seen and I hope that my taking time out of my schedule to write this should prove that. I enjoyed the plot and at the risk of sounding like a hormonal teenage girl, the actors were very enjoyable to watch and I would probably think so even if their acting abilities didn't exceed their looks. And besides this Kenneth Branagh makes an outstanding cameo appearence which to me was closer to a supporting charector. Frank Whaley's portrayl of the crippled Arvid moved me deeply and the friendship between Sean Robert Leanord's and Christian Bale's characters was very moving. Overall, I would give this nine out of ten stars. "},{"Title":"Incredible!","Date":"5 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  If this movie isn't my favorite movie, then it is at least among the few. I had originally rented it because of the swing dancing and hadn't expected much else, but the story was incredible.  It added depth in my mind to the whole genre and history of swing dancing, gave depth and insight into the mindset and innerworking of the Nazi party, and presented a picture of life in Germany during World War II.Though some may say that having their records broken was not a high price to pay for these 'rebels,' it is the idea behind their movement that was so moving, and the way that the chose to express their torn emotions between nationalism and humanity - their struggle to understand the truth behind Nazi lies - through dance.  Although Swing is not given much recognition as anything more than a dance, it is a powerful form of expression, as the characters in this film portrayed.Swing Kids is a story about swing dance in Nazi Germany.  But also about friendship, family, struggle, expression, and passion for what is right. It would be hard to leave this movie unmoved if you have looked below the surface, and seen what these Swing Kids were truly fighting for. "},{"Title":"sincere subject, weak execution","Date":"5 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" It's the late 30's Hamburg, Germany. Peter Müller (Robert Sean Leonard), Arvid (Frank Whaley), and Thomas Berger (Christian Bale) are Swing Kids who dress differently with long hair and listen to American music. They speak American slang, swing dance and abstain from the Hitler Youth. Peter's mother Frau Müller (Barbara Hershey) is under pressure since his violinist father was killed after being imprisoned. Their friend Emil Lutz (Noah Wyle) switches to become a Nazi. Peter is arrested for stealing a radio and Gestapo officer Herr Knopp (Kenneth Branagh) pressures him to join the Hitler Youth. Thomas joins him. The disable Arvid refuses to compromise.This is a sincere subject but the execution is lacking. The story lacks tension despite taking place in one of the most intense places in history. The movie could still be interesting but it decides to descend down a cheesy path. It also ends too soon. The big fear is the consequence of standing up against the oppression. It needs to show what happens after that. There are some solid young actors but the movie fails to live up to the serious subject matter. "}{"Title":"Not as Bad as Some Say, but.......","Date":"4 January 2015","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" There is one heroic figure in this film, but it's not the main character. The center of this are a group of young Germans, who at the outset of events leading to World War II, like to immerse themselves in Swing. They admire Benny Goodman and Django Reinhardt and Duke Ellington. They go to dances and gyrate around in quite remarkable ways. The dancing is fun to watch, but the backdrop of the era is too much to have a great appreciation for their passions. To begin with, they are German. Their lives are pretty much what they want them to be. At the most, the closing of their dance hall is an inconvenience. They can still listen to the music and hang out with their friends. Arvid is the only one who sees the handwriting on the wall and he is crippled. The other guys play tricks and carry out their juvenile agenda. Because of a failed attempt to steal a radio, one gets forced to join the German Youth. His friend follows to keep him company and because was largely responsible for his predicament. There is a sanitized view of this group; they are all fine fellows. Even Noah Wyle, late of ER, who has become the bad ass, ends up developing a friendship with them. Obviously, they face difficulties, and there is growing up to be done and realizations that these Nazis mean business, but it just doesn't wash very well. There is, of course, they woman whose connection to Judaism makes her life in the town dangerous. There are realizations about fathers who were courageous but singled out. But the bottom line is that these guys, had they played it safe, would never have been in much danger (of course, as the German army became decimated, it would have changed, but the silly connection to dancing and the throwing away of life for it...give me a break. "},{"Title":"Not a very good film","Date":"7 October 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This had the potential to be an engrossing, powerful film about a comparatively little known aspect of the Nazi era but, sadly, it falls far short of that. The first 60 to 80 minutes are the strongest as it features some great individual moments and nice characterisation, particularly in the case of Peter and Thomas, but it falls apart in the last half an hour. The film was never going to be Schindler's List or Sophie's Choice but I disliked the way in which it handled the Nazis. We're told repeatedly how evil they are and we see the aftermath of their atrocities in one instance but the worst things that we actually see them do are beat up a few people and steal things from a Jewish person's house. The first rule of drama? Show, don't tell. Speaking of the Jews, I had a major problem with the fact that all of the Jewish people persecuted or killed in the film are adult men. It's as if they thought that portraying or even mentioning the fact that the Nazis persecuted and killed millions of women and children would be distasteful. If that was the case, I think that it backfired badly. In fairness, there was a veiled reference to the Nazis killing the disabled and Gypsies but that was nothing much. Another thing that I hated was Peter's younger brother Willi chanting Swing Heil! Swing Heil! at the end of the film. I suspect that the audience were supposed to punch the air as we saw someone stand up to the Nazis but all that it produced in me was an awkward laugh and a shake of the head. On the bright side, the portrayal of male friendships, both the close and tempestuous varieties, in the early parts of the film is interesting and accurate in my experience so that's relatable but hardly something to get excited about in a film like this. It features some very good acting from Robert Sean Leonard, Kenneth Branagh (though his character contributes surprisingly little to the film), Frank Whaley and Barbara Hershey and, in smaller roles, Julia Stemberger, Noah Wyle and David Tom. Even Christian Bale, whom I usually loathe, is good. At least the film was made before he decided that putting on silly voices made him sound like a badass. Plus the music is great and there are a few very impressive dance routines.I think that the filmmakers' hearts were in the right places and that any offence that might have been caused by its failure to deal with the full extent of Nazi atrocities was certainly unintentional but it's still not a very good film. "},{"Title":"Good Movie -","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Given that the film is set in period immediately proceeding WWII Nazi Germany, I think it probably shows how things were. People always wonder how a developed nation like Germany could fall into Nazi-ism. This film clearly shows how that could happen anywhere. All of the characters are well played. The dancing and music are almost worth watching the captivating film by themselves. Robert Sean Leonard (who I knew primarily from 'House'), Noah Wyle, and Christian Bale give strong performances. I would recommend this to any who want to understand history and what can happen if the people ignore the political direction of their leaders. The problem will not just go away! "},{"Title":"An Articulate And Artistic Film","Date":"18 January 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" What are you rebelling against Johnny?......Whatta ya got?&#x85;...The Wild One (1953)Youth, as implied above will most Likely Rebel against Anything because it's in Their Nature. But in the 1930's and 1940's Germany's Youth Really had Something to Oppose. Of course that was Hitler and Everything Repressive that National Socialism and the Nazi Party Stood for. They took Their Love for American Jazz and Swing and Adopted its Music, Clothes, Speech, and General Liberal Lifestyle and Flaunted in the Faces of the Tyrannical Establishment. This Infuriated the Police State. There was much Energy Employed to Eradicate this Decadent Behavior.This Underrated Sleeper is a Beautifully Shot Film about these Ugly Events and is a Fairly Accurate Account of the Kids and Their Movement. It Showcases a rather Unknown Subculture in German History that was on the Fringe and in its Own Way did its Part to Oppose the Ever Increasing Evil that Exploded into a World War. This Movie Captures that Spirit and is an Excellent and Welcomed Look Back at an Underground Scene that is not well known. In doing so it Entertains with a Rhythm of Dance and Song that Compliments and Caresses the Cause.As Usual, the Kids were Right. Just like the Counter-Culture of the Vietnam Era and to a Lesser Extent the Early Rock n' Rollers of the 1950's. In the 1960's the Evil was The Nam, in the 1950's like the Biker in The Wild One, and of course James Dean, it was just The Establishment. There's going to be Youth Rebellion even Without a Cause, but in the 30's and 40's there Never was a Better One. Swing Heil...Rip it Up...For What it's Worth...God Save the Queen...To this Day the Beat Goes On. "},{"Title":"The horror, without a bloated Brando","Date":"18 September 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" As ridiculous as the premise sounded to me at first glance, and as self serving was the little announcement at the end that swing kids survived the war, as if they were a radical underground movement that risked death with every buck and wing, this movie was generally well made. It is a detailed study of how moral horror (Nazism) slowly becomes acceptable through a culture of fear and suspicion and through propaganda. The movie presents propaganda in its most primitive form, and we are tempted to be shocked that young and otherwise decent Germans could fall for it, just as it is perhaps hard to believe that the authorities would get upset about swing music and that it could become a focus for political dissidence. First, propaganda is still with us today in other forms, as anyone who has heard the constant haranguing about heroes amongst us can attest. This film was set only a few years after the first use of cultural propaganda, and people were less cynical and more nationalistic than they are today, and perhaps less cynical and more apt to accept ideological positions like Nazism. The movie shows, here and there, that propaganda is effective even if we don't believe it, or don't believe most of it. Second, the movie is historically accurate as far as I can tell. Remember that concentration camps existed in 1939 (they had been invented by the British during the Boer war) as a sort of detention centre, but certainly not extermination camps, which were created in 1942. Imagine this situation today you hear some lout say, We should ship the n******* back to Africa. You dismiss it as a stupid, hateful comment. By 2014, there is a full scale State backed plan with millions of people being shipped away. My point is that in 1939 even the most rabid Nazi (except for the leadership) probably never imagined that it could happen. beating up Jews and dissidents were more or less normal at the time. Jews had been victims for centuries, and Germans have had difficulty tolerating dissent since the time of Martin Luther. This movie is good because it shows us how it could have and did come about, little by little and with the complacency and compliance of most people, who acted out of a combination of fear, ignorance and cupidity. For example, at several points characters make comments about the uniforms the Nazis gave their lower class followers, and how these seem to make them important and aggressive. This is a forgotten point, in today's prêt-à-jeter dominated clothing market, but back then no one had many clothes everyone had work clothes, one semi-good suit or frock for receiving people at home, and one good suit or outfit for Sundays and official functions. Uniforms, well, gave uniformity and crushed individuality, and the Nazis had swell ones, overall, that must have seemed pretty snazzy to most relatively poor Party followers (Nazis made a big deal of recruiting big names to their Party, but for the most part it was the anonymous lower middle classes that supported them). No one here was going to win an Oscar, but everyone was believable and decent. An unbilled Kenneth Branagh almost steals the show as the stereotypical but believable good German who happens to be a Nazi. Frank Whaley's crippled and idealistic swing kid and Django Reinhardt admirer Arvid also deserves kudos. His one big speech is a bit botched, but that's the fault of the histrionic writing style more apt for an after school special that lays out good and evil in simple terms. It's as if the script is good when it portrays the everyday banality of horror but is unable to denounce it without getting preachy and melodramatic. It's also fun to see today's well-known actors cutting their teeth on a pretty good story (with a few cheesy exceptions, like the ending) with nice period costumes and music, as well as Prague credibly substituting for Hamburg. Overall, if you're going to waste your time watching a meh and somewhat oddball movie, watch this one. Its pacing, acting, and design are all fine, as is the script, with the exceptions noted above. "},{"Title":"Ending and general overview","Date":"24 October 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" This film was definitely not the most amazing movie to come out of WW2, but it has its merits in how it displays the Hitler Youth movement. I think that the script could have been more carefully put together, as I found the ending especially weak.One thing that I found rather confusing was that the characters of both Thomas and Peter looked so similar that at times, I got them confused. While I can understand the choice to make them both blonde and as Germanic looking as possible, it would have kept me less confused had one had brown hair.Other than that, I must say that the movie was fairly well done, especially the choreography. "},{"Title":"Awesome","Date":"5 September 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Watched the film at school, and I have to agree with the dude before me. It's just a simplistic view from teenagers in Nazi Germany, with not much about Hitler himself.The dancing and music is awesome which is also a reason to watch it. They all really get into it. Dancing like that today would grant me many stares, but it just gives off the vibe that swing dancing was their way of expression.I won't give away the ending, but it definitely made an impact on my views towards the Nazi Youth and how many were just conforming boys turned into poisonous men through propaganda.Overall, 8/10 "},{"Title":"Important movie","Date":"29 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I haven't actually seen this movie for awhile. But still remember it as one of the important movies about life oppressed by war. About youth and joy. Resilient. Strong.It's memorable enough that this has stayed with me for 13 years, pretty sure I saw it in 1993....and have only seen it once.I'll be looking it up again.Very worthwhile movie.I feel that there's always more to see if you look at something again. Even a brief glance. I'll probable watch this again every once in awhile for the rest of my life.Simple and accurate. Can't say anymore or it will give away the ending. "},{"Title":"If it don't mean a thing without that swing, then Swing Kids means a lot!","Date":"22 June 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" Usually when we hear about Nazi Germany, we hear only about how the Nazis hated Jews (and make no mistake, they sure did); we don't often hear about the German people. Swing Kids shows how some of the young Germans resisted their government through banned American swing music (by Duke Ellington and people like that). Specifically, we see the lives of Hitler Youth members Peter (Robert Sean Leonard), Thomas (Christian Bale) and Arvid (Frank Whaley) - all wearing their hair long - who secretly like to go to the dance halls and get down.I think that one of the most effective lines in the movie is when another Hitler Youth member angrily tells them My girlfriend's hair is shorter than that! Clearly, long hair has always been considered a threat. But either way, this is a movie that I recommend to everyone. The scenes here range from fun to chilling, and it's not something that you'll soon forget. Also starring Barbara Hershey, Noah Wyle and Kenneth Branagh. "},{"Title":"WWII new perspective, music lovers","Date":"20 May 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I have recommended this movie to so many people to rent. I showed clips to a World History I taught and also to another group of students before we read Anne Franke's Diary, visited the Holocaust Museum in DC and wrote essays for a statewide contest. It promotes heated debate and individual reflection. It rewrites history. Viewers will see WWII from a new perspective. Lovers of music will relate to the fact that loss of music is depression. Dance enthusiasts will tap their feet. The freedom to play the music we want, listen to the music we want and dance to the music we want push humans to create, soar, cry, laugh and more. The movie is relevant in 2006 when some rights are being chipped at in order to save us from terrorism. "}{"Title":"All I got are 2 thumbs and they were busy wit pop corn.","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I have rarely said to someone, you must see this film. I say it for this one. It is a Must See. My personal experience is rooted in the era 50 years after the setting for this movie so i can only ask my older (soon to be gone) family members what it was like; But they were there. this film takes less artistic license than the majority of the set era and the sound track is worth separate purchase.The more interesting fact for this movie is one that the majority of critic's would like to not have heard (even though the youthful leads are liberals for their time) The Truth is that the politically incorrect are often right and should be admired for their ability to stand up and take the beating from the political correct. Swing Gangswere a reality and hey just like not every oompa band sounds like crap, not all 'Jewish' and 'black' music sucks . If you find this statement offensive just remember Ich bin, mein Gott ist, und veileicht meine freunden sind. I am an American first but my grandparents spoke German, my god was/is a Jew born, and more than one friend is darker tanned than I. Of course I'm picky about music; it has to sound good and this movie has it. If you want irritating music try listening to a Yankie playing bag pipes. "},{"Title":"Swing Kids","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" First off, let me tell you this is a movie based in Nazi Germany, however all the characters speak English, though at times German to emphasize a certain phrase, such as when you see Traitor written on a door. Second, its a unique, fresh and insightful movie that is both touching and heart-wrenching. I swear there were times I wanted to stand up and shout during the movie, especially during the climactic end! The movie focuses on a group of three friends, Peter, Thomas and Arvid. Peter is the one many of us relate to, especially if you are like me and come from a single-parent household. Thomas, though, comes from a rich, well-to-do family whose father is very outspoken against the Furher. And then there's Arvid (Frank Whaley), a crippled swing kid who loves playing his guitar, and isn't afraid to stand against the Nazi regime.The movie takes a turn when Peter, played by Robert Sean Leonard (now playing on the show House) and Thomas (Christian Bale, Batman Begins) decide to steal back a radio taken from another person's home by a Nazi soldier, whom also hates Thomas. Anyway, during the course of the chase Thomas manages to get on board the back of a truck, but Peter isn't quite so lucky. Upon capture, he is forced to join the Hitler Youth, which Thomas also joins to be with his friend.Sadly, through a tear-jerking series of events, and the complications of a Gestapo officer, Herr Knopp (Kenneth Branagh), Peter comes to terms with his hatred for the Nazi regime, and decides to stand against them the best way he knows how, through the power of Swing Music.This was a great movie with some killer music. If you're looking for a movie with great acting, good plot lines, and realistic settings, this is the one for you. I give it an eight.Randy Engle Hillsboro, TN "},{"Title":"It don't mean a thing...","Date":"1 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" It's hard to find a film that accurately depicts how the youth of Germany reacted to the Nazi movement during World War II. While this particular movie may not be the best at portraying the way things were, it does a wildly entertaining, bang-up job of showing what one sector of that world may have looked like the swing kids. With their controversial music and underground dance parties, the kids felt as if they could rebel without really rebelling. Here, we focus on three young boys with unkempt hair and an initial inability to conform Thomas (Christian Bale), Peter (Robert Sean Leonard), and Arvid (Frank Whaley, who tragically has obtained perhaps one or two roles worth of noting since). Thomas and Peter are coerced into joining the Hitler Youth, while Arvid lags behind, finding himself torn between supporting his friends and sticking to the music. Conflicts of interest arise, violence and hatred becomes more and more widespread, and friends and family alike are split up over the issue of who's right and who's safe. Although the narrative and editing styles are fairly average, and no real new ground is broken, this is a genuinely fine film in teaching diversity, individuality, and holding to one's scruples. The performances turned in by the three leads, Kenneth Branagh, and Noah Wyle are remarkable, and it is worth a watch, perhaps a few. "},{"Title":"More people should watch","Date":"5 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Swing Kids was highly entertaining as it clearly descripted the early 1930's.  The rise of the Nazis was clear and how they affected the lives of many others became apparent.  How the music came into play was extremely valuable.  This movie shows that one simple person can change many lives, forever.  I do believe that those highly interested in music should watch this, and notice how it affects the lives of others. "},{"Title":"Heartfelt Movie","Date":"2 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Swing Kids is a touching movie about friends bonding together, trying to fight the Nazi influence. Christian Bale, my favorite actor, was phenomenal in this movie. Such a young age he was while filming this just made it even better. To take on a role with many emotions needed is just worth it to see this movie. Even if he wasn't my favorite actor, he sure would be now.Robert Sean Leonard, the first movie I've seen him in and definitely won't be the last, is amazing potraying of Peter. He's a great dancer and actor. The chemistry between Christian and Robert was also impressing to watch. It seemed to me that the chemistry between them wasn't only on-set, but maybe off-screen too. I would think these two were best friends, if they didn't act together. The music, the dancing, the acting, the whole story line was just beautifully put together. David Tom, who plays Robert's younger brother, is a great actor. I've seen him on the Young and the Restless and know he's a good actor..but seeing him in this just makes me think highly of him even more. If you want to see a starstruck, heartfelt, makes you want to dance movie...then this is the movie to see. I give it 10 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"This movie gives true meaning to the words Swing Heil!","Date":"14 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Swing Kids is a fascinating and very profound, moving story of three teens whose relationships with each other are being torn apart by the Nazis and their evil propaganda. The other side of the Nazis - their impressions on teenage German boys - is vividly portrayed in a superbly directed film. This movie is telling and realistic in its portrayal of how the HJ (Hitler Jugend - a Nazi youth organization) was formed. This story is also tragic, so get ready to bawl our eyes out. This movie is one of my top picks. Pick it up today! "},{"Title":"All young people should see this film.","Date":"22 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Swing Kids is an important film because it shows swing in an historical light, as more than just a 1990s fad.  It also gives a more in-depth look at Nazi Germany and the complexity related to the war. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I liked that movie. It shows us another face of Germany during WWII. The Swing Kids, just like the Zazous in France, were dancing to the rhythm of jazz. And the music is pretty good in this movie, so is the dancing. The acting is not that bad neither.Out of 100, I gave it 81. "},{"Title":"it don't mean a thing if it... 'ain-got-thassw'ang","Date":"14 August 2000","Score":"7 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Picture this....It's 1993. A lonely 13-year-old girl sometimes goes to shopping malls to see if maybe a new issue of Splice or Big Bopper or Teen Beat has ANY info on her idol, aka favoritest-actor-in the galaxy. He was the star of Newsies, so she wanted to know what he would be in next.She finally saw(on E! one night) coming attractions, with Christian Bale's name under a new flick called 'Swing Kids'! Um, yeah...what's swing? Then, upon hearing the song in the trailer, hey..kinda' catchy...I'm there, she declared.ONE YEAR LATER.The now 14-year-old girl has become the BIGGEST swing junkie, listening to any and all types of swing she could get her greedy little hands on, all in the name of fun. As she was lecturing her friends on the style of Lindy Bop, while picking out cute rags for the swingin' scene that night, the girl thought back to Christian Bale and Swing Kids.Hmmmm, incidentally, he had been in the movie, and that's what attracted her to go see the film. But ever since then, it was all about swing music for her the rush, the vigor, the coolness, the................supermergentroidism.(whatever) That movie was her ambassador to swing music. She owed a debt of gratitude to this film.Flash forward 2 years later (seems like a kagillion); 1996. This really cute- LOOKING movie starts popping up, called Swingers. The girl now thought, Hey, cool, swing's going mainstream!  Turns out this movie was too ........disengaging; kinda' drab, dull, overrated to say the least. Sigh.It's now August 14th on a very sunny(though very brisk!) day. The now 20-yr-old woman has gone online and seen that people are actually calling this movie crap for not including the number 6 million in their movie. She realized that sometimes, when people want to be right, they will be stubborn, and forget that this movie took place in fr@&*!n' 1939, when the war hadn't even started yet.-The  End- LONG     PARTY      SWINGA DEVOTED, Sep "},{"Title":"Edit this film to PG and then use it as a late grade school lesson","Date":"7 July 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" The music is fabulous, the dance scenes won awards, and kids can identify with these teens --or at least sense the joy their own grandparents (or more likely, their great grandparents) felt when dancing or playing 1930's Swing music. THIS FILM (SLIGHTLY EDITED) WOULD BE A GREAT TEACHING TOOL FOR GRADE SCHOOL ON UP...!With minor editing of swear words, vulgar sexual comments about young women, (including the teen boys' discussion of hiring women in the red light district) and a few of the PG 13-to almost R dance shots of young womens' undergarments replaced with milder shots of women in the otherwise joyful dance segments...SWING KIDS could be used to SHOW KIDS how the Nazis COULD QUICKLY transform the innocent ................into the guilty. Teachers could use clips from this film to ALSO teach persons about the almost FORGOTTEN Holocaust against the disabled...Arvid was a cripple. He didn't belong... says one TEENAGER. Everyone KNOWS the Nazis persecuted the Jews. But the Nazis also persecuted - the DISABLED, like the character Arvid, (a great SWING musician) who is driven to extreme action - in part maybe because he was disabled. One senses these teen boys - and their fellow teen companions - love their music and dance as much as teens do today. They deal with the steady, sometimes seductive, sometimes violent, advance of Nazis into their world...partly thru dance. (PS this film is based on actual German teens who loved swing music) "}{"Title":"Apparently a misunderstood movie","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  From reading these reviews, it seems that many have completely missed the point of the movie, although it's not that hard to do, because the movie doesn't quite make the point it tries to.The movie is the story of a German counter-culture that sprang up in Germany just before World War II. Before is the key word.  Hitler was busy declaring Blacks, Jews, and cripples as less than human, while Swing music was becoming popular among Germany's youth.  Swing composed and performed by Blacks and Jews, and in the case of the movie, a crippled friend.  The danger to Hitler lies in the fact that as the youths became more immersed in Swing music and its culture, the less inclined they would be to agree with Hitler's policies toward Blacks and Jews.And the nonhumans, were the key to the whole Nazi power.  Recall how hard Hitler tried to keep Jesse Owens from running in the Olympic games.  Recall that a Japanese diplomat declared that it was amazing what Hitler had done for Germany, but how it couldn't be duplicated in Japan, because they didn't have any Jews.That's what the film is trying portray, but unfortunately, the movie can't decide if it wants to chronicle a historical movement, a love story, a story of friends, or what.  Each scene is itself fairly well done, but taken as a whole the movie is quite lacking.  See it once, if for nothing other than the music and dance scenes which in 97 and 98 would inspire countless nouveau-swing kids in America to try big dancehall swing moves in tiny overcrowded clubs nearly killing each other in the process. "},{"Title":"Never Sure What It Wants to Be.","Date":"15 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  A group of teenagers led by Robert Sean Leonard are trying to avoid becoming Nazi foot soldiers just prior to World War II in this terribly uneven film that just never does intrigue or interest the way it wanted to. The film wanted to show that young male Germans were just as normal and peace-loving as youngsters in the U.S., England or anywhere else. This strange little piece of cinema tries to focus on a little-known part of history and for that it is admirable, but there is just not much substance there. Established actors Kenneth Branagh (who goes uncredited here) and Barbara Hershey seem wasted. Look for a young Noah Wyle as one of the Nazis' most dangerous youths. 2 stars out of 5. "},{"Title":"The freedom to listen to light music","Date":"20 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This movie is pretty hard to take seriously. In the epilogue, we learn that swing kids were punished by having to serve in the army. Something they would have done if they'd been singing the Horst Wessel song all along instead of Duke Ellington.For the true story of young Germans who paid a higher price for resisting the Nazis than having their records broken, viewers should look for the German film The White Rose (1982). "},{"Title":"lover or hater?","Date":"20 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  I saw newsies a while ago and fell in love with Christian Bale. I've seen near all of his movies. After Newsies, when i was picking the next movie to watch, i was sure that swing kids would be the next best thing. In the begining it was. A group of friends having fun. Dancing. Singing. Even when the two boys join the H.J. they still agree to have fun. The movie went downhill for me when Thomas began to turn against his friends. I think this movie would have been much better if they had stuck to the dancing and fun-loving friendship and not centered on the nazi's and turning best friends against each other. The end was probably one of the most depressing endings i've ever seen. I will always love Christian, but not this movie. It could have ended better. "},{"Title":"Blind Summary","Date":"3 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Look- I have not viewed this film, but the beautiful woman that is over seeing this review is sitting next to me so here goes.....On a scale of one to ten- ten being Godfather material- this movie rates an 8.  Most people get a higher take on films with the right situation- for example, a movie like Caddy Shack MUST be viewed with friends and a proper movie strong hand (popcorn- beer- the guys). Now that you understand the help and situation needed- see this only in the company of WOMEN or a close friend....The term Chick Flick comes to mind, but there is much more to it.The plot summary is more than written and if you are into WWII- this is a must see.  Know your subject and background before viewing and it will come into play... If you are looking for keyword to stimulate your interest- HITLER, LOVE, TEENAGE GROWTH, and overall friendship Swing Kids is for you---- better than an Ann Landers Coloum and more enjoyable than a bikini wax!!!Like I said, I didnt see it- YET- she says its good and who am I to argue- Im in love (heat). "},{"Title":"Horrible movie that poses as historical account","Date":"29 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  When I saw this movie in 1993, I thought it was wonderful and I thought it accurately portrayed WWII. However, I saw it again a few years ago and realized that it was just tripe. It seemed that the Christian Bale character bought into the Hitler Youth just because of Noah Wyle. Also, it seemed odd to me that Peter didn't mind a Jew being beaten up until he thought he was a swing kid. What was their whole rebellion about? Next thing you know, Hollywood will be making a movie about how hippies were opposed to the Vietnam War because President Johnson didn't like rock music.  "},{"Title":"It ain't got nothin' if ain't got that Swing Heil","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" My biggest rag on this film, is where Thomas is going around from house to house, and by the end discovers he's been carrying human ashes to deliver to the next of kin. Yea right! Like crematorium technology was advanced-enough in the 40s to cremate Jews or others on that sort of scale? Not to mention that it's dubious that they had all that extra. preoccupied manpower or wholeheartedness, when the bigger threats came from the US, UK, and other nations. However, the only reason I do appreciate this film at all, is the fact that it did open me up to classic swing, and that's about all. I do truly believe that this film was designed to promote swing, and not to promote any real light on WW2.  "},{"Title":"This film is weak","Date":"28 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Swing Kids, directed by Thomas Carter II, provides a diluted representation of life during the Holocaust.  The film, presented in English, revolves around the lives of three German boys, forced to join the Nazi party for fear of persecution.  Rather than portraying the brutally horrific slaughterhouse that was the Holocaust, Swing Kids spends a great deal of time showcasing a local dance club, where the main characters socialize at night.  The film also displays a weak interpretation of Krystalnacht, suggesting that the worst offense committed by the Nazis was writing derogatory graffiti on the houses of Jews.  The film characterizes a Jew during the first half of the film as resembling an orthodox rabbi; if the writer of Swing Kids (Jonathan Marc Feldman) had recognized that Jews wore Star-of-David emblems during the Holocaust, such obtuse stereotypes would be unnecessary. During the mandatory Nazi training, the musical score inappropriately becomes heroic, thus glorifying the false brotherhood among Hitler's Youth.  However, Swing Kids deserve praise for accurately portraying the incessant propaganda and brainwashing which gave the Nazi party its initial boost.  One particularly chilling scene shows a cult-like underground meeting of youths, donning swastika armbands, chanting Sig Heil.Eventually, young Thomas (Christian Bale) is fooled by the material wealth of the Nazis and reports his own father for speaking out against Hitler. His rationalization is that he is part of something much bigger than any man is.  Thomas also turns against his friend, when Arvid (Frank Whaley) refuses to perform a German song at the dance club, and speaks out against the Fatherland.  Arvid stuns Thomas with the allegation &#133;you don't know who your friends are.  Peter (Robert Sean Leonard, resists the Nazis with the kitsch phrase Swing Heil. The film concludes with statistics of &#133;hundreds of youth killed in the war, thousands forced to join Hitler's youth army.  These passive statistics fail to mention the other 6,000,000+ who suffered mass genocide.  The themes of betrayal, confusion, and paranoia give Swing Kids the potential to chill the spines of many; unfortunately, the film comes across as a milder, nearly dramatized, revision of history for those too squeamish to endure Spielberg's Shindler's List.  "},{"Title":"Mediocre drama about Nazi regime's oppression of swing kids","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  A war-time drama about young people part of an underground Swing Music culture in Nazi Germany at the late 1930's.Unfortunately, what could have been a very interesting look at a rarely known cultural phenomenon at a time when National Socialism was dictating which music to hear and act to follow, became merely a backdrop for a silly and life-less drama about some friends and how they distanced one from the other because of not so unusual circumstances.I just couldn't see the point of this movie, since I only got a passing glance at the Swing culture with not a sence of what drove these kids to it except, maybe, to go to dance halls and have fun. Yipee... Why was the movement such a threat in the minds of Nazi party officials? You won't get the answer here... How did this culture permeated right past the Nazi propaganda and censorship?? You only get a very small glimpse. The important thing, at least from the movie's point of view, is the relationship between the friends and how it deteriorates after the main characters join the Hitlerjungen. Big deal! This sort of thing happens every time childhood friends join the army, college, Fundamentalist Christian sects, etc. It seems the director and screenwriter just abducted the Swing Kids theme to show us another pedestrian 'friends-go-at-each-other-again' melodrama.Five stars out of ten for me. Just mediocre.  "},{"Title":"Save me!","Date":"6 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is one crappiest movies I have ever seen, my list of complaints is as follows, (note my friend loves this movie) 1. What about the jews? This movies almost in some contrast makes them look evil. They failed to show the suffering they went through. 2. The nazis looked friendly. The worst thing the nazis did was rob a house...Yeah Right! Did they mention the killing? Or the fact that they controled alot more than what they showed in the movie. 3. Finally, Noah Wyle could never be a believable Nazi, he plays so many nice guys that seeing him here actually made me laugh my butt off, I mean what next? Shelly Devaul as a hooker, or Barney as Stalin? "}{"Title":"Worthless trivialization with decent music","Date":"9 March 2006","Score":"2 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":" I would not recommend this movie to everyone. In fact, it is even condescending and offensive in parts. I read an earlier review where the author compared this movie to a movie about surfers in Serbia. I couldn't agree more. I am not sure about the history of swing kids in Nazi Germany, but if this is factual, why would you pay any attention to such nonsense? Now it would be interesting if swing kids were actively sabotaging the Nazi movement. But what it seemed to me were a bunch of pretty boys dancing while hell was breaking loose. How would that make a hero? Oh, and that part in the end with the little kid yelling swing hiel, swing heil is truly distasteful.I give this movie a 4 because it is worth watching if you are stuck in the hospital, and the music is great. "},{"Title":"Swing Heil... Hollywood","Date":"24 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Many people who have not had to struggle for their survival identify with others who share their musical tastes. This is not wrong, nor is it unnatural. Nazi Germany, however, was worse than your Junior high nightmare. The hero's sacrifice for Swing music is not noble, it is pointless. Swing Dudes (sic) trivializes the true horror faced by decent Germans, as well as the genocide of Jews and other minorities. This is not only a poor movie, it is a cynical abuse of history, turning tragedy into ghoulish entertainment.This film imagines history through experiences young people can identify with, but it does so in a patronizing manner. Movies for young people don't have to be stupid. Audiences are capable of looking at tragedies that are larger than their own teen angst.What's next, a movie about Goths in Stalinist Russia, Surfers in Serbia, tamagachis in Tiananmen Square?  "},{"Title":"Doh!","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  It has a good cast, an interesting topic, and is set in a period in history that is fascinating and horrifying, and in spite of it when the the movie ended I burst out laughing. Also, either the actors can't dance that well and the editor stinks at handling dance sequences, or the actors can't dance at all and the editor managed to hide that.The trailer (years ago) gave me the impression that there was a lot of dancing in the movie, and that it was a romance set in a time of crisis, etc. Well, we have less than 5 minutes of choppily edited dancing in the movie, and the relationship between the hero and his girl (played by lovely Tushka Bergen, who is great in Barcelona, which is a comic gem of a movie) is more fully developed in the trailer than it is in the movie (and Bergen has more screen time in the trailer, too).If you want to listen to some great music and see great dancing, watch the documentary Jazz instead.  "},{"Title":"Uh No","Date":"29 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  No one should see this movie, unless they want a good long laugh.  I laughed through the whole entire pointless movie.  It does nothing but make me hate swing, and robert sean leonard.  Christian Bale is still hot.  So are we supposed to feel bad because they couldn't dance, or because there were nazis.  I couldn't tell, it seemed like they were trying to sympathize with the nazi youth.  sorry, no, i don't care how much brainwashing there was, i don't care what happens to any of those worthless human beings. the end elicited an especially big guffaw from me, robert shawn leonard's character freaked out and started swing dancing alone.  he was on crack or something, but whatever it was, it was true comedy.  i think it was supposed to be pivotal or something but it was just a plain riot.  the movie was a big mess, but also a big comedy.  no stars for plot, writing, character development, or anything that it was supposed to have.  but **** for laugh inducement. "},{"Title":"Bafflingly stupid, self-absorbed, and pathetic.","Date":"26 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  Words can't describe how horrendous this film is.  There is absolutely nothing in this film worth anyone's time or money, except perhaps some of the music.  The acting's flat, with a bunch of talentless pretty boys trying to instill drama into script more lifeless than a slab of formica.Swing Heil, indeed.  This film is hideously awful. "},{"Title":"We won the war for freedom to make movies this bad?????","Date":"28 April 2003","Score":"5 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Music","Review":"  This is not only a bad film. It is irresponsible because it doesn't even bother to check facts. How could any movie maker mix up the year of the Munich agreement or have SA brown shirts beating people up in 1939 when they and their leader Erich Roehm were liquidated in 1934. Yet several of the comments from teens here on IMDb suggest that they accept it as factual history. I wasn't surprised to see that Disney and Buena Vista, an organization with little concern for accuracy, was involved. Then there was the language and the antics of the teenagers. Everybody speaks with a German accent except the principals who are cool cats right out of Cincinatti. They didn't say Hey man in 1939 even in the United States. Even the wildest German teenager in 1939 would not have worn long hair, had the zoot suit clothing  or acted with the sort of abandon that was portrayed. I don't know if there really were devotees of swing music in Nazi Germany. There probably were. But they certainly were neither as numerous, as above board nor as thoroughly Americanized as those portrayed in the movie. It's an absurd and badly done motion picture that in trying to be profound succeeds only in achieving banality. "}]