[{"Title":"A funny and charming film.","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"45 out of 51 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I just love to read some of the negative comments on a film like this.  This is a movie about a Las Vegas headliner who is called to help deal with unruly kids at a Catholic school. You were expecting maybe Schindler's List?  When did it become such a crime just to enjoy a delightful movie packed with talent all geared toward entertainment?And what talent.  Whoopi Goldberg, Lauryn Hill, Jennifer Love Hewitt, Kathy Najimy, Maggie Smith, James Coburn, Michael Jeter, and more.  It's adorable and it handily meets its goal of being entertaining.  All I can say is that I pity people who have become so jaded, or are so concerned with being cool, that they can't enjoy such a funny and charming film. "},{"Title":"Excellent comedy about sticking together","Date":"23 November 2005","Score":"15 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" SISTER ACT 2 BACK IN THE HABIT, in my opinion, is an excellent comedy about sticking together. It really made me feel good and smile, especially when Deloris (Whoopi Goldberg) performed her solo act at the beginning of the movie. Also, the soundtrack is really good, too. The best things about it, in my opinion, are the musical number. My favorite song of the movie would have to be either Ain't No Mountain High Enough or the St. Francis Academy's rendition of Joyful, Joyful. In conclusion, if you like Whoopi Goldberg films, I highly recommend this movie. You're in for a good time and lots of laughs, so see this movie today. "},{"Title":"A great movie that every choir should see!!","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"10 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I don't care what most people say...I loved this movie!! I thought it was better than the 1st but I can see from reading the other comments not many people agree with me, but that's OK.  I'll just be alone in this one.  What makes it for me is the teenagers.  I love the kids in this movie.  Amual makes me crack up every time I watch it and I think Lauryn Hill is fabulous!  OK so the ending is very predictable but I think would have been disappointed if they hadn't won.  Am I right?!  I love watching the ending over and over, or when Amual hits that high note for their first concert.  Anyways...I don't see how people don't love this movie, it's so fun and has such a great message!  I'd much rather watch teenagers that I can relate to in the sequel than a bunch of old nuns in the 1st Sister Act but that's just me!  Guess I'm alone here!  One thing I want to say though regardless of anything is that I think every school choir should show this movie!  I'm in the choir at my school and unfortunately we have very little spirit and most people in it don't care very much.  I'm going to recommend that we show this movie to my choir teacher.  It may not help but it can't hurt.  I recommend every choir see this one just to show that a choir can dance and have fun while singing.  At least show the ending if nothing else!  Ok there's my two cents!  Everyone needs to see the movie at least for the music and to have a good time!I give this movie a 9.5/10!   "},{"Title":"I love this film!","Date":"3 August 2006","Score":"9 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" As someone who is more into edgy, thriller movies, I would just DIE of embarrassment if anyone I know knew how much I love this film! I don't know why, because it is an eternal cheese-fest, but it is such a feel-good film. I love everything about it from the Whoopi Goldberg and Lauren Hill to the corny storyline. OK, so it's certainly no masterpiece, but it's also no Teenwolf 2 either. I think this is an underrated gem and deserves more than the 4.5 rating it has received. It's worth watching just to hear the amazing voices of some of the individuals involved. I think everyone has a cheesy film they secretly love, and this is definitely mine - just don't tell anyone!!!! "},{"Title":"Sequels Don't Suck. Amen.","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  When the Nun's get sick of the unruly behaviour the kids display during school, and the lack of work that is being done, Mother Superior (Maggie Smith) calls upon Sister Mary Clarence, Deloris Van Cartier for help. So she's goin' back to the convent. She's gettin' back into that uniform, and, she's gettin' back in the habit!While there, Mary Clarence (Whoopi Goldberg) manages to transform the music class of non-listening, no attention-paying roudy little snots into a magical choir with voices of gold. It is here, that they decide to enter the regional championships for school singing (or something along those lines).However, one girl in particular, once a drop-out, with an awesome voice (played brilliantly by Fugee's frontwoman Lauryn Hill), is not intially allowed to go. Her mother (played by another R 'N' B singer Sheryl Lee Ralph, also from 'Moesha') will not allow her to. So she forges her signature and they head off to the championships.Jennifer Love Hewitt stars here, as one of the singing kids from the music class (bearing in mind, that she has since released 3 albums). Wendy Makkena and Kathy Najimy reprise their roles as two of the most-mentioned Nuns.Once again, Whoopi manages to pull off another great movie, without a great deal of trouble. Lot's of fun, but I enjoyed the first one, just a little bit more. 7./10 "},{"Title":"sequel+star+singers=surprise!","Date":"25 November 2006","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" such a pleasure, albeit a guilty one! The original wasn't good enough to warrant a sequel. Nonetheless, the choirs are so talented; their acts never get tired no matter how many times this piece re-runs on cable. Whatever her other pros and cons, Whoopi plays to the ensemble in this one, never the scene hog. What a pleasure to see an icon like Maggie Smith so thoroughly and obviously enjoying herself---ditto Mary Wickes, after being such a steadfast fixture of a supporting character on screen for nearly 70 years, her penultimate screen appearance.and really that's the whole point here isn't it? simple enjoyment, by actors and audience, in a meld of plots so familiar and comfortable, especially at holiday time. Among them--- Hey Kids Let's Put on a Show and Save Grandpa's Farm... Fish Out of Water Makes Good... Stick Together and Win the Big Game... "},{"Title":"She's back","Date":"24 April 2005","Score":"9 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" It's one year later, Deloris has returned back to singing in Las Vegas, mobsters locked up. Things are OK until she is asked a favor by the head nun to return as a music teacher at the school the church runs. Things don't start off correctly, a bunch of neighborhood students, kids who have seen rough times, she tries to show them the talent they have in their voices. But it is going take some time and patience to prepare them for a big singing show. One day while practicing Deloris discovers that the students have been invited to sing for the pope, which we all hope it will go well. This was one of the best movies Whoopi has done. "},{"Title":"Likable Woopy Goldberg goes back as Sister Mary Clarence to teach music to a group of rebel students in a rundown  college","Date":"23 June 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is an acceptable though inferior sequel to ¨Sister act¨ , a surprising box office hit ; it has a similar casting and set at an old High School which is destined for closure . The club singer Deloris Van Cartier (Whoopi Goldberg) is again asked to don the nun's habit to help a Catholic school , presided over by Superior Mother (Maggie Smith) and formed by charming nuns (Wendy Makkenna, Kathy Najimy , Mary Wickes, among others). Friendly Deloris back and has to teach music to a bunch of students in their parochial college which is fated for closure . She creates a choir to participate in the state championship . A group of stereotypical botcher monks (Barnard Hughes , Michael Jeter) and a greedy administrator (James Coburn) attempt to detain them . However ,one of the girls (Lauryn Hill) , who is the most talented of the team , is banned to sing by her mummy (Sheryl Lee Ralph) . Los Angeles lounge singer donning nun's habit and organizing the convent choir formed by sympathetic nuns who steal best laughs and including a spectacular as well as amusing concert .This entertaining film with some genuinely funny moments follows the formula about a fish out water . Motormouth and kind Whoopi Goldberg is pretty well as the vaudeville star become unexpected nun , she is a complete show . Whoopi Goldberg was very unhappy making the first film and made this sequel only after Disney decided to finance her dream project, Sarafina! . Good performances from agreeable nuns , Wendy Makkenna , Kathy Najimy , the veteran Mary Wickes and excellent Maggie Smith who disapproves modern methods . Fine support cast , being this the first movie for Lauryn Hill, Ryan Toby and Jennifer Love Hewitt . And Whoopi Goldberg's daughter, Alex Martin, appears in this movie as one of the classroom children . The musical numbers in 'Diana Ross and the Supremes style', magical choreography and songs are catchy and done with gusto . The movie is amusing and entertaining with enjoyable set pieces but don't let it make you expect too much . Well-done musical score with swinging tunes by Marc Shaiman and Miles Goodman ; including colorful cinematography by Oliver Wood . The film is geared directly toward Whoopi Goldberg fans and young viewers . The motion picture was professionally directed by Bill Duke . Bill is a known and prestigious secondary actor , usual in villain roles as Commando (1985) and especially as one of Schwarzenegger's jungle commandos in Depredator (1987). After cutting his directorial teeth on the small screen , Duke directed his first feature film with the crime drama , ¨Rage in Harlem¨ (1991). This was followed by another impressive crime film ¨Deep cover¨ (1992), then made this comedy sequel , Sister Act 2 (1993). Duke has since continued to divide his time between appearing both in front of the camera and behind it , and remains a dynamic, stimulating and creative talent in Hollywood. "},{"Title":"Good...For A Sequel","Date":"22 January 2000","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Compared to most sequels, this is in the top 20.  But as for comparison to the first, there is almost no relation.  The first was a good movie. Sister Act 2 Back In The Habit does not compare to most movies.  Some cheap independent films, if well acted, are better.  But some commercial movies are worse than this movie.  It had no great acting.  Some things were funny. But why didn't the nuns sing again?  That would seem most logical to do in this film.  And kids?  Ok, I guess.  But the story line could be changed, and then everything re-vamped, without the practically psychotic men from the monastery, and you have a great movie. "},{"Title":"The premise has so many wonderful possibilities...","Date":"3 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Whoopi Goldberg is pointlessly back, this time training Mother Superior Maggie Smith's useless choir for a music contest and trying to stop James Coburn's plan to close down their school. This one is, I suppose, slightly better than the original, but it's no thanks to flat direction, statically staged musical segments, the irritating young cast (including the ever-annoying Lauren Hill) or Kathy Najimy being as bloody irritating as always. The big finale fizzles out because the runners-up in the contest are a lot better than the choir we're supposed to be rooting for, but surely no one's interested by that point anyway. It's left to Goldberg to carry this clunker and although she only signed on to get a pet project made, she alone keeps it going; nobody behind the camera seems to care one way or the other. "}{"Title":"Whoopi has outdone herself; Lauryn Hill got's some skill","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" The original Sister Act was hilarious, great and just awesome but when Whoopi Goldberg did the sequel she just topped her first performance. It was not as funny as the first but the movie was more down to earth. It gave us a taste of a up-coming beautiful, sensuous and gifted young lady named Lauryn Hill. This movie is just a great family movie. Great music! Great Acting! Great Movie! Whoopi has really outdone her self with this one. I absolutely love this movie! With the combination of Whoopi Goldberg, Lauryn Hill, Ryan Toby, Kathy Najimy and Maggie Smith and Jennifer-Love Hewitt. This just an awesome movie. With all the hilarious parts and great songs from the first original but just better. I strongly recommend this family classic to your own private collection. I love and adore this movie and I absolutely love and adore the soundtrack. It just a great movie. "},{"Title":"Whoopi is HILARIOUS","Date":"2 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I lovveeeeeeeee this movie and have since I was a kid i cannot believe it came out 14 years ago. The first sister act was pretty funny and good but the second was HILARIOUS!! And hello it features the beautiful voice of then unknown Lauryn Hill! Whoopi never ceasing to make me laugh. the cast of students were entertaining and the last performance tore the house down. the movie was AWESOME. The nuns since had me laughing allll the way. This is a classic funny movie that the whole family can enjoy over and over and over again... lol trust me I have. And let me just say if you like Whoopi you will love this movie. If your not a fan of her... don't watch cuz u will not be able to appreciate this work of art. "},{"Title":"Too Horrible for Words","Date":"23 January 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I have to admit I truly enjoyed the original Sister Act. Perhaps it is my religious upbringing, but the sight of the nuns being coached by Whoopi Goldberg to integrate do-wop and Motown into their choir music never fails to tickle my funny bone. So it was with great pleasure that I looked forward to the sequel. Unfortunately, there is nary a laugh to be found. The original mined the material of watching the unlikely combination of a sassy Las Vegas wannabe singer inspire the zany cloistered nuns to irreverence. The sequel brings Goldberg back to the fold in a highly unlikely development and in place of the singing nuns we get...singing teens in another stale 'let's put on a show and save the day' scenario. Wow! How original and clever! This story was threadbare in 1930 and there is nothing funny about the kids in question. In fact, they are about as funny as an amputation. Overlooking the fact that there is literally no credible reason for the Goldberg character to leave behind being a Las Vegas headliner to help at a floundering inner city school, one could easily see some comedy being mined from Goldberg tackling the disrespectful teens. Instead, she plays straight man to a gaggle of unfunny kids. There are no classic Whoopi moments and she looks terribly bored. Also, why is she required to go undercover to teach these kids and keep her real identity from the male members of the teaching staff? It makes no sense. Nor does the fact that the world in this film seems to have undergone collective amnesia. Despite her character being on the cover of magazines and having entertained the pope in a media event, not only do none of the teens recognize her, but neither do any of the adults nor the male contingencies of the teaching staff. The film does come briefly to life when the nuns from the first film do a cameo number, but the main returnees such as Maggie Smith (I hope she was paid well), Kathy Najimy and Wendy Makkena are irrelevant. Even worse, when the lame-brained singing competition caps the film, you know the show is in trouble when ALL of the competitors seem better than the group you are supposed to be rooting for to win. A total mess akin to having dental surgery without Novacaine. "},{"Title":"good music, good young cast and Whoopi","Date":"28 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Deloris van Cartier (Whoopi Goldberg) is headlining in her own show in Vegas. Sisters Mary Patrick (Kathy Najimy), Mary Robert and Mary Lazarus attend her show. Mother Superior (Maggie Smith) had sent them to retrieve her to teach music in St. Francis High School. She agrees becoming Sister Mary Clarence once again. The school is run by Father Maurice with math teacher Father Ignatius, Latin teacher Father Thomas and the cook Father Wolfgang who only makes bratwurst. The rambunctious class includes leader Rita Watson (Lauryn Hill), brown-noser Tyler Chase, new Muslim Ahmal, white rapper Frank-Hey, graffiti artist Sketch, Margaret (Jennifer Love Hewitt) and Maria (Alanna Ubach). She discovers that the school is being closed by the end of the semester.The premise makes no sense. It's obvious that this is a movie driving for a young cast and the returning characters led by Whoopi. The premise is a simple excuse to get the movie there. Once there, the music is good. The young cast has a few standouts and a couple of familiar stars in their early years. The returning actors are great. However, the story is flat and lacks any freshness. "},{"Title":"Nun of your lip, now!","Date":"7 May 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" The sisters are back, and here, they are running a school far away from the quiet San Francisco convent where they first met Dolores Van Cartier (Whoopie Goldberg). Mother Superior Maggie Smith, having lightened up towards Sister Mary Clarence in the first entry, sends her old pals Mary Wickes, Kathy Najimy and Wendy Makkena to Vegas to bring Dolores back, to help save her school from scheming property owner James Coburn. Like The Bells of St. Mary's, they are in danger of loosing the school which may not be accredited, and Goldberg's job is to help them win financial support by getting the unenthusiastic chorus to L.A. for a choral contest. Yes, this is basically a Mickey/Judy movie, Let's put on a show and crush the goals of some mean adult, only in nun's habits and catholic school uniforms. But while not as well thought out as the original, it remains entertaining and diverting.The edge is gone with the lack of a mob intrusion into the convent's life, but with many Catholic schools going under thanks to lack of funding or decreasing attendance, this was much more realistic. The subplots concerning individual students are many, from the troubled rebel who yearns for her mother's approval but doesn't go about the right way in getting it, to the talented young boy who shows he just needs some guts to bring out his true spirit, and pretty much the entire school's need to understand that these nuns are just as spirited, if more, than they are.What isn't realistic is the fact that just a year after singing for the pope, these nuns aren't recognized by the kids, and that they don't know who Dolores Van Cartier is from her previous newspaper headlines. Are you really a Vegas showgirl? one student asks incredulously. No, I am a headliner, Goldberg says as only she can. The lack of continuity between the two films gives it a definite sitcom feel, but unlike most sitcoms, this one rises above mediocrity because it is just so pleasant to sit through, especially when the kids get their act together, take it on the road, and sing to the Lord, not just to win, but to show that they've grown ever since Sister Mary Clarence came into their lives.Like in the two 1960's film where she played a bus driving nun, Mary Wickes gets back in front of the wheel, and also continues the string of funny delivery with lines that with other actors would just draw blank stares. Coburn is appropriately stolid, while such popular character actors as Barnard Hughes and Michael Jeter take on priestly roles with joyous glee. The same group of Broadway supporting players are back as singing nuns, with special mention to Susan Johnson, Beth Fowler and Ruth Kobart, as full voiced on screen as they were on stage. While the original Sister Act got its own big Broadway musical, the producers of that show (including Whoopie) were wise to realize that based upon previous experiences of hit musicals attempting sequels to just quit while they were ahead. Sister Act II is great as a video entertainment, and to take it any further would be fruitless. "},{"Title":"Pretty good Whoopi Goldberg Sequel.","Date":"10 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is a pretty good comedy starring Whoopi Goldberg as Reno lounge singer Deloris Van Cartier, who duns the habit once again when sisters Mary Patrick, Mary Robert and Mary Lazarus ask her to teach music to a group of unruly students at a Catholic School. And, to make matters worst, the school is slated for closure.Goldberg gave another comedic and strong performance as Sister Mary Clarence, and her trying to crack the whip on her rowdy music class and teach the students to take responsibility for their education and well-being are touching and an important moral for the story. And, the subplots about school chief Mr. Crisp (James Coburn) attempting to make sure the school closes so he could go onto an early comfortable retirement, and about music student Rita Wilson (Lauryn Hill) being forbidden to sing by her mother are an interesting twist to the story that are interwoven to the plot very well.I enjoyed seeing a number of songs performed by the music students, especially their take on Oh Happy Day - a catchy and stirring song. I could have live without some of the kids trying to overly act ghetto, like the Frankie character. And, it would have been great to see Jennifer Love Hewitt given more screen time and dialog, as she would go on to be a much more recognizable actor than the other student characters.Overall, not as good as the first film, but still definitely worth a watch.Grade B "},{"Title":"Unoriginal, predictable and not-that funny ... a disappointing sequel ...","Date":"23 January 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" In Sister Act 2 Back in the Habit, the mother of Lauryn Hill's character, disapproves her ambition to become a singer. Was it because she didn't think much of her daughter's skills, or because she saw no future in singing for a girl of her background? Or maybe because she had the same dream at her age and it reminds her of her own failure? In fact, the only reason of the disagreement I could see is because the writer wanted to create a mother-and- daughter conflict, for an obligatory emotional pay-off at the end, when she comes to see her daughter singing and realize she didn't have the right to interfere with her dreams.There's nothing in the sequel's script that doesn't feel totally artificial. Every plot element is constructed as the upsetting set-up for an uplifting moment. Any person with a minimum of cinematic knowledge, let alone a critic, would see every scene coming a mile away. Starting with the very premise of the film Sister Mary Clarence, back to a poor class and help students to &#x85; I don't even need to go on, did you say 'inspirational teacher', 'rude and rebellious students', isn't that one of the oldest and most predictable plots ever? Hello, To Sir with Love, Blackboard Jungle, hell even Rebellious Spirits two years before with Michelle Pfeiffer should have canceled out any attempt to recycle the plot for the whole 90's decade, and we'd be waiting for the French Chorus all the more conventional, but at least better done.The sin of Sister Act 2 is not just to reuse a plot as old as the hills (quoting Roger Ebert) but to blatantly recycle the plot of the first film, which is to teach music to a group of outcasts in order to help them to achieve one goal. This time, it's more serious because they are all students from slums, but like the nuns, they all have the same great predispositions for singing, and naturally, the most rebellious of all (Lauryn Hill) starts defying Mary Clarence, and is therefore pushed off the group. Were we surprised that she had the most beautiful voice of all? No less or no more than the fact that all the students could sing, and the irony of their learning is that they can go away further with music rather than education.But the film isn't intelligent enough to question these considerations, and in fact, it doesn't mean much to enumerate all the clichés recycled by the film. I think Sister Act 2, which is not necessarily a bad movie, could have benefited for a better script, if not plot-wise but line- wise. I mean, the main problem of the film is simply is that it's not funny, not enough anyway. The first film wasn't hilarious but it was enjoyable nonetheless, in the sequel, it's like all the elements that made the original so warm, fun and enjoyable were killed off to make us care for characters that had no originality whatsoever. Nuns? Now that was original. Misfits and outcast students with the whole 'social commentary' undertone, sure, why not, but at least try to leverage the film with a few good laughs.Even Whoopi Goldberg can hardly save the film, she doesn't even have this little spark, this wisecracking temper to provide the obligatory gags, the youngsters are so banal that they can't replace the nuns in our hearts, and the unforgettable trio of Mary Robert, Patrick and Lazarus is reduced to a simple comic relief level, which is quite frustrating. Which hooks our last hopes to music &#x85; well, the film contains enough music to be enjoyable for the amateurs of R&B, gospels and maybe rap. Personally, I don't mind music unless it serves the film not the opposite, I'm still waiting for a story, for engaging characters, for surprises, none of that happens. And what's with the overuse of rap in the background, so loud and annoying, it seemed that all the teenagers were rapping when they were supposed to talk. The whole film has a sort of video clip feeling, something that could have inspired High School Musical or Glee, which is not saying much. It's a film made for the sake of it, fun and entertaining, but original, warm and funny, no? Predictable? Painfully and appallingly predictable, it belongs to the same category of useless sequels such as Look Who's Talking Too or City Slickers 2, once the premise of the first film is assimilated, the only purpose of a sequel is to offer something new or something as funny, if not more. Sister Act 2 failed in every category. It's not a disaster, it's not totally dull, and the teenagers play quite better than expected but are they aware that they're exploited as stereotypes of outcast students that can only go away with artistic expression.I have always thought that art could be the perfect escapism and the best way to express one's anger and frustration, but it seems so simple, so automatic in Sister Act 2 that what was warm and cute in the first became a dangerous misleading caricature in the second, the same that encourage wannabe singers to exploit their background and build a legend out of an inexistent career. Coming from a poor neighborhood, learning the hard way, becomes the obligatory marketing argument to create a sort of success story. See, there is nothing in Sister Act 2, that is not archetypal. "},{"Title":"A joyful joyful sequel","Date":"8 June 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Did the original Sister Act need a sequel? Probably not but the success of the first one meant that the inevitable sequel was made in 1993.And to the credit of everyone involved it's not that bad and proves and enjoyable way to spend 90 minutes. While the story isn't really that strong and the first 30 minutes are a little manic as the director tries to re-establish the characters, the story and the reason for Goldberg going back in disguise (because, let's face it, that's what audiences want to see.And so begins a film that has some good moments of comedy and music. It's not as good as the first but then again most sequels aren't. The main thing is that this film doesn't tarnish the reputation of the first and shows again that nuns can be funny. "},{"Title":"Not as good as the original, but still entertaining","Date":"9 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Sister Act 2Back in the Habit is not as good as the original, but it is still entertaining compared to the disaster it could have been. It is not as well thought-out in the plot, the direction is lacking a tad, and the film does start off rather slowly.Thankfully though it does pick up, and the latter half almost equals the best parts of the original. The cinematography and production values are excellent and the script is funny and charming. Whoopi Goldberg once again has fun in her role, Maggie Smith once again is a welcome presence, the music is joyful and upbeat and the nuns are as infectious as ever.All in all, an entertaining sequel. 7/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"Every film has it's merit. Sister Act 2 is about hope","Date":"9 April 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Films are like food. And obviously, people have their tastes and expectations. I watched Sister Act One and it was great, and was funny as much as it kept you at the edge of your sit. However, Sister Act 2 is a different kettle of fish, in spite of the return of a few known characters. I can seriously relate to it, and so can people working with kinds, teens and 'tweens' , in schools, inner city urban situations. I like a movie where people of no hope end up with hope. Found myself wipe off a few tears at the end. And in life almost imitating art. I was asked to help out as choir director for a bunch of kids and teens that were being taken care off by our local Salvation Army. They, you guess it decided to form a choir. They were kids from different,sometimes dysfunctional and even broken homes, with a few suffering from ADHD ! Not to bore you, the same group has become much sought after, sung in festivals, won an award, been a TV a couple of times and will be traveling outside the country in a few month's time! That's why I love to watch this movie. Fun and hope. "}{"Title":"Gets Me Every Time..!!","Date":"29 January 2009","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I just love this movie. I find Sister Act 2 just as enjoyable as the first. Both bring back lots of great memories of when I directed a Spanish choir at my church when I was in high school (gosh) twenty years ago.The music is fun, and yes the plot can be a little sappy at times. Definitely predictable. But at the end of a rough day when a little inspirational feel-good movie is needed, just can't go wrong with this little gem.One thing though, after skimming through the comments posted here on this movie the actors don't seem all that bored. Then again, I'm not a drama critic.. but I sure am a fan of Whoppi Goldberg and Maggie Smith.Go with God, Crispy. Love it! "},{"Title":"Comfortable","Date":"7 December 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" In this movie, the characters seem more relaxed around each other than they did in the first movie, probably because Deloras wasn't in any danger and they were all familiar with each other by now. Like SISTER ACT before it, this movie is funny and uplifting at the same time. You cheered every time those kids accomplished something, just as you did when the St. Catherine's Choir of the original movie became successful. A great inspiring movie about people tapping into their own potential and realize they have more to offer than they think. Both movies did a good job of getting this message across. Sister Mary Clarence didn't seem like a fish out of water like she did in the last movie, either, and that's probably why a lot of folks think this movie isn't as good as the original. Okay, so she's more familiar with her surroundings, but it's still uplifting and funny. A movie that inspires people to be the best they can be. So...WAKE UP AND PAY ATTENTION!!!!! "},{"Title":"Good comedy","Date":"14 August 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This film was a great follow-up to Sister Act. Once again, the cast fit very well together to produce a good comedy. While this film definitely took a different tone from the first Sister Act, it was still and funny, yet heartwarming and had a good plot. Another super soundtrack, and another great appearance from the nuns' choir. Adding the Fathers to the mix certainly added a new element of comedy and was an essential part to the success of this movie.I loved the story, the cast, and the soundtrack--need I say more? I'd definitely recommend both this film, and its predecessor to all viewers. "},{"Title":"Review with no spoilers.","Date":"12 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This film is excellent, the sequel to the original Sister Act. As with the first, Whoopi Goldberg takes centre stage as a singer who is called to help the nuns, led by Mother Superior, expertly played by the excellent Maggie Smith.This singer-turned-nun is taken to a school whose future is gone, as it is soon to be finished, but had a rich heritage in singing, which Whoopi intends to reinstate.Following these events are many laughs, a few tears and a feeling of well being at the end. A superb feelgood film (but not a classic) this should be fun for all the family!A resounding 8 out of 10.  "},{"Title":"not that bad","Date":"25 May 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I thought this movie was great! the music was cool, the acting was so so, the feel was great, and it was pretty funny. Jennifer Love Hewitt appears as an airhead, no surprises there, but we also get to know Lauryn Hill and Old Maggie Smith is in it to. Same nun family from the first installment. Less church music than the first one, more modern hip hop stuff on this one. Probably not one for the children though. In good humor, there isn't any swearing on it, one of the few these days and I did catch it today on the Disney Channel so it was all good and recommended for children. Probably not really young children . May be adults should sit with the kids on this one. Yes, all round good flick. must see  "},{"Title":"if school choir would have been like this...","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Sister Act 2 Back in the Habit, is one of those movies that makes you enjoy and relax and moved at the same time..fantastic voices, a nice, and easygoing story and a whoopi goldberg, as charming and funny as ever. i have seen the movie at least 20 times and i never get tired of it. Nice and easy watching for an evening on the couch! "},{"Title":"Watch the last 15 minutes; forget the rest. (Sorry Whoopi!)","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Ever since The Color Purple, I've thought that Whoopi Goldberg had the ability to offer up incredible acting. Occasionally she's come through, as with Sister Act, as well as (of course) Ghost, and a few others.  Sometimes,though, it seems obvious there is simply a paycheck involved (or worse, a sincere belief that the particular vehicle was worthy of her abilities.) Sister Act II is the kind of movie that makes us believe ALL sequels are dreck and sludge.  HOWEVER, having thoroughly dismissed this pedestrian and thinly plotted waste of celluloid, let me throw out one caveat; the final number, about fifteen minutes from the end of the movie. It's a clever, heart-felt update on an old Gospel classic that will make your feet tap and your heart lift up; however, excepting that one bit of shining glory, the movie is unfortunately a waste of time.  "},{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"7 December 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This is a great film for children in socially deprived schools who need inspiration.  Emotionally satisfying and thoroughly enjoyable.  Well worth viewing. Highly recommended. "},{"Title":"Not that bad!","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Although I agree that the plot was formulaic, I thought that the singing sequences were very well done. Seeing (and hearing) Lauren Hill at an early stage of her career was great, and the arranging and choreography were well done for the genre. "},{"Title":"Good fun, but the story was just a variation on the original","Date":"6 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This movie added a fresh perspective on the Las Vegas singer joining a convent idea. Although it lacked the charm of the original movie, it had a different kind of quaint charm, the way Goldberg acted out the touching bond between Sister Mary Clarence and her music pupils. However the story was just a variation on the original, and I thought it could have added a bit more of a twist, so it did get a bit deja-vu. Not as good as the original, but then they never are. For a sequel, it was good fun to watch, and the songs were of equal high quality to the original.  "}{"Title":"Give It Credit","Date":"24 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Okay, okay, so this movie did not equal up to its first. But this movie had some high points. First of all, many of the kids were talented and their two performances were the highlight of the movie. The only problem was that the movie was not as funny as the first. Whooopi was given a lousy script and the other nuns provided nothing at all. Even their rendition of Ball of Confusion sucked and does not compare to My god . But someday, this film will become a cult classic and win an award. "},{"Title":"Up-Lifting and Funny","Date":"9 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Many critics downed this movie but, i thought the film was very funny and entertaining. I have not seen the first so i can't compare, but with its up-Lifting gospel tunes and funny characters, Sister Act 2 was very good. I liked the way they took old gospel songs and made them hip by adding rap vocals and urban beats.The acting is great. Whoopi Goldberg has done it again. I think she is one of the funniest people out there and her talent shows here. Kathy Najimi is funny in her supporting role and Lauren Hill should consider doing more acting because she does have talent. *** out of **** "},{"Title":"A feel-good sequel, but not high on sensibility","Date":"13 April 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This was a less-than-mediocre sequel to a good movie.  The nun choir songs were nowhere near as polished as the first movie.  The kids were very much more interesting,  However, the plot-line was on an extremely thin edge between being totally laughable and improbable.It was still a feel-good movie.  You have to ignore your disbelief, or maybe have a little faith.  Perhaps that was the entire point...  "},{"Title":"Habits are better the second time around!","Date":"10 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is truly one of the best Whoopi movies ever. It had a lot more humor in it then the first one and the songs literally give you chills. My friend and I watched the movie tonight for the first time in years only to realize once again why we love it so much. The kids in the movie not only add to the singing but also add a more updated touch. Much better than the original movie this one has just as many moments that make your hair stand on end. I could on and on about the many good qualities of the film. From the music to the acting, the jokes, and not to mention some cute guys and girls to look at too ). It was also nice to have the reoccurring roles of many of the previous nuns coming back. The fact that it had a much larger cast of bigger names such as Lauren Hill and Michael Jeter not to mention the return of the amazing Kathy Najimi as Sister Mary Patrick. The movie contains much of the humor of the original while giving it a new hip-hop beat. This movie will forever be in the eyes of me and many others one of the greatest Whoopi movies ever. Comparable only to Corrina, Corrina and Ghost. "},{"Title":"the best film ever","Date":"11 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" i really,really,really love this film.i watch it every night before i go to bed.i wish there was a sister act 3.if anyone agrees please post it and they might make it.i also love Goldberg,i think she is very talented.i hope u enjoyed this film,because i will never stop watching it.it give me the shivers when they win at the end of the film,every time you would think i don't no what happens in the end.all my friends no its my favorite film and every time its on TV or the songs are on the radio they call me.sister act 1 was also very good but i did find it a bit slow in places,but never the less brilliant.enjoy enjoy enjoy.come on sister act 3. "},{"Title":"Desperation time...","Date":"29 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Fairly desperate sequel to 1992's Sister Act has one-time lounge singer Whoopi Goldberg now a big attraction in Las Vegas, but called back to the convent by those kooky nuns to help bring order to a school full of rebellious teenagers. Poorly constructed script just begs for a lighter touch, but everything is hammered home. James Coburn looks appropriately puzzled as the proverbial villain of the piece (he wants to shut the school down, and after meeting the students, any audience may come to sympathize with him). Goldberg's mere presence brings a smile, but this is hand-me-down material (much more so than the cookie-cutter first installment) and is completely without merit. *1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Definitely Back In The Habbit","Date":"10 December 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Some of you have definitely cracked. This movie was great....one of my favorites's of all time. It teaches you about teamwork and sticking together. That you can achieve things if you believe. A real heart warmer and in my opinion just as good as the first one. I was really disappointed to see the rating on this for such a good movie. Great music, Great acting....what more do you want? Beats some of the crap shown on todays television anyway! The characters chosen for the film were great, they all fitted the description well. Not to mention that I think Whoopie Goldberg is an excellent actress, she lightens up every movie she does and makes it come to life. I really don't understand how this could get such a low rating. Oh well everyone has their opinions but I think it rocks! "},{"Title":"A Feel Good Movie","Date":"10 November 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" It wouldn't be fair to call Sister Act 2 Back In The Habit, a great movie. But it's not bad either. This is the kind you can watch to relax. It is definitely not the type you need to think over much at all. Simply just watch and go. Easy to watch, easy to forget. This time she is called in for help to sort out a school which is full with troubled teenagers. Mother Superior needs her help to communicate with those kids. Dolores Van Cartier accepts the offer involuntarily and becomes a sister again. This time she has a difficult task but while we watch the film we see that nothing is that difficult for our lovely sister Clarence.Sister Mary Clarence and the other sisters are all very much likable characters and are all back in the habit!!!Enjoy it. ** out of ***** "},{"Title":"Get up off that thing and watch this movie!","Date":"19 February 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" This is my favorite movie in the whole world. It has a great music, great acting, an excellent storyline, awesome characters and is really funny. Whoopi Goldberg is excellent and funny. This is a great family movie. The music is amazing and they picked really great people to star in this movie for this choir. I think that this movie is better than the first movie. I think the story is better and the mucis is better. I definitely recommend this movie to people of all ages cause I think anyone at any age can appreciate this movie, it's comedy and it's messege. And I'm sure anyone who liked the first movie will definitely like this one too. "},{"Title":"Let's be real.","Date":"19 April 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  The previous reviewer sure gave a pretty serious review for an obviously un-serious movie. Sure, Sister Act 2 is cliche, but it follows the formula to perfection. It's like taking stories from mythology and reinterpreting them with hip and fabulous updates!Let's be real here. Whoopi, Lauryn, Maggie Smith, Kathy Najimy--I could keep going, but I just wanted to you, the reader, to be reminded of some of the fabulous talent in SA2. Now I'm going to ask you a question or series of questions and I want you to answer honestly. Did you or did you not a) tap your foot b) clap your hands c) sing along or d) get up, dance, and belt the music with Lauryn and/or Ryan Toby? Because if you chose any of the above (but especially d), you'd understand that's what this movie was made for. There are some movies that are not created to challenge the viewer cinematically. This is one of those movies. So all of you nay-sayers need to put down the haterade and admit how much fun this movie is to watch. Or the nuns will come and beat you up. "}{"Title":"good sequel to a good film","Date":"2 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I first saw this film when i was younger, Me and my sister used to watch it over and over again. Im much older know and i still love this film even though there are harsh reviews for it. The film is enjoyable on many levels as its funny and can be viewed by adults. I personally think this film is better than the first film as its got teenagers in it and i can relate to that. So all thats left to say is give this film a try the ending may be a little too predictable but this is still funny and has a warm feeling too it. Enjoy. "},{"Title":"Not nearly as good as the first SISTER ACT, but still entertaining!","Date":"31 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Before you rent this sequel to the 1992 classic, you should be aware that this is not nearly as good nor nearly as funny as the original SISTER ACT film. It's still an entertaining film and it's better the most of the other movies Whoopi Goldberg has been in during the past few years. The cast while not as good as the original is still a great cast. I especially enjoyed James Coburn, Michael Jeter, Lauryn Hill, and Jennifer Love Hewitt as Margaret. The soundtrack is better than the actual movie, but that's true with most movies these days. "},{"Title":"A slow starter, but......","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Different in many ways from its predecessor, Sister Act II is easy to dismiss as an inferior sequel, but such a cavalier rejection is unfair.  The original film was something of a surprise  it put a familiar personality in an unfamiliar situation and had a lot of fun with the juxtaposition.  After watching it multiple times on video, I realized that it tailed off somewhat in the second half, as the writers struggled to resolve the thriller elements of the plot.  On the whole I still believed it to be a good film, but not a great one.  The sequel, on the other hand, seems to have been conceived from the end backward.  The second half of the plot is exciting (if familiar) and well-played.  The earlier events, setting up the finale, however, leave much to be desired.  The tough, inner-city school milieu is as tired as it sounds, and while the young actors playing the teenagers do a fine job, the characters don't take on a life of their own until the movie is over halfway done.  When the real plot of the film takes off (as the choir begins to sound like a choir), Sister Act II becomes a fun if unspectacular movie.  Whoopi Goldberg remains a familiar, comfortable yet always interesting screen presence.  The other nuns and the friars who administer the school with them are underused but entertaining.  James Coburn hams it up as the villain, but doesn't seem out of place.  The nun choir from the first film puts in a silly appearance singing Ball of Confusion, but this too doesn't dampen the proceedings.  If the filmmakers could have found a way to compress the 45 minutes or so of exposition into a shorter opening, Sister Act II would at least have been as good as the original.  As it is, it remains an underappreciated if unspectacular movie. "},{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"27 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  OK OK so maybe the plot is predictable and has been done thousands of times before. But I really loved this movie mostly because of the singing. It's almost worth watching only to see what happens when they sing as a choir in assembly for the first time ( no, I'm not going to give it away!) Oh and Lauryn Hill rocks as well -) "},{"Title":"Break the Habit....","Date":"14 October 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I hate sequels, but I still watch them in hopes that there will be one that actually is as good or better than the original.Some are (Star Wars sequels, James Bond films, Godfather films) but ones like Sister Act II are not.  It's bad all right, but not in any normal sense.  This is bad in its own unique way.Whereas the original had a sense, style, clarity and humorous thrust all its own, Sister Act II goes on a completely different tangent than the original.  It abandons the old neighborhood from the first movie, adds a bunch of characters that are introduced then forgotten, there are no references to the cop (Nunn) that helped out Whoopi in the original and aside from Sister Mary Patrick (Najimy, always good for a laugh), everyone looks bored beyond belief.The sisters are back, there's a lot of music but they had to add a bunch of sitcom kids that would have been more at home on an episode of Growing Pains or something produced by Bill Cosby.  Even with the palpable talent of Lauryn Hill, singing and acting her heart out, there is little support and little to no laughs.And Whoopi I guess any Sister Act sequel would have to have her in it by design, but she just seems so weary by the whole idea that she wants to scrunch down into her habit and hide from everybody.I can't blame her.  And there isn't even a Witness Protection program here to help her.One good line (We haven't the balls for that!) does not a movie make. And in spite of the high spirits exuded in the END CREDITS (???!?!), it doesn't do too much for a movie that spends its running time taking a nap.Sister Act II Back in the Habit.  Not a prayer.Two stars.  One for seeing the nuns again and that end credit number.  I think some contrition is in order here. "},{"Title":"Sister Act 2","Date":"9 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" The music-filled 1992 comedy hit Sister Act was a positive surprise both financially and quality-wise but that does not mean the inevitable sequel would be any good, of course. Directed by Bill Duke, Sister Act 2 Back in the Habit tries to introduce a few new elements into the familiar premise, some of them successful, others not.Some time after the events of the first movie, Deloris Van Cartier (still played by Whoopi Goldberg) has returned to lounge singing and headlines a popular show in Las Vegas. When her old friends from the nun convent pay her a visit and ask her to help them with their work at a financially struggling high school, she cannot let them down and agrees to become the school's new music teacher. The students are unruly, the administrator Mr. Crisp (James Coburn) is uptight and the school is under risk of being closed down but luckily Deloris (a.k.a. Sister Mary Clarence) knows that the power of music is never to be underestimated.The movie starts energetically with one of Deloris' Vegas performances that catchily recounts the events of the previous movie. It is also pleasant to see that Wendy Makkena, Kathy Najimy and Maggie Smith return in the roles of Deloris' fellow nuns and that this time there are also monks present among the school's staff. Contrary to the first movie that dealt more with the other nuns, this time the comedy is for the most part based on Deloris' interaction with her new rebellious students who prefer freestyle rapping to gospel choirs. I wonder if rap music had more of a novelty value in mainstream entertainment in 1993 than it does in 2011 because seeing it now, I was left hoping for more actual songs instead of brief sessions of verbal rhyme battles and tough talking.During the latter half the music finally gets going and we hear fun songs like the funky Get Up Offa That Thing / Dancing in the Street and the final choir performances (Joyful, Joyful) near the end. The end credit version of Ain't No Mountain High Enough performed by various cast members all together belongs among the most entertaining moments of the film as well. However, the movie is not really a musical and should also be judged by merits other than the soundtrack. On this front it is not very successful, in my opinion. The plot is extremely predictable, the noisy kids are annoying and the funniest characters (like the eccentric monks) are not paid enough attention. Fans of Lauryn Hill will surely be interested in her breakthrough performance as a young discouraged singer Rita Watson but I was not too big a fan of the ballads she sings here. More cheery songs like the first movie's Shout are what Sister Act 2 would have needed.Setting the plot in a school makes sure the story does not repeat the first movie's ideas too obviously but I wish they had used the different environment for something less predictable than just another tale of a new teacher cleaning up a rundown school by inspiring troubled kids to believe in themselves. I guess that if you absolutely loved the first movie, there is no reason why you would not like the sequel too (at least moderately) but generally speaking, I do not think Sister Act 2 is very good film. It seriously lacks the will to deviate from the tried and true patterns of comedy conventions and failed to make me laugh or even smile, unlike the original film that featured better songs and antagonists. You might as well save your time and watch the music clips on YouTube or something; the rest is pretty skippable. "},{"Title":"Not bad for a sequel","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I am normally anti-sequel for any movie at all, even if I like the original. I just think that its cashing in on a sure thing, and its the height of laziness, and on top of everything else, 95% of them have no business existing.This one is not exactly enough to make me re-think my position, but this movie has a lot going for it and is not an offensive rip-off of the first. The story goes in a different direction and although its as obvious as the sky how it will all end up (unless you've never seen another movie in your life), I still like it very much.  I like choir singing, and the last twenty minutes contain some beautiful voices and songs.None of the actors look embarrassed to be there, which of course is a great thing, and Whoopi's effortless performance anchors the movie. Look for Jennifer Love Hewitt as a student, who is curiously absent from the dance numbers.  Brad Sullivan, Michael Jeter and Barnard Hughes are some of the comic relief, and Kathy Najimy and Maggie Smith are back as well.Stick around for all the closing credits to hear Aretha Franklin singing Deeper Love, which is a great great song.  "},{"Title":"Whoopi Goldberg and Lauryn Hill are fabulous in this film.","Date":"15 October 2000","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Whoopi returns in the habit and is better than ever. I love this film ever since the first time I saw it. Go rent it, get the soundtrack, and go with God. By the way, Lauryn and the rest of the gang is fantastic!!! Love those nuns, dig those kids! "},{"Title":"A Great, Entertaining Sequel!","Date":"10 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I think Sister Act 2 Back in the Habit is a good sequel.  Though very slow-going at first, the movie quickly becomes great entertainment!  The very end of the movie and the end-credit sequence are my favorite parts of the movie.  Whoopi Goldberg saves the day again as Sister Mary Clarence (Deloris) when she is asked to help out the nuns from the first movie.  A great entertaining movie for all.  "},{"Title":"Tediously boring sequel","Date":"10 August 1998","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Witless, inane, thoroughly boring sequel to an originally charming movie.  "}{"Title":"Very Offensive, Poor Sequel","Date":"25 May 2007","Score":"9 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" As with many sequels, this doesn't measure up to the original. In fact, I found this film - as opposed to the first one - very offensive. Of course, my beliefs had changed since first viewing Sister Act. However, this film definitely irreverent.There are many irreverent remarks made throughout this film made by a number of people who just take the credibility of a real Believer to task. Yeah, the nuns are still good guys, but don't fool yourself there's a lot of secular bias in this script. Nobody in here, including all the Catholics, takes Christianity with an seriousness. Hey, if Hollywood takes it as a joke, it wants everyone to do the same. That seems to be the message of this movie.Also, as in many sequels they took a part of something that worked, and then overdid it the second time. In this case, it's Kathy Nijimy's role. She was cute and bubbly in a minor role in the original, got recognized for her performance and now has much bigger part. Unfortunately, they overdid all that giggling to the point where the woman is downright annoying. "},{"Title":"Enjoy it for what it is - don't knock it for what it isn't - please.","Date":"3 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Yes of course it's totally unbelievable - it's a sequel to a movie that was totally unbelievable in the first place.Does anyone really expect Sister Act 2 - Back in the habit to be any more than hack work? Hastily cobbled together to cash in on the success of Sister Act it presents the Hollywood Cliché afficcianadoes with a positive cornucopia. How could you not enjoy a movie that presents squeaky clean well - dressed multi - talented Ghetto Kids from every possible racial group pretending to walk the walk and talk the talk whilst meekly submitting to Music Lessons in an inner - city High School run by the Catholic Church with beaming tolerance?They perform an emasculated version of rap after doing a ludicrously polite Dozens routine that would have been laughed out of The Projects in any big city in the U.S. Just naturally the re - activated Sister Mary Clarence wins them over and blends them into a choir fit to enter the All - State Choir Competition (only in America - one hopes). Oh,and incidentally,the school is threatened with closure just to add to your pleasure. Just how it resolves itself will surprise only those who can count the number of movies they have seen on one hand. So you can safely dismiss it then?Well,actually ......no.Because Sister Act 2 - Back in the habit has some glorious musical moments.His eye is on the sparrow is exquisitely sung,Ode to Joy the winnning entry in the competition (oops! did I let something slip?)is accompanied by a pianist using some fantastic chord substitutions and is performed with the exhausting energy only the young and enthusisastic can summon up. So enjoy it for what it is - don't knock it for what it isn't - please. "},{"Title":"Surprise, Surprise, People-- It's Actually Good!","Date":"27 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Why on Earth is this movie rated so low? Sister Act 2 carries on in the same riotous fish-out-of-water vein explored by its predecessor, but this one branches out in a new direction as well. This time, the groovy lounge singer/erstwhile nun Sister Mary Clarence (the same ol' Whoopi Goldberg) has to help save a failing Catholic school. Okay, so the story isn't exactly Oscar material. That's granted.Here, the real attraction is in the relationships between Deloris and the nuns, not to mention Deloris and the students. Over the course of the movie, they all discover parts of themselves they never knew they had. And, of course, one of the funniest characters in history, Sister Mary Patrick, is back, so fun is guaranteed.Some parts can feel a bit trite and even pointless, and I wouldn't go so far as to say it was better than the original, but on the whole, it deserves a much higher rating than it has now. "},{"Title":"Hated it.","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I see some folks liked this film, but I truly hated it. Saw it in the theater and would have left if I was there by myself, was bored almost to tears. It's in my worst ten, but I don't go to the movies much, and if something stinks on video I turn it off as soon as the determination is made. That was all I had to say but gotta make 10 lines so Pros of Sister Act 2 1 Completely predictable ; You won't risk hurting your think-bone. 2 You can use the time to contemplate what exactly Ted Danson was thinking when he decided to get with Whoopi. 3 It will show you everything you'll be missing when you go to one of those good movies. It was so bad , I'm posting this now, because the memory has never left me some 12? years later. "},{"Title":"entertaining","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" 'Sister Act 2' is a funny film, but it loses the strenghs that the original film had. In this film, the other nuns get the main nun character back to teach a group of young students how to sing, and there are all sorts of problems along the way. The film does not quite live up to the first film, as previously mentioned, but there are a few laughs in it. This is worth seeing once if you watched the original film and enjoyed it. Maybe it will also bring back some of the nostalgia; these films seem to be completely forgotten nowdays. They were not classics, but they do have some funny moments, and the comedy is what it is all about. "},{"Title":"It Lacks The Charm Of The First One","Date":"12 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" SISTER ACT 2 BACK IN THE HABIT ***1/2 The year following the surprise hit of its 1992 predecessor is when 'Sister Act 2 Back In The Habit' came to video. This time, Delores Van Cartier (Whoopi Goldberg) travels to her Sisters' aid when she is asked to teach a music class at the school they teach in. She gets herself into more than she can handle (at first) when the class of seventeen-year-old students refuse to cooperate. There are a few funny moments, and Goldberg gets to contribute more of her talents, but the movie lacks the charm of the first one.Rating System ***** Excellent **** Good *** Fair ** Poor * Bad "},{"Title":"My Opinion","Date":"5 November 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" I think that the Catholic Church shouldn't teach and run a school because this kind of religion have duties like the sacraments and this kids come to this academy and they think that they are in Music Business in a Studio. Whoopi Goldberg should have move on to her life and forget about teaching.Why did she dress up like a nun if she knows that the outfit was too tight. Mr Crisp was right that the school shouldn't have exist and they should have closed down the school and make it into a Parking lot.And then the kids just sing rap and I don't like rap music and I didn't joined a choir when i was in high school because I was too embarrass to sing.I didn't like the quote from Whoppi Goldberg If you want to be somebody then you better wake up and pay attention. This movie is unrealistic and also there are too many blacks in this movie and not many of them are Catholics now.i think that also the kids like Frankie and Westley were disrespectful to each other and others and I didn't like it. "},{"Title":"Sister Act 2 Back in the Habit","Date":"6 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" The first film was more original, funny and musical, but this sequel is certainly worth a look, from director Bill Duke, aka Mac in Predator. Basically Deloris Van Cartier (Whoopi Goldberg) is back in her Las Vegas lifestyle being a more successful singer, and at her show Sisters Mary Patrick (Kathy Najimy), Mary Lazarus (Mary Wickes) and Mary Robert (Wendy Makkena) come and take her to Mother Superior (Dame Maggie Smith). She asks Deloris if she would help teach music to students at the run-down parochial school, and knowing that the nuns helped her get more success, she agrees to don the habit again to become Sister Mary Clarence. At first the students are determined not to learn anything, and they also have their fun making Deloris look foolish (e.g. super glue on her chair), but they soon the school is due to be closed by local authority chief Mr. Crisp (James Coburn), so they are determined to prove they are learning. So forms a choir, and all talent breaks out, so much in fact, that they are entered into the state choir singing competition. Best singer Rita Louise Watson (young Lauryn Hill, from the Fugees) goes, despite her mother forbidding her to sing, and even with some pretty good choirs before them, and the same song as one of them, they do a fantastic performance, and deserved to win it (well, we probably knew they would anyway). Also starring Barnard Hughes as Father Maurice, Michael Jeter as Father Ignatius, Sheryl Lee Ralph as Florence Watson, Robert Pastorelli as Joey Bustamente, Thomas Gottschalk as Father Wolfgang, Brad Sullivan as Father Thomas, Alanna Ubach as Maria, Ryan Toby as Westley Glen 'Ahmal' James, Ron Johnson as Richard 'Sketch' Pinshum, young Jennifer Love Hewitt as Margaret, Devin Kamin as Frankie, Christian Fitzharris as Tyler Chase, Tanya Blount as Tanya and Mehran Marcos Sedghi as Marcos. Goldberg is very likable, Najimy still has the wild eccentricity, and even with a story that is not as engaging as the first, the musical and song sequences, such as Oh Happy Day and Joyful, Joyful keep you entertained. Good! "},{"Title":"Great movie... but weak subplots","Date":"27 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Some people will always look at sequels and compare them to the first.. but the sequel is another chapter in the story, not a continuation of the first. The only way it is a continuation is when we pick up from the end of the first movie. I have watched several before and after Sister Act 2. The movie is still great, and love it. I have just watched it again as I am writing this. The story of her helping the school that she had went to school when she was young is well done. But there's a couple of things that I think should have be edited better. The first one is when Mary Clarence finds out about the school closing through Crisp and the Archdiocese members, discussing it between themselves over ice cream. Then when the kids learn of it later. Then nothing is done of it until the sisters learn that the school had won choir competitions and entered them in the All State in LA. How did we/they make the connection of it?The second one is the story behind Rita and her mother. The story line is stupid. Growing up, my parents didn't try to stop me for going for my dreams. But when a mother tells her daughter that she can sing or be in a choir, that woman needs a major attitude adjustment. Not every 16 or 17 year old doesn't know what they want to do. And when confronted by the teacher, she should have a heart to listen. Course, the script was written that way and the full story was there. I understand that completely. And before the editing, the story was clean. But afterward, the story will have a different meaning as well and should have had the continuity checked. "},{"Title":"Love it!","Date":"21 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" Will this movie make cinematic history? Probably not! Did this movie win an Oscar? No! Is it a movie with terrific music, a wholesome story line and an all star cast designed to leave you with a song in your heart and a smile on your face? A resounding yes! If you are one of the reviewers with less than kind things to say about this movie, then you definitely missed the point! Whoopi Goldberg is an entertainment dynamo with so many talents, it boggles the mind! Combine her with Maggie Smith, Kathy Najimy and you have many laughs and a great on screen chemistry. This movie should be in everyone's family library (along with the first installment) for sheer entertainment value! A resounding 10!! As a public school music teacher, this movie speaks volumes to the heart. Students need to hear a message of hope and possibilities, whether it be a center city high school filled with rebellion, or a rural America elementary school. This cast and crew has put together an entertaining, thought provoking musical frolic!! I use this as an end of the year teaching tool as I send students on to bigger and better things in life. Beside all of that, this movie is just fun to watch. Would that Hollywood would put out more messages like this to influence the minds of our youth! "}{"Title":"One of my favorites","Date":"18 September 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I love this movie. I'm sure I've seen it a dozen times and it nevergets old.I like most everything that Whoopi has done and this movie is noexception.It's not real cerebral, but it's fun, the music is wonderful and themessage, as cliché as it might be, is still vital.I'd like to see a second sequel. As a matter of fact, I've evenwritten a short conceptual outline for the second. I wish I knew how tocontact the writers of S.A.II to submit the idea to a real writer.I think that Sister Act is a great concept that could be run with fora few more movies. I mean, who doesn't like a great heroine who alwayssaves the day?  "},{"Title":"Let's get in the Habit...","Date":"1 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Okay, I know its not the greatest film, but be honest with yourselves. Its not an oscar winner and was never intended to be one. It's a feel good movie, and I don't know one person who saw this movie, and didn't laugh, and didn't feel good at the end of the film. Granted, Hill's skills were wasted in this film, but most black actor's skills are wasted. Hill's talent, however, carries the film, and makes it enjoyable. Again, it's no where near being a perfect ten, and I blame that on unimaginative writing, but the film is not as bad as people are claiming it to be. I give it a B for effort, A for acting, and a C for execution. Averaging everything, it gets a B! "},{"Title":"Nuns are not funny!!!!!","Date":"10 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" What is it that people think are so funny about nuns? I don't care who is playing the part and why nuns can't in my view be seen as funny. Now ina serious drama like Doubt I can see but not a comedy. Whoopi Goldberg,although a good actress and is funny, is dull in this film as a woman who is again asked to don the nun's drab to teach choir to a bunch ofmis-fit run of the mill clichéd kids at a Catholic school. Clichéd I mean we have seen these types of characters before in other films. For example, The gifted student who doubts himself, the shy kid who can really sign, the white kid who acts like he from the hood, the parent who does not want his/her kid TO perform till they arrive late and see their child performing and change their mind and the run down old school they all belong too.....YAWN!! Oh yeah and the old run down school was also about to be closed till it was saved. Sound familiar? "},{"Title":"Bonus music video clip over the end credits. 7/10.","Date":"18 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  It's a real shame that this is such a rushed sequel to its highly successful predecessor just a year earlier, Sister Act (1992). I think this was the last time studios absolutely insisted on a quick cash-in with a formula sequel, but you can see that already there were some good intentions in this screenplay. Sister Act2- Back in the Habit is essentially a musical rework of To Sir with Love (1966), a very high pedigree story indeed. The plot is still hackneyed, probably because two groups of writers had a go at it. Sister Mary Clarence (Whoopi Goldberg) is temporarily wedged out of her Las Vegas contract for no good reason to an inner city high school, supposedly to teach music to underprivileged kids as a nun. It's ridiculous. Why did they need her, specifically? Why couldn't they use the charming Father Ignatious (Michael Jeter) instead? -no doubt because using him had been in the old, discarded version of the screenplay. On top of this ridiculous premise, the story has to survive a subplot involving an obstinate mother, Florence Watson (music diva Sheryl Lee Ralph who was so personable in The Distinguished  Gentleman (1992)) opposing the singing of Rita (Lauryn Hill), the young heroine of Sister Act2. Again, how dumb is that? No proud mother could possibly deny her own joy at seeing her beautiful daughter shine, even if it's at what supposedly killed her bozo husband. More thought should have been given to even needing this subplot. In To Sir with Love (1966), the problem was the poverty that undermined the parents' indulgence of their kids and made the parents brutish; although they still kept their sense of humour and sense of pride which then allowed Mr Thackeray to win them over. This subplot with Mrs Watson does not go anywhere deep enough to be realistic, so it feels like an afterthought, and fails. It would've been great instead to see Whoopi become a full-blown female Mr Thackeray to the kids (who are the real talents in Sister Act2), just as the charismatic Sydney Poitier had back in 1966. Thanks to music supervisor Marc Shaiman and impresario producer Scott Rudin, there is still some real quality injected into Sister Act2. The soundtrack is first rate. Make no mistake, this movie has some of the best Baptist choir music ever recorded on film, and it was pulled off by kids. Young Ryan Toby (Ahmal) absolutely slays me (this is what all performers live for) every time he hits that famous high note, in Oh Happy Day. I really start sobbing. So it feels like such a betrayal when the Catholics in his audience in the movie just smile and clap politely - politeness is entirely inadequate in the presence of such talent. We're supposed to feel humility! Tanya Blount (Tanya) and Lauryn Hill (Rita) are just as evocative with their rendition of  His Eye is on the Sparrow, yet Tanya claims ...that's just for church. Oh no it isn't, baby! So what if I'm not a Baptist? Very few people wouldn't know that Lauryn Hill was already then the lead singer of The Fugees; so I doubt these vocalists were just picked off the street by Marc Shaiman; but even if they were I would be all the more impressed. Boyz II Men were just a street corner a cappella group too, until their megahits blew America off their couches (my all-time favourite of theirs is It's (So) Hard to Say Goodbye to Yesterday, and I was thoroughly disappointed it wasn't on the Sister Act2 soundtrack). These hugely talented young people should have had their own movie set in a more inventive plot so they could have been showcased properly. If allowed to be developed as first intended, the movie might have had the same reception as the original (and created a second possible franchise); but unfortunately Sister Act2 only had one studio purpose- to be a sequel. Its box office slump was due to the formulaic shackles imposed by Touchstone Pictures. At least you can tell there was some real bonding between the ensemble cast. The best thing about Sister Act2 is the, haha, video clip at the end. This was the beginning of the new fashion to include hilarious out-takes, sometimes completely invented for the purpose, under the end credits. That style has become the yardstick by which I judge movies now. In this case, the cast is choreographed into various Busby Berkeley-style overhead trick shots, and Michael Jeter is especially irresistible as he dances and runs around the camera dolly. Sister Act2 is also noteworthy for launching the careers of both Michael Jeter (Father Ignatious), and Alanna Ubach (Maria), both of whom are just a complete joy here and elsewhere. Michael Jeter has already been noticed he was recently cast as the nervous little Frenchman with the mouse in The Green Mile (1999). Alanna Ubach is Maria, the enchanting choir student who only knows the words to Love Boat. She's only been memorable in two movies that I can think of as the smitten lesbian (very left field, but still adorable) friend of Marcia Brady in the first Brady Bunch Movie (1994), released a year after Sister Act2; and as the bravura feminist/ drama queen Jenna Marino in The Sterling Chase (1999). Hollywood needs to pick up Alanna's gauntlet because I really want to see more of her in scenery-chewing roles. Casting directors! Hello? Ding, ding, ding. So overall, Sister Act2 is a pleasant enough diversion that also delivers profound musical talent. Good fun. 7/10. "},{"Title":"Absolute Garbage!","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":" WARNING THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS. PLEASE READ AT YOUR OWN DISCRETION.Now, for those of you who have seen my review of the original Sister Act will know that I think very highly of it. It is the pinnacle of all comedy films. However, when this sequel came out in the cinemas, I skipped it, waiting for it to be released on video so I could buy it and watch the great songs over and over again. Great songs, huh, there were none.The nuns even only performed one very bad attempt at a rap song. It doesn't even take place at the convent any more. It takes place at a failing school in L.A.THE PLOT Deloris Van Cartier (Whoopi Goldberg, Jumpin' Jack Flash) has made it big as a singer after she left the convent of St. Katherine's. But at the concert that kicks the film off, the three main nuns (excluding Mother Superior) from the last film come to her and beg her for help with the unruly children Even Lauryn Hill can't save this lacklustre, cumbersome sequel from being bad. This film is a very poor imitation of Dangerous Minds and all films like that. It made me feel sick watching it and I could barely get through the first viewing.The main problem is moving away from the convent, but if they did that, they couldn't make a sequel as it would be a re-make of the first film. Exactly, who needed a sequel in the first place? No film, in my opinion, needs a sequel, just check my reviews on the Nightmare on Elm Street and Halloween film series for my views on that score. I even wished that the film had been better as the performance at the end credits was good. But the producers did not build up the characters of the children good enough that we actually could grow to like them. They were just there, doing their own thing, with no explanation why. The only character that got background info was Lauryn Hill's, and even that wasn't up to scratch.Please, do not waste your money on this film. If you like it, by all means. But if you're looking for a feel-good follow-up to the original, look elsewhere. "},{"Title":"Whoopi takes a check and runs..","Date":"8 November 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Whoopi returns as the lounge singer turned nun. this time she is whipping a troubled inner city choir into shape for a competition...gee i wonder if she does it?? absolutely lame sequel that whoopi sleepwalks through - though she does have some good one liners and the music isnt that bad. The rest of the movie is however. very bad on a scale of one to ten.. 0 "},{"Title":"BIG D busts a move in this sexy thriller!","Date":"17 February 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  There is only one word needed to summarize Sister Act 2 HOTTT! The whole crew you love and remember from the original Sister Act is back for more in this sexy, sassy, sequal! Whoopi, Maggie Smith, and BIG D (played by Cathy Najimy) return with a few new faces like Lauren Hill, Jennifer Love Hewitt, and some other kids. Big D steals the show by bustin' out two times over in this hot sequal! Whoopi is a music teacher for some reason. SISTER ACT 2 IS A GIFT FROM THE HOLLYWOOD GODS!!! "},{"Title":"WHOOPI WHOOPS IT UP","Date":"10 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I loved this glitzy catchy movie.  It had a bit more pzzazz than the first one and served as a launching pad for some young stars both in music and film; Lauryn Hill, City High and Jennifer Love-Hewitt to name a few.  The fathers and nuns  were a bit over the top but Whoopi served to bring the movie back to earth firmly.  The younger cast were also earthy and rooted the film in their streetwise yet naive ways.  The ending was truly climatic and original with the children taking centre stage. It was refreshing to see Whoopi give them the spotlight without stealing their thunder. I loved their rendition of O Happy Day and Joyful Lord. GOOD MOVIE!!! "},{"Title":"Better then the first","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  few movies with the second one out does the first is better. But for me, Sister Act 2 does just that. I know many may think otherwise, but to me Whoopi and the cast do a great job. it's the kind of musical where after watching it, you can play it again-I never get tired of it-magictrain "},{"Title":"Whoopi in a nun's sequel.","Date":"12 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  I thought that this film would be dire because it was a sequel. But it proved me wrong! Another good job by the cinematographers and the actors. The choir performances were great. Yet another good sequel. There a lot of bad sequels out there. Way too much of them. "}{"Title":"A Feel Good Movie, but a good one","Date":"24 February 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  What Disney seems to try to do in many of their live action films, this achieves. Unlike the first film, this is really written for families and kids. There is a sentimentality that can be a bit much, but it manages to push itself back to avoid being totally sappy. A lot of people feel its bad, but I think people were looking for a second Sister Act, and other than seeing some of our favorite characters again, it doesn't come close to being the same movie, but that's ok. Enjoy this movie for it's own merits. "},{"Title":"An equally charming sequel to the original!!","Date":"8 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  For a sequel Sister Act 2.... scores top marks!!! Just as entertaining as the original movie with fantastic music,a brilliant cast and an incredibly entertaining plot!!This time around Deloris(Whoopi Goldberg) joins the Sisters (Maggie Smith, Kathy Najimy and Wendy Makkena) teaching staff at st Francis High School and turns a group of unruly, rowdy students from hell (Lauryn Hill, Ryan Toby and Jenifer Love Hewitt are included) into a hip - hop, gospel choir from heaven.Leading them in song and a phrase If you wanna be somebody. If you wanna go somewhere. You better wake up and pay attention Deloris manages to steer the high school away from the possibility of being closed down by the Arch Diasus,led by the greedy,money hungry Mr Crisp who is more bothered about his retirement than the progress of the school itself.A fantastic movie. One of the few sequels that have impressed me and anyone else I know. Thumbs up!!! "},{"Title":"All you have to do is sing ( and it seems to work too! )","Date":"17 July 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  It was pretty good  in the beginning. But near the end, you realize you're watching a dull yet funny and sometimes a little bit hart warming sequel to a movie that looks just like it where the main thing is singing. Now I never thought singing could save a school -- lucky me that there aren't any plans for a choir at my school! -- and at the same time turn a 'gangsta' class into a bunch of happy, smiling and singing angels. Who else than Whoopi Goldberg can let such a miracle happen?I love ms Goldberg's acting, but she has done way better than this! I did enjoy the singing sisters. Looked a bit childish, but it had his charm ( if you put your hands on your ears, of course ).  "},{"Title":"an cool sequel , only thing that saves it itself is the soundtrack!!","Date":"10 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  This sequel to the sucess of Sister Act returns Whoopi Goldberg as Mary Clarence !But this time , the nuns have opened a school. There is a subplot with a rebelous student. The main plot is how are the nuns going to save the school!!This movie is great if you like Whoopi Goldberg , or the film's soudtrack!!Also why is the DVD not coming out?The sequel is very close to the original , most of the original nuns return!!It is a cool movie if you Whoopi or the soundtrack!!! "},{"Title":"Predictable but still enjoyable sequel","Date":"18 May 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  What do you do if you've a hit family comedy and you want to make a sequel?, you add kids of course. However, unlike many sequels in this vein, this does not completely ruining the movie idea, it does weaken it, but not so much as to make it a bad movie.Whoopi Goldberg dons the habit again to save her old school from closure by teaching music, and turning her class of rebellious teenagers, including a young incarnation of the now music superstar Lauryn Hill, into the best choir in the state.The music sequences are still superb, and the script and storyline, while predictable, are still entertaining enough to carry you through.If you already own the original, don't bother getting this one, but do rent it because it is still an OK movie in itself.  "},{"Title":"This is the worst movie EVER.","Date":"19 May 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  My God, this movie is horrible.  Its not funny.  Its not clever.  Its not even original.  Its just more Whoopi Goldberg getting shoved down our throats.  I hope no one actually spent money to see this piece of trash. While I think the original Sister Act movie was actually decent, I can't believe that a movie this bad was actually made.  Then again, I can't believe a lot of Whoopi's movies were actually made. "},{"Title":"An ok film, the musical sequences make up for the rest","Date":"14 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Sister Act 2 wasn't as charming as the first, but if you're bored and you have nothing else to do this film will do just fine. Whoopi Goldberg's character Dolores agrees to go back undercover as a nun while she teaches a class with the rest of the sisters at an inner city school that is about to be closed. But of course, Sister Mary Clarence is able to whip the kids into shape and form a kick-ass choir. Although this film is not the most profound thing out there, I found it bearable. The scenes where the kids sing are really good, especially the one at the end. Overall, I'd give this film a 6 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Pure entertainment","Date":"7 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  Sister Act 2 is a great movie!Funny,interesting and very enjoyable.It's not a piece of art but you have great songs people that was beginning in their carrears like Lauryn Hill and Jennifer Love Hewwit.I loved the soundtrack.Go watch this movie expecting to see wonderfull music moments.Buy it or rent it!Co's it worths watching! "},{"Title":"Joyful, joyful. 6 of 10.","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Music","Review":"  And there goes Whoopi again! This movie is pure joy. The nuns we've come to love are back in the 'hood, so to speak. Again, I don't care about the lack of originality or plot coherence. It's the songs, it's the joie de vivre inherent in Whoopi and company. See it, sing along, feel good. That's it.  "}]