[{"Title":"An overlooked gem of a thriller","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"33 out of 34 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" This picture that seems to have escaped the notice of the movie-going public is a stylish, murky thriller that has interesting twists and turns and good performances by Ed Harris and Madeleine Stowe. The premise of the story has been done before in several noir films of the past but Harris brings credibility to his role as a smitten cop. A crack detective who solves crimes with the best of them, Harris is a lonely man who is ripe for the picking by Stowe who is not all as she seems. The sexy brunette ranks right up there with Phyllis Deitrichson and Matty Tyler Walker as the genre's classic femme fatales. The supporting cast is good, among them are Benecio del Toro and Charles Dance in key roles. The music score is soft and sultry, very similar to John Barry's theme in Body Heat. "},{"Title":"Proof that not all straight to video thrillers are rubbish","Date":"4 July 2002","Score":"27 out of 31 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":"  When homicide detective Kyle Brodine starts seeing the wife of businessman Rupert Monro he finds himself falling in love with her.  When her relationship gets violent with her husband he begs her to leave him, however she doesn't but when she accidentally kills him with an illegal gun she turns to him for help.  Unable to go to the police he helps her cover it up.  However later the police suspect foul play and Kyle and his partner are put on the case.  As they investigate more evidence begins to point to Kyle and it appears that Rachel has not been totally honest with him.Proof that good noir still exists.  This film never saw the inside of an UK cinema &#150; it went straight to video on release.  However the plot is a good tangled web of murder, mystery and deceit.  It manages to be twisty despite the fact that this sort of thing has been done many times before.  The plot unfolds late and very quickly, managing to be believable and gripping.The main reason for this is a great performance from Ed Harris.  The feeling of him being sucking into something is written all over his face &#150; and the way he goes from cop in control of all the details into a hunted animal is really good.  Stowe is also really good and the support cast also has quality &#150; whether it be Charles Dance or a young looking Del Toro.Overall this may not break box office records but as a thriller it is twisty, contains plenty of good lines and has a great lead performance from Harris. "},{"Title":"Nice noir","Date":"23 July 2008","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" Ed Harris and Madeleine Stowe are underneath the temperamental China Moon in this 1994 film also starring Benicio del Toro. Harris and del Toro are Kyle Bodine and Lamar Dickey partner detectives with a Florida police department. One night at a bar, Kyle meets Rachel Munro (Stowe) and falls for her immediately. She's unhappily married and has photos of her husband (Charles Dance) with another woman. He doesn't know this at the time, and tracks her down. They start seeing one another. When her husband winds up dead, Kyle helps her to cover it up.Though the plot is derivative, this is a classily done film with terrific acting, sensual love scenes between the two leads, an easy pace and beautiful photography. It reminded me a little of Body Heat. The plot won't be hard to figure out, but be prepared for a couple of twists.Ed Harris gives a forceful performance as Kyle, and del Toro is understated as Lamar. When the camera rests on Stowe, she's flawlessly beautiful, and what clothes! She gives an effective performance and has a nice chemistry with Harris.China Moon is a small, meticulously done movie with loads of talent behind it. The story has been told many times, but somehow, if it's done well, it's always good for another encore. "},{"Title":"Ah, film noir...","Date":"3 May 2002","Score":"17 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I've rented a few movies lately that have been alright but have failed to really catch my attention. This, however, was different. First of all, it's film noir, and you gotta love film noir. Palmetto, Body Heat, Double Indemnity, The Big Sleep. A good guy gets screwed by a beautiful temptress. Only, in China Moon it's different. I won't tell the ending or any details. But this was a very well executed film, very suspenseful. It doesn't follow any cliches and it always has new tricks and twists. Like a lot of film noir, this film features heat, wetness, the night, and cops. A lot of movies attempt film noir but don't always achieve its true spark. This film achieves it.  "},{"Title":"Cult Movies 41","Date":"9 November 1998","Score":"13 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" 41. CHINA MOON (thriller, 1994) Homicide Det. Bodine (Ed Harris) is a veteran of the force who knows the ins and outs of every crime scene. He meets Rachel (Madeline Stowe), a beautiful woman whose sensual charms he falls under. They begin a steamy relationship. But then he finds out she's married to an abusive and powerful man. Sensing her infidelity he confronts her, and in an act of self-defense she kills him. She seeks Bodines' help. But will he bring her to justice or help the woman he loves?Critique Nifty little thriller borrows from the film-noir tradition. The solid screenplay by Roy Karlson introduces many elements of the genre. There's the honest cop who falls for the habitual 'femme-fetal', and the violent husband as 'middle-man' who ends up dead. But just when you think things are headed into conventional plotting, there's a twist. Good direction by first-timer John Bailey elicits excellent acting all around. Ed Harris gives another powerhouse performance, Madeline Stowe plays the would-be 'femme fatale' role beautifully, as well as an array of solid supporting actors including Benicio del Toro (who reminded me of James Dean in his younger days). Great ending too.QUOTE Kyle You were just fV@*!ng me weren't you?! I was loving you and you were fV#!ing me! "},{"Title":"The proof is in the bullet!","Date":"6 January 2005","Score":"15 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" John Bailey probably knew what he was getting into, when he read Roy Carlson's screen play, otherwise it doesn't make much sense to go ahead with a film that has been done better before. That said, China Moon is not a total disappointment.If you haven't seen the movie, please stop reading here.There are a few things that indicate that Rachel wanted to use Kyle from the beginning. There are also hints that Lamar, Kyle's detective partner, is into something. How could a good detective like Kyle fall prey to the exchange of the the bullet that is extracted from Rupert Monro's body? The filmmakers take a chance in presenting a half baked pie to the viewers, many of whom are into mysteries, and think the plot will be taken at face value, when in reality, our minds are going in different directions. The fans of this genre solve the puzzle before the movie's conclusion.That said, the movie is easy to watch. Ed Harris, makes a credible Kyle. This actor is one of the best working in movies today, and even if it's not a good picture, Mr. Harris can be counted to give an excellent performance. His detective offers a good character study of a professional man that makes a fatal judgment when he gets involved with Rachel.Madeleine Stowe is a beautiful woman. In this movie she plays Rachel with conviction; her scenes with Ed Harris shows clearly she can hold her own against anyone. Benicio Del Toro's Lamar, as Lamar, offers an interesting performance, something we expect from him as a matter of course. Charles Dance, as the rich husband who likes to fool around, is only seen too short.This is a movie to watch when the weather is bad outside. It will please anyone who doesn't expect too much. "},{"Title":"Neo-noir that's really film noir in the older style","Date":"31 July 2012","Score":"8 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" Because it was made in 1994, China Moon is a neo-noir. But unlike most neo-noirs, China Moon tells a story that harks back to some of the classic noirs. Even the way that it is done doesn't use the modern contrivances, or at least none are obtrusive. The story is done in an unpretentious but very suspenseful way. Also, like most older noirs, it runs closer to 90 minutes, whereas many neo-noirs run much longer.I don't want to spoil the story, so I'm saying little about it. It mixes a killing, love, money, betrayal, and a frame-up. The protagonist, played by Ed Harris, is a methodical straightforward detective who is good at what he does. He has a rookie partner played by Benicio del Toro. A married couple is played by Madeleine Stowe and Charles Dance. The story is quite understandable while still involving various interesting complexities. Any fan of film noir will like this picture. I know I did. "},{"Title":"Suspenseful Thriller","Date":"17 August 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Happened to catch this thriller on cable yesterday night.  I am not a fan of Ed Harris but I can say that he is a good actor putting up a decent performance in this show.It also goes to show that you do not necessary need to have awesome special effects, elaborate sets or costumes to make a movie captivating.  Just a good story plot (keeping in mind that the audience are not morons or idiots) and a few good actors/actress is just enough to keep people glued to their seats.It is really rare to find such movies lately.  Really hope to see such movies that will keep people thinking what will come next, as the saying goes, its the story that counts and not blow-your-mind-but-forgot-about-it special effects or actors/actress or is that cardboards walking down the aisle with pretty clothes trying to act etc, etc.Just intelligent story telling which people will still talked about it when they leave the threaters. "},{"Title":"A Visually Strong Thriller With A Twist","Date":"11 August 2010","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" China Moon is a steamy thriller that begins modestly with a number of typical film noir components which lead the audience into believing that they know what's going to follow. The reality, however, is that the plot departs from the conventional Double Indemnity template and ultimately leads to a twist which is both original and unexpected. There's a great deal to enjoy in this story of passion, treachery and murder including a superb performance by Ed Harris, some beautiful visual moments and even some great blues music by the excellent Anson Funderburgh and The Rockets.Kyle Bodine (Ed Harris) is an ace detective who's extremely adept at examining murder scenes, deducing how the crime was committed and then identifying clues about the nature of the perpetrator. He's a decent man who's well respected by his colleagues but he's also lonely and sometimes arrogant. His powers of observation are normally exceptionally strong but he doesn't see what's coming when he meets and then gets seduced by the beautiful and mysterious Rachel Munro (Madeleine Stowe).Rachel is married to a rich banker called Rupert (Charles Dance) who's a serial adulterer and wife beater. During a particularly heated confrontation with her husband, Rachel shoots and kills him in self defence and then persuades Kyle to assist her in disposing of the body and covering up the evidence of what has happened. Kyle carries out these tasks with his usual efficiency but problems arise when the body is discovered and his rookie partner Lamar Dickey (Benicio del Toro) discovers some clues which lead to the finger of suspicion being pointed at Kyle.Ed Harris looks perfectly comfortable in his portrayal of Kyle's unassuming demeanour and is totally believable as he becomes passionate about Rachel and then increasingly desperate as he tries to prove his innocence. Madeleine Stowe shows the despondency which has overtaken Rachel as a consequence of suffering years of abuse in a loveless marriage but at other times it seems that her depression has made her unresponsive and difficult to read. This type of inscrutability is a classic trait of the femme fatale but Rachel doesn't fall unequivocally into that category as she is clearly a more sympathetic character than the conventional noir archetype.Charles Dance is good at conveying just how violent and despicable Rupert is but his attempt at a southern accent is lamentable. Benicio del Toro gives an interesting performance as a detective who initially shows a number of significant deficiencies in his range of abilities but then later in the story surprisingly seems to acquire a much better grasp of the skills needed to investigate a homicide.The visual style of this movie with its beautiful settings and wonderful shots of the lake at night contributes strongly to the overall mood and is a great credit to the work of cinematographer Willy Kurant. "},{"Title":"Body Moon and China Heat","Date":"25 February 2003","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Several comments on John Bailey's 'China Moon ' ( Ed Harris, Madeleine Stowe, Charles Dance, Benicio del Toro ) make a reference to Lawrence Kasdan's 'Body Heat ' ( William Hurt, Kathleen Turner, Richard Crenna ). ******SPOILERS AHEAD As a matter of fact, both movies depict a woman planning the murder of her husband, and managing to set up her lover as the scapegoat; but where William Hurt is a shady attorney willingly murdering the villainous but rich  Richard Crenna, Ed Harris is the upright cop, agreeing against his better judgement to become an accomplice after the murder of the even more villainous but rich too Charles Dance. And the similarity ends there the Kasdan film is a masterpiece, where  China Moon  has not the halting sultriness of the 'Body Heat ' atmosphere, nor its wonderful photography and haunting musical score, and has indeed for  sole asset its very good ( but not better than 'Body Heat's ) cast.'China Moon's main defect is its full-of-holes plot with the photos of her philandering husband taken by del Toro, and the testimony of two cops  against Dance for attacking his wife, Stowe could have got a very very juicy divorce.. O.K. she wants all the money. But  setting-up  Ed Harris as the fall guy is an unusually tricky business  among others, it demands first that del Toro steals from Harris his .38 police gun and replace it by an other .38;  it requires later that del Toro has in hand the 9mm murder bullet before Ed Harris does, and exchange it UNNOTICED against a .38 one fired previously from the Harris gun and sand -ingrained ( ! ), which cannot but rouse Harris's suspicion ( and he is a very good cop ); Harris could also have agreed to come clean when so offered. The plot  does not explain that anonymous phones calls attract attention on Harris as the 'guilty' person because the corpse must be found in order that Stowe gets her money. And at the very end,when Harris exposes del Toro, the police is called by a witness and  arrives ten seconds later ( !! ), at the very time when Ed Harris goes out, a gun in hand, and is killed without warning shots.***** but if you do not look too closely at such errors and holes, you can enjoy the acting of the four above-mentioned players,... and Madeleine Stowe's extraordinary beauty. "}{"Title":"A good way to spend two hours","Date":"4 March 2001","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":"  China Moon was unexpectedly good.  Whodunits usually aren't my favorites, but this one held my interest.  The story has enough going for it to make for a solid mystery.  Even though you know who killed whom, you're left second-guessing yourself as to motives and alliances until the very end.There are enough twists and turns to keep you off-balance, but without the story confusion that often accompanies that kind of plot complexity.  A surprise final scene provides a satisfying closure.  The murder and resulting forensics are on the bloody side, but it's not out of place in the story line.  Harris and Stowe turn in believable performances, making for an overall rating of 7 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"They say people do strange things underneath a China Moon","Date":"4 July 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" China Moon is a sleeker noir with confidence. Its elements of noir are not forced upon you in the forefront making it the most optimal way to execute noirs whereas the technique is not stealing away from the show. The relationship between Detective Kyle Bodine and Rachel Munro is the main focus of the movie. In China Moon, Detective Bodine has his life in relative order until he's caught up in a steamy love affair with the provocative Rachel Munro which soon takes a turn for the worse when one night Rachel shoots and kills her violent husband. Kyle helps Rachel hide the body assisting her cover up the crime. They wish to get away with it but Bodine's partner, Lamar Dickey, is more clever than one might suspect and he's closing in on the case. Very strong actors Madeleine Stowe and Ed Harris make this movie with very strong performances. Ed Harris is all-around great as Kyle Bodine. Harris is about one of the fifteen best male actors of all-time which is good enough for second best in this film. Madeleine Stowe is infinitely desirable as Munro. Stowe communicates effectively poignant emotions acting so effortlessly, and smooth. Madeleine's definitely one of my most favorite actresses. She's to die for. Benicio Del Toro is Dickey and unassuming as a good cop just doing his job. Del Toro plays third wheel in China Moon with just as an extraordinarily acting ability as Stowe and Harris. Harris and Stowe share great chemistry, although they do not appear compatible, more a forbidden passion attraction which is more suitably appropriate for the film. China Moon is a seductive suspense, romantic thriller. It's not an action movie. The story unravels terrifically. China Moon is an easy viewing, easily attachable. I recommend getting lost in China Moon for more than an hour, an hour and thirty nine minutes if you've got the time. "},{"Title":"Moderately intelligent, more like Columbo than Body Heat.","Date":"25 June 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Ever wonder how much marketing goes into choosing the name of a film? Many make sense, in regard to the storyline. Recent examples -- The Majestic, Life As A House, Monsters Ball.  But the title of this film came from a comment made at night, during a full moon, My mama called that a China Moon, because it looks like a big china plate. Catching title, but has absolutely nothing to do with the story.SPOILERS -- Ed Harris is a by-the-book detective, a homicide investigator. Early on we know he will be sucked into a plot by Madeline Stowe to get rid of her husband (we learn near the end she stands to gain $12million), so we spend most of the film trying to figure out her tricks. We see early that her husband is having an affair. We finally find out that Harris's sidekick, played by Benicio DelToro, is in on the plot. He switches guns, fires bullets into the sand to get slugs, plants Harris' bullets to make him look guilty.There are a few inventive items. After Stowe shoots her husband in self defense, and she asks Harris to help conceal the incident by getting rid of his body in a lake, he throws her 9mm gun onto the top of a big rig truck so it will end up some where distant and not be found. DelToro figures out which lake the body is in by noting the odometer reading and finding a lake half that distance away. But the shoot-out at the end didn't seem to fit, but was I guess a convenient way to bring closure to the characters. However, since Stowe shoots DelToro as she watches Harris die, are we to suppose she was sent to jail for a long time?  Probably not, she could afford a good lawyer and probably get probation based on mental anguish.Not a waste of time, but Ed Harris must do some incredibly stupid things in the name of love to get this movie to come to its intended conclusion. China Moon will not go down in movie history as one of the better films. "},{"Title":"Derivative but enjoyable thriller","Date":"27 December 2001","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":"  There are elements of Body Heat and No Way Out in this tale ofl'amour fou.Florida cop ,played by the ever reliable Ed Harris,is  skilled at his job and dismissive of criminals who he feels usually foul up somewhere along the line He crosses paths with femme fatale Rachel(Madelaine Stowe) ,married to the abusive and philandering Rupert Munro(Charles Dance)and a relationship develops He finds himself drawn into covering up when she kills her husband but he soon becomes the prime suspect in the case.There is  a twist ending I openly acknowledge I did not see comingOn the plus side are a clutch of strong performances,although Dance is quite dreadful,with an American accent that strays all over the place and goes missing altogether at times.I still shudder at the memory of his sheer woodenness as Coriolanus at Stratford some while back,and he should not be allowed within a country mile of a movie camera ever again.Harris subtly conveys the gradual coming apart of a cool,and proficient pro when in thrall to lust,and Stowe is never less than compelling even when as here the dialogue is a little cliche ridden.Del Toro shows why he has since gone on to better things The movie sat on the shelf a while and I guess was disinterred following Stowe's higher profile after The Last of the Mohicans and Blink I am glad they revived it since it is watchable and intriguing but Dance and a slight flatness in direction by John Bailey,whose work as cinematographer I admire plus the egregious Mr Dance see it marked down a tad in my estimation  "},{"Title":"Not too bad....","Date":"6 September 2008","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" A nice little thriller with a twist. Charles Dance wasted again, this time with the most ridiculous Southern accent. I like Ed Harris in just about anything, so he got me through this one. Stowe is good; I have also liked her in other movies where you have to pay attention to the dialog. I have lately discovered that del Toro has been around much longer than I realized - it is nice to see his early work as an indication of the presence he has on-screen. The comparisons to Body Heat are understandable - but I think this one stands on its own as one way to spend an evening with a movie that you actually watch to see what happens. "},{"Title":"Clever, if familiar.","Date":"8 May 2001","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":"  All the others have already mentioned Body Heat as one of the key influences on the makers of this film, so I'd like to point out that the story line also bears a strong resemblance to No Way Out the man who is supposed to be investigating a case also has to hide the fact that he is the mystery figure everybody is looking for! The story is smartly written and well-planned, and when you watch this for the first time, you'll be genuinely surprised by some of the plot developments. The film is, unfortunately, too derivative and familiar to be outstanding, but it IS boosted by some great performances; watch for a young Benicio Del Toro, already showing a unique screen presence.    (**) "},{"Title":"Mostly Predicable, yet still fun neo-noir","Date":"5 June 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is a mostly predictable neo-noir film worth seeing for the fine acting. There's at least one surprise twist in the story to spice it up. I have some issues with the Ed Harris character making some rather dumb moves. I wanted to yell at the screen. I suppose that was needed or they'd have no movie, as my wife pointed out. And besides stupid moves are often the case in films where a femme fatale has some poor guy blinded by love and lust. Often an otherwise intelligent law abiding man throws it all away for the love of an attractive woman in trouble. The movie was visually impressive at times and the ending will stick with you. I rate it 6 out of 10 stars. "},{"Title":"Good performances by Ed Harris and Madeleine Stowe make 'China Moon' a good cinema experience !!!!","Date":"6 April 2015","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" China Moon had a limited run when it was released in 1994.It was resurrected when television channels started to show it on regular basis in 1995.The success of this film proves that television can always be considered as a viable alternative to cinema for certain films.This gave a new lease of life to this film about an experienced cop who is destroyed due to overconfidence in trusting a rich girl friend and a junior colleague at office.There are plenty of good moments in this film which can interest viewers.It is with great interest viewers can watch how actor Benicio Del Toro's character is developed.He gets trained by working under a nice boss but his outsmarting his boss is a complete shock to viewers.Ed Harris is cool in his role as a cop who doesn't know much about imminent dangers when he is part of a romantic relationship with a rich woman.Actors Charles Dance and Madeleine Stowe provide good support to the story as the couple whose marriage has crumbled due to differences of ideas. "},{"Title":"It makes him feel alive to see someone dead","Date":"4 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" **SPOILERS** Going to the JJ Lounge to let off some steam after a hard day's work at his job Tampa police detective Kyle Bodine, Ed Harris, notices this sexy woman sitting at the bar by herself and decides to make his move before-knowing that she wound't be alone for too long-someone else does. The woman turns out to be Rachel Munro, Madeleine Stowe, wife of the president of the Munro Bank Rupert, Charles Dance.Kyle a Little too drunk for his own good ends up-against his better judgment- getting hooked by Rachel's looks and, even though he knows that she's married, starts up an extramarital affair with her. It's not long after that Rachel's tells the love-sick Kyle that her marriage with Rupert is on the rocks with her wanting to get out of it but can't. Rupert has all the dough, 12 million smackers, and she wont get a penny of it if he divorces her. As for Rupert he's having a little action on the side with his girlfriend Adele, Patricia Healy,which in fact his wife not only knows about but has very incriminating photos of Rupert & Adele, with their clothes off and in hot and heavy action, that she can use to blackmail him.With all this evidence of infidelity on Rupert's part it seemed to make no sense to me why Rachel would try to hook in the innocent Kyle in a plan to off her husband in the first place. It's later when we find out who's really behind this whole dirty rotten scheme it becomes very apparent that the very naive and innocent Kyle who was just looking for a good time-that fateful evening at JJ's Lounge-and nothing else was set up right from the start before he ever laid eyes on Rachel.Kyle despite his partners homicide detective Lamar Dickey, Benicio Del Toro, warnings gets deeply involved with Rachel's troubles with Rupert beyond his professionalism as a policeman. Kyle gets involved in a murder that was secretly staged and cold-bloodily executed to not only do in Rupert but end up framing him in having committed it! In not just the murder itself but the blotched, with all the evidence of the crime pointing to himself, cover-up that was to followed it!***SPOILERS*** With the noose tightly closing around Kyle's neck he soon comes to realize that the only way out for him is to come clean in admitting-to his immediate boss on the police force- what a sucker he was in falling for Rachel's trap that has him now the prime suspect in her husband's murder. It's then by studying the candid photographs of the late Rupert and Adeles secret affair that Kyle realizes just who besides Rachel was involved in Rupert's murder! Still with him now an accessory after the fact, in covering up the crime, Kyle's life is in shambles with even Rachel, if she decides to confess to the crime, not being able to save him. "},{"Title":"Underrated film","Date":"19 December 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Although I'm a film buff I had never heard of this film, but found it surprisingly good. The plot isn't particularly startling but there are some neat twists. Above all, there is a terrific performance from Ed Harris as Kyle. You can see from the way the other cops react to him just how good he is at his job, and how much they respect him, and his fall from grace is heart-rending. By the end of the film, he looks about ten years older than he did at the beginning. His romance with Rachel is totally convincing - just the way he looks at her says it all. All in all, an interesting film which didn't deserve to sink without trace.  "}{"Title":"Watched a Really good movie spoiled by a silly ending.","Date":"9 May 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" I watched this film today. Really liked it except in the last nine minutes where the whole effort unravels and becomes saccharine, syrupy and quite frankly not noir! When Rachel sees Bodine being shot she cries out, runs out and then shoots Lamarre. That scene simply reduced the film to the ranks of the ordinary when it could so easily have been great. It spoiled the noir effect. If that last scene was to be true to her character, she would not have cared. That scene to my mind spoiled the whole picture. If it were me, I would have her smile quietly, to herself, and then turn quickly and slip out of scene to enjoy her millions with whomsoever she wanted to. That last scene was not at all good, right, and should have been left on the cutting floor.Spoiled what was a good good movie!Body Heat did it right. "},{"Title":"Stowe's talent wasted","Date":"7 March 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" Caught this on late night TV recently, and only watched because I admired Stowe's work in Playing by Hearts. The constant use of lighting to make everyone's eyes look luminescent, apparently intended to add to the film noir mood, just made you wonder if there was some kind of aliens are among us subplot coming up, and disguised Stowe so thoroughly that she was virtually unrecognizable through whole sections of the film. Others have commented on the plot holes, and there are many, not the least of which occur in the climactic scene, where some fine work by Stowe is ruined by the extreme unlikelihood that things could have gone down that way. "},{"Title":"He thought it was love. It was murder.","Date":"10 May 2016","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" This film is a great example of the classic Film Noir plot Murder and conspiracy to defraud an insurance company. China Moon never ceases to surprise us with plot twists. The difference is that Ed Harris is a murder detective but doesn't know what he's up against. He's put in the position to cover up a murder that he didn't commit but would ultimately implicate him. But the killer isn't telling him everything...What I like in this movie, is the love story between Harris and Stowe. Both actors perform on such high level, that keeps your attention from beginning all the way to the end. Ed Harris is always better than his material. Madeleine Stowe's sexy performance would get a rise out of a stone idol. We want them to be together. And when Stowe get in big troubles, we want Harris to help her. At the same time we have to think, that she is just setting him up, but we want to believe her. The acting was excellent. The pacing just right to hold my interest and the ending was creative although a bit unbelievable.Overall rating 8 out of 10. "},{"Title":"Back to the good old days....","Date":"8 May 2016","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" .....at a time when thrillers have become pretentious ,with plots so complicated it's hard to decipher them,it is entertaining to watch again a film noir as Siodmak and others used to do formerly.Today's screenwriters' approach is sometimes somewhat too oblique to be easily accessible to the old film noir buff.Madeleine Stowe is ideally cast as the femme fatale,she has beauty and mystery going for her and that angel face which can win all men over (that's Del Toro's character's words);Ed Harris is equally efficient as a naive cop,although the way he discovers the truth (the compass) is not very subtle,unless it's a metaphor (he has lost his way after all).By and large ,this is an entertaining movie,you can watch again after all these years ,provided you like straightforward suspenseful stories. "},{"Title":"A Virtual Lack of Style but Magnetic Neo-Noir Acting","Date":"26 November 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" A Strong Trio of Actors, Ed Harris, Madeleine Stowe, and Benicio Del Toro are the Force Behind This Fairly Conventional Neo-Noir. What is Lacking is Style. Film Noir and its Modern Evolution Neo-Noir are at Their Best When They Contain an Amount of High-Style to Punch the Plot of Deception, Lust, Etc.In This One , the Story is Pedestrian and the Movie is Virtually Without Much Beyond a Few Night and Rainy Shots that are Certainly Noir's Template. But the Acting is So Strong it Involves from the Beginning and the Audience is Engaged with These Characters. A Twisted Ending is a Bit Heavy Handed and Some of the Important Plot Points Involving Switcheroos are Glossed Over Too Hurriedly and Lose Some Impact. But Overall the Movie is Worth a Watch for the Always Interesting Noir Sensibilities and the Magnetic Actors. It's Mid-Range Neo-Noir, Neither One of the Best Nor One of the Worst. "},{"Title":"China Moon invented the 1990's in the realm of Film Noir.","Date":"20 March 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" Film Noir strikes again! This film is a great example of the classic Film Noir plot Murder and conspiracy to defraud an insurance company. Not unlike the previous films Body Heat (Deluxe Edition) (1981) and The Postman Always Rings Twice (1946 and 1981) or even Double Indemnity(1944), China Moon never ceases to surprise us with plot twists. The difference is that Ed Harris is a murder detective but doesn't know what he's up against. He's put in the position to cover up a murder that he didn't commit but would ultimately implicate him. But the killer isn't telling him everything...Stowe is a great femme Fatale in this early 90's film starring Benicio Del Toro and Wayne Shorter. In a city where the majority of city blocks are occupied by industrial sectors of DeDonde Inc., conspiracies are frequently started for various reasons. In a town where cops help criminals and criminals help cops, Ed Harris is up against a web of deceit and confusion. He's the best man for the job, but is the job designed to frame him for MURDER? Madeline Stowe isn't telling him everything, and his detective partner Del Toro may have some cards up his sleeve as well.Shorter is a local bar owner who sees it all, trying to help Harris before it's too late without letting Del Toro know the score, not to mention Stowe. With the help of a local inventor-gone-mad, Shorter is given a device that will help Ed Harris freeze time and therefore understand why all evidence points to him as the killer. (The device was intended for DeDonde Inc.) But Shorter is also double-crossed when MICHAELmATICIAN uses the device against him at the bar (in an effort to win a game of pool). Will Harris beat the rap? Will Shorter prove that it was Stowe? China Moon is real, as is the Michrotron. MICHAELmATICIAN states that we must learn to see the Michrotron at once. China Moon is also recommended.2.342 (Jeremy Shingles) "},{"Title":"slow first half in functional thriller","Date":"19 May 2015","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" Kyle Bodine (Ed Harris) is the lead detective teaching less experienced Lamar Dickey (Benicio del Toro). Kyle is taken with Rachel Munro (Madeleine Stowe). She had hired a private eye to take pictures of her wealthy banker husband Rupert Munro (Charles Dance) cheating. Rachel buys a gun and starts a romance with Kyle. Kyle and Lamar are called in on a domestic abuse at the Munros. While Kyle is helping her leave her abusive husband, she shoots him in self-defense. She fears the perception of her unregistered gun and no witnesses. She convinces Kyle to help her cover up the killing. Kyle and Lamar investigate the missing Monro. Lamar finds surprising new evidences seeming to point to Kyle.This is very much by the book hard-boiled thriller. The movie moves a bit too slowly for the first half. It needs to start with Kyle and Rachel already in a heated romance. There's no need to waste time developing the chemistry. These are great actors able to sell an already heated romance. They need to get to the killing faster. The tension is all in the cover-up. It's basically a 40 minute setup. This is a bit slow and the tension is not high until the second half. However it has great actors and they keep the movie going. "},{"Title":"Good leads but the story isn't that great","Date":"5 November 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" This is worth a watch just for the 3 main leads. Ed Harris when he had some hair, Benicio before his eyebags got too dark and Madeleine Stowe at her most beautiful. The camera spends a lot of screen time focussing on moonlight shots of her lovely face.The story itself is predictable and familiar but that's okay. Beautiful woman married to brutish wealthy man who cheats on her (why would someone cheat on such a beautiful wife?). A cop falls in love with her and guess what bang bang the husband is dead. The conclusion feels a bit cheap and weak and that is disappointing.Despite its flaws I think it's worth a watch for the actors just don't expect a great story. "},{"Title":"Loony tale","Date":"1 August 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" Talk about plot twists! Just when you think you've got this movie figured out, it yanks the rug out from under you and it's a whole new storyline.This is an outrageously unlikely but entertaining thriller that pays homage to Body Heat in ways that kept me consistently suspicious of the Madeleine Stowe character. How wrong I turned out to be. And she keeps on surprising up to the film's final frame. Ed Harris does a great job of playing the fall guy; a kind of double agent -- criminally tampering police detective probing the murder to which he is an accomplice. Bravo, Ed, and I loved the red hair.Plaudits, too, to Benecio del Toro as a schemer of almost Shakespearean proportions. He's excellent as a Jekyll-Hyde-like wet-behind-the-ears rookie and criminal mastermind.If you like movies that keep you guessing, take a look this one at the next full moon... "},{"Title":"Follow the Template","Date":"17 February 2001","Score":"","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The film classic `Double Indemnity' has become a template for dozens of movies.  A woman is involved in an abusive and/or loveless marriage.  She meets a man, and they begin to have an affair.  She tells him how miserable she is in the marriage, and he agrees to help her murder her husband.  The man believes he is skilled enough to cover up the crime.  But then the cover-up begins to unravel.  Part of the joy of watching films of this genre is trying to predict how things are going to go wrong, and whether the wife (who almost always stands to inherit a fortune after her husband dies) will eventually betray her lover.  `China Moon' follows this formula except for two deviations.  The wife (played by Madeleine Stowe) alone kills the husband (Charles Dance, in another example of a British actor trying to use a Southern accent, and sounding ridiculous).  The lover (a detective played by the always good Ed Harris) doesn't kill the husband, but he does agree to cover up the crime.  But more importantly there is a plot twist toward the end of the film that is unbelievable and sends the film off in the wrong direction.The movie would have been better served if it had followed the template and instead played off the a relationship between Harris and his partner, played by Benicio Del Toro.  Early in the film the veteran Harris chastises his young partner for not being observant.  A better plot line would have been for Del Toro to prove his partner wrong.  "}{"Title":"Body Heat Knock-off with a Twist","Date":"16 September 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Doesn't have the flow, suspense and 'takes you there' quality of Body Heat. Harris works too hard. Stowe isn't given much to do except look nervous and beautiful. Del Toro, showing some evidence of his coming star power camera presence, is largely unused. "},{"Title":"poor plot wasted good acting","Date":"16 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" First of all, the acting was great. Ed Harris was just plain wonderful. While I don't require perfect realism or logic and understand the noir conventions that rely on twists and coincidences,this movie is hurt by inconsistencies that happen because of inconsistent application of intelligence. Kyle is smart and not a noir chump. He isn't brought down by accidents or because he is just too dim to figure things out. Kyle just acts dumb and/or unobservant sometimes and that is hard to buy into. Had the script relied on something other than Kyle's uneven smarts, this could easily have rated an 8 or 9 just on the strength of Ed Harris' eye contact with Ms. Stowe. "},{"Title":"Women are such little connivers....and men so gullible","Date":"2 February 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Here we have a police officer with a nice little life who just can't leave well enough alone. He is sucked into a crime which involves more than is apparent at first glance. Greed and lust were the motivating factors for all in this sordid look at the uglier side of human nature. Thumbs up.  "},{"Title":"Haven't I seen this before?","Date":"3 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Not a bad film...but I would have enjoyed it a lot more if I had never seen Body Heat...or for that matter Double Indemnity. This is supposed to be a cine' noir thriller, and I suppose it is. It's just that the other films just like it were better.  "},{"Title":"Dull, dry Noir-wannabee","Date":"30 December 2009","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" OK, now I get it. I just checked the credits of China Moon's screenwriter and my fears have been confirmed...prior to this, two credits, both TV. That's about the caliber of this by-the-numbers Neo-noir thriller that's both not very thrilling and not very noir.Noir needs to be moody, atmospheric, and contain dialog with a snap and particular rhythm. China Moon's script appears to have been attempted after a cursory browsing of Noir for Dummies. Yes, there's snappy patter...unfortunately it's all trite done-to-death snappy patter. There's virtually not one line I couldn't predict. When Harris and Stowe first meet, the exchange is wooden and you can sense the actors struggling futilely to make something original out of it.Ed Harris gives everyone his smoldering 500-yard stare but it's nothing he hasn't offered before in much better films. Stowe and he don't seem to connect on virtually any level, but with a script this bad there's nothing to draw sparks from. Benecio DelToro looks bored out of his mind, Pruitt Taylor Vince is completely wasted. This movie could have benefited from a more unknown, fresher cast. Sending these vets into this junior high knock-off production is a little like hiring Larry Olivier to star in your kid's school pageant.Virtually nothing in the plot comes as a surprise. You find yourself thinking surely it's not this simple only to be woefully disappointed. The hook-line here --- Sooner or later they all f*** up --- is so stale and stupid it's cringe-worthy. And the lame attempt at a tragic ending makes it more than mock-worthy....you have to have substantial investment in characters for a tragedy of this scale to really pay off. There's none of that here.Yeah, sooner or later.... In this case, for screenwriter Roy Carlson....MUCH sooner. "},{"Title":"Low budget movie that moderately catches your attention","Date":"11 November 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Good for a rainy sunday viewing. China moon is a low budget thriller with your typical beautful girl, handsome guy, murder, some sex and plenty of bar and restaurant scenes.Now that pretty much somes up the movie but if your into predictable low budget psychological thrillers you may like this. The acting wasn't great-I had no problem visualizing the director yelling CUT!!, And The movie relies on haunting music in the backround to give it that sexy/sleezy quality.All this isn't a bad thing, not neccessarily because some people like these types of movies occasinally myself included. Just know what your watching before your watching it.SPOILER ALERT-DON'T READ ANYMORE UNLESS YOU WANNA KNOW THE ENDING.Quick sidenoteMost of these types of movies have predcitable happy endings. China Moon didn't which was the only unpredictable thing about the movie. I'm not sure whether that makes me want to cheer or gag. "},{"Title":"A totally Derivative Film","Date":"7 February 2004","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":"  It's hard to imagine Madeline Stowe and Ed Harris making a worse film. This movie was plagued by a terrible plot, which borrowed 90% from Body Heat and 10% from Harris' own The Last Innocent Man.  If you insist on watching it, quit after the early bar scene.  It's use of Anson Funderburgh and the Rockets, featuring Sam Myers (on vocals), is the movie's lone highlight.  "},{"Title":"China Moon is 'Paper' Moon Thin **1/2","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" Ed Harris and Madeleine Stowe light up the screen in this thriller about an intelligent cop who always claims that the murderer messes up. Was that line ever true. Harris begins an affair with Stowe, who is in an abusive marriage with a very effective Charles Dance, who sports a southern drawl amid his misery.When Stowe shoots Dance in self-defense, Harris willingly becomes an accessory by destroying the clues. It seems like the perfect crime is committed until Harris's assistant, a very good Benecio Del Toro, shows that he is much more capable than Harris ever thought. In fact, he is a little too smart.It's at this point that the movie begins to sag. The ironic ending is a bit too much to swallow. "},{"Title":"Saved by the acting","Date":"24 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" This falls into the erotic thriller category, but doesn't over due it. It fits the basic neo-noir pattern depicting a sympathetic and ordinarily upstanding man drawn into covering up for an abused wife. It doesn't come up to the quality of older and of classic noirs, but the acting especially from Ed Harris and Madeline Stowe keeps it going. Benicio Del Toro isn't to be overlooked either, but he was not yet developed into the great performer he was in TRAFFIC.As others have indicated, this isn't a truly bad film and if one overlooks the flaws and just enjoys the performances, it's definitely worth watching Alert viewers won't be surprised by twists in the plot, but the ride is still good enough for a rental. "},{"Title":"Love the Blues Band","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This Body Heat rip-off is unimaginative and tiresome.  Everybody but Benicio Del Toro seemed to be going through the motions. The best part of the film was the appearance of Anson Funderburgh and the Rockets featuring Sam Myers. They are credited as the Blues Band. Opened for them once. Skip the cost of the DVD and buy an Anson CD and enjoy some tasty Texas Blues guitar licks and the soulful vocals of Sam Myers  "}{"Title":"Miami Bitch","Date":"24 June 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Romance, Thriller","Review":" Anyone seeing this will recognize it as a variation on Body Heat. In some ways it's better, but in most it's not as good. Body Heat had several things going for it that China Moon does not. Its sultry score was distinctive. This score is generically blue. So's the photography. In Body Heat, the images actually looked hot. In the caf scenes you could almost smell the humidity and the fat molecules hanging in the air, although in fact they were probably shot through a Vaseline-coated lens. Here, instead of heat, we get a harsh icy blue tint to many of the scenes. When we are out of doors, in the rain and mud, under the blue lights, it seems positively chilly. (And the director was a photographer himself!) The acting in both films is mixed. Kathleen Turner sounds breathless but doesn't exude a particularly high level of heat energy, whereas Bill Hurt is excellent as a dumb lawyer. Ed Harris here is less inventive that Hurt but does a solid job. As for Madeleine Stowe. It isn't easy to measure physical beauty accurately. Lately psychologists have been fiddling around with various mathematical ratios based on the idea that facial symmetry per se is attractive, but the results so far have been mostly good for laughs. A more reliable, if rougher, way to get at it is to filter one person's appearance through someone else's perception of it. Build an ordinal scale of ranks. You can get a pretty good idea of how attractive a face looks if you ask 100 members of the opposite sex to rank it from one to ten, ten being highest. Stowe, I should think, would come out pretty high on such a scale, although symmetry would have absolutely nothing to do with it, anymore than it would with Nastassja Kinsky or Gwyneth Paltrow. Not a bit of it. Stowe's anthracite irises are slightly crossed under their long black lashes, and her lips are appealingly askew. She may not be symmetrical, but man she could play a Franklin stove and get away with it.The plot, such as it is, isn't as filled with the kind of intrigue and uncertainties of the original model. It has a certain familiar mechanical quality to it. Much more stuff about switched and hidden guns. And it ends in a kind of tragic shootout, instead of a full-throated blast of irony. It's also a bit hard to follow, in a way the original was not. Until the shooting of Stowe's husband, I could understand all of it. Stowe genuinely loved Harris. After that, when the frame begins to take shape, I became confused about when the sinister plot was planned and hatched. And why and when did Stowe's emotion toggle from love to exploitation? The story no longer made sense, having lost its continuity with the first half. And, surprisingly, it lacks evocative touches and local color. No tinkling wind chimes. No humor to speak of. And Florida? It could as easily have been Nebraska. "}]