[{"Title":"Exciting and amusing movie about an undercover agent infiltrated in the skydiving sport","Date":"3 May 2005","Score":"18 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The tale deals with U.S. Marshal (Wesley Snipes) who along with his brother (Malcolm Jamal Warner) are caring a convict (Michel Jeter) into a Boeing plane . Then he is abducted by a villain (Gary Busey) and underlings (Luca Bercovici and Claire Stanfield) and dropped in parachute . Snipes sets off in pursuit and is signed up in a skydiving airport instruction (managed by Yancy Butler) with the aim to resolve the issue .It's an action-ride movie from start to finish and the intrigue is continued . This solid though predictable thriller contains dazzling airborne stunts which keeps you tied on the edge of your seat . The film mingles suspense , tension , thriller, action-packed and is very entertaining because happens several events . The final confrontation amongst the protagonist and enemies is stimulating and breathtaking . Mind-numbing and incredible storyline is redeemed by breathtaking skydiving scenes . If you can suspend you disbelief , this crime-adventure is just enjoyable and keep you entertained . The movie is fast moving and the action pace is rightly directed and for that reason the flick isn't boring , nor dreary but is bemusing . Of course , the spotlights and great climax of the film are the flight scenes , it is spellbound and overwhelming . There aren't special effects but ¨stunts¨ who make it astounding . Wesley Snipes interpretation is good , he is making an important step as an action movie hero-star (Blade) . Gary Busey plays very nice the nasty role , as usual , and Yancy Butler is enticing and enjoyable . Hans Zimmer music is fine but with too much tuning knob and little symphonic music . The motion picture collaborated to create the ¨ skydiving genre film ¨ whose initial outing was ¨The Gypsy Moths¨(1969) by John Frankenheimer , thus has a certain remembrance to  ¨Break Point¨ (Patrick Swayze and Keanu Reeves) , ¨Terminal velocity¨ (with Charlie Sheen and Natassja Kinski) and ¨Cutaway¨ (Tom Berenger and Stephen Baldwin) . The motion picture was correctly directed by the veteran Joh Badham with assured and fast moving direction . Badham's breakthrough credit was the box office smash Fever Saturday night (1977) ; other hits on his resume include The Blue Thunder (1983), War games (1983), and Shortcircuit (1986). He's a nice director who achieved his greatest success in the 80s and 90s . He directed several hits (Nick of time , Skateout ,Point of No Return , Bird on a wire) , though today making TV movies (Jack Bull , Floating away) and television episodes (Crossing Jordan, Psych, Las Vegas, Standoff , Heroes). In addition , ¨Drop zone¨ film in which the action lovers will enjoy this ode to the skydiving sport, in spite of story deficiencies . Rating  Good , worthwhile watching . "},{"Title":"Enjoy this hearty action movie","Date":"13 February 2002","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Drop Zone is an action ride from start to finish starring Wesley Snipes as a detective hunting down the men who killed his brother.  No, the movie won't win any academy awards, but it is a thoroughly enjoyable action romp.  The action is excellent, the girls are gorgeous, and the musical score is top notch.  If you go in looking for a touching movie, don't bother.  But if you just want something to enjoy for a couple hours of visual fun that requires little mental exercise, this will do quite nicely. "},{"Title":"A movie I love","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Although it's utterly ridiculous, I really, really enjoy this movie. Badham is a fine, if underrated action/thriller director; WarGames is great, Nick of Time is good, and his other notable movies include Stakeout, Saturday Night Fever, and The Bingo Long Traveling All-Stars and Motor Kings. He keeps Drop Zone moving quickly enough that suspended disbelief doesn't lift, which is a good thing considering that the bad guys are rogue skydivers. Seriously. Fortunately, the head bad guy is played by Gary Busey, who could make an interior decorator evil.There's some great aerial photography, and it makes skydiving look awesome. It's extremely well-paced, the supporting cast is likable, and the script is enjoyably amusing. Snipes is one of the premier action stars of his generation, and his presence alone can elevate a movie from the mediocre to the above average. And Yancy Butler is absolutely smoking. End of story.This movie is actually one of the more compulsively watchable to be released at the end of the action movie renaissance of the mid-'80s to mid-'90s. I'd watch it right now, even though I just saw it last night. My definition of a good movie. "},{"Title":"your typical action movie","Date":"11 March 2002","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Drop Zone is pretty much your typical action movie - at least plot wise. Wesley Snipes turns in another passenger 57ish performance, not great but competent. and Gary Busey is always competent playing a guy you always want to die no matter how bad the plot gets.The movie however, is worth watching more than other bland action movies because firstly, the skydiving scenes are shot wonderfully. The cinematographer and the stuntpeople (unless thats Snipes in a free fall, which i doubt) are the true stars of this one. I really enjoyed watching the skydiving sequences in this movie.plot wise, the movie kinda plods along, not a whole lot of suspense but enough of a story to keep people entertained. I think its worth watching at least once, purely for the skydiving and action sequences.Also, besides being a fairly competent actress - one I can actually believe skydives -  Yancy Butler is really hot. "},{"Title":"Watchable popcorn","Date":"15 September 2013","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This movie was made at the same time as &#x84;Terminal velocity with Charlie Sheen. Some people are complaining that one movie is a rip-off the other. To be honest I don't know who is right. I don't really care. Both movies are on the same level. Both are decent popcorn movies to kill some time. Nothing to write home about.I have a soft spot for Gary Busey and I'm happy that he's the villain in Drop zone . Wesley Snipes as hero is nice , because he gives his rather generic hero some depth. You can obviously feel his pain.The movie has some quite attractive photography and interesting music. It also gives us some insight at the skydivers community.All in all it's not a bad way to spend a night. I give it 5/10. "},{"Title":"WESLEY & BUSEY AT THEIR VERY BEST.","Date":"10 September 2002","Score":"6 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I watch this movie at least once a month, just for the adreneline rush. Sometimes, as often as needed!  Wesley really pushes to the edge in this one.The entire cast were excellent!  Including Mr. Busey, of course.The writers and casters of the movie did really well with little details, like turf fights, base not on race, but on the fact that you are not welcome here.  Then there was The Title On The Book Wesley was reading while flying on the jetliner.He didn't get the girl,  but he did achieve more mile stones in the movie world for all of us, as one people. "},{"Title":"Skydivers with a big budget","Date":"2 January 2001","Score":"11 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  <*sigh!*>  Am I the only one this entire sad, weary world who notices that all these action films use the exact (and I mean exact!) same plot?  Or am I just the only one who cares?As action movies go, this one is OK, I guess.  (But that's a little bit like saying As cases of diarrhea go, this one was OK.)  On the plus side, the aerial photography depicting the skydiving scenes was spectacular.  There were the requisite number of explosions, chase scenes, and witty banter on the part of both the hero (Wesley Snipes) and the villain (Gary Busey), delivered archly in the expectation that one of their ripostes might become a popular catchphrase.  And Yancy Butler is not too hard to look at, either.However, if I pay $8 or $9$ to watch a film, I expect a little more than something made from a cookie cutter.  Hollywood spends a great deal of time, effort and money putting together movies with extraordinary special effects, and they've become quite good at it.  OK, so I'm impressed!  Can't a few more of them work a little bit on story, characterization and dialogue?  Is that really too much to ask?As I watched this movie (and to be fair, I stumbled across it on television rather than paying an exorbitant ticket price at the theater; this probably made me more disposed to be tolerant) All I could think was that this is what Coleman Francis might have made had he had a bigger budget.  Maybe he would have thrown in more coffee, cigarettes, booze and bad tempered swearing as well. "},{"Title":"U.S.Marshal chases skydiving criminals","Date":"17 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" i liked this movie,but i didn't love it.if you like watching people jump out of parachutes,you'll enjoy this one.there are a few good action sequences,including a involving bad guys kidnapping someone from a 747 at 38,000 feet and escaping with parachutes.Wesley Snipes is in this one as a U.S Marshal on their trail and he also has a personal stake in catching them.he has some decent fighting scenes,but he has been better.Malcolm-Jamal Warner also appears in a definite departure from his Cosby Days character of Theo Huxtable. Gary Busey is also in the movie,and is his usual reliable self.Michael Jeter is also good for some laughs.and of course,for eye candy,we have Yancy Butler,who is also a fairly good actress.at least i have always thought so.when you put everything together,the movie is pretty good though not great.still, i enjoyed it for the most part.my vote for Drop Zone7/10 "},{"Title":"this could have been a great film if was executed well","Date":"20 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" sadly the director had no idea how to finish the climax because the whole story could have looked fantastic if the climax was superb.the cast was nice Wesley snipes & Yancy butler doing comedy & most action was done by Yancy butler specially the air action in which she skydives & grabs snipes.& later on the sea shore snipes punches her was hilarious.i loved Yancy in hard target & this is the second film of her i saw.now the story is about few convicts escaping from a plane & snipes as a cop goes after them with the help of Jessie a sky diving instructor.this was a good concept & i felt many things were missing the scenes were not filmed correctly.leaving holes in the plot such as Jessie wanted to shoot the guy in the plane but she did not,if Jessie would have shot him because she was alone going after the bad guys that would have been epic as this whole build up to the climax never make any senseits just a one time watch film don't expect anything from it.there are some nice stunts worth looking rest is boring.my rating is 5/10 .i can only give 5 points so far watch drop zone 1994 for Yancy butler she owned this film. "},{"Title":"Fun parachuting action film!","Date":"16 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This might not be a great film but it is a lot of fun. Wesley Snipes plays US Marshall Pete Nessip, when he and his partner are ordered to transport a prisoner it seems like a routine job until their plane is hijacked. The hijackers take the prisoner and parachute out of the plane, unfortunately Pete's seniors don't believe this is possible and assume the hijackers and the prisoner died in the explosion caused when Pete's partner shot one of the hijackers. Pete is suspended but he won't drop the case; after asking around as to who might possibly be able to pull such as stunt he goes to the local sky diving school where he meets Jessie Crossman, an attractive female parachutist who isn't unknown to the law. It isn't long before he learns that the real bad guys are another group of parachutists led by Ty Moncrief, an ex-DEA agent who is selling the identities of undercover agents. In order to stop Ty, Pete must join Jessie's group and learn to sky dive himself.The lead actors; Wesley Snipes, Gary Busey and Yancy Butler all put in decent enough performances and the story moves along at a cracking pace with lots of impressive sky-diving action, some good fight scenes and an explosive shoot out at the end. The only real flaw in the action sequences were the close-ups during the parachuting scenes where it didn't look as though the actors were really parachuting. As is usually the case with action films there was a decent amount of humour thrown in; mostly involving Kyle Secor's character 'Swoop'. "}{"Title":"Typical Snipes Film Brainless, But Entertaining","Date":"5 January 2007","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The only reason I gave this any kind of stars is that the story moves well, keeping one entertained. Otherwise, the dialog is so sophomoric and the characters so macho-idiotic, it might make one throw up. Also, the no one is likable in here and the Rambo mentality where the good guys never get shot while the reverse happens all the time just adds insult to injury. In other words, this is a typical Wesley Snipes movie of the period.I didn't care for the female lead, either, played by Yancy Butler, who is just too Hollywood '90s- tough and turned me off. An interesting film at times.....but extremely dumb. "},{"Title":"Eye of the cougar","Date":"23 July 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Gary Busey once again proves that nobody is as sneaky as Busey. We have ourselves another prime example of this in Drop Zone. Busey's character Ty Moncrief had it all. He was an evil genius, the greatest skydiver known to man, beautiful and of course, sneaky. Gary Busey is so sneaky that he is able to appear from thin air, grab Yancy Butler and growl in her face like a wild animal with nobody ever noticing him. To a man like you or I, this seems almost supernatural. To a cougar man, that's just everyday living. It is clear that Busey is well versed in hunting prey with his animal instincts. Another poster believes that Busey is half man half cougar. I've long thought this myself. Recently, however, I'm starting to believe that Busey is more cougar than man. How else to explain his mane? It's so unkempt and wild. No man, no matter how down and out or crazy has hair that wild. And Busey's grunts and growls are as fierce as any animal you would find in the wild. Certainly no man has ever growled quite like Busey. As time goes on it is becoming more and more clear that Gary Busey is a super species created by science, or from his determination and will power to become part cougar. The only thing that can stop him is if his thirst for the ultimate hunt takes over and the cougar dwelling inside him takes over the man inside him. If this were to happen, may god help us all. For, not only would we lose won of the greats of all time, he would probably eat all of our babies. Truly terrifying and impressive to think about. As for Snipes, he gives a nice performance of a man avenging Theo Huxtable. He goes undercover in the skydiving world to catch Busey. (I know, it's comical to think that somebody could hunt Busey. But movies are fantasy.) In a memorable montage scene Snipes learns all there is to know about skydiving in about five minutes. From there it's a fight between Snipes, with his intense training now the 2nd best skydiver, and Busey the world's greatest skydiver. Who will survive? How many people will Busey eat? How many pairs of drawstring pants will Snipes wear? How many crotches will Snipes punch? I won't give anymore away. "},{"Title":"what a rush","Date":"7 September 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  I watched this movie on television on lonely Sunday night, and was I ever surprised.  This movie is cool as hell.  Wesley Snipes plays Pete Nessip, a rogue U.S. Marshall hot on the trail of the criminals who killed his brother during a prison bread aboard a passenger plane.  The skydiving stuntwork is awesome, the action scenes are cool, and their are even a few funny parts to boot.  All things considered, I would recommend this movie to any action fans. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable in a silly way","Date":"16 January 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is fun. The premise is ridiculous -- really, a parachuting gang? But Wesley Snipes and Gary Busey liven it up. Don't take it too seriously, and you'll have a good time. It's one of my guilty pleasures. The idea of what's going on is a bunch of hooey, and really, Wesley Snipes hasn't made a lot of good movies lately, so this one is starting to look better and better. (Blade? Good. Blade 2? Pretty good. Blade 3?? Not so much.) He's better when he keeps it light, and this was before Gary Busey turned into a gigantic pile of mush and started to do reality television (gasp, ugh, barf). It's clever, reasonably well put-together, and goes down easy. "},{"Title":"Very Disappointing Snipes Film, That Has Some Good Action Scenes, And Great Sky Diving Stunts, However Snipes Plays A Pussy","Date":"28 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" This is a very disappointing Snipes film that has some good action scenes and some great sky diving stunts, however Snipes plays a pussy. All the characters are OK, and the story was decent, and while Snipes is simply amazing in this, i didn't care for his character, he was a pussy, and got his ass kicked throughout the movie,plus the fight scenes are bland, and we never see Snipes incredible martial arts talent!. Yancy Butler and Snipes had great chemistry together, and the plot was good, however the finale was lame. Gary Busey, is surprisingly bland here as the main villain, and looked bored, and i thought the movie could have been an awesome one!, however the opening was fantastic!, and very memorable and disturbing. The 1st half is really good, but falls completely apart in the 2nd, and as i said i was rather ticked, at Snipes's character,he was kind of a wuss, and this guy is an incredible martial artist!. The ending is satisfactory, however there are no thrills and suspense to be had. This is a very disappointing Snipes film that has some good action scenes and great sky diving stunts however Snipes plays a Pussy it's still worth the watch though, but not anything more then that. The Direction is OK. John Badham does an OK job here, with some good camera work, great angles, and he kept the film at decent pace. not much gore except some gunshot wounds. The Acting is very good. Wesley Snipes is AMAZING as always, however his character i did not like he was a bit of a pussy, and he got his ass kicked lots in the film, however he had great chemistry with Yancy Butler and was very charismatic, i just wished he showed off his incredible martial arts ability!. (Snipes Rules!!!). Gary Busey is not his usual fantastic self, he was quite bland as the villain, and looked bored, watch Lethal Weapn and Under Siege, to see him play a fantastic villain! (Busey rules). Yancy Butler is STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS!, and does fantastic here, she had great chemistry with Snipes, is extremely sexy, fantastic in the acting department, and had a very cool character! (Yancy rules). Rest of the cast do OK. Overall worth the watch. **1/2 out of (very close to a ***). "},{"Title":"One of the best action pictures of all time","Date":"21 August 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  The Drop Zone reminds one of Kathyrn Bigelow's great action film Break Point -- fantastic action, wonderful aerial shots and a solid story line. Drop Zone, from the first 10 minutes, leaves you breathless, and the aerial photography and stunts can't be beat! "},{"Title":"Solid action movie without too many frills","Date":"25 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Pete Nessip and his brother are escorting a federal prisoner to trail.  The prisoner is a top code breaker.  On the plane terrorists take over, kidnap the prisoner and sky dive out of the plane &#150; Nessip's brother is killed in the raid.  Nessip pursues the gang to uncover what really happened, joined a group of skydivers led by Jessie Crossman.  Meanwhile Moncrief is working out his plot to secretly uncover the identities of all DEA agents and sell them to a local drug lord.After the disaster of Passenger 57 you could understand if Snipes had passed on any more airplane related movies, but this is much better than 57 was.  The story is daft of course, but it does allow plenty of good aerial photography and some good action scenes.  However it takes itself a bit too seriously.  It came out in the same year as Terminal Velocity (Charlie Sheen's skydiving movie), where TV was much more fun to watch as it never took itself seriously, Drop Zone loses the fun a bit by taking it all as a serious movie.Despite that Snipes is really good &#150; as in 57 he is able to rise above the material and give a strong central performance. His charisma carries him even when his lines are weak and as usual his fight scenes are impressive.  Busey does his usual bad guy stuff easily and is so-so and the rest of the cast are ok.  The most interesting thing about the cast for me was the `Homicide, Life on the Street' connection that saw tow great actors from that cast in small roles here, namely Kyle Secor (who played Bayliss) and Clark Johnson (who played Lewis).Overall this is a solid action film.  It's nothing special and not overly impressive but it passes 90 minutes without leaving any negative (or positive) marks! "},{"Title":"Wesley Snipes - The Action Hero","Date":"26 October 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  In 'Drop Zone', which is more or less a film that just pads out his c.v. rather than contribute anyhting significant to his career, allows him to develop his skills in martial arts that he picked up whilst working on 'Rising Sun' with Sean Connery (who then went on to work with Laurence Fishburne in 'Just Cause'). Snipes was fast becoming the slick, middle class black hero with technical skills in martial arts rather than just a raw street fighter. "},{"Title":"Drop Zone!","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Drop Zone is one of the coolest films and has become one of My favorites! Wesley Snipes was good as always! Gary Busey was very good! Arguably his greatest role! Yancy Butler and Michael Jeter were also good! Everyone acted very well! There is very good fighting and exciting action and incredible skydiving jumps in this picture and some of the scenes are very intense! Great directing by John Badham! One awesome thing about this movie is the music by Hans Zimmer! The man of sound! His score here is one the best he has ever written and I feel it is one of the greatest scores in cinema history! I strongly recommend this film to fans who loves action, Snipes, Busey, Butler, Jeter, Badham, and Hans Zimmer! "},{"Title":"Twice What It Deserves","Date":"22 May 2006","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" A '4' is twice what this turkey deserves (a '2') but it's appropriate for a number of reasons, and the primary reason is John Badham who does an excellent job when given something to work with (WarGames, Stakeout 1 & 2, Point of No Return, Bird on a Wire, et al). But since making this flick all his movie projects have been real duds. Maybe there's a connection?Another two reasons are Yancy Butler and Claire Stansfield who provide the requisite eye candy. Another reason is Gary Busey who always knows how to play the stereotypical slime ball and do it at least half well. And the final reason is the skydiving which is exciting.But that's where it ends. This is otherwise a movie much like Do or Die, made with preconceptions in mind ('hey let's make a movie with lots of skydiving sequences') and no worries if the story actually makes any sense. And don't you worry about it either because it doesn't. One could elaborate here but those elaborations would be spoilers. And hey - dramatic denouement it ain't but if you don't got that...So why a '4' instead of a '2'? Why when the lead is being done by - Wesley Snipes? Why indeed? Precisely for the above reasons - and because as a whole it's exciting and not a total waste of time. In other words it isn't Gone with the Wind but maybe you don't feel like seeing Gone with the Wind tonight anyhow. "}{"Title":"Really bad work","Date":"24 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" The only reason to watch this movie is to enjoy the skydiving sequences. Really bad cinematography including bad artificial lighting, bad set design. and, further, why would anybody want to watch a movie with Gary Busey. I thought he had ODd long ago. Although it was fun to watch the work of Mr. Snipes, I think you may want to skip this one in favor of just about anything else with him in it. I was glad to see Yancy Butler in the film and hope that she continues to get work in Hollywood. I was really hoping for a better film when I selected this title from my online service and will write a similar review for them as well. "},{"Title":"There's things in here.......","Date":"6 November 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" US Marshal Pete Nessip and his brother Terry, also a US Marshal are assigned to escort convicted computer hacker Earl Leedy to a top-security prison.But the commercial airliner Pete and Terry are on-board is hijacked by a group of terrorists led by renegade DEA agent Ty Moncrief who kidnaps Leedy and Terry is killed.Believing Leedy is dead, Pete is held responsible for the incident and is suspended. Pete sets out to track down the terrorists, and turns to help from professional skydiver Jesse Crossman (Whose ex-husband Jagger is one of the terrorists working with Ty), where Jesse and her team are taking part in a Independence Day skydiving show in Washington D.C, where airspace security is at minimum.Where Ty plans to use Leedy to hack into the DEA mainframe computer to expose the identities of undercover DEA agents to international drug rings.When Jagger is killed by Ty and Selkirk, one of Jesse's team members is injured, Pete and Jesse team up to stop Ty and his associates, and both Pete and Jesse can get their revenge....There is a strange thing about Badham and his movies. They are strange average creatures that attract big stars, and for some reason, I cannot get enough of them.Here is a prime example of one. The action is limited to a few fights and some really bad blue screen diving (it really is the pits) but Snipes is at his swaggery best and really makes the film a little kookier.Released around the same time as Termianl Velocity, this is the more serious version, as Sheens monster really played it for laughs.Busey is out acted by his hair, and come the final scene, his hair has taken over his body, so his stunt double really has to wear the most awkward wig ever.Despite the bad effects and the average fight scenes, there is something about this movie that makes it watchable, when it shouldn't be... "},{"Title":"Good skydiving scenes, lame dialog","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  This is not one of Wesley Snipes best movies but it's not one of his worst either. The Skydiving scenes are beautifully done and the plot is pretty good. The dialog given to the actors is stale and boring. Watch it for the skydiving scenes. They, along with Wesley Snipes, Gary Busey and Yancy Butler are the only saving grace of this picture.Rayvyn  "},{"Title":"Remarkable","Date":"20 July 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I am impressed. We have an intricate plot. We have exciting characters. And we have Busey. Busey dominates the film. I am thoroughly pleased by his hair and his cougar-like movements. Every scene allows a unique perspective of Gary. I am astonished at how the director was able to capture the wild animal inside this man. Many films boast Busey and then fail to really let him out of his artistic cage. Drop Zone verifies my theory that Busey is a fearsome wild animal. It is phenomenal, but I have come to believe that Gary is actually half-man, half-cougar. And this is the film that convinced me. Sure, I had an inkling when I saw Hider in the House. And Plato's Run did more than drop a hint to me that something peculiar was going on with this actor's genetics. But Drop Zone stole my rational response to an unbelievable hypothesis.Snipes is satisfying. His wardrobe offers an intimate portrayal of character. The fashionable collarless tuxedo-style dress shirts reminded me of Monte Carlo or Naples maybe. Snipes seemed to say, Hey show me a man that looks as good as me and I'll eat him. All in all this film offers a chemistry between two men. Busey and Snipes embrace cinematic Parachuting almost as well as Reeves and Swayze embraced cinematic surfing. Remarkable. "},{"Title":"drop zone serious BS","Date":"13 February 2010","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" OK remember 9/11/2001?? well when Gary Busey made that comment in the movie drop zone about that guy with the scar! about 911 couldn't be happening or some others like that right??? well he made it yet this movies was made in 1994 h'm. people watch this movie carefully i had noticed movies many many years ago about scripts and comments they make, and they ever do so happen in the near future warning warning warning i believe the FBI . and government and people are signing in new levels of hints while living in china and as an ex-pat we teach Chinese students English while teaching we offer keywords this my friends is what you need to do. bare in mind while listening carefully to each script in the movies and watch them carefully time and time again and slow them down if needed to look at the back ground of such other movies esp. when it comes to war.politics,religion,history "},{"Title":"Testosterone overload","Date":"12 June 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Lots of whooping and punching the air with fists, very little story.I was hoping for more, this was really disappointing.  If you're into those sort of lively American movies then good luck to you.  "},{"Title":"You can do better Wesley!","Date":"27 December 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Not bad, but a little bit disappointing plot. "},{"Title":"Wild sky-diving action stuff","Date":"14 November 1998","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Hey, this is great fun.   OK, so the critics weren't too kind to it, but I guarantee nobody goes to sleep during it.  The opening bit is a little too close to PASSENGER 57 -  another Federal prisoner hijacked in mid-air!  - but this is a great flick for those who want some action and adventure in their diet.  A competent cast, but the real stars are the director and the stuntmen.  (And I'd like a dollar for every film Gary Busey has been killed in recently....) "},{"Title":"Are these people crazy?","Date":"5 May 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Why in the world would anyone jump out of a perfectly good Airplane? Why in the world would anyone think that watching people jump out of airplanes for two hours would be interesting? With the exception of the requisite eye candy - Yancy Butler, one of Stuff Magazine's 2002 Sexiest Women in the World, and Claire Stansfield - this movie really didn't have much going for it.Snipes seems to just walk though the movie with no real energy. It did have Gary Busey as the bad guy, a role he plays so well (Under Siege, Lethal Weapon), and i do get a kick out of Michael Jeter, but that's about it. "},{"Title":"DROP ZONE (DIDIER BECU)","Date":"2 September 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Even if I wanna have my usual dose of daily sport (on telly that is) I never loved it that much in movies, especially not those baseballthings but good...from now on skydivers have their own movie as well, Drop Zone, sole thing that is sad is that this is one of the worst actionmovies I have ever seen... Let's start with the good things  Gary Busey and Wisley Snipes do a decent thing just because they can act, but all the other actors are ...hmmmm how do you say that?, beyond the lowest level. And then that story!!!! A 747 is hijacked by some skydivers who wanna have a computerexpert who can sneak into pc's and once they have the man, they jump out of the plane (after having murdered most of the passengers) to dissapear. Snipes who was there with his brother saw how his brother was killed and of course he wants revenge...and for doing that he has to get into the skydiverscrew... Voila, and the rest of the movie you just see some skydivers and that's it, apart from counting some fists from Snipes. Terrible, and saying this was directed by John Badham...phew.... "}{"Title":"Jon Monsarrat review  only for action buffs","Date":"29 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" Let me start by admitting that Drop Zone is cheesy. It's better than Buckaroo Bonzai but not as good as Beverly Hills Cop.But there is a certain spirit that comes through the film. I am not a parachutist myself, but clearly some true enthusiasts were involved and the movie packs a punch of yeah, baby, yeah, baby!.Sort of like high school football is boring (frankly), but if you're rooting for your own home team, it's a lot better. Well, just watching the actors and especially the extras (who I'm guessing are real-life hobbyists) have the absolute time of their lives making this film made me feel good all over. It's like there's a subtext to the whole film that's one big party. They're high on life, and while it's not exactly inspiring, it's invigorating.Not as dumb as Murder at 1600, sort of on par with James Bond. Reminds me of that stuntman TV series Lee Majors did. It's silly, but you roll with it because you're an action flick junkie.Who should see this film-- action flick junkies-- borderline action flick lovers who dare to take a chance-- can't think of anyone elseI'll give this a 6 out of 10, sort of a merit badge for a good 5 flick. "},{"Title":"It's Not Bad.. It's Silly !","Date":"31 January 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" I know it's strange title but it's as strange as this movie !. We have here some nice elements to make one distinct Action  the unique atmosphere of skydiving, passenger 57 (Wesley Snipes) rides again, bad guys on the head of them Mr.(Gary Busey) himself !, and the capacities of (John Badham) the man who directed (Blue Thunder &#x96; 1983), (Short Circuit &#x96; 1986), (Stakeout &#x96; 1987), and (Nick of Time &#x96; 1995). And to tell you the truth the result was close to fair yet I found myself in the confusion zone ! Asking the same question  why this movie is so ridiculous ?!!. Is it the repetition of the plot ? Well, I saw that the details of the skydiving's world were quite catchy and dexterous but maybe too catchy and too dexterous ! As they were having bigger part than usual. So is the movie not hot enough ?! Well, I think that the events were hot but maybe too hot to a cold extent as I felt sometimes that I was watching a dull crazy cartoon with a lot of bloody violence in it, and the performance was too hot from everybody especially (Busey) who tried to be very evil to a level made him that evil indeed but for his role ! So instead of harming the other characters he harmed himself and us ! Hmm is it the drama ? Well, it happens to be that I'm a drama kind of person, and I didn't notice how at the end the hero got changed to a better man evidently among all of that annoying jam of too many BOOMS and BANGS !. Eventually I think it's that kind of matters when we have a lot of fast, empty and repeated everything. However that had been considered lately as fun, entertaining and brainlessly lovely. So by that measure it's not bad at all&#x85;Yet bear its effective sense of silliness ! "},{"Title":"A relatively interesting story, but awful special effects and some awkward acting reduce Drop Zone to lower shelf material.","Date":"16 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  Wesley Snipes didn't do much in the acting department here, but at least Drop Zone isn't as bad as Demolition Man, probably his worst role ever, followed closely by Blade. Although not exactly original, the scene where the federal witness is kidnapped from an airplane in mid-flight is pretty well-done, however improbable, and it leads into a fairly interesting story involving Gary Busey back in the bad guy type of role that he plays best and, ironically enough, he steals the show.There are two main problems with Drop Zone, one of them is Wesley Snipes, and the other one is the badly screwed up skydiving scenes. Snipes delivers an awful performance in a role strikingly similar to Keanu Reeves' role in Point Break. Look for example, at his goofy antics after his first jump. This is just dumb acting, and it really takes a lot away from what might otherwise have been a much better film. .However, if this film was to be of any quality at all, there had to be a complete overhaul and reconstruction of the idiotic skydiving scenes. There were quite a few scenes that contained actual footage of skydiving, but there were falsified close-ups edited into those scenes that completely ruined them as a whole. As a novice skydiver myself, these half-assed attempts at re-creating the mind-blowing reality of skydiving were very disturbing because they were so unrealistic. Besides that, some of the smart-ass stunts were even worse. For example, early in the film when Jessie drops Snipes through a trapdoor in the bottom of the plane without a parachute (she didn't like him at the beginning), the pilot makes a comment to her about how she wouldn't normally do something like that (if I remember correctly), she says something back, and then finally jumps out after him, catches up to him, secures him to her, opens her parachute, and they skydive safely the rest of the way to the ground. This is just total nonsense, and I hate seeing total nonsense in movies. In order to make airborne contact with another skydiver in the air, particularly before opening your chute, you literally have to jump out of the plane right on top of that person. If you wait more than about 2 seconds after they jump, they're already so far away and so lost in the tremendous sky that you won't even be able to see them again until after that person opens their chute. Keep in mind that when you jump out of a plane the sky is all around you, not just above you, and you're moving at high speed, so it's extremely difficult not to lose someone up there. Besides that, about 2 seconds after jumping from the plane, you can no longer tell which direction the plane was traveling, so you don't know which direction is backward, making it even more difficult to locate someone who jumped before you. In real life, that cute little stunt she pulled to give him a little scare would have meant certain death for him. The botched production of the skydiving element of this film was a huge disappointment, which is significant, given the name of the movie. On the other hand, it had a pretty interesting crime story that provided for some good action, and thank God Gary Busey was in this, because he really saved the movie from being a total loss. But I guess if you've never gone skydiving yourself, you probably won't notice all of those screw-ups as much as I did.  "},{"Title":"Skydiving","Date":"10 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  If you're a skydiver, you'll love this movie.  For everybody else, it's boring.  It's not a typical action-packed Wesley Snipes movie.  This one focuses on skydiving, and that's about it.  Lots of skydiving, and then some more skydiving.  They just threw in some token fight scenes at random to help tone it down, but it doesn't work.  I gave it 4* because Snipes is in it.  Without him, it would get 2*. "},{"Title":"DROP ZONE Wesely Snipes confronts the bombastic made for tv style evil villian.....SPOILERS and bring your own barf bags","Date":"11 May 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":"  DROP ZONE was a theatrical film with all the depth and quality of most low budget made for tv movies. Wesely Snipes must infiltrate a evil band of sky divers who parachute onto federal buildings to steal secret law enforcement files. Basically what this movie truly is comprised of, is a teensy weensy plot surrounded by scenes of Snipes and his on screen girlfriend Yancy Butler, saving each other after one of them gets thrown out of a airplane without a parachute. Yes, each of them get caught by the villian numerous times, only to get thrown out the bad guys plane without a chute, while the other dives to save them with a parachute on......Yeah. There is another flaw in this film, the parachutists are portrayed as TOP GUNISH hard drinking,brawling, hard partying sky diving lushes.....this couldn't be more untrue of real life sky divers. The last thing they need before a jump where the ground rushes up at them 3000 miles a hour is to have a 55 gallon drum of KILLIANS RED coursing through their bloodstream! Let's file this one under R for RUBBISH. "},{"Title":"Not As Good As It Could Have Been","Date":"1 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Action, Adventure, Thriller","Review":" US marshal Pete Nissep and his brother Terry are escorting a prisoner on a plane when it is hijacked . Terry is killed in the shoot out and the gunmen escape the plane by parachute , a feat that leads the FBI to conclude that the hijackers must be dead . Refusing to believe the hijackers are dead and driven by his brother's death Pete enlists the help of Jessie Crossman to find the sky-jackers Wesley Snipes is one of those actors who rarely makes a great movie . The upside of this is that he rarely makes an absolutely dreadful one either and DROP ZONE is keeping with Snipes consistent form in film making if not tax accounting . It's not great , not dreadful but is never as good as it might have been One wonders if the producers were conscious of POINT BREAK from a couple of years previous to this film which also featured subsections of free fall parachuting alongside Gary Busey in a pivotal role . Here Busey plays the villain and the film goes out of its way to present the sky diving as being the major feature of the story , so much so that it overwhelms all the other aspects of the story such as characterisation and plotting . There's only so many times you can watch stunt doubles fly through the air at 120 mph without wishing for a little more substance "}]