[{"Title":"Director Rush Goes Down with the Ship","Date":"8 July 2002","Score":"44 out of 69 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  There's a good film in here somewhere just aching to get out, but the filmmakers seem more interested in playing Box Office Wheel of Fortune than caring about the quality of the product they're trying to sell, and it makes `Color of Night,' directed by Richard Rush, one of those movies that makes you shake your head and think, Ah! what could have been if only!  And that single `if' makes all the difference in the world with regards to what finally winds up on the screen.When his treatment of a patient fails and ends tragically, leaving him with some pronounced psychological damage of his own, New York psychologist Dr. Bill Capa (Bruce Willis) quits his practice and goes to Los Angeles seeking the solace and, perhaps, the help of an old friend and colleague, Dr. Bob Moore (Scott Bakula).  Capa quickly discovers, however, that Moore is having problems of his own, apparently stemming from a weekly group therapy session he has been conducting for some time.  Moore, it seems, has recently received some death threats, which he believes are coming from one of the patients of this particular group, though he hasn't a clue which one, nor any proof of his suspicions.  Moore invites Capa to sit in on the next group session, hoping for a fresh perspective and possibly some insights into the matter.  At the moment, Capa feels incapable of actively engaging in the practice of his chosen field of endeavor, but in light of the fact that he's Bob's house guest, he acquiesces and agrees to observe the group.  But it proves to be an inauspicious proposition for all concerned, and subsequent circumstances quickly put Capa at the center of just the kind of situation he left New York to avoid.  Once the hand is dealt, however, he has no choice but to play it out to the end.Rush began his career as a director with low budget exploitation films like `Too Soon to Love' in 1960, and ten films later achieved legitimate status with the highly successful black comedy, `The Stunt Man' in 1980, for which he received an Oscar nomination (along with his leading man, Peter O'Toole).  He did not direct again until this film, some fourteen years later, and during that hiatus, Rush apparently lost whatever expertise he had accrued by 1980, and his `roots' are clearly showing in this one.  The violence of the film is inherent in the story, but Rush makes it unnecessarily graphic; and while this could have been an incisive and insightful character study (and intrinsically more interesting), he takes the low road, fleshing it out instead with scenes of gratuitous sex and nudity, as well as superfluous action (he works in no less than two ridiculous car chases, one culminating in a vehicle being pushed from the top of a high rise parking garage).  Furthermore, he ignores motivations and character development almost entirely; the two areas that required the most attention if this film was going to work at all.  Rush especially lets his actors down, inasmuch as most of these characters presented real challenges that could have been met much more successfully with the help and guidance of the director.  Rush would have served his actors, as well as himself, better had he taken the time to explore these people being portrayed with some depth.  He apparently did not, however, and with one exception the performances by one and all suffer for it.      In 1994, Bruce Willis simply was not the accomplished actor he is today, and he, especially, could have used some help in finding his character.  it was help he obviously did not get, and his Capa ends up being too much John McClane and not enough Malcom Crowe.  Willis flounders between the two personalities, creating a kind of schizophrenic characterization that seriously affects the credibility of his portrayal.  And it's the same fate suffered by Scott Bakula here.  Even in the scenes which places them in their `professional' setting as psychoanalysts, they are simply not convincing.Making the case of poor directing even stronger are the performances of Lesley Ann Warren (Sondra), Brad Dourif (Clark), Ruben Blades (Lt. Martinez) and Kevin J. O'Connor (Casey).  Like Willis, all of them seem to have trouble defining their individual characters, vacillating between any number of personalities and unable to achieve that necessary, final focus.  It's the kind of indecisiveness that is usually resolved during rehearsals, but inexplicably made it to the screen here.  The single exception is the performance turned in by Lance Henriksen, as Buck, who unlike his costars, somehow managed to find his character and make him convincing.The odd-'woman'-out of the entire bunch is Jane March, who as Rose has perhaps the most challenging role of all, and when given the opportunity actually displays some talent.  Unfortunately, Rush-- for the most part-- uses her in a way that is demeaning and without merit, and she becomes the object of a sleight-of-hand that is nothing more than a cheap trick Rush pulls out of his hat.  And by failing to use her in a more productive way, by not concentrating on developing her character (which is so vital to the story), Rush commits his most critical error of all.   The supporting cast includes Eriq La Salle (Detective Anderson), Jeff Corey (Ashland), Kathleen Wilhoite (Michelle), Shirley Knight (Edith Niedelmeyer), John Bower (Medical Examiner) and Andrew Lowrey (Dale Dexter).  The high note of this entire project was played before it ever even got off the ground, that being the story itself; but screenwriters Matthew Chapman and Billy Ray proceeded to methodically remove any and all credibility it may have initially contained, and Rush took it from there, taking `Color of Night' straight into that black hole reserved for movies that fail to deliver on their promise.  It is not surprising that Rush has not directed a feature film since this one; once the magic is lost, it's hard to retrieve.  2/10.       "},{"Title":"A film should entertain and a thriller should thrill - this one does that!","Date":"8 March 2007","Score":"25 out of 37 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Most people that comment here take the film and story serious as if it has to have taken place or something, to begin with! Look, I saw this film late at night and as a big Bruce Willis fan I liked it. And believe me, I'm not a moron, there's nothing wrong with me. I just liked this film, it was good entertainment (just what a film is supposed to do), good thrilling, (just what a thriller should do!) and good acting. Nice of Brad Dourif to drop by in this film, I remembered him from One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (Billy) immediately.Now for the story, I think character building was adequate. Of course you must not think too much. No psychiatrist would visit their patients at home and there is more that doesn't add up, but never the less, I was surprised with the end. People are getting killed and the killer is out there, really close to the main character. You really don't know who did it, all though you have your hunches. And that makes a thriller worth while, I think. And about eroticism, this film has stuff for him and her. Bruce really looks great in jeans and you get to see him naked here! And Jane March is stunning, also naked. Beautiful sex-scenes and nicely edited. The film has a nice chase too, a Mercedes SL against a Camaro or Trans Am.Advice see this film and judge for yourself! (and write it down here!) Switch your senses off and just let yourself be entertained. You'll see, you'll like it! "},{"Title":"A real mental patient's opinion of this film...","Date":"24 March 2001","Score":"33 out of 55 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  As I sit and recall all the idiocies of this film, one of the most amusing that I remember is the idea put forth that a person with DID will disguise themselves to look like a different person when one of their alternates come out. In nearly eleven years of knowingly watching these patients switch from personality to personality, I have yet to see this happen. This is before we even get into the fact that Jane March's behaviour during this film more closely resembles that of a person suffering mania - hypersexuality, paranoia, irrational fear, and so forth.Bruce Willis must also be wondering why he signed up for this stinker. I'm sure the shooting script must have looked wonderful, but a combination of extremely clumsy editing (the sex scenes in the middle of the film are a wonderful example) and poor character development turned this into another Plan 9 From Outer Space. To all of you who gave this turkey positive comments, I ask you to ask yourselves what psychiatrist in their right mind would see patients in buildings where it is that easy for patients to off themselves? Especially in such a lawsuit-happy society as America? What psychiatrist in their right mind stays back late in their office without carrying a firearm when they know someone is stalking them? Finally, when was the last time you heard of a psychiatrist taking over a group of patients for a friend in the profession when one of them might have murdered him? Oh, and a special note on Ruben Blades' role even beat police are not that ignorant about psychiatry, an especially important element of their job considering how often they may be confronted by psych patients waving weapons in the middle of an episodic crisis.As a veteran of numerous therapy groups, I could not stop laughing at this film. If it had been approached with the intention of making a comedy, then it would have succeeded beyond all expectations. However, the advertising campaign and the babbling tone of the dialogue left me with the general feeling that this film was taking itself WAY too seriously. If you do take yourself that seriously, get a better script. If you have such a ridiculous script that will get laughed at by the 20% that will experience some form of psychiatric problem in their lifetime (that's just a statistical fact based on reported cases... the real incidence may actually be higher), don't take yourself so seriously. It's that simple. "},{"Title":"Willis bares his wiener!","Date":"16 April 2004","Score":"27 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Now, I know this is not even close to being Willis's best movie or role. I still thought this was a decent thriller. A good supporting cast with Brad Dourif(voice of Chucky, the best Horror icon ever!) & Lance Henriksen(who will star in just about anything these days) just to name a few.I can understand why Jane March hasnt done much, she'll be type-cast as woman who takes clothes off alot. & yeah, this is as close to a porn flick as you can get, when it comes to big named actors in studio movies.In my opinion, there are worse movies with Bruce Willis. This is worth seeing if you're in the mood for a adult-orientated suspense thriller...with quite alot of sex. & yes, ladies, You can see Bruce's winky in this too. "},{"Title":"Is it really Willis' Willis?","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"21 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The director's cut, no pun intended, seems to be a much better film than the one that was shown commercially, but it still is a far cry from a satisfactory movie to watch. Richard Rush could have done better, but the psychological film we see, adds nothing to what has already been shown before.From the beginning we realize who the killer is, as well as the person with the multiple personality problem. It's too obvious! The film relies heavily on the sexual attraction between Bill Capa and Rose. Much has been speculated in this forum about whether we are actually seeing Willis' willis, or not. Since most male stars wouldn't be caught dead showing their genitals, for obvious reasons, what is seen for a second in the pool scene is that of a body double. On the other hand, we see Jane March showing it all, which is a welcome attraction.Only the final sequence has any impact. There are many things in the plot that don't add up and the viewer is ahead of the story at all times.Bruce Willis with a hairpiece looks good. Jane March has a better chance with the character she plays. Also Brad Dourif, Lance Henriksen have their moments. The one that doesn't come across well is Ruben Blades, an otherwise excellent actor trying to do a Columbo routine in this film. "},{"Title":"Awesome!!!","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"19 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I loved this movie!  Willis and March are simply excellent.  This is a movie that you'll want to watch again and again. I think this flick was highly under rated! The sexual energy between Bruce Willis and Jane March is amazing.  However, it's the tiny nuances which really made the film fun to re-watch. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as all that","Date":"3 March 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film isn't nearly as bad as IMDb users made me think it was. Yes, there were a couple of fairly ludicrous things late in the movie, such as climbing the tower for no apparent reason, (but remember, that character was a loon) and especially the red Firebird on the top of the parking garage. I have an idea why these things were forced into the movie. Probably just because someone (Rush?) thought it would be cool to photograph. It's sort of like porn, where the most common positions aren't done to reflect real life, or because they are particularly erotic, or even comfortable, but because they provide the best camera angle. Aside from the last twenty minutes or so, the film was pretty good. Jane March being naked a lot helped, of course. It is odd that Willis' character didn't recognize her in her Bonnie persona while walking past her, she didn't look that different. However, I wouldn't have caught on that she was Richie, also. (NOTE This is NOT a spoiler, because March is listed as all those characters in the cast list on IMDb, which I saw before viewing the movie.) The film has elements of many different genres, and could be thought of as a psychological thriller, an action movie, a dreamy love story, and a regular murder mystery. Bruce Willis turned in a good performance. As much as I try to dislike his smarmy, perpetual smirk, he has a certain charisma as an actor that I cannot deny. In spite of its flaws, this film is worth a look. Grade B "},{"Title":"A bit far-fetched, but enjoyable","Date":"15 March 2013","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Looking at the other reviews, this film is like marmite - you either like it or hate it! I liked it quite a lot. Bruce Willis is quite enjoyable - you could compare it to The Sixth Sense - he's a therapist in that one too. It's the kind of film where there are preposterous moments that make you smile, but there's enough good acting to outweigh that. Is it 'so bad, it's good'? - Yes at times it falls into that category - especially in the closing scenes. However, lots of credit to Jane March... call me slow on the uptake if you like, but I had no inkling that Ritchie/Rose are the same actress till the end. One thing that lets it down is the music - fairly corny at times, could have been much improved with a more original score. I think Dale should have risen one more time from the dead, to make it a truly 'so bad it's good' film! "},{"Title":"Murder, Sex and Mental illness","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"5 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is an excellent suspense mystery. It has scenes of a sexual nature , and is definitely not for children. Also the portrayals of the patients and the various mental disturbances is excellent. As a Psychology person I found it to be extremely compelling.  "},{"Title":"An odd choice for Bruce Willis...","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"23 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Knowing nothing about this movie before I saw it, I have to admit that it surprised me with its plot-twists...but looking back, I should have known better! That's the great thing about trashy movies you can have a high time while it's playing, knowing you'll hate yourself the next day (and that you'll never have to watch the thing again). Bruce Willis is a psychiatrist troubled by a patient's suicide; he goes to stay with a friend and...to give any more away would be criminal! Suffice it to say, Bruce is nude in this one, and it's a long-held sequence that gives star-peepers what they've paid for. I didn't think the sex scenes were terrifically charged, but you gotta hand it to Willis he takes a chance here and shows his courage. Yet there are times when he has question marks all over his face, as if to ask, what's a nice box-office star like me doing in a piece like this? ** from **** "}{"Title":"Suspense, Mystery, Sex, and Violence, what more can you ask for?","Date":"14 July 2002","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is a favorite movie of my wife and I.  It stands up to our toughest test, i.e., it stands up to repeated viewing and seems better each time we watch it.  Some object to the sex and violence but `get a life' it's just a movie,(as Lt. Hector Martinez (Ruben Blades)) would say `you Daffodils!'  "},{"Title":"Outstanding images, they created the very special atmosphere and succeeded in keeping it throught the whole movie","Date":"16 June 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The movie has a few moments that persisted in my mind for long the falling woman scene at the beginning of the movie, the murder scene(you almost feel the pain from those knife cuts), of course very sincere love moments. The movie has great mystery that keeps you in investigation mood throught the movie.The images of this movie persist for long, not an ordinary movie. thanks to authors, Bruce and Jane. "},{"Title":"Not too bad (SOME SPOILERS!)","Date":"29 April 2004","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  SOME SPOILERS! I must admit, my main reason to see Color of Night was for the hyped up sex sessions with her and Bruce Willis. I was surprised, to find out that the movie did get my attention, and I watched it to the end, and thought it was pretty good! Jane March was quite good, as the lovers of just about everybody in the group. It took me a while, before I recognized her, as the same woman in a scene with Lesley Warren's character, as the doctor's hot number. It might get a bit confusing, you need to pay attention, as the doctor attempts to uncover the entire plot. It's not a fantastic film, but there are worse movies you could see! Look for the Director's cut, so you can catch the entire sexual romp!  "},{"Title":"Color me dead Bruce","Date":"29 November 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Another of those so underrated sex thrillers that has everything. Right in the middle of the film, I had to pee. I wasn't going anywhere. New York, Psychiatrist, Willis (he has acted better) who drove a patient (the great Kathleen Wilhotte) to jump out a window, has to get his mind back, where guilt has surged through him. He takes a vacation, flying to dunny L.A, to stay at an old colleague's (underused actor Bakula) place. He's also a psychiatrist, a more successful one thanks to a non fictional book he sold. He's pad is great. He also a short future, as someone does him, where Willis, hit with a double whammy you could say, takes over the group, while being a prime suspect. I loved Ruben Blades in this, as the cop, one of the better, if probably the best performances, that alongside Henricksen who plays one of the patients, who's carrying a lot of baggage. Now lets talk about the cooky, larger than life patients. No, lets not. Their just entertaining to watch. This movie really makes the patient group scenes fun, one of the best things I like about this movie. Willis also strikes up a hot relationship, with the so judged misjudged actress, March. You'll see why in it's shock revelation at the end, after all the nail gun shooting (Owlll, I felt that) and before the end credits come running too fast up the screen. Off the beaten track, like in other movies, with the credits running some fast, I don't know why they even bother. Back to the movie. Color Of Night, is a fun treat yourself psychological thriller, (you'll never guess the killer, unless your IQ is bloody high) which I never at anytime, got bored with. It's entertaining all the way through, my favourite BW film. The sex scenes are great, amidst some car chases, one I absolutely loved, the over the top violence, highly approving, plus the great co actors who give their patient's characters, spark, no more, than great character actor, Brad Douriff. These are the real actors, but for god sake, don't look overlook March, in both her acting and her beauty. "},{"Title":"Interesting dark comedy","Date":"27 May 2002","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Like in The Third Man, the plot of this show has a character who travels to a faraway city to visit a good friend, and then spends the whole movie trying to unravel a mystery. There is a lot of appeal in this sort of plot, and here Bruce Willis plays a psychiatrist who takes a break from his practice after pushing a disturbed patient to her suicide. To recover from this traumatic event, he travels across the country to visit an old friend and colleague. Then after his friend is murdered, he takes over his friend's therapy group at the request of the cop on the case, and tries to figure out who the killer is.I am no Bruce Willis fan, but after seeing a portion of this on TV I was compelled to rent this film. The tape version supposedly contains 15 extra minutes not in the theater version, some of which no doubt is the steamy sex between the Bruce Willis and Jane March characters. That Bruce Willis would fall head-over-heels for Jane March after only a brief chance encounter is not really believable, but this movie works best if you suspend this sort of disbelief and just enjoy it.Scott Bakula, who shines as Captain Archer in Enterprise, the newest entry in the Star Trek sequence of TV series, is appealing here as the colleague who Bruce Willis comes to visit. But the performance of Ruben Blades, the detective working the case, is so over-the-top that I have to consider this a dark comedy. If not a dark comedy, then why was Blades permitted to make such a mockery of his character?The movie works because of the earnestness of the Bruce Willis character, and his determination to unravel the mystery (a la the Joseph Cotton character in The Third Man). The situation does get resolved in the end, in a way that is both surprising and satisfying. An enjoyable film if you can suspend your disbelief and take it on its own terms.7/10 "},{"Title":"This movie is better than it seems...","Date":"9 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Bruce Willis is brilliant as a psychologist, and Scott Bakula does a great job too in his role.  Actually, the main reason I rented this movie was to see these two and what they did with their characters.  The other actors, mainly Lance Henriksen, do some decent work and keep the story interesting, and even intriguing to a point.Okay, so this movie has some skin in it - and I did get the directors cut - it's the only way to go...)Jane March is alright to look at, but as someone already pointed out, her teeth stand out a bit.  She doesn't get that much screen time however, and the story basically revolves around Willis and his trying to find Bakula's killer.The ending of the film (the last ten minutes or so) let the film down   It almost borders on ridiculous; not due to the realization that is reached, but the action that takes place.  Despite this, it's definitely worth seeing for the great acting by Willis and the truly 'whodunnit' type feel.7/10 "},{"Title":"Fun","Date":"20 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  People wondered why Bruce got involved with this film but the fact of the matter is that the script was good for the most part. The silly aspect of it is the need to rip off Hitchcock and include that old chestnut from 'Vertigo'. The world never needed another Hitchcockian film, although to be fair you can't really ask people. There's some great banter between Bruce and the detective and a good performance from March. I didn't spot the twist so she can't be as bad an actress as some jealous people make out. The real tongue-in-cheek stuff pokes observant fun at America's analyst culture. Anyone who's had any dealings with psychiatrists or support groups will find those scenes a gem. I loved it when the group were told about a stabbing murder and the anal retentive asks How many times was he stabbed? "},{"Title":"Not as bad as most people would make it out to be.","Date":"9 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I'll admit, I was awfully doubtful of this movie when I first sat down to watch it, stemming mostly from all the negative press it got (the Razzie Awards, for example, named it Worst Picture of the Year for 1994).  But I don't think it was actually that bad.The story, when viewed from beginning to end, is a little ridiculous, but there aren't any gaping plot holes to complain about.  Bruce Willis is pretty good in it, and the supporting cast of mental patients are quite convincing.  The movie's ending contains a nice little twist, and not one that leaves you saying How could that be possible?All in all, the movie is a lot better than you'll hear.  I give it a B-, which would be higher except for all the blatantly unnecessary sex and nudity that the film contains.  Some of it had a little to do with the plot, but when you consider how close the film came to being rated NC-17 (and the Director's Cut of it is), there's clearly just way too much.  It becomes annoying.  "},{"Title":"Some fun involved","Date":"29 April 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I don't really see how this ever got a Razzie award, because it's way too middle of the road for that. It's a standard thriller with standard suspects and a standard yet pretty creative outcome. It's really unexceptional in every possible way, except maybe for the surprisingly tacky sex scenes and gratuitous nudity, which gives it kind of an exploitation feel. Not enough to call it bad. At some points the writing is also a bit forced. The makers noticed they hadn't had anything happening in ages so they threw in a car chase for some reason. Would the killer really take that kind of risk? Even though this movie has quite a lot of flaws, it actually does manage to be entertaining. The mystery stays exciting throughout and the ending does not disappoint. It's bizarre and unbelievable, but it does not disappoint. Overall I'd say this movie isn't nearly as bad as what some people seemed to believe. "},{"Title":"could be worse","Date":"26 October 2004","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" this film isn't a complete loss, but it's close. it pathologises transsexuality. it has lots of gratuitous sex involving a waif and an aging male - and i really mean gratuitous. i don't need to see that much skin from mr. willis. although now i've met mr. willis' willis...also, the makeup job on certain characters is very, very unfortunate.but at least it's an interesting film. i mean, i watched it. there are worse.not the most ringing endorsement, perhaps, but if it's late at night and nothing else is on cable, what the heck. at least you'll be confused enough to keep your attention on the movie. "}{"Title":"Very Positive comments from myself and my wife","Date":"31 December 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This who dunnit is excellent in it's cast and plot, to say nothing about the incredibly sexual scenes between Willis and Jane March (Demi must have had a fit!) . Trying to guess who the murderer is turns into a surprise ending worthy of your time. A 9 our of  10. "},{"Title":"Very creatively done, great photography, colorful story","Date":"7 April 2011","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Color of Night is a very vibrant, colorful film with odd characters from the very beginning. The opening scenes are jarring leaving one trying to figure out just what exactly is going on. What is going to happen next? The acting by everyone is excellent. I think this is Bruce Willis' best acting yet. His character is very endearing and likable. In fact, all of the characters, as kooky as they may be, are likable here leaving an impression after seeing this.There are very clever split screen shots using mirrors so that we can see both characters during conversations. The film is overdone though. It becomes a bit too heavy-handed near the end and then we are left with an overdub from one of the characters that seems silly. Also, when we find out who the killer is the actor seems a little uncomfortable with his dialog.Not perfect by any means but very unique and very well shot. Almost feels like a Brian Depalma film. A mysterious thriller that pulls you in and keeps you interested. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"14 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie is absolutely excellent.  I think it must be one of Bruce Willis' best films, being a brilliant psychologist and getting involved with the complicated yet vulnerable Jane March who has the sick and twisted brother that she desperately needs to get away from with the help of Willis.  I recommend this movie to you, so you should either rent it or buy it. "},{"Title":"Grossly Underrated","Date":"3 December 2012","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This movie is most certainly not a masterpiece deserving of a perfect rating, but when I see a solid movie with ratings lower than some total trash I have no option but to overrate in order to contribute at least a little bit to what I think is a proper rating for a movie...That being said, this movie is actually a solid 7 in my book because it delivers a good plot without too many holes and without over-stretching my suspension of disbelief. It also delivers solid acting and well developed characters, including the support cast which is a rarity in modern Hollywood movies. In short, my feeling was that all the characters were played well, were believable and easy to connect with.Special kudos go to Jane March who is not only very beautiful and graceful in this role but pulls of a multiple personality role quite well in my opinion and is overall a pleasure to watch and this has nothing to do with the nude scenes which are just an added bonus for some of the audience...Finally, I suspect this movie is so poorly rated in part because of the aforementioned nudity as I noticed a trend in this regard with all the puritans racing to give a rating of 1/10 to any movie containing nudity. "},{"Title":"Not bad","Date":"25 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This was a off the wall choice but it turned out fair;y good.  The little fact that i could not get is how did he get to live in the house after the owner died.  and got to drive around in his car. we just did not see that part.  movie was good had enough plot twists Ms Warren was nice and Bruce Willis wasn't too bed either.  It kind of threw you in the beginning with everything going on but finally got the just of things later.  i wouldn't mind watching it again "},{"Title":"Another that most people will hate, but I enjoy","Date":"21 June 2001","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I got a kick out of this movie. Sure, the dialog is cheesy and the story a bit contrived...but there's naked Jane March, easily one of the most beautiful women in movies today.Brad Dourif has also never given a poor performance.This reminded me of something Fred Olen Ray or Jim Wynorski would have done (not a bad thing in my eyes) but they could have done it with probably a tenth the budget. Sure, they wouldn't have gotten Bruce Willis or Jane March, but it's basically one of their movies with a bigger budget.This isn't a title that I'd rush out to see, but will stop the remote when it's on HBO and enjoy on that purely cheesy, total popcorn movie level.So solid movie, a few laughs (unintentional), naked Jane March and in the directors cut, naked Bruce Willis, Leslie Anne Warren in a lesbian scene with Jane March...what more could a b-movie fan want? 7/10 "},{"Title":"Sweaty romance and genuine intrigue on the cliffs of Malibu","Date":"18 September 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I came across the Director's Cut version and popped it in expecting the cinematic quality, based on the title, starring actors and synopsis, to be cheesy at best.For an early nineties mystery starring Bruce, I thought this was a friggin excellent flick... and entirely watchable. The previous night I had popped in the more recent thriller, Signs, which stars another massive, fresh-faced cracker (Mel Gibson a.k.a The Messiah) and was so bored I passed out. I feel that this was due in large part to Signs' attempt at registering as respectable cinema... basically Shyamalan emulating his breakout hit The Sixth Sense- another decent movie starring mr. willis...I thought that most of the characters in Color of Night were well-fleshed-out (no pun intended) and likable. The patients' neuroses were a bit contrived but entertaining nonetheless... esp. Sondra's nymphomania and Clark's OCD.The important thing to realize here is that with a flick like Color of Night the primary reward is ENTERTAINMENT... nothing about it is really very thought-provoking which should be obvious from the get-go. I might not be blessed with a tuning fork for mysteries but I was in the dark as to who the killer was for a while and I found some of the plot twists surprising.The big sale comes of course with the tension between hot co-stars Big Bruce and the buck-toothed but beautiful Jane March... and the myriad sexual encounters which ensue. The kicker is of course the sex-in-the-pool scene, where we are first introduced to March's creamy goodness and gumdrop nipples, and a few short glimpses of Bruce's engorged willis.The film is downright titillating... with basically every character boning the luscious Rose, who, it seemed to me, was the obvious choice for killer extraordinaire. I think the ending will surprise all but the most vigilant viewers... plus, the cars are cool (Rose drives a teal-and-pink Geo Tracker for chrissakes), the setting is so.cal., the breasts are bare, tan lines on full display and lots of creative violence including but not limited to a rattlesnake in the mailbox... oh yeah and there's a cameo appearance by that one dude from Quantum Leap.Pop some popcorn and don't expect any Academy Award-caliber acting!! "},{"Title":"I really liked it!","Date":"13 June 2004","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I've seen the movie several times, and I really like the movie.It is one of those movies that you start watching because you have nothing better to do, but the second half makes you wish that you'd paid more attention to the first!Bruce plays the excellent confused lover opposite Jane March, but then again, who wouldn't?!!?!! The group scenes are wonderful. They really make you feel like you are within the neurosis of the patients. It is very fun!I would highly recommend seeing the film, and then watching it. It's well worth it. "},{"Title":"Ever wonder how idiotic and dumb an erotic thriller can get? Just rent this movie!","Date":"10 June 2001","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Anyone who wants to see how not to make an erotic-thriller would be wise to rent this movie (and possibly Sliver). Everything about this movie sucks the acting, directing, script and sex-scenes are so stupid and horrendously staged that it's a wonder that this movie even made into theaters (it has direct-to-video fodder written all over it.)WARNING-SPOILERS The movie stars a hilariously wooden Bruce Willis as a psychiatrist who after witnessing one of his patients dive out of his office window, loses the ability to see the color red(!). He decides to go out to see his friend Scott Bakula who works with a group of people who have had something traumatic happen in their life and are having trouble making the rebound. Not too long after he arrives people around him start getting killed off and he also meets a beautiful yet mysterious young woman played by the gorgeous Jane March. Actually, the only reason I could see recommending this piece of junk to anyone is strictly for the scenes where Ms. March is nude. She really is quite spectacular with no clothes on!The much touted sex-scenes are really bad. They try to be really explicit but come across as just forced or really goofy. The film also contains some of the most ridiculous plot twists that I've ever had the misfortune of watching.  By the time the movie ended I felt like I had had my brain ripped out of my skull, dribbled like a basketball, nuked in the microwave for a couple of minutes and then put sloppily back in my head. Yes, this movie really is that bad.And probably the greatest mistake this film makes is that it can't even be enjoyed on a guilty pleasure so-bad-it's-good level.Color of Night is rated R and contains strong sexual content, nudity, graphic violence and strong language.rating1 "},{"Title":"Not all that bad! Very fun thriller....","Date":"10 August 2007","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Color of Night was widely panned and hyped for its sex scenes between March and Willis, but aside from that, it's an interesting, cleverly constructed thriller featuring a fine performance from supporting star Leslie Ann Warren.Willis is likewise, and March delivers a sultry performance as the so-called femme fatale (although it's revealed in the climax ending she was innocent). After all the reviews, I was expecting some big-budget, corny action/sex thriller; but I was obviously under a very wrong impression.Color of Night is an awesome pop-corn film and a fun party movie too. "}{"Title":"Grisly Nonsense","Date":"18 December 2000","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I have to believe there was some studio meddling to make this more of a conventional thriller, because everyone seems to agree that this represents a major step backwards from the man behind the brilliant The Stunt Man - Richard Rush. There are little reminders of his talent early on when Willis' psychiatrist is getting to know the mercurial Jane March. Rush has a knack for making the viewer feel like they're being caught up and swept along in someone's feverish dream - the editing and camera placement seem haphazardly designed to make you feel a little dizzy and open to suggestion. But otherwise, Color of Night is episodic, dim-witted, way over-long, and wildly overblown. There is a lot of over-emoting in this film, especially from that queen of over-emoters - Lesley Ann Warren. The movie's idea of excitement is to have various repellent characters scream the F-word a lot, have tears run down their cheeks and threaten to go off the deep end but never quite do. And there are downright idiotic chase scenes, particularly the one that takes place in the parking garage for some reason, instead of just running him down, the mysterious Camaro driver pushes a parked car off an upper level and tries to time it so that it will land on Willis on the bottom level. And then of course in the very next scene, Willis is behaving as if nothing really traumatic has happened. In fact, Willis is tentative and under-directed throughout the film.There is one interesting footnote however. Has anyone else noticed the similarity to The Sixth Sense, at least as far as basic premise? True, the films couldn't be more different in terms of development of story or quality, but to wit Both star Bruce Willis as a psychiatrist who feels tremendous guilt over a patient he's failed, and they both highlight the color red. Hmmmm.       "},{"Title":"They Don't Get Much Worse Than This","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  When I saw The Man in the Iron Mask through to the end, I thought I'd reached the depth of cinematic embarassment. Color of Night, amazingly, is worse. In this straight-to-trashcan production by Alan Smithee wannabe Rush, Bruce Willis and Jane March co-star in what was probably intended as a psychological thriller, but turned out as a campy comedy with very few laughs. Support actors Pakula, Warren, Dourif and Blades murder lines from a script that should have never been considered for production. The plot roams, swerves and bucks without making any sense at any point in the movie. None of the characters convince or connect, and none of the dialogue moves or sparkles, though Dourif does try. The Raspberries go to Willis and March, though. Willis gets his for the worst script-picking of his career. And March for the mistake of thinking she's in a Playboy feature - though the camera work supports this misconception. These two are supposed to be young lovers, but there is no recognizable chemistry whatsoever. Even the sex scenes are lame and unconvincing. Yes, we get to see Willis's willy. And yes, there isn't much of ms. March we don't get to see. But I've never seen two actors who looked less like they enjoyed making out, and I've seen Attack of the Clones twice. If you're reading this trying to decide if you want to rent this movie, just send me your five bucks. If you're deciding if you want to watch it on TV, go to your bathroom and watch mould develop instead. You'll have a better time. "},{"Title":"Sex with a side of sex","Date":"15 December 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I used to own a copy of Richard Rush's Color Of Night, and I could kick myself in the teeth for ever pawning it in times of financial despair. It's one of the steamiest, wackiest and most ludicrous erotic thrillers that the 90's has to offer. I'm not kidding, this one navigates its way to the edge of the map of believability and logic, and with a knowing wink, dives headlong right off the edge of it into realms of sweaty, sexy excess, characters so strange they seem to be from a looney toons episode directed by David Lynch, and a preposterous story that has to be seen to be disbelieved. That's not to say I don't like it; I love the hot mess and yearn for a re-watch, just as soon as I track down a DVD. Bruce Willis eases into the erotic tropes with gusto that would make Michael Douglas proud, playing color blind psychiatrist Bill Capa who gets a nerve shake-up when a distraught female patient (Kathleen Wilhouette in a cameo of gushing melodrama) takes a suicidal swan dive out of his forty story office to the NYC streets below. Soon after, he's tasked with taking over a support group previously run by a colleague (Scott Bakula) who was murdered under mysterious circumstances. The group is populated by several oddball weirdos, one of whom may be the one who offed the good doctor Bakula. There's tortured ex cop Buck (Lance Henriksen, always welcome and one of the only performers who takes things seriously here), OCD weasel Clark (Brad Dourif) and a host of others, all competing as to who can be the strangest red herring in the proceedings. Capa soon finds himself sexually involved with the impossibly sultry Rose (Jane March). And when I say sexually, I. Mean. Sexually. It's hard to reach the clawing levels of heightened on-screen copulation that this baby throws at us without slipping into outright parody, and indeed sometimes it feels like we're watching the 9/12 Weeks spoof scene in Hot Shots Part 1. It helps though, that March is breathtakingly sexy and spends a solid slice of the film absolutely in the nude, and slathered with all kinds of fluids, bodily and other. What doesn't help? Willis's grizzly bear fur coat of a torso and the moment where he bears his wee willy winker dinker in naked glory, making sure that anyone who didn't quite get that image burned into their retinas with a similar scene in Pulp Fiction gets a glorious second chance here. Oh goody. Anyways, between bouts of feral coitus, Willis and March navigate treacherous waters to smoke the killer out and save their skins. They also get bothered by a bumbling detective (vivacious Ruben Blades) that would make Columbo proud. Supporting work is also provided by Kevin J. O Connor, Shirley Knight, Erick Avari, Eric Lasalle and Lesley Ann Warren who add extra incredulity to gild the already silly tone. It's large. It's loud. It's oiled up. It's a really unbelievable piece of violent eroticism, and despite everything... I loves me some Color Of Night. "},{"Title":"An inferior, though compulsively watchable, Basic Instinct clone","Date":"9 November 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Basic Instinct was all the rage in the early 1990s, and many erotic thrillers tried to follow its path, upping the ante in violence and sex. Color of Night is one of those, and it cannot hold a candle to the 1992 film there is little erotic heat between Bruce Willis and Jane March (who is cute, but no Sharon Stone in her prime), and the story is mostly predictable, with one major twist poorly disguised (no pun intended). It is also extremely long (140 minutes in its uncut form) for its genre. Nevertheless, it stays compulsively watchable for the duration. There are some great car stunts, some well-drawn supporting characters (Brad Dourif, Lans Henriksen), and a strong sense of humor (Ruben Blades, in particular, is frequently hilarious). The film is not nearly as bad as it is reputed to be in some circles. **1/2 out of 4. "},{"Title":"Color of Right","Date":"16 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Color-blind psychiatrist Bill Capa (Bruce Willis) is stalked by an unknown killer after taking over his murdered friend's therapy group, all of whom have a connection to a mysterious young woman that Capa begins having intense sexual encounters with.What a great cast of genre folks Brad Dourif, Lance Henriksen and Scott Bakula. Then you have Bruce Willis in some steamy romance scenes. Ooh, Bruce! (This was probably just about the last year he could claim to be a hunk.) This film was a couple years before my time, but it must have slipped largely under the radar. In the twenty or so active years I have been pursuing films, this was not one that had crossed my path before, and certainly should have given the people involved. "},{"Title":"Fatal Distractions","Date":"16 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Wearing a vivid green dress, an unstable woman smears bright red lipstick on her face. Then, she visits New York therapist Bruce Willis (as Bill Capa). The woman suffers a mishap, which causes Mr. Willis to go color blind. The color red is his most specific problem. It is also the color of blood. Willis visits Los Angeles and sits in on a fellow psychoanalyst's therapy group. He decides to stay in the city and take over his college friend's therapy group. The group members are all unbalanced, of course. Later, while talking and driving, Willis has a minor fender bender accident with exceptionally sexy and much younger Jane March (as Rose). To make life exciting, a serial killer begins knocking off members of the cast...Possibly, director Richard Rush and Willis were going for quirky, here. It doesn't work. A major mystery is telegraphed early. This strangely apparent deception doesn't necessarily reveal the killer's identity, but it does distract one from caring. Willis shows off thickened hair and muscles. March looks great on film. Both show generous amounts of flesh and have good crying scenes. Neither are convincing, however. The foul-mouthed therapy group appears to have fun. Out-of-place Columbo-like detective Ruben Blades has too much fun, but carpenter Andrew Lowery (as Dale) should have some more. The cinematography by Dietrich Lohmann is a strength, especially when March is dressing up and down the scenery.**** Color of Night (1994-08-19) Richard Rush ~ Bruce Willis, Jane March, Lesley Ann Warren, Andrew Lowery "},{"Title":"I can not lie","Date":"31 May 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The first time I saw this movie I saw it for its suspence but once I saw those steamy sex scenes then that was really the reason for any further viewing any other time being of the 14 years that i am the suspence is really great but the movie would appeal more if not for the steamy scenes which takes the movie for less then it is and it is more "},{"Title":"a bit of everything good in film (action, sex, violence, mystery)","Date":"28 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A lot of people dont like this film because it is (at the time) so un-Bruce Willis-ish. I loved this movie, and think its one of the best Bruce Willis films and definately the best Jane March film.  I found the story line most interesting with many little twists and turns and a bit of drama and suspense.  Action was lacking compared to Die Hard, but at least there were some.  The sex? I thought it was done very well without making Jane March look cheap and slutty.  Jane March is different to most Hollywood beauties in the way that she is very beautiful naturally and I believe this film brings this out.  Ok, shes not going to win any Oscars too soon, but she did pretty well on all 3 characters. This is one of Bruce Willis' first movies as a Psychiatrist and he has played a few recently which shows how he suits the role. Even if your not into Psychological Thrillers, If you have time and a few dollars, rent this movie on Video, I think its worth it just to appreciate Jane Marchs feminine beauty whether your Male or Female.  "},{"Title":"Woohoo nudity!!! Jane march is beautiful","Date":"24 September 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  first off, yes i am that shallow that i watch that movie whenever it's on tv just to see jane march naked (at least i can admit it).  I love the plot and everything else too but as long as it has nudity and good sex scenes i'm most likely gonna like it.  Why go rent a porn when you can near have it on hollywood?? i recommend this film to other fellow perverts and anyone who like psychological thrillers, really a great movie i say "},{"Title":"A good mystery movie with an unexpected final","Date":"9 July 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Why everyone is SO mad about this movie? It's not THAT BAD. Come on! This is a well-directed and acted feature. Bruce Willis is wonderful as Doctor Capa, and I think it is one of his best performances. He just proved here that he can act normal characters, and not only Die-Hard macho idiots. Jane March is very hot as Rose and the mystery of her apperances and disappearances sticks the spectator to the screen. Love and murder scenes do a very good job too, Dominic Frontiere's music is charming and thrilling and Dietrich Lohmann's cinematography is magnificent. Frankly saying, I liked it even more than The Silence Of The Lambs. I don't know why...  "}{"Title":"A Trash Classic With Plenty to Offer Those With Open Minds","Date":"10 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I am of the opinion that every movie-goer has a pet film that darn near everyone else in the world hates. Color of Night is mine. Everyone I know who's seen it, except for my brother and me, has loathed it. I see its faults, certainly-for one thing, the sex is beyond gratuitous-but I still think it was dissed too heavily. There were a lot of movies that were far worse that year. I've seen it several times, and I still love it. It also helps that my favorite figure skater, Oksana Baiul, skated to the theme song a couple of years ago, so that's a nice little bonus for me.  "},{"Title":"Sex? Yes please.","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Some of the hottest sex scenes you'll ever see on a Hollywood movie. Plot? Oh, there's a story too? Oh, ok. Whatever, just as long as I have the rewind and pause buttons ready.  "},{"Title":"WHAT A MOVIE","Date":"26 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is a very interesting thriller and has a surprising ending. Did anyone of you guess who was the killer, before it ended ?  I didn'tIncredible sexual scenes between Jane and Bruce ( I guess it was so hard for Demi to accept it was only work ). I think those are the most erotic scenes I've ever saw. He ate her.  "},{"Title":"Not a Turkey - average fare","Date":"30 December 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The movie was definitely engaging, though there are instances which stretch credulity. Definitely a mainstream erotic thriller, the intention might have been to craft a thriller along the lines of Basic Instinct, which remains a cult classic in that genre, but the absence of pace or a genuinely interesting villain is what ultimately does this movie in. I wouldn't go so far as to call it a turkey, though it did bomb. Its still worth a look-see for Willis's above-average performance, and Jane March's uninhibited skin show that rises above the vulgar. The chemistry between the leads seems sincere, and Bruce Willis does keep trying to elevate above the clich-ridden plot. The buddy cop element remains under-developed, and that is the major problem I had with the movie, as Ruben Blades in that role displays sufficient range. "},{"Title":"lite thriller","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I enjoyed this film and the plot twists were interesting. Psychatrist Dr Bob Moore (Scott Bakulo) has a patient group. Dr Bill Capa (Bruce Willis), also a psychiatrist and a friend of Bob, comes to the group (six months previously something bad happened to one of Bill's patients and he's trying to get over it). Dr Bob is murdered. Dr Bill takes over the group, gets to know the patients and in the meantime embarks on an affair with a mysterious woman. Lot's of stars in it but not all really shone enough. Bruce Willis' character started out well but then wasn't developed to it's potential...nowhere near 12 Monkeys. Lesley Anne Warren(Mission Impossible)was excellent as neurotic Sandra.Brad Dourif was on great form . Jane March was excellent. Lance Henrikson(Alien films) didn't have enough to develop his characterI jumped out of my seat at the rattlesnake bit but the rest wasn't particularly scary...worth watching but not one you'd rave about. "},{"Title":"You won't believe this one","Date":"7 January 2001","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Shrink Bruce Willis (oh yeah) has a bad experience with a client (she throws herself out of his office window) and &#150; to get away from it all &#150;takes over a friend's (Scott Bakula) Monday evening class. Bakula gets brutally murdered. Soon Willis is having sex with Jane March, effing a lot (though not as much as usual) and avoiding falling cars. An unengaging thriller, despite the nudity and the seemingly endless sparkling glass surfaces. Ruben Blades does his best to spice up the goings-on with an outrageous turn as the wackiest cop in the precinct.  "},{"Title":"Differences in Directors cut...","Date":"18 February 2003","Score":"8 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I found the film excellent from the original cut in the cinema. I suppose that this kind of film you either love it and accept the flaws in it (to be honest you find me a film with no flaws...) and take what it has to give to you, or you point out the details and hate it. In my case I chose the first. I was happily surprised by the sudden changes in the film and enjoyed the fact that even when you know what will happen... you are STILL surprised by the magic of it all. I found the acting adequate and more than enough for the films needs and I loved the fact that it touched some sensitive issues, in its time do no forget,  without taboo. It COULD be better, but... the emotions are transmitted perfect and the music is... ecstatic! Furthermore, the differences between the original and the directors' cut are MANY and the latter helps bring out MORE of the film. The first cut has serious holes, that the new cut plugs, and makes more of an interesting jigsaw puzzle. The feelings are clearer too. I am GLAD to be surprised by it. It takes an eye to see the wrong differences, but a soul to evaluate the strength of the feelings. You won't get bored, I give you that. "},{"Title":"totally underrated! i loved it!!!","Date":"29 January 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" if u like campy movies like showgirls you will probably like this movie! now i admit there are a few plot holes and seeing Jane March in disguise is pretty obvious. but aside from that the acting of the cast is pretty good Jane March, and Lesley Ann Warren are particularly good and Ruben Blades is pretty funny as a wound way to tight inspector. Bruce Willis is about as good as he usually is. about the plot holes that red car pushing the car from the top of the parking garage trying to crush Willis didn't make much sense i don't know how the killer would know he was in that spot from way up there and Mrs. Niedelmeyer knowing about Ritchie's death doesn't make sense if dale covered it up. the film does however keep you guessing as to who the killer is. at first with march's obvious disguise you instantly suspect her however the film throws enough curve balls to evenly spread out the suspicion among the viewers. the film as a whole it is a great erotic thriller the sex scenes are so hot and the ending is probably one of the best twist endings I've seen in a while. sadly the poor march's poor disguise spoil the surprise however it is quite a cleaver idea i must give credit to the writers. so give it a chance if you don't think its a good movie you might at least see it as a so-bad-its-good movie you can enjoy. "},{"Title":"I guess the colour would be yellow....","Date":"24 July 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" ...because The Color of Night is a flamboyantly over the top tribute to the giallo tradition of Italian cinema. Knivescheck, gloves check, gratuitous nudity check,  complete lack of logic or story cohesion yep, the elements are all in place. It's not totally awful but I think I'd rather be watching The Bird With the Crystal Plumage.  "},{"Title":"Has everything but entertainment.","Date":"14 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This over-blown, over-heated Hollywood S & M mystery has everything but entertainment value. Oh yes, there's plenty of wild and crazy(but not particularly titillating) sex, typical of these mindless BASIC INSTINCT inspired porn-thrillers, and there are even a few kinky/gory murders thrown it. There just isn't anything that even remotely resembles a good movie. The film casts Bruce Willis as a psychiatrist(Please!) who becomes traumatized after a very disturbed patient commits suicide before his very eyes. He then suffers another blow(no pun intended) when his doctor-friend(Scott Bakula) is brutally murdered. Willis is then called in to take over Bakula's creepy group, and the mysterious murders continue. Meanwhile, Bruce gets involved with an attractive, but strange fender-bender(Jane March) who has some bizarre connection to the unfortunate chain of events in his life. Bruce is his inimitable DIE HARD-self, and Jane March is pretty in a girlish sort-of-way, but their sex scenes are very difficult to watch because Willis, while undeniably a good-looking guy, still looks every bit of his forty years, while his partner looks all of fourteen, effectively killing any sex appeal this film was suppose to have. But, of course, that is the very least of the movie's problems. Most of the problems can be traced back to the script, a ridiculous combination of BASIC INSTINCT/FATAL ATTRACTION/PSYCHO-type cliches. If you are wondering  what the most suspenseful parts of the movie are, there aren't any. The true horror is in the fact that this ugly little number ever got made. This is the price we pay for going to see movies like BASIC INSTINCT. Believe it or not, this movie was directed by Richard Rush, the same guy who gave us the brilliant THE STUNT MAN. "}{"Title":"Wombats and Daffodils.","Date":"29 December 2015","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It's a well-acted, well-directed, and well-photographed study of a handful of neurotics, their shrink, and the homicidal maniac who gums up the works.Willis is the shrink who takes over the leadership in the therapy group when his friend is brutally murdered. The general sense is that one of the group did it, but no one knows which one.Richard Rush directed The Stuntman, an exceptionally fine film, more than a decade earlier and this represents his return. I imagine that Rush is responsible for the sunny location shooting in LA and for the evocative production design. The house -- if that's what it is -- that Willis takes over from his deceased friend is a massive structure fitted out with expensive toys. I wouldn't like to think that all LA shrinks live like that. He's also been very careful about certain details. The color red, for instance. We don't see it that often but when we do it's fully saturated, fluorescent, and stands out like nobody's business, turning a woman's lips into something almost frightening.Rush is also responsible for some extraordinary shots that needlessly call attention to themselves. A crushed body lies bleeding on a New York street, and Rush places the camera several feet BENEATH the corpse and shoots upward through a transparent pavement.The story itself is quite well done, carried along as much by the performers as by the plot. Jane March shows up to become Willis' main squeeze and play a pivotal role at the end. There is considerable gratuitous nudity which I enjoyed immensely. Not Bruce Willis' butt, to which I'm totally indifferent, but March's slender, girlish figure.It's a decent mystery but has a couple of flaws, one of them lethal. Among the gigs are two pointless car chases through the streets of Los Angeles -- and I mean pointless because nothing comes of either. In another scene, Willis' car is pushed out of a high-rise parking lot and almost crushes him on the ground ten stories below. He escapes the falling vehicle and the mass of flying wreckage it creates by running away from it, in slow motion, towards the camera. (Ho hum.) The plot is full of hidden holes, so many and so subtle that they slip by almost unnoticed. Egs., how can Willis simply move into his friend's mansion, drive his car, and in effect take over his identity. He had a license to practice in New York state. Now he decides, on a whim, to practice in California? Without wrestling with red tape from the state and from the rabid and proprietary American Psychological Association? The difficulties aren't even alluded to. The APA wouldn't even let me become a member, let alone a fellow, although I have a doctorate in clinical psychology. They didn't like the school I'd gone to. The plot was sometimes so turgid that I was lost. (Maybe a second viewing.) The climactic confrontation involves the deployment of a nail gun and an electric drill and the circumstances destroy the movie completely, turning it into an ill-conceived and confusing action movie with thunder and lightning, tottering on the lip of a long fall, and all the other accouterments. What a disappointment.Nope. This isn't The Stuntman. But I'm reluctant to blame the film's weaknesses on the director alone. He hadn't made a movie in fourteen years and it's very likely that the producers kept him on a tight leash. It happens. In The Godfather, the scene in which Carlo beats hell out of his pregnant wife, using a belt, was not Francis Ford Coppola's idea. The producers insisted on an action scene at that point in the story because they were afraid it might otherwise be too sluggish for the audience. I can easily imagine something like that happening here.The characters are diverse and colorful, mostly in a quiet way, but Ruben Blades' cop enlivens every scene he's in -- profane, ironic, earthy. Jane March is a dish. She shares something with another cast member, Leslie Ann Warren. Their grins are filled with gleaming chiclets, the size of squares on a chess board. Between the two of them, they could gnaw through an iron bolt as easily as a corn cob at an Iowa picnic. Willis holds up his end well, and so do the members of his group, including Brad Douriff as a lawyer with OCD. He was my costar in Blue Velvet so I'm compelled to give him bonus points. "},{"Title":"Answer the if-s and decide if you should watch","Date":"29 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I usually don't comment movies with so many comments written already, but I have to disagree with those mostly negative reviews.  This movie can't please anyone, but which movie can?There were some rather good psychiatric thrillers in last ten years (like Final Analysis), and this one isn't better or worse.  So if you like psychiatrists included in crime - as victims, witnesses, investigators, forensics, this is O.K. for you.  If you don't mind sex or murder in a movie, but prefer first, you have a good proportion here.  And I don't mind some car chasing if it's not the main point of the movie.  There are some dozens of broken cars, but in just one (long) sequence, so if it's not enough for you, don't start watching.  If you like violence, shooting, fighting, this one is definitively not for you.I saw a 134' version on TV - is it short or long one?  It didn't seem to be cut.  Willis&March scenes were beautiful, one of the most beautiful and most erotic for me (but everybody has his own scale that depends on what he likes both in movies and in life, his feelings, behaviour, religiosity, sexual orientation, culture etc so it's useless to compare them).I knew who the killer was about half a minute after he appeared on screen, but the motive was hidden till the end, and that's what surprised me.  But after reading so many Agatha Christie's and watching so many who-did-it movies (and so many with psychiatry included) I usually guess quickly. There was one thing I didn't expect.  When a private detective, doctor, taxi driver or anyone out of police starts investigating he is always more clever and more successful than the policemen.  But here, though Willis leads his investigation, it's Martinez who keeps everything (including Willis) under control.  It hasn't been shown or said, but it seems obvious that he gave informations to Willis (telling them himself or sending Anderson to do it) when he found it convenient and when it was helping him.  So Willis is not such a super-hero he (and most other amateur detectives in this genre) usually is.  And I like Willis more in such type of a role; for years I didn't watch his movies because he was supposed to be only an action hero.  Bakula is O.K. like always (how should a psychiatrist look like?).  March had more interesting character in The Lover, the script didn't get her much chance here, but she did very good what she was expected to do.  The therapy group maybe looks like Dear John group, some characters (Clark!) are stereotypes. but people like them exist (though a therapist with such a group probably wouldn't wait to be killed, he'd do it himself).This film is not bad at all, it is between good and very good, but only if your answers on my if-s are positive.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining movie to watch","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  So this movie wasn't very clever, didn't have too much of a story. But Jane March gets naked a lot and she's hot. It's a soft-core porn. This might be a good movie to watch on a second date. There are many scenes that don't need to be in this movie. I didn't mind much. Blockbuster was all out of the good movies and this kept me entertained for two hours.  "},{"Title":"Mystery + Sex = enjoyable movie","Date":"25 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I have this movie in my collection and every so often I must pull it out and watch it again.  it has the right mix of mystery and sex.  Just enough to make you like it and not go over the top.The characters are fairly generic but that's what makes it good for a Sunday afternoon to keep away the boredom.overall, this film is worth seeing and you should take it as it is and not as a masterpiece of film.    "},{"Title":"A SCHOLARLY FAILURE","Date":"28 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was made by a man who knows too much - about cinema history, about production detail, possibly about himself. While Richard Rush is no pedantic filmmaker, the movie has suffered because of his overreaching attention to detail. The criticisms about the film being unrealistic (in terms of group therapy and the raging cop) are true but don't get in the way of the general plot. As a whodunit, or who's doing it, it works well...as a slice of life, it's not there at all. Knowing that Richard Rush hadn't made a movie in years, is a perfectionist, has a weak heart, and that the film had been recut a million times (no doubt due to bad previews since Rush didn't have the power to control the cut despite bad reactions), I think it's safe to say that the whole project didn't have a chance to survive.   As a sidenote, it was a delight to see Shirley Knight who gave a terrific but brief performance in a role that was basically all exposition. "},{"Title":"An above average mystery","Date":"15 February 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie was a little above average but that is saying a lot.  If it wasn't for a small twist in the plot it would have been a snoozer.  Bruce Willis and Scott Bakula acted so well off each other they should have another project together sometime in the future.  There was a decent amount of action in the movie that kept me watching.  All in all you will enjoy this movie if there is nothing else to do that day. "},{"Title":"I have seen better movies than that from Bruce!","Date":"12 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  When I first watched it I thought it was quite stupid! But as I started watching the movie continuously I thought it was not as bad as before. I have seen excellent movies from him but this one would have to be the worst movie. I thought it was not bad but I have seen MUCH BETTER movies from Bruce! "},{"Title":"Ludicrous thriller, albeit entertaining in unintentional ways","Date":"16 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" The Color of Night is actually one of those rare achievements that no director or screenwriter could possibly strive for if they wanted to. A film that fails at pretty much everything it aspires, but manages to become compulsively viewable to see how much further a train wreck it can become and, by some strange twist, actually attains a level of guilty entertainment value it really does not deserve. Blending together the elements of a psychological Hitchcock thriller with the eroticism of Basic Instinct/Fatal Attraction/late night Cinemax films, the filmmakers end up with a conglomeration that was probably a far cry from what they intended, particularly given that director Richard Rush was actually a director of some reputation. Psychologist Bruce Willis has gone color blind since his inept attempts at counseling led to the unintentional suicide of a patient. He decides to seek solace with an old colleague Scott Bakula, who ends up murdered. Police seem to believe that the culprit is one of the participants of the group therapy sessions that Bakula oversaw and Willis steps in to ferret out the culprit. Meanwhile, Willis crosses paths with enigmatic young sexpot Jane March who may be more involved than he suspects. The group therapy sessions are a great source of unintentional comedy. Made up of fairly reliable character actors like Lance Henriksen, Kevin O'Connor and Lesley Ann Warren, all seem to realize that they are in glorified garbage and find intriguing ways in which to embellish their characters and hog the screen. In between, comical therapy sessions, Rush inserts an obligatory chase scene, a bloody murder, or an energetic sex romp between the leads. No one can ever accuse the film of being a bore. Unfortunately the ham factor does not extend to the leads. March has been handed a virtually unplayable part filled with assorted pitfalls, and even the more remedial elements seem out of her reach. She never seems vampish enough to attract the kind of attention bestowed upon her in the film. Even worse, March's distinctive looks render a latter-film plot twist psychotically absurd when the audience has been leagues ahead of everyone else on screen and the respective characters' bafflement seems downright jaw-dropping. Much press was spilled about the torrid sex scenes compiled for the film, including much ballyhooed full frontal exposure from leading man Willis, but the leads generate no sparks. I give Willis credit for a) generously stepping up to the plate and showing substantial skin at a time when most American mainstream leading men would have run in the opposite direction, and b) trying to play the lead role seriously, but he is positively lifeless in this film. One has no rooting interest in either his relationship with March, his ability to counsel his patients, or whether he will even make it out of the various chase/attack scenes in one piece. He has rendered himself into a virtual stick of wood devoid of any emotion. Yet, in spite of its miscast and outmatched leads and the thoroughly incompetent direction, the film has that car accident quality that keeps one watching well past the point where it should be turned off. The conclusion is pure Grand Guignol corn with a bit of a cheat on the murderer, but what an unintentionally hilarious loony ride it is to that point. "},{"Title":"Not that bad!","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I saw this movie late on television one night & with all the bad reviews this movie has had in TV guides and movie review books i was expecting a real stinker - but that wasn't the case it was very well made & stylish the acting by everybody except Bruce Willis was really good - Willis wasn't very convincing as a psychiatrist battling his inner demons & the love plot between him and Jane March at least 20 years his junior is just laughable and adds nothing important to the story. this isn't Willis's worst film - that honour goes to the criminally bad Hudson Hawk but it could have been so much better if the writers had come up with a better script (some of the lines are hilarious)      Brad Dourif is great as the creepy Clark a lawyer with an obsessive compulsive disorder - and is a very much underrated actor.     Ruben blades has a pretty pointless and underused role as the investigating  detective & just pops in and out of the movieFor a similar & slightly better movie try 'SERIAL COPS'- or 'PAPERTRAIL' as it's known is the U.SFinal rating 7/10 (Could have been great but it's let down by a bad script & a obvious final plot twist (although it's cleverly done) "},{"Title":"One of the Best Suspense Films Ever","Date":"28 June 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of the greatest movies I have ever seen, and it's definitely on my Top 10 Best movies of all time list, possibly my Top 5. If you like a good mystery, a plot twist, and awesome characters, all combined nicely with a hint of eroticism, then this is absolutely the film for you. The ending is completely unbelievable, and one of the most suspenseful scenes in Hollywood history, right up there with Jodi Foster's chase through the dark in Silence of the Lambs. "}{"Title":"Complete Turkey","Date":"25 January 2008","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This film begins with promise. The stellar cast list seems impressive and there's an intriguing air of mystery. But it rapidly disintegrates into afternoon TV clichs. The plot is asinine. The dialogue is so weak that it fails even to drive the plot let alone give any depth to the characters. Where there is characterisation it is woefully shallow. And the eventual denouement with its shlock horror and tired Hitchcock clichs is risible.Poor Jane March seems to be there only for the director to show her body off with the scriptural subtlety of a porn film. And the rest of the usually excellent cast do their best. But as they say here in the UK - you can't polish a t**d.... "},{"Title":"COLOR OF NIGHT (Richard Rush, 1994) Director's Cut **","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" What do Stanley Kubrick, Sergio Leone, David Lean, Terence Malick and Richard Rush have in common apart from all being film directors? They each spent, for one reason or another, a considerable length of time away from behind the cameras but, while the first four each bounced back with considerable achievements, Richard Rush gave us the universally-reviled COLOR OF NIGHT. Rush is hardly fit to stand in the company of such mavericks but his short filmography is not uninteresting and he did give us one undisputed modern classic, THE STUNT MAN (1980), a career-high for him (earning even a Best Direction Academy Award nod) and which, ironically, he made just before that prolonged hiatus. Truth be told, he did make a fascinating feature-length documentary about the production woes he had to suffer through on that picture but still, after some 16 years in the wilderness, one expects better... Which is not to say that COLOR OF NIGHT is a total flop - despite its having nabbed the Razzie Award for Worst Film of the Year. In fact, I was pleasantly surprised at how perversely enjoyable the film eventually was...sometimes for all the wrong reasons, of course! Anyway, while the premise - starting with their psychoanalyst, the components of a group therapy at a swank L.A. suburb is being targeted by a knife-wielding assassin - could have been worked out into an effective neo-noir, this certainly isn't it. For starters, the atmosphere is all wrong and, even if they get to engage in some pretty laughable sex scenes, there's no chemistry between leads Bruce Willis (playing the replacement shrink, he even gets to show his manly assets a couple of times during the film) and Jane March (as a mystery girl); with respect to the suspects/victims, they're such an assortment of wackos and losers - albeit featuring capable actors such as Brad Dourif and Lance Henriksen - as to seem like caricatures (then again, Ruben Blades' performance as the flustered Mexican cop on the case isn't any less hammy)! All in all, it's yet another shameless Hitchcock rip-off by way of BASIC INSTINCT (1992) - with VERTIGO (1958) and PSYCHO (1960) being plundered for the admittedly clever denouement and the climactic cliffhanger even gives a nod towards NORTH BY NORTHWEST (1959) for good measure - though the film is too slackly-handled to exert much of a grip throughout and it doesn't even have the benefit of a stylish veneer a' la the work of Brian De Palma. In short, it is merely preposterous and overblown...all the way from Dominic Frontiere's music score to the version I watched actually turning out to be an unheralded Director's Cut, running 17 minutes longer than theatrical-release prints! "},{"Title":"Jane March, very talented actress. should be in more films.","Date":"26 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Bruce Willis is always great in his movies,, but,, the one that got my attention was Jane March. Beauty and talent in one dynamic package. The dual role she played had many fooled and to play two parts, with different personalities shows how remarkable she is. I have added it to my film library mainly because of her performance. I am sorry that others have not seen this and had her star in more films. I hope this will change in the future, she is an extremely talented actress. I did also see her in a Tarzan movie, where she played Jane. If these comments were only viewed by film makers, they could get feedback from what myself and others see.  "},{"Title":"Bruce Willis Makes A Thinking Film.","Date":"24 December 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Too bad he was not thinking when he decided to do this film. This one is best caught on cable, that way you don't have to pay for it at the video store or netflix. I could describe this film with a lot of spoilers but for those who don't heed the advice of most of the people in the forum, I won't. Needless to say the actors in this film turn in truly lackluster and uninspiring performances. Given the talent in this film you have to wonder where it all went wrong. Was it the story, the producer, the director? My money is on the director. With the talent he has in this film it could have been a much better movie. The mark of a good film is when you believe the characters and that the actors do their roles so well they don't seem like their acting it all. This actors in this film seems like they are straining to make it seem like they are acting the roles instead of playing them. By The Way, is there a film in which Jane March kept her clothes on for the entire film?In short, steer clear of this film, unless you want to see how not to do a film. "},{"Title":"So bad that it was almost good","Date":"31 August 2003","Score":"5 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Okay, first of all, my impression of the film was that... it was basically thrown together by several drunken script writers who didn't have enough material on each of their independent project. So they decided they'd put everything they've got together to make up the time.Honestly, as you watch the film, you can identify the clear quality changes as well as mood changes. I found it hard to believe it was even directed by a single director. The story lacks emotions, performance, intelligence, believability, continuity, purpose, character... the list can go on. I give you one thing though, the film did have a professional look in terms of photography, but only at an average level.Thing is though, despite being such a bad film, I did watch it throughout for one reason. I just wanted to find out what the script writer(s) came up with next. You can so blatantly tell that the writer just had a new idea at some point of the story, and forces it into the script and touches up the rest of the plot a little to justify it. Unfortunately while it was entertaining to see so much new material throughout the film, it just made the film fall apart even more. So I dunno, I found it fun as an experience, though I ain't sitting through it again unless I'm pointing and laughing at it with my friends next time it comes on TV.The sex scenes, I didn't ignore them. Thing is, they were explicit, but they were... well since it's an 18 film... I dare say they're just s**t. The sex scene were badly composed and directed, lacking either the passion you see from love stories, or the energy in porn films. It was just crap, period.The cast was completely wasted in this movie, including Bruce. Each character were linear and stereotyped, which failed each actor's better credited performances in films of their respective genres. I can just see the actors thinking God this is the low point of my career, I thought that other film I did was s**t, but this tops it all.So anyway, I'm sorry I can't stay focus in my review, cos the film was just all over the place so badly I guess... If you have the two hours with nothing better to do, yeah, it's fun to watch it for a laugh but keep the remote near. Just don't take this film seriously, cos it's an insult to your intelligence. "},{"Title":"fascinating in its failures","Date":"27 September 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Psychologist Bill Capa (Bruce Willis) struggles after his patient commits suicide in front of him. He suffers psychosomatic color blindness that keeps him from seeing red. He goes to L.A. to recover with the help of old colleague Dr. Bob Moore (Scott Bakula). He joins Moore's group session with OCD Clark (Brad Dourif), nymphomaniac Sondra (Lesley Ann Warren), suicidal ex-cop Buck (Lance Henriksen), angry entitled artist Casey (Kevin J. O'Connor) and transgender Richie. He begins an affair with mysterious Rose (Jane March). Moore is killed and Det. Hector Martinez (Ruben Blades) investigates.Director Richard Rush is trying to make some kind of hard-boiled psychological erotic thriller with Brian De Palma style. It is fascinating in its failures. Bruce Willis is trying desperately to be meek. Ruben Blades is annoying as the bad cop without any good cop in sight. Then there is Jane March. She's obviously hired for the erotic aspect. She tries very hard to do the almost impossible acting. It's a failure but a fascinating one. It's a trainwreck that I can't stop watching. "},{"Title":"Tries to be a psychological thriller but fails","Date":"9 January 2015","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This movie won the Razzie award for Worst Motion Picture of 1994. Oddly enough though, it didn't win in any of the other worst of categories. This really says something about the film. The fact is, it is just hard to point to any one or even combination of factors of why it is so bad. It's not that any one particular performance is bad or an actor or actress is miscast or that there is particularly cheesy dialogue as is so often the case in a bad film. It's just that the whole thing comes together to form a whole lot of nothing. It's more what isn't in the film than what is in it that makes it mediocre. Sure, the ending is unexpected, but it would also be unexpected if I found an extra broom when I was cleaning out my closet. That wouldn't make it remarkable, interesting, or even noteworthy. Because I never grew to care about the characters I couldn't be expected to care about the ending. The film is trying to be a psychological thriller with Willis as the protagonist trying to unravel the mystery. What comes out over the duration of the film are just many seemingly disjointed odd events meant to shock but just don't form any kind of cohesive plot. Instead we have what could have been a strong cast of characters in good performances spending the whole film trying to figure out exactly who they are supposed to be. The explicit love scenes between Willis and Jane March are just annoying more than anything as they seem to scream This is a consolation prize to make up for the fact that you're sitting through such a bad film. "},{"Title":"An abject failure in most aspects, but fun in a turkey sort of way","Date":"21 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Bill Capa (Bruce Willis), A color blind psychiatrist witnesses a patient jump out a window. Thoroughly disturbed by this incident, Bill decides to call it quits with his practice. After his friend Bob Moore is murdered, Bill is coerced into taking over for him and his patients. Things become increasingly perplexing when the patients are getting killed off, and he gets involved with a sexually charged, slightly promiscuous woman, who seems to have psychological issues of her own (Jane March)This was potentially a career killer for Bruce Willis. I realize he was trying to expand his range, but this was a very risky choice for Bruce. It was ripped to shreds by the pretentious, fickle pundits. People were exasperated about the unflattering material in this movie. What did I think of it? I'm not gonna deny that this movie is a train-wreck of epic proportions, but it can be very entertaining in a so bad its good way. This is one of those turkey's that is a wet dream for bad movie lovers. It's so ludicrous that I couldn't help but enjoy myself. I watched the director's cut version. It's almost 140 minutes long (!) I can definitely see why they decided to trim it some for a theatrical release. This movie does have a murder mystery, but let's not pretend that it's what this movie is truly about. It's about salacious sex scenes, vivid ones at that. You haven't seen provocative or steamy eroticism in a mainstream movie until you've seen this one. This is somewhat of a soft-core porno at times with how it comes across. The sex is the selling point of this movie, not the mystery. As far as sex scenes are concerned, you'll be hard pressed to find much better. Willis even shows glimpse of his penis at one point! The violence is poured on thick in this one. People are stabbed, somebody is impaled through a shard of glass. We also get fun with nails and more. This one isn't afraid to be mean. The acting is enjoyable, if unexceptional. Bruce Willis is motivated in this one, I'll say that. He's likable and brave to take on such a controversial project. I wouldn't call it a great performance, but he's very solid. Jane March is sexy as a conniving woman. Her unpredictability kept her interesting. She had decent chemistry with Willis as well. I didn't really buy the intense passion they shared in all honesty, but they certainly weren't awkward. Lance Henriksen & Brad Douriff are both fun in their respective parts as patients. The ending throws in a decent twist, shades of Hitchcock as well. The problem, is that the killer is easy to guessThis movie isn't very good, though I'd be lying if I said I didn't enjoy it. People can chastise it all they want, but I love entertainingly bad movies. Despite the over length, this is an undeniably messed up film that bad movie lovers can enjoy. It didn't kill Bruce Willis's career, he's still working, so chill5.6/10 "},{"Title":"Overwrought melodrama","Date":"13 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Two things happen at psychiatrist Bruce Willis' group therapy - one, he drops into a hot and heavy relationship with a tasty young thing and, two, patients start getting murdered.There are two ways of describing this movie. One is by applying the label erotic thriller. The other is by describing it thus ludicrous melodrama where half the characters remain at hysteria pitch throughout, and Bruce Willis reveals all in a series of sex scenes with Jane March who, despite getting her kit off frequently, fails to establish this as the breakthrough role it should have been given the scope of her character.This film is not un-entertaining, but it's for all the wrong reasons. "},{"Title":"The Best of the Worst","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Let me sing the praises of an unremittingly horrible film that I can't stop watching. It has a surprise that is absolutely no surprise. It has a 20 min. (or at least it felt that long) sex scene in which the lucky viewer gets a glimpse of Bruce Willis' willis. It has actors of varying degrees of talent all hitting their careers lows at once. It's a train wreck. It's a big fat turkey. It's probably one of the worst films ever... and I love it. This movie embodies the phrase so bad it's good. And it almost makes sense when you watch it at three am. Almost.*****************(Possible spoiler below)By the way, the secret lies in Jane March's teeth. The most enormous pair of choppers ever caught on celluloid. Just follow those pearly whites and the ending will reveal itself. Yikes! How could you not figure it out? "}{"Title":"Trashy thriller","Date":"31 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I really don't know how anybody expects me to write more than twenty-five words about such a trashy thriller as Color of Night. Let's face it, the real attractions - if you can call them that - are the steamy sex scenes between hunky Bruce Willis and nymphomaniac waif Jane March. There is certainly plenty of their flesh on show, so if this is your thing I guess you could wade your way through the rest of the garbage (if you are really that desperate) or make good use of the fast forward button. My advice though would be to use the eject button instead.Director Richard Rush ought to find another vocation, though I admit he had nothing to work with in Billy Ray's story. Director of Photography Dietrich Lohmann has nothing but naked bodies to film, editor Jack Hofstra should have been fired while the music from Dominic Frontiere may be the worst ever composed for a movie of this type.At least the cast, including Lance Henrikson, Lesley Ann Warren, Brad Dourif, Ruben Blades and Kevin J. O'Connor seem to realise they're in a shocker.Sunday, September 22, 1996 - Video "},{"Title":"Die Hard it ain't","Date":"5 January 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This movie falls into a category I like to call.. If Only   I found this movie while searching for Bruce Willis movies and could not remember ever seeing it.. and with good reason. After watching about 2/3rds of the movie, I recalled having seen it before and remembered why it was forgettable If only I had remembered that before I started watching it, I would have chosen something else, but having started the movie I chose to finish it. Somewhere, buried amidst the pornographic scenes (where Bruce really doesn't measure up) is a semi-decent plot that has an interesting twist at the end. The twist hardly makes the movie as a whole worth enduring and never truly ends up feeling like the typical Bruce Willis movie.  It doesn't have the endearing qualities of other movies such as Hudson Hawk or the Action of the Die Hard trilogy.  Unless you are just dieing to see Bruce Willis in a porno, rent something else or catch it on TNT and save about 20 minutes of movie in cut scenes. "},{"Title":"Sex good, plot bad.","Date":"25 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film would have been better if they'd cut out all the junk about the murders and the therapy group and made it into a Red Shoe Diaries episode. There were a few very funny lines thrown in during the group sessions, but they're not enough to save the picture.  Really bad movie with some really great sex scenes! "},{"Title":"really bad film, but some beautiful nudes","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I can't say enough bad things about this film, so let's just say unless you have the uncut director's version which features some beautiful nudes, DON'T BOTHER! The script is camp, at best. Even some terrific actors can't make this storyline work. I got the feeling when watching that this must be a director who was trying to fit every gimmick he'd ever seen into one film. Uggh. Again, unless you have the uncut version and can fast forward to the nude scenes, DON'T BOTHER.  "},{"Title":"Top notch cast/top notch clinker","Date":"30 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  With such a luminous cast as presented in this mystery flick, it is surprising why it turned out so bad.  I guess it lies with the screenplay by Matthew Chapman, adapted from a story by Billy Ray.  What a bunch of crazies running around loose.  Brief synopsis of Dr. Bill, played by Bruce Willis I usually like most of his work attempting to get over a patient of his leaping out of his office window 50 floors high while in a session.  Upon going color blind from the experience blood red now looks gray to him he visits friend, Dr. Bob played by Scott Bakula in a minor role who gets murdered in a slashing scene that is quite real.  Dr Bill takes over Dr. Bob's group therapy class one of them being the murderer - we think which consists of some fine actors, namely Lesley Ann Warren, Brad Dourif, Lance Henderson and Kevin J. O'Connor all of which have some sort of sexual hang-up.  Then by chance up pops the likes of Jane March, who bares all, tells all and evidently does all.  As Dr Bob and his Miss Rose are doing it in the pool, the hallway, the floor, the shower and eventually the bed, the plot begins to thicken, although I guessed some of the surprises quite early.  The make-up wasn't that clever.  It was the buck teeth that gave it away in my book.  Miss March has a nice body, but her teeth need capping.  It was an annoying smile.  The sex scenes were obviously the reason this movie made it as far as it did.  Mr Willis certainly doesn't lack in that department.  What a tusch!However I found it hard to swallow pardon the pun.  It seemed too far fetched to be believable that these patients were walking the street. Director Richard Rush did what he could.  However, I feel he could have improved on Miss March's performance.  She was that bad.  A near perfect body does not make an actress.  It was also sad to see the likes of Shirley Knight and Jeff Corey in such nothing roles.  What a waste of good talent.  Rounding off the cast was Andrew Lowery, looking like he should be in a teeny bopper horror flick,  playing Rose's demented brother who loves shooting nails out of a gun into people.I am a great fan of Bruce Willis and wonder why he would consent to do a flop like this.  In fact why did many of the actors choose this loser? Surely Warren, Dourif, Knight and Corey deserve better.  I give this movie a 1/2 star.   "},{"Title":"So Hot!","Date":"15 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Horrible story, acting, directing, you name it. But I'll tell you exactly why this film is worth renting  The five minute scene many people have already mentioned. Starting poolside Jane (a body that looks like it's made out of clay) and Bruce (looking mighty fine all sweaty in those swimming trunks) dive in and tangle with each other until they are FULLY NUDE. They kiss and fondle each other,  until they go inside. There they make love on the floor in the living room and up into the bedroom, where Jane props herself against the bed and Bruce get DIE HARD on her from behind. After many screams. They lay back. They then go down to dinner, where she serves it naked and they hit the showers, seeing Jane's hard calves slink their way around Bruce and hold tightly to his wet, tight little bottom is worth a couple bucks alone.To know what happens after this you'll have to rent...you won't be sorry... "},{"Title":"Bruce must rue the day he signed up for this stinker","Date":"14 March 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I guess every actor has at least one complete turkey on their CV - Bruce Willis has several. Color Of Night, however, must rank as his worst. This is a truly loathsome film, hilarious in places (such as the entire finale) and with a turgid half-plot that mixes frigid (supposedly daring) love scenes with a script that would be more suited to a typical American daytime soap opera. The same goes for the acting - Willis seems permanently perplexed as to how he got involved in this film to begin with, and the supporting cast would be hard pressed to pass an audition for 'Days of our Lives'. On a cinematic or even purely narrative level, this film is never less than risible. On an entertainment level, the film will at least raise plenty of laughs. Probably not what the director had in mind.  "},{"Title":"Color of pain","Date":"23 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  What a turkey! ****Plot spoilers possible**** Goofy film about Bruce a Psychologist involoved with the lolita looking Jane March.  Don't get me wrong Jane is hot, I think that's the reason Bruce took this on in the first place, but the action and acting is so mondo bad it's totally laughable throughout. The pool scene with Bruce's whim jim was the big whoop when this came out, but dare I say Bruce, shrinkage my man, shrinkage, if I was in the pool with a naked March it'd be the old Operation Up scope.  What's with the remote control thing in the tub? It tries to be serious but laughs are all over, check out the snake in the mailbox. In short a good film to sit around and make fun of for laughs, Jane's nudity and a really hot scene with her in a mini-skirt in a jeep, and a quick 3 second glimps at Little B. "},{"Title":"Brilliant delightful perversion","Date":"25 October 2010","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This film is extremely good. Of course, since it is a head shrink film, we can imagine the twisted denouement from the very beginning, that it will have to do with sexual identification or dis-identification, but at the same time it is done well enough for us to have some kind of doubts and follow the events the way they come and be surprised by the details of the horror of these perverted psychos. I won't give you the details because that would go against the confidentiality rule that I gave sworn to respect once I became an almighty reviewer, or critic.I do breach that sworn confidentiality all the time, but this time no, not at all.You can send Dexter and I won't do it either. I am not afraid of Dexter and anyway he will never be able to cut me into small pieces because I am protected the charm of my old years.If you want the details you'll have to watch the film. But make sure you know what's the difference between a boy and a girl and vice versa otherwise you may get slightly sick which would be your punishment since you had been warned. Enjoy that trip to Los Angeles, the perfectly well named city of angels. So many little angels are fluttering around our heads in this basically murderous city.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Crteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"Country House Mystery","Date":"5 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Folks don't like this movie. I didn't either, but there is at least one interesting thing about it, its provenance.Its an old fashioned locked house mystery, patterned after the Agatha Christie model. You have some sort of artificial constraint that sets the rules there is a murderer and you know it is one among a small group. As the story goes, you discover that each person has some hidden side that may lead to the explanation that they are the murderer. The detective, in this case a psychologist, is hampered in that he has a condition similar to the broken souls he is counseling. It makes it difficult for him to see on our behalf. In true Agatha tradition, the real murderer is revealed to be someone, and to rely on some causes, that are so unexpected we smile when they are revealed. The red in the red herring here is sex. The diversions that pull us away all have to do with sexual fantasy. This is, needless to say, not a device that Agatha would have used, but it is most welcome here because it isn't just sex that is used to distract us its that special kind that comes from cinematically- generated romantic target stories.In fact, if you know films, you may know one of the most successful and lovely of the projects that simply and directly takes you one of these romantic, bodily encounters that actually ends but remains sweet. Its The Lover, and stars as the target of attention a young Jane March. Its a different twist than here, where she takes on several characters in one body, but the overall shape is the same, emotionally as well as the skinform.There's incompetence in how it is delivered to us, but the way it is structured is very, very sweet, and continues the narrative tradition of the detective story into more modern terms. It probably is important in that respect and though it doesn't directly reward us, I'll bet that its a big step in the evolution of the form that has given us stuff we really do like.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3 Worth watching. "}{"Title":"Therapy gone bad","Date":"1 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Bruce Willis plays a New York therapist who witnesses a patient of his commit suicide. This is so traumatic to him, he becomes color blind. He travels to Los Angeles to visit his old college chum Scott Bakula, who invites Bruce to sit in on his Monday night group session. Here we meet five neurotics, and later Bakula tells Willis that one of them have been threatening his life. Soon, Bakula is murdered and the cop investigating the crime (Ruben Blades) asks Willis to take over the group and try to find the killer.This had to be one of the most ridiculous and unrealistic films I have ever seen. It started out interestingly, but very quickly soured. I don't know if a person can be traumatized into color blindness, but it seems unlikely. And the colorblindness had nothing to do with the plot or with Willis' character. Big deal, he's colorblind.Ruben Blades was simply awful as the foul cop. To show how foul this cop is, Willis and Blades are walking along the street when a man accidentally bumps into Blades. Blades pushes the man against a car and frisks him, while never breaking his conversation with Willis. That's one tough cop! And why does Willis move into Bakula's very nice house after Bakula's murdered? I don't know if I'd want to stay in my murdered friend's house.And the plot twists are so incoherent, so unbelievable, so ludicrous, that they are unintentionally funny. One of the neurotic patients is a boy who wants to be a girl. Or is s/he? This is truly a Razzie worthy winner. See it with friends to MSTie it. "},{"Title":"Just a waste of time!","Date":"15 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This film started off OK as Bruce Willis plays a psychiatrist but after a client throws herself out the window and is killed he flees to another psychiatrist played by Scott Bakula as (Bobby Moore) I was really disappointed that he wasn't in this film long but I'm not going to give away what happens. In this film a group therapy session of people are involved in two of the murders and we the audience have to figure who the culprit is in one of them. This film got so boring and confusing towards the end and I just simply didn't care anymore. Bruce Willis plays (Bill Capa) who soon gets involved and is seduced by Jane March &#150; one of the worst actresses I've ever seen. This film didn't really thrill me but if you're a Bruce Willis fan I don't know if you want to bother with this but Colour of night was a total letdown. "},{"Title":"Unrealistic","Date":"10 March 2003","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I admit that I didn't watch this to the end. I wasn't emotionally involved, simply because everything was so unrealistic.Bacula and Willis didn't look like therapists and they didn't behave like therapists. The therapy sessions were ridiculous. The writer obviously never visited a therapy session. This was a layman's view of a group therapy, where patients are constantly crying, screaming and insulting each other. It wasn't even funny. It was too over the top.If you want to see how therapy sessions look like in reality, go and watch The Sopranos.  "},{"Title":"A career low for all concerned...","Date":"17 February 2000","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  NOTE This review refers to the director's cut! (of course)This movie fails on just about every conceivable level. There's no drama or suspense. It's just one big mess. The sex scenes are among the worst in film history, and the ending is laughable.Yet, I cannot bring myself to say I HATED it-as a matter of fact, it hold a certain curiosity value for me. I kept wondering how bad can this get?In terms of acting, it's either overdone or understated. Bruce is stiff, Jane's unconvincing, and Leslie Ann Warren is just plain awful. Lance Henriksen (who should stick to sci-fi/horror) is the only one who actually delivers a decent performance, but his screen time is too limited to make any difference.As everyone here knows, this one was the subject of a major battle with the MPAA, due to the sex scenes. The ratings board threatened to slap it with an NC-17 rating, forcing the studio to trim it by fifteen minutes.However, the rating was later appealed in time for its video release, which is the version most people have seen it in. I haven't seen the general release print (125 min), but I can safely say it's no improvement. It might be even worse. It goes on forever, that's for sure.I suspect the reason the director's cut eventually made it out with an R rating is because the good folks at the MPAA realized it's just too bad to be taken seriously. I personally don't think I'd have the heart to give it an NC-17, although it probably deserves one.Truly, this is a turkey for the ages.P.S. This is director Richard Rush's first film since the critically acclaimed (!!!)Stunt Man (1980). It will probably be his last.Rating * (out of ****)140 min/Released by Hollywood Pictures  "},{"Title":"Some campy scenes and acting save Color of Night from being too awful","Date":"29 March 2005","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Recently I watched this thriller by Richard Rush again after seeing it 10 years ago. I hated it then. The pacing was turgid, the acting laughable and you could see some of the plot twists from a mile off. No, this was a terrible movie.Wll, a couple of months I bought the DVD Richard Rush's flick The Stunt Man at a sale. I really dug that one and when I found out that Rush also had done Color of Night, and that the Bruce Willis vehicle was his only movie that he had made after The Stunt Man, I became intrigued...So, I decide to rent it and after seeing it again It still sucks, but it's not that terrible. The pacing still seems a mile off and some of the acting is truly terrible (Scott Bakula and the one who played the cop are especially frighteningly awful), but some of the acting was not as terrible as I had thought. Jane March and Lesly Anne Warren seem to camp it up in a fabulous way and their scene together is fantastic and hilarious. Also, Richard Rush seems to have incorporated themes and styles from the Stunt Man into this. The same kind of lighting and music which were wonderful in The Stunt Man can also be seen and heard here. But where as the circus music heard in Th Stunt Man was appropriate during the stunt scenes, in Color of Night they are played during the therapy session scenes. It just does not work as the cast are...uh..colorful enough. Putting that music on the soundtrack makes it stupid instead of funny; it misses a punchline. The script is terrible with far too many loose ends. The denouement is filled with very talky ex-positional dialogue. It seems to shot in a re-shoot, as the characters fall over themselves to kill or save each other, while trying to fill the plot holes. Also, the characters don't seem to mourn over the people that die in the course of this movie; are they really that shallow or was that footage thrown out by the director?Bruce Willis also is not good. He seems too jokey and relaxed in the serious scenes. It's only, surprisingly, during the romantic scenes with Jane March that he is on a roll. I never took him for a charmer, but he seems to have plenty of charm during those scenes. Still, Color of Night has a campy attitude in some places and is beautifully lit. Because of that 5 out of 10 "},{"Title":"Too over-the-top and uninvolving to be a good erotic thriller.","Date":"25 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  * out of ****Color of Night is basically your typical erotic thriller only it has big stars in it and is also considerably more pretentious (and considering the fact that this is actually better than the usual straight-to-video erotic thriller fare you have to wonder what that says about this genre).  It features a story that could have been decent had some modicum of thought been put into it or if the execution or direction had any inspiration behind it.  Instead, we have an over-the-top thriller that lacks in creating a moment of genuine tension.Psychologist Bill Capa (Bruce Willis) temporarily leaves his profession after he accidentally persuades a woman to commmit suicide, leaving him blind to the color red (please don't ask, it doesn't make any more sense to me than it would to you).  He visits his friend Bob Moore (Scott Bakula), who's also a psychologist, and he's worried because he's been receiving death threats from who he believes to be one of five of his most seriously disturbed patients.Moore is killed one night, in a gruesome fashion as he is repeatedly stabbed over and over.  Capa immediately suspects one of the five patients as the murderer.  Could it be oddball Casey, sex addict Sondra, transsexual Richie, obsessive compulsive Clark, or the troubled Buck, whose wife and daughter were killed.  As Capa investigates, he meets a mysterious woman named Rose (Jane March), and they develop a passionate relationship.  Eventually, Capa's search for the truth leads him to a shocking discovery.Director Richard Rush sure does take his time in developing this movie (or the lack thereof).  At 140 minutes, it goes on far too long though it could have been a bearable experience had it featured some suspenseful moments or had more erotic and steamy scenes.  Instead, what we have is a mess of a thriller, one that is virtually nil of suspense.  Even the copious amount of blood during the murder does little to jolt you.  And it's made all the goofier by Willis' character's red color blindness.The execution of the erotic scenes is far, far better and Color of Night does have its very steamy moments.  Most notable is the first sexual tryst between Willis and March, which begins in a swimming pool, continues in bed, and finishes in the shower.  Thus, the only thing there is to puncture the monotony afterward is the occasional gratuitous shot of Jane March's shapely curves.One of the film's worst problems is how over-the-top it gets, particularly during the scenes with the disturbed patients.  The script's stupidity is all the more noticable during these moments when all the characters spout off some truly inane dialogue.  Composer Dominic Frontiere's bloated score doesn't help, either, which sounds like music more suitable for a carnival or a Bela Lugosi movie.The acting is another hindrance. Bruce Willis as the disturbed psychologist is decent (as always) but the script often keeps him from accomplishing anything further.  Jane March is easily one of the sexiest actresses I've seen and her performance is okay, with a lot of the fault also coming from the script.  Everybody else either registers bland or overacts to embarrassing extents (to the point where I'm surprised Lesley Ann Warren, Brad Dourif, and Kevin J. O'Connor are still working).There is a plot twist at the end of Color of Night.  I suspected a little through the first 20 minutes that that was what the twist would be, yet found myself saying no to myself because it just seemed too implausible, ridiculous, and even downright creepy in all the wrong ways.  What do you know, I was right.  The description of the twist also seems to fit the rest of the movie.    "},{"Title":"Full frontal Jane March nudity. That's all this film has going for it.","Date":"15 February 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This is one of those hilariously awful films that makes the viewer wonder what exactly the filmmakers had in mind when they were making it.This film was a late entry in the erotic-thriller genre that Basic Instinct revived in 1992. What made that film work was the fact that you could tell that everyone involved wasn't taking the film too seriously. What kills Color of Night (besides the awful script), is that everyone except Bruce Willis were in on the joke of  how awful and goofy this material was. He takes the film, his role and his dialogue WAY too seriously.This film's biggest asset is the abundant nudity by the beautiful Jane March. I first became an admirer of her splendid figure in 1992's The Lover. Well, she has matured beautifully and her fantastic body is put on ample display. Anyone who isn't floored by her amazing sexual presence should have their pulse checked.Besides that, this film is awful. But it is likeable in a so-bad-it's-good sense and with the exception of Bruce, the cast is having a good time.Rating the movie 3   Jane March9.5  "},{"Title":"Mind-bogglingly bad.","Date":"4 April 2004","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Oh man, where to start.  I can barely articulate how truly bad this movie is.  It's the leading contender for the worst movie Bruce Willis has ever done (that's including Armageddon), and it's not hard to see why director Richard Rush had a 14-year gap between this and his last film.Sadly, a really good supporting cast of Brad Dourif, Lance Henriksen, Kevin J. O'Connor, and Leslie Ann Warren can't help romantic leads Willis and Jane March, who are like zombies going through barely comprehensible dialogue and, for reasons unknown, having something resembling a vague simulation of what might be confused for a relationship--I mean, you know, if you were on drugs or something.Oh, they're in love?  We're supposed to know that how?  Because they crashed into each other accidentally and both look good and steamy with their clothes off?  Sorry, but blatant sexuality does not a success in chemistry make.Gosh, I wonder why Jane March never became a substantial leading lady of film.Possibly the worst comic relief ever in a movie comes in the form of the usually enjoyable Ruben Blades, who is seriously Mexican-ing here. His funny dialogue makes half the movie unbearable to listen to.  Oh, and there are enough threads left hanging in the plot to weave a throw rug that could cover Los Angeles.And what the heck is the deal with this random title?  They must have picked it out of hat labeled stupid movie titles.I give it a generous 2/10 stars, if only to show some love to wasted ensemble supporting cast comprising Willis's therapy group.  Oh yeah, I see the irony alright.  Ack!  Stupid, stupid, stupid movie. "},{"Title":"a very odd, goofy and dumb erotic thriller.","Date":"4 February 2000","Score":"5 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  if you want to see how goofy and oddball the erotic thriller genre can get, look no further than this classic of the cheese realm.Everything about this film has a strong tongue in cheek feel like the cast and director realized how goofy the material was and decided to play it as a slight parody. Well, ALMOST the whole cast.................Bruce Willis acts like he's in the most important and serious movie to ever be made and is in great contrast to the other actors, who seem to be aware of the joke. the plot is so ridiculous and all over the map that i don't want to waste any space here discussing how stupid it is.The much touted and explicit sex scenes (which are much more explicit in the director's cut released on video) aren't really erotic, as much as just being energetic. The beautiful Jane March proves once again that she is a VERY sexy and underrated actress who brings a genuine sense of sexuality to her character and the sex scenes. (like the unrated version of the Lover which also stars her, it's worth renting both of these films just to see her strut her stuff.)I rated this a 4 since it's apparent that this wasn't taken that seriously, and it isn't the worst in it's genre, but it has some quirky moments but falls short overall.rating4    "},{"Title":"More like Colour Of Shi... 9%","Date":"11 February 2005","Score":"8 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" I'm always amused by the suggestion that Pulp Fiction (which was released the same year as Color Of Night) jump-started John Travolta's career. His star had, without question, stopped shining for a number of years but Tarantino's finest film rescued him from the Hollywood scrap-heap. Bruce Willis hadn't faded as much but the signs were there that Hollywood's favourite wise-cracking meat-head was beginning to run out of steam. One need only look at this ridiculously stupid thriller to see what I mean.Willis plays Bill, a New York psychiatrist who is so good according to those around him that the first patient we see him with jumps out of his office window and gets very comfortable with the road outside. Traumatised by this, Bill goes to LA to visit fellow shrink and best buddy Bob (Scott Bakula and it's nice to know they spent literally minutes thinking up character names, isn't it?) and his assorted group of patients who are affectionately known as the Monday Night Group. Bill's bad luck follows him, though, as Dr. Bob quickly comes a cropper too. Lt. Martinez (Rubn Blades) believes that one of the Monday Night Group is responsible so Bill reluctantly takes over the group. Away from therapy, Bill is entranced by the beautiful Rose (elfish rake Jane Marsh) but sadly for Bill, he can't figure out what's going on as quickly as we can.This year has been kind to me so far, movie-wise. I've seen Hero (rated 8 on my scale), The Incredibles (an impressive 10) and Shaun Of The Dead (a very funny 9), among others. I've being feeling a bad film coming for some time and sadly, this is it. This is one of the worst examples of a thriller I've seen for a long time. The plot is so laughable that it stops being funny and the fact that not one character can tell who the killer is (or even produce a single lead at all) is a staggering insult to the viewers intelligence. With better leads, this might have been pulled off but Willis and Marsh are dreadful. Willis is sleep-walking through the lines and all too ready to bare his bits when it's not really necessary. In truth, you'd have to be looking for them to tell and I'm afraid that Marsh's frequent nudity provided enough distraction, although the Emanuelle style soft-porn soundtrack didn't help. She seems quite happy to show her arse at the drop of a hat. Brad Dourif and Lance Henriksen are good enough as two suspects / patients but neither are really stretching themselves, both being much finer actors than anyone else on set.There really is quite a lot not to like about this film. I spent most of the movie screaming at the TV who the killer was but by the time of the great unmasking, things had got so wildly silly that I simply didn't care any more. And truth be told, I wasn't that bothered to begin with. The story is poor, the acting is worse, the production is hammy and uninspired. Even the misspelled title (in Queen's English, anyway - when will you learn, America?) has no bearing at all on the film's plot or, in fact, anything at all. The ending, grateful relief though it is, merely solidifies this film's reputation for me of being one great clunker. There really is nothing to see here, unless you're that eager to catch a glimpse of Willis's member. And if that is the sole recommendation of a film, imagine how bad the rest of it must be! "}{"Title":"Sex And Ridiculous Plot","Date":"7 August 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Color of Night is an erotic mystery thriller that stars Bruce Willis and Jane March.It is a story about New York psychiatrist Bill Capa,who visits Los Angeles to take over his murdered colleague's therapy group and then he finds himself embroiled in the thick of a mystery when he meets into Rosa,who happens to be an aspiring actress with a sexy overbite and hardly wearing any underwear,and they begin a torrid love affair. Richard Rush is the director of the film.The film has has much in the way of sex.Probably just a hairline away to finally avoid the dreaded NC-17. Still, there's plenty of sex scenes and nudity between Willis and March.Aside from that,the audience is treated to a plot itself seems too ridiculous to be taken seriously.There is a murder mystery involved and the following are the suspectsClark,who suffers from severe obsessive compulsive disorder and insists on cleanliness and counting things whose temper caused him to beat up his wife;Sondra,a nymphomaniac and kleptomaniac who stabbed her father with a knife and fork and had a husband died of unnatural causes;Buck,a suicidal ex-cop whose wife and daughter's murders remains unsolved;Casey,an arrogant son of a wealthy man, paints sado-masochist works of art that once burned down his father's house; and finally Richie,a 16-year-old with social anxiety disorder, a stutter and gender identity disorder who wants to be a woman and has has a history of drug use. But viewers will identify the suspect an hour away before the movie ends.Overall,it is movie becomes awful as it tries to mix of black humor and clever plotting intelligently but was unable to do so.But watch it for the sex scenes alone. "},{"Title":"So-bad-it's-good entertainment","Date":"27 July 2013","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" COLOR OF NIGHT is a dated, cheesy, film, a '90s misfire that attempted to ride the wave of psycho-sexual thrillers in the wake of FATAL ATTRACTION and BASIC INSTINCT and failed from the outset. The most annoying thing about the production is that the plot hinges on a crucial twist that will be obvious to even the most shortsighted viewer, right from the outset, but we're asked to suspend our disbelief until the very end before said twist is revealed. Nobody in their right mind can do that.Still, despite the paucity of imagination and the silliness of the script, watching this movie turns out to be quite a lot of fun. It's one of those films you can put into the so-bad-it's-good category of entertainment, in that it's filled with unintentional laughs and funny scenes that showcase some OTT acting from most of the cast. Whether it's Bruce Willis's hairpiece or the overblown pool sex scene (although Paul Verhoeven topped that a year later in SHOWGIRLS), COLOR OF NIGHT is frequently amusing.Besides, you have to give the film some credit for its cast alone, a seasoned who's who of '90s-era talent. I particularly like the way the casting director fixed up a bunch of well-known genre actors in supporting roles; well done that man! We're treated to non-bad-guy turns from Lance Henriksen and Brad Dourif (how often can you say that?), PREDATOR 2's Ruben Blades as the comic relief/detective, Lesley Ann Warren as a sex addict, a typically kooky Kevin J. O'Connor, and even Mr. QUANTUM LEAP himself, Scott Bakula.As for the central twosome, well...the best you can say is that this is when Willis was still acting in his roles, rather than riding along on monotonous autopilot as he does these days (in A GOOD DAY TO DIE HARD, for instance). Jane March is pretty and alluring, but is she out of her depth in a psychologically complex part? I think so! Director Richard Rush started out making trash movies '60s and his mindset is evident in the cheesy stalk-n-slash sequences and overblown stylistics on offer here. COLOR OF NIGHT might be a trashy attempt at a thriller, but it's a fun one with it. "},{"Title":"Psychological Thriller with a capital T","Date":"26 March 2006","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Traumatized and guilt-ridden by the loss of a patient, Bruce Willis visits a fellow therapist in hopes of putting himself back together. Instead, he watches the members of his therapy group tearing each other apart as the weaknesses exposed in group are used to wound and destroy--until they find themselves stalked by the ultimate destruction.Bruce Willis, as always, captures the role of flawed hero perfectly. The shrink who needs help as desperately as the patients he treats. Leslie Ann Warren is doing what she does best being uniquely, and simultaneously, seductive & frightening.If you've seen this on TV and thought it was only so-so, do yourself a favor and rent the real movie. What was cut from the TV version, either for the sake of time or censors, took away much of the depth and texture of a story written with the simple complexity of a spider's web.The red herrings are well-crafted and don't insult your intelligence. If you can guess the outcome before the last 10 minutes, you deserve the Agatha Christie award for creative and convoluted deduction. "},{"Title":"I don't know what to say","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I always liked Bruce Willis,  so when i saw this at the video store, it interested me enough to get it out. I don't know what to say, this film is a classic, it is so funny and crap that it defies belief and yet i watched it, twice!!! It wasn't the sex, even though Jane March is hot, it wasn't the plot, (anyone who says that this has no plot is deluded), it wasn't the acting, it is just funny, the situations, the twists, the characters. I'm going to give away the major twist now, this may shock you but.....Jane March plays three different characters!!!!!!! And those clever make up people have made it so that we don't know she is two of the three characters, only, they're not clever, they're stupid. Did these people seriously think that no one would be able to tell that these two mysterious characters were her. When i first watched it, i did a double take. it was like, 'hang on thats Jane March dressed like a boy', i couldn't believe they had tried to put that one past me and from that point on, the movie was just so funny. I think a lot of people put to much thought in to films, it's entertainment, sometimes you don't need to analyze everything, just kick back with a beer and have a good time, this film definitely falls in to that category. 10/10 p.s - I have since purchased the film and find time to laugh at it at least a couple of times a year "},{"Title":"The only good thing is the song","Date":"2 December 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  The sex scenes are very hot, but seems like you re watching a video from an erotic thriller with Shannon Tweed. Its so obvious that Rose ans Ricky are the same person, you quickly can see that Ricky is a character full of makeup and in some place of the move he has to reveal, and  you discovered when the sexy and BIG SMILE (British?) appears in the screen.Suspiciously they have the same awful teeth. The main song and the soundtrack that could be memorable are spoiled by the lack of the plot and the makeup. "},{"Title":"Top Ten Guilty Pleasure","Date":"6 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" There are only a few reasons why someone would watch this film. a) They enjoy unintentional humor, campy, overheated performances by usually dependable stars, hyper-dramatic music, etc... b) They are longing to catch a glimpse of Bruce Willis naked, c) They like to look for phallic imagery and keyhole symbolism or d) They saw Jane March in The Lover and wondered if there was any more skin she could possibly show. The film will provide all of the above for the brave viewer. ***SPOILERS RAMPANT*** Willis plays a psychiatrist who loses a patient to suicide (before his eyes) and develops red color blindness and feels he can't practice any longer. (The color handicap is used more for visual effect than story.) He flies to L.A. to visit buddy Bakula (also a psychiatrist) whose entire practice apparently consists of a Monday night group therapy session! This passel of loons includes obsessive-compulsive Dourif, nymphomaniac Warren, masochist O'Connor, depressive Henrikson and a gender confused boy named Richie. These five chew the scenery endlessly with their pat problems and overripe dislike for each other. Everyone takes their turn proving that they can cry. Bakula and Willis display a fascinating homoerotic friendship in which they can barely keep their hands off each other all the while discussing sexy women. (Note the bike scene in which Bakula is conveniently smeared with white dust over his clingy bike shorts, revealing the outline of his genitals.) Unfortunately, this is cut short when Bakula is savagely murdered...possibly by one of the group members. Willis takes over the group and almost simultaneously is seduced by a half naked (and thereafter nearly always naked) March. The lunacy continues as these two undergo some of the most ridiculously funny sex scenes and strange kinks. (March, immediately after orgasm, insists that Willis dress up. He gets in a suit, she cooks him dinner and they don't eat it, but resume lovemaking!) It is during their first encounter in the pool that Bruce, jr pops up for a very brief cameo (this is ONLY in the director's cut which is mercilessly 17 minutes longer than the theatrical release. This glimpse is less than 2 seconds of it. The rest is interminable babble and some March skin scenes.) More phallic imagery appears (Willis is spread eagle on the ground while a rattlesnake hovers between his legs, a building with a huge spindly tower has the word erection painted on the side, etc...) As the story unfolds, it becomes clear that each of the therapy members has a new love who meets all of their needs. Then it becomes clear that all of the loves are actually ONE PERSON! Here is the thing....one of the performers is called upon to enact no less than three parts in the film. However, due to the extremely distinct facial structure of the performer, there is never any chance that this will be pulled off! Yet the director treats it like a huge surprise when it is revealed. Many people saw through this in the TRAILER!! ANYONE would have been able to do this better than the actor chosen. (The performance is not that bad, it's just that it is physically impossible for the person to pull off.) Stay tuned for an uproarious cameo by Shirley Knight. The full weight (literally) of her method training is too much for this flimsy movie. She emotes and flutters and twirls and crawls all over the room, vehemently protesting the treatment Willis is giving her (he has merely knocked on her door!) She is the comic highlight of the film. The entire thing is so implausible, ludicrous and yet irresistible that, as long as one knows what he or she is in for, there will be an evening of laughs and a tad of titillation. The title seems to have no relation to the film, except that color is well used in the film...but why Color of NIGHT?? "},{"Title":"best comedy in ages (too bad it was a drama)","Date":"6 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I laughed, I yawned, I laughed til I cried, then i laughed some more, after scratching me noggin' wonderin' what in God's name was going on here. Amazing  out of place images in this thing are everywhere including my favorite a hang glider sailing by a window right after Willis and March get romantic (The ultimate in patient doctor confidentiality...) There's also an extremely nasty knife attack, a mean snake in a mail box, a bunch of group therapy nuts who sound like live versions of Letters to Penthouse Forum, and a very unneccessary car chase, that makes little to no sense. It must have been added to the plot to drag the time limit out more, which goes on about an hour longer than it should.One time, Richard Rush made a great little gem of a picture called the Stunt Man. You'd never know it after viewing this.One of Willis's all time worst efforts and another typical Playboy centerfold performance from  our leading nymphette Miss Jane. When her and Leslie Anne Warren exchange straight faced lesbian love dialogue, you won't be able to keep your own face straight.A confusing and very elongated mess.High rise suicide leap from the sidewalk's point of view anyone? "},{"Title":"Great cast, bad movie.","Date":"23 February 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  I've said some pretty negative things about this film in the past, and don't get me wrong, I think it deserved most of the things I said. But COLOR OF NIGHT shouldn't be completely dismissed because it features a wonderful cast doing their usual solid work, including Bruce Willis, Jane March, Ruben Blades, Scott Bakula, Lance Henriksen, Brad Dourif, Jeff Corey, Shirley Knight, and a particular favorite of mine, Lesley Ann Warren; they're all terrific and give the film some much needed class.   "},{"Title":"Were Those Sex Scenes Acting or...not?","Date":"7 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Awful, Awful flick. Crapola. It falls into unintentional hilarity. It would have been better as a farce, intentionally. I just found out Maxim magazine survey names the sex scenes for Color of Night the best ever put on film and that's difficult to argue against. ( The vote was taken by perverted guys like myself I reckon. ) Indeed the ONLY reason to rent it is to see these scenes. DAMN HOT!That had to be be the genuine thing going on between Willis and Marsh. Imagine getting PAID for that. Maybe that's why Demi Moore did Striptease. For revenge. "},{"Title":"BEST EXAMPLE OF THE TRASH THAT'S COMING OUT OF HORRORWOOD THESE DAYS","Date":"30 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Other viewer comments show that I'm not the only one who was disgusted, depressed and totally revolted by this endless exploration of explicit sex, violence, poor writing and direction and confusing plot revolving around a bunch of very sick people.  I'm content to say that this is one of the many reasons I seldom watch contemporary movies any more. Most of them are trash. I only viewed this because I was told the storyline was the same as a script my agency is currently marketing. It wasn't, and I wasted two hours on this mess. Bruce Willis must have been very hungry to accept this role. No wonder today I call it Horrorwood, a pitiful contrast to the days when I used to work at MGM in the 60's when far more memorable films were still being made. "}{"Title":"A suspense thriller that isn't","Date":"13 August 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Color of Night stars Bruce Willis as Bill Capa, a psychologist who decides to give up his practice after unintentionally pushing a patient to commit suicide.  He switches coasts to visit his friend Bob Moore (Scott Bakula), another shrink, in California, but things take an unexpected turn when Moore is brutally murdered and Capa decides to take over his therapy group.  At the same time Capa begins a relationship with Rose (Jane March), a mysterious young woman who seems to know more than she should about both Capa and Moore.Director Richard Rush hadn't made a movie in 14 years when he did this one, and he's no Kubrick or Malick in emerging from isolation.  The movie is one hackneyed clich after another, with boring car chases and exceedingly gratuitous, drawn-out sex scenes.  (It's bad enough that March looks about 12.)Furthermore, the movie relishes giving away its surprises ten minutes or so before it actually gives them away.  March plays three characters, and when they are definitively revealed, they could only come as a surprise to someone who wasn't paying attention.  And Moore's murder, fifteen minutes or so into the film, is set up for about five minutes before it happens with Moore alone in his office as winds start to blow in and lights randomly go out.Color of Night is a poor excuse for a thriller, and it doesn't provide any suspense.  It's best at providing gratuitous nudity and a rattlesnake-in-the-mailbox scene, which is depressingly its biggest chill, is ripped directly from The Player.  Only someone who wanted to see a lot of Jane March's body would have any good reason to see this movie.  D- "},{"Title":"So Lame It's Hilarious","Date":"3 January 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This film was so awful that if MST3K was still on the air and they were allowed to show adult-oriented material, the robots would have a blast crucifying this thing. Not only is every move telegraphed by the ponderous soundtrack, the plot is so contrived that it is utterly predictable. I had a great time with my friends figuring out what would happen which we did halfway through the movie. They tried so hard to make it unusual it wound up being easy to guess.The plot is lame, the dialogue hackneyed and the car chases look like they were designed by a 14 year old - with every cool' gimmick in the Hollywood Car Chase Handbook. The sex scenes, gratuitous at best, must have been done by the same teen-age boy.We were screaming at the TV saying Oh please, do NOT show us Bruce's ... but alas, we were not to be spared.The overwhelming tragedy in the whole enterprise is that the supporting cast, as talented a bunch as you'll ever get in a group (with the exception of Jane March), must have needed work desperately to sign up for this mess. If the likes of Brad Dourif, Lance Henrickson, Kathleen Wilhoite, Leslie Ann Warren and Rubn Blades cannot rise above the material you know it's crap - though they do make a valiant effort. Eriq la Salle is mercifully spared a lot of exposure in this pre-ER effort and what there is for him is really hard to ruin. Scott Bakula's murder at the beginning was a mercy-killing for the likeable actor.Bruce Willis looks great - but he really has to avoid any films that completely lack humor - he is stilted and uncomfortable and you can see he is trying desperately to keep his trademark smirk from popping out.It does have the potential to become a cult semi-classic - I can imagine people screaming at the screen and the thing is worth watching if only for the nail-gun stuff.  "},{"Title":"C-grade mess about sex, psychology and murder","Date":"11 December 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Wow...this is a shockingly bad film. In fact, it's one of those rare pieces of work that is so inept, it ends up being incredibly entertaining. If you ever get a chance to catch this on cable, watch it, but keep the above statements in mind.Oh, did I mention the screaming guitar solos in the background during the sex scenes? Yup, that's the level this film is operating on.Awful. But I loved every minute of it... "},{"Title":"Go rent a porno(1/10)","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A horrid movie from start to finish. Its just like those 'made-for-tv' specials except theres lots of explicit sex. Crap plot, crap acting...need I go on? And if you're bothering to rent it for the famed sex-scenes....rent a porno instead. I mean you can't be that desperate. "},{"Title":"So bad it's a classic","Date":"2 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Don't get me wrong - this movie is BAD. A story about about a psychiatrist (Bruce Willis as a shrink. what's wrong with that image?) losing his practice and the ability to spot colours after a patient of his takes a somersault from his office. He moves to his friend house in California, only to investigate his murder among his basket case support group and to have steamy sex with a mysterious girl. Could they be connected? Well, Dahhh. This movie is directed upon the Trash gebre, frame by frame Bad acting (with the exception of Reuben Blades who does a Ricky Rickardo like police officer), cheezy set, a lot of cheap Freudian hints, excessive colours and acrobatic sex and hysterical finish with all the things you can do with a nail gun. So bad you wanna try, but mark my word- 20 years from now this would be a cult  "},{"Title":"Partially redeemed by the supporting cast.","Date":"10 April 2007","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" A cocky, smug NYC psychologist (Bruce Willis, who's well cast) watches helplessly as a disturbed patient leaps out a window to her death. Traumatized by the event, he travels to L.A. to visit an ill-fated doctor friend (Scott Bakula), who's promptly murdered. Hmmm... Could the killer be one of the weirdos from Bakula's Monday night group therapy sessions? Willis tries to discover who's responsible but puts aside plenty of time to soak in the in-your-face, goo-goo come-ons of pouty sexpot Rose (Jane March).Rush's first film since his acclaimed thriller THE STUNT MAN is one big washout story-wise, with ludicrous dialogue and stupid plot developments, plus it goes on forever and has poor work from a completely unsympathetic Willis, an amateurish March and an obnoxious Ruben Blades as the lead cop on the case. So what earns this any stars? Three great character actors in good enough form to elevate this mess to guilty pleasure status; Brad Dourif as an obsessive compulsive lawyer, Lance Henriksen as a embittered man whose family was murdered and Lesley Ann Warren as an insatiable nymphomaniac. All three are great fun to watch in their scenes and the film comes to life when they're on screen. Otherwise it's really not that memorable unless you desperately want to see Bruce Willis' flaccid penis bobbing up and down in the water for about five seconds. That particular scene was cut to keep this from getting an NC-17 rating in theaters (where it flopped), but has been restored for the home video release. Oddly, the fully uncut version of the film reverted back to the R rating once it hit video stores, even though the R-rated video version is identical to the NC-17 theatrical version. Yes, I'm just as confused writing that as you probably are reading it. "},{"Title":"If you like thrillers, watch The Usual Suspects","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" This film is about a psychologist, who is going through a tough time in his career, having to find out who killed his friend.I found the plot implausible. What kind of woman would be like Rose, giving her body to random strangers? Then every character in the film was made to look as if they were likely to be murderers. And yet, none of the clues were convincing and it made me feel that I was watching a children's mystery film.All of a sudden, a graphical S&M murder occurs. I really did not need that.If you like thrillers, watch The Usual Suspects. That is simply much better. "},{"Title":"Why?","Date":"6 December 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  this was just like watching a regular porn flick for which nobody gives a damn about the plot but about the sex. On the lighter side, i did see the steamy sex scene. Why couldn't that be Demi being banged? Anywho, this film should be on the bottom 100. "},{"Title":"C R A P","Date":"27 August 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  Ever watch a film and it did not jive right or had no flow.  I can not name what is wrong, but you can feel it.  This films lack of continuity is a model for other films to avoid.  This film starts out well, and slowly loses steam, instead of building up tension.  The characters were awful, especially the cop, and the not very attractive female lead.  Why would Bruce get involved with her in the first place puzzles me.  This is no Fatal Attraction!  Rent Fatal instead.  I give this a 3 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A Hidden Gem of a Film","Date":"14 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" Color of Night is a rare film these days. It is one of those films that many noir lovers either love or hate.But there are good reasons to like this film. First, the screenplay was well written. The characters are real in the everyday sense. The ending is not as obvious as everyone thinks, remember when you first saw the film at the theatre? The locations, makeup and lighting were all spectacular. As was the casting. The cinematography was very sound.The editing was absolutely second to none. I think this is also due to the nature of the dialogue and screenplay.Like its subject matter, the editing of this film and interplay of the characters together with the camera work, works like the human memory. Unlike Memento, which has a gimmick, this film doesn't need any gimmick to work as an experience of shared memories which we are all vaguely familiar with in present day life.Because of the nature of the images and dialogue working like the human mind and memory, I really believe that this is a great film and much underrated in my view. "}{"Title":"Flashes of Light Flying Through My Eyes and Signaling Nothing.","Date":"3 November 2003","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  A warped, crazed and disturbing turkey that has psychiatrist Bruce Willis trying to come to terms with a patient who he unwittingly pushed into a suicide. Almost immediately a close friend/fellow psychiatrist (Scott Bakula) is brutally murdered one night in his office after some death threats. It appears that one of the patients in his group (a group which includes Lance Henriksen, Brad Dourif, Lesley Anne Warren, among others) may indeed be the culprit, but which one or ones? Willis, almost forgetting himself, falls in with the highly erotic Jane March and a relationship built on steamy and seemingly constant sexual escapades develops. At first March seems to have nothing to do with the initial story, but soon she proves to be a key part of this movie (in more ways than one). All the while the investigation of Bakula's murder hits a fevered pitch with detectives Eriq LaSalle and Ruben Blades. Is Willis in over his head or can he save himself and others threatened before his time runs out? Color of Night is one of the oddest experiences I have ever had when it comes to the movies. Sometimes uniqueness warrants excellence, but that is not the case here. Odd-ball situations, a story that really eats itself alive and terrible direction by the once-great Richard Rush drown the whole production. The performers are left to suffer through this interminable mess that just goes further down the road of obscurity as it continues its pointless journey. Turkey (0 stars out of 5).  "},{"Title":"Has moments of brilliance, but few.","Date":"27 November 2002","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  SOME SPOILERS - I must admit that I viewed this as a guilty pleasure. I recall the rumors that overzealous sex scenes with 20-year-old Jane March was a catalyst for Demi Moore terminating her marriage to Bruce Willis. There are lots of things wrong with this film, it is hard to figure sometimes whether it is a drama or a dark comedy. However, when the whole story finally unfolded I was amazed to find out Jane March played both the sexy and needy Rose and also her deceased brother, Ricky, in therapy sessions. Yes, the makeup was responsible for most of that, but her acting was amazing, able to switch amongst the actually 3 characters she played.  And, of course, with her clothes off she is quite the attractive young lady.  Her only detraction, IMO, her teeth are too long, when she smiles broadly her overlong teeth look strange. But that's a small point. "},{"Title":"Primo bad movie--maybe the worst movie of the Decade.","Date":"5 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":" It's hard to improve on the viewer comments pointing out the awfulness of this movie. But there is one aspect of the film that stands out--the uniformity of the wretchedness. It's so bad on every level and in every way, it reaches a kind of balance--like that scene in the Simpsons where old man Burns is diagnosed as having every illness known to man, so they all kind of offset each other to keep him alive. The so bad it's good comments about some movies are kind of silly, but maybe that's the reason that this movie is so much garbage, yet I tend to watch it for a while whenever it's on. Either that, or it's like rubbernecking at a car wreck. The soft core porno style sex scenes are derivative of those Zalman movies (like Two Moon Junction and 9 1/2 Weeks); the real surprise is uniformly awful acting by very, very good actors. Reuben Blades, what in the world is he doing, playing a ludicrous police officer; Lance Henriksen, Leslie Ann Warren, Scott Bakula, Brad Dourif--bad, worse, boring and silly. And they're all pretty decent performers most of the time. Well, strangely enough, I'd actually recommend seeing it--you know on cable or if someone else was silly enough to buy it and has the DVD. Pop it in and see if you can call which aspect of the garbage manages to float to the top. "},{"Title":"Rhymes With The Word Night","Date":"26 August 2003","Score":"2 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Mystery, Romance, Thriller","Review":"  This involves Bruce Willis playing a shrink whose patients are getting bumped off one by one . The shrink is also having a sexual relationship with someone young enough to be his daughter and the film goes like this....Cut to group therapy session with actors you`ve seen in ALIENS and THE TWO TOWERSCut to shrink having sex with girl young enough to be his daughterCut to patient getting killed in a gory mannerSounds exciting doesn`t it ? Well it`s not , it`s crap and Bruce Willis has all the charisma of a blue collar worker in a redneck town , but I guess it could have been worse because within ten minutes I was certain that I knew who the killer was ( And just by reading this review you might come to the same conclusion who it is ) but I was slightly surprised at the revelation at the end . It didn`t stop the film from being rubbish though  "}]