[{"Title":"Beautiful, Moving","Date":"7 December 2002","Score":"28 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Black Beauty is, (at least in my opinion,) one of the most underrated films of all time. It seems to be widely ignored, for the reason that it doesn't seem to be targeted at any specific age group or audience. For the people that pass it by because it seems boring, or another childrens book adaptation, try it, it really is a wonderful picture. Anyone who likes animals, period pieces, or stories of courage and love would especially like it. The costumes, carriages and scenery are beautiful. And the horses! This movie is a horsepersons dream. The scenes featuring the horses were breathtaking...colts racing over green grass, a filly and pony trotting together, their sinewy legs moving together in smooth rhythm, an elegant black stallion rearing up; they were all absolutely beautiful. My favorite scene was the scene in which Beauty is being broken -(being taught to carry a rider). The wonderful line - But once I discovered that he and I, that the two of us could become one, this business turned out to be perfectly glorious! - the music swells, and the horse takes off, racing across the green, and everything else turns to a blur. (I get goosebumps thinking about it!)Kudos to the voice of Black Beauty - I don't know who it is, but he really made the picture. (And the horse, too - he was wonderful, a gentleman.) All in all, a beautiful, moving picture that no family should be without a copy of.(Some parts are sad.) Seven out of ten stars. "},{"Title":"A Film That Will Make an Impression","Date":"2 January 2005","Score":"26 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" For the horse lover, Black Beauty is a tragic tale in which the sensual beauty of horses is artfully depicted. It will pull at your heart strings, make you smile from ear to ear, cry honestly, and desperately want to take a trip to the barn.For the music lover, Black Beauty is an emotional ride in which the music all too well toys with the human soul. The music is so delicately composed, performed, and chosen for the movie that it is worth seeing just to enjoy the soundtrack.For the critic, Black Beauty is an endearing story laden with green actors and a plot directed toward the youth. The green actors allow the film to be honest and emotional, however. And the youthful plot allow the earnestness and sensuality to create an even greater effect upon audiences of all ages.For the average viewer, Black Beauty is a film worth watching. It is a film that will make an impression. It will not go down in the Hollywood hall of fame, nor will it be recollected by high and mighty of movie making. It will, however, stand the test of time as a film loved and cherished by the few who have seen and loved it. "},{"Title":"A beautiful story for any age.","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"21 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Black Beauty is true to Anna Sewell's wonderful book, and the beautiful scenery and music enhance the story of Black Beauty's adventures with his friends. We laughed and cried in the same places during the movie as we did when reading the book. Thank you to all responsible for creating this movie and making one of our favorite stories come to life before our eyes!  "},{"Title":"A must see for any horse lovers!","Date":"13 December 2004","Score":"20 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This film is brilliantly made and enjoyable for anyone of any age.For horse lovers like me it is a wonderful film, I've seen it several times and even though I know the story well, it still never fails to move me to tears. Even my husband watched this film with me and the children and said that it was good and that he enjoyed it, so it can't be bad!! The music is incredibly moving as is the story and the acting is also very good. Their are several bits in the film that will amuse even young children and even my son who is not yet two enjoys watching Black Beauty running with his friends Ginger and Merry-legs.The bottom line is if you love animals at all, especially horses, then you will completely adore this film. "},{"Title":"A Powerful Film","Date":"21 July 2001","Score":"14 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This film is truly excellent. Not only does it feature superb location and music, but it is also an unforgettable story. You soon learn to look past the idea of animals can't talk and see how wonderful it really is, and you don't need to be young to enjoy. So powerful, it will bring you to tears. "},{"Title":"BWAAAAAAAAAAaaaaaaa!!!!","Date":"19 March 2004","Score":"14 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I'm just a toasted marshmallow when it comes to this story. I've read the book many times and CRY every time. This movie and the earlier productions of it have the same effect on me. Needless to say, the book is ultimately superior to any of the movie versions but this movie does do justice to the book.A movie about life from the animal's point of view will conjure visions of 'Mr. Ed' or 'Francis, The Talking Mule' in a few unimaginative folks but this story really puts the idea of 'walking in another's shoes' in perspective.The novel and the movies helped me develop respect and empathy for all creatures at a very early age. See this movie with someone you love. You won't be sorry. "},{"Title":"Must see...","Date":"3 November 2004","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Beautiful movie, beautiful music, beautiful scenes, beautiful horses!This movie let us people see the life of a horse through his eyes. Now you can better understand what's it like to be a horse, although, this horse can 'talk' and has emotions like we have. But that doesn't make it less sad. Unfortunately, even today, lots of horses have a life like Black Beauty. Even much worse...The story is about the life of Black Beauty. A Quarter horse. During his life he meets a boy, Joe, and becomes attached to him. After Black Beauty is being sold (according to him, every horse knows this terrifying word) he meets the horses Ginger and Merrylegs. After being sold again Black Beauty's life becomes more and more a misery waiting and hoping to see Joe and Ginger again.The best, and true, line from the movie We don't get to choose the people in our lives, for us it's all chance -Black Beauty- "},{"Title":"Saddest Movie Ever","Date":"23 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Wow I cried at least 7 times during this movie! It's so sad!! The end is heartfelt though with Ginger and Marylegs. I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!! Many people might not like it. I don't know why. Maybe because it's true in many ways. There really are horrible people out there like in the movie. But even though this movie was sad, it was great. They should make a more modern version. I recommend this movie to everyone. You have to see it. But if you're weak and bad with sad movies then it's your decision, because I cried my heart out. This is certainly the saddest movie I have ever seen. Ifr you're not a big animal person, you might not think this movie is sad at all, or maybe you might. I don't know. But if you ARE a big animal person, then I think you will love this movie. "},{"Title":"Beautifully Done","Date":"22 July 2003","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Black Beauty the film has done an excellent job at being as captivating as the book. The acting is superb and i love the amazing job done at making the viewers have a look at the past. It is a very well-done film, and not for the weak at heart. It gives wonderful insight to the rough life of a horse, and his travels. The end is truly heartfelt. "},{"Title":"Timeless Story Telling","Date":"9 July 2006","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Though this is reviewed many years hence it is one of the time honored testaments of this media even some ten plus years having past,that this tribute was never the more beautiful then even now some ten years plus since then.This contribution comes at the expense of ones heart as you grow in the knowledge of the possibility of a dream.Reality provides the greatest test of ones courage under fire,though Black Beauty is billed as a child's film,this adult had a very hard time not caring a great deal about the wonderous even glorious relation we share with the animal kingdom and nature.The film seems to be beautifully constructed perhaps deliberately with many areas of the film working very well.It is a beautifully photographed film where these magnificent creatures are showcased and nature is highlighted.There is in the telling of this story a narrator whose ability to place intelligence in the very heart of these magnificent beasts is heart warming and engaging,truly this story skirts the issue of inspiration,it is that beautifully told.Historically soundtracks are there for a reason,this soundtrack almost steals the show,it is such a testament to the creative abilities of Daniel Elfman.It is literally a great piece of musical composition and motion picture scoring.If the reader wishes to know first hand listen closely from the very start and the human heart will be tested as to its ability to break.So loving and eloquent is this musical interlude that rarely is this mark been attained,it is beautiful.I watched this film 4 times in less than 24 hours and each time one of the reasons why I watched again and again was the lovely even emotional interplay between the film and the music.However last but not least though only for children it may very well be,it was very hard to take when the suffering ensues and the majestic Black Beauty and Ginger struggle to survive.Truly it is a lovely sentimental story deeply held and faithfully portrayed.The belief in a better world or in the dream of another world is even now a thoughtful and abiding conviction in the love we share when we share that love with each other.This is more than a children's story but a lessen in caring and it may actually surprise you to know that we must care for the wild as we have the privilege of dominion over the wild.We must never abuse that privilege and always care as a caretaker cares,such is the testament to this graceful telling of the life of Black Beauty.Highly recommended for both children and adults alike. "}{"Title":"A Wonderful, Stunning film","Date":"3 January 2006","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" When a horse is born it never knew its life would become a whirl-wind of emotions. Where's hes sent to Birtwick hall, he meets Joe. A young boy who has no idea in horses, but has a big heart. When his family have to move away, to a warmer place Black Beauty is sent a posh, snub-nose family. They treat him badly and in the end he is sold to another family. A little worse for wear he's finally bought by jerry, Another family, another name. Hes named black jack and is used as to pull carriages. When Jerry becomes sick, its off to another home for Black Beauty. This time its to pull heavy sack loads of flour and grain. After years of pulling the heavy carts he gives up, and is sent to a sell. After nearly two decades of moving to and from Families, he finally finds Joe. And in thoses tearful words Im here Beauty, I'm hereThis film makes me cry, even after 4-5 times of watching it. Every time you watch it, tears fill your eyes. Its a wonderful touching story, thank you Anne Sewell for writing the stunning book, and Caroline Thompson for Making it into the film we all know and love. "},{"Title":"Lots of heart...and big, wet eyes","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Yet another film-adaptation of Anna Sewell's popular 1877 children's book opens with a elderly horse looking back on his tumultuous life--narrating the story himself (with a British accent no less!). What might have been a twee gimmick turns out to be a surprisingly canny stroke of genius, as the screenplay, although prosy, is smart and direct and Alan Cumming's gentle voice-over is very sympathetic. Director Caroline Thompson is sensitive as well, getting terrific performances from all the horses involved; her film is a bit heavy on the sad farewells, yet it has lots of heart and works on its audience through pure emotion. Thin at 88 minutes, but beautifully photographed and with a tasteful score by Danny Elfman, fine acting by the humans. A must-see for horse-lovers, the movie is genuinely touching without being too manipulative. **1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"Straight From The Horse's Mouth","Date":"13 June 2015","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Whether you happen to be a serious horse-hugger, or not, 1994's Black Beauty (impressively directed by Caroline Thompson) is an emotionally-charged tale that I'm sure will tug on your heart-strings in a very special way.Beautifully photographed by Alex Thomson, Black Beauty's story of trust and betrayal (which was based on Anna Sewell's novel of the same name) was set in England in the late-1800s.As the viewer is soon to find out - Awaiting the magnificent, black stallion in this top-notch story are both good times and bad times - And, yes, as well, there are times for this fine steed that are sure to break your heart (if you have one).Regardless of your age, I guarantee that Black Beauty will, most certainly, leave you moved by its first-rate story-telling. "},{"Title":"The poignant story of a 'beast of burden'","Date":"19 February 2007","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie is the poignant story of the horse named Black Beauty. You follow him through his life, from the time that he was a young colt (and the darned cutest thing you ever did see) until his old age. The narrator of the story is Black Beauty himself. He will open your eyes to the treatment that animals receive at the hands of their masters -- a problem that is not unique to writer Anna Sewells' time. Spoilers for the book and movie Some may complain that movies based on books always stray far from the original plot. In most cases, this is extremely true. In the case of Black Beauty, the greatest and most irritating change, I found, was the fact that the horses could not communicate with each other. They whinnied and neighed, but they never spoke English. In Anna Sewells' book, Beauty held conversations with nearly every horse he met. However, I liked this change in the movie. It is fine to hear Beauty narrate, but I found the movie much more convincing without the horses talking. An adult is most likely not going to jump at the chance to watch a movie with live horses communicating like that, never mind watch long enough to get the message of the movie. I think that this was a change for the better, even though it then cut out some of the characters and a few heart-rending lines (my favorite Captain's speech about war -- it gets me every time). End SpoilersThis movie is never found wanting in any way. Be warned This is not an action movie. Those with short attention spans will probably not enjoy it. While Beauty goes through some terrifying moments, remember that a horse is narrating. However, it is my personal opinion that even when there is a decrease in action, the movie absolutely wonderful -- maybe even better than some action scenes. You may also need a box of tissues. Because (I suppose) I grew up watching it and practically had it memorized by age five, I never cried, but it is still a tear-jerking movie. There are few people who don't get teary at moments.As a child, I loved the film. When I was four years old, I'd sit and watch it repeatedly. Even now, the movie still enthralls me and is considered one of my favorites. It is a classic that I will treasure forever and pass down through generations. SpoilersThe casting could not have been better. Alan Cumming has the perfect voice for Beauty -- mellow and world-weary. You can feel his excitement at those moments when Beauty is reliving his first run and his fear when the barn catches fire. You sympathize with his wariness and confusion when (I believe) Reuben Smith tries to ride him drunk. Alan Cumming put his heart and soul into Beauty. He was perfect for the role.Eleanor Bron is a fantastic Lady Wexmire. She is great at playing those cruel characters (as seen in A Little Princess as well) and she is very convincing. While I like her as an actress, I absolutely despise her in the film, which is the point of her character. She was like Cruella de Vil from another time.The rest of the cast was wonderful as well. Everyone was extremely gifted in the acting department and were great in their roles. This movie is highly recommended! It is a must-see. Do not discard it as PETA propaganda or a child's story -- it is so much more than that. It is a masterpiece in its own right. "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"9 June 2006","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Caroline Thompson's 1994 film adaptation of Anna Sewell's 1877 novel is easily the best of the many such adaptations. Beginning with the birth of a foal every shot is alive with reverence for all life. We see much bucolic scenery and close-up shots of insects, spiders, frogs and flowers. In addition, Danny Elfman's score is great.Scenes from the rather episodic book are selectively adapted to maintain the essence of the original story. As we follow the horse's life, we see both extreme cruelty and stupidity, as well as great kindness from his human associates. The movie also touches on the book's theme of the importance of knowledge when -through ignorance- young Joe Green inadvertently inflicts pain and illness on Black Beauty. I was reminded of the memorable quotation from the book only ignorance! how can you talk about only ignorance? Don't you know that ignorance is the worst thing in the world, next to wickedness? - and which does the most mischief Heaven only knows. If people can say, 'Oh! I did not know, I did not mean any harm,' they think it is all right. But indeed it is not all right, and this film sends a great message about personal responsibility.10/10 "},{"Title":"Beauty is as Beauty does","Date":"16 July 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" (Some Spoilers) Heart-felt and touching movie based on the Anna Sewell story of a majestic prince of a horse who both reveled and suffered through a slew of owners, good and bad,and in the end came back to the one person who saved his life twice. Once from a deadly case of chills and later from a raging barn fire, and who reluctantly had to give him away Joe Green,both Andrews Knott as a teenager and Ian Kelsey as a young man, to live out the remainder of his life in a peaceful and loving home. Written by Miss. Sewell as a statement against animal cruelty back in 19th century England the story about Black Beauty has become since it was published in 1877, a year before Anna Sewell death, one of the most beloved and read children, as well as adult, stories about horses ever penned.Folded at Farmer Gray's, Sean Bean, farm out of the mare Duchess the young colt grew up to be a striking black horse, with a white heart-shaped star on his forehead. The horse could run with the grace of an champion Olympic track and field runner and with such blinding speed that it seemed as if he had wings attached to his hoofs. Given away to Squire Gordon, Peter Davidson, and his wife, Rosalind Ayers, the horse named by Mrs. Gordon Black Beauty had the happiest times of his life with both John Manly, Jim Carter, and young Joe Green taking care of and looking after him. It was later when Mistress Gordon's health was failing that she and her husband Squire Gordon had to move out of England to a much warmer climate, on the European continent, that life started turning bleak for the black stallion. This decision to move lead to the Gordon's dispersement of their farm and all it's horses which included Black Beauty. Sold to the snobbish and unfeeling Lady Wexmire, Eleanor Bron, who among other things had the horse, as well as the reddish or chestnut mare and white pony Ginger and Merrylegs who were also sold to her along with Black Beauty. Forced to wear a torturous bearing rein, to make him look royal & regal, almost drove the proud and handsome equine insane with pain.With his knees damaged from the constant riding and jumping for the sporting events Lady Wexmire's entered him into Black Beauty, along with Ginger, were auctioned off as horses to work for for Hansen Cabs, or taxis, in London. It wasn't easy for Black Beauty to adjust to the hard cobble stone and big city streets after roaming and running on the grass and rolling hills of rural England all his life It's with the love and guidance of his new owner London Cabbie Jerry Barker, David Thewlis, that Beauty did his best and provided Jerry and his family a decent income to live on. Poor Ginger who already had a weak and damaged heart wasn't that lucky dying from the stress of pulling a cab though the London streets. It wasn't long before Jerry himself came down with pneumonia that caused him to give up riding his horse-drawn Hansen Cab and, sadly, his faithful friend Black Beauty as the big bay horse was once again auctioned off, this time to a grain dealer outside of London.Working as a pack-horse pulling wagon-loads of grain from one town to another it took less the a year for Beauty to completely break down and no longer be useful to his new owner, or anyone else, and was just about ready to end up as either glue or pet food. Beauty reached the end of the line with no one wanting the once strikingly handsome but now old lame and broken down back equine.At a horse auction, which looked like curtains for him, Black Beauty spotted Joe who at first didn't recognize him but later when he heard Beauty's distinctive wail knew that he had at last found his long lost friend that Joe so long ago promised he'd never leave or ever forget. Black Beauty was happily bought by the now adult Joe Green and given a place to stay at his farm to live out his last days as happily as his did his early years together with Joe.Sweet and touching movie about friendships between man and animal, as well as man and his fellow man. The movie shows how all creatures on God's good earth both big and small human and animal are all endowed with a God-given heart and soul that when treated with both love kindness and understanding can overcome any obstacle, no matter how big and formidable it is, that's placed before them. "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"22 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I think this is one of the greatest horse movies out there. The movie is told to us my Beauty and he helps us understand what a horse really feels. The way some animals change homes more then once and can be loved by more then one family or person. Of love and friendship with both humans and horses. And how some people do not respect there animal friends.If you love horses you'll really love this movie. It's full of wonder and a little sadness. But it is a really great movie. I don't want to spoil the movie for anyone but it has a happy ending. If you are an animal love you should really rent or buy this movie. I loved it. "},{"Title":"A heartfelt and moving adaptation of the classic book","Date":"14 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I'm not one for kid's films, but I do like my novel adaptations and particularly when they're of classic Victorian literature. BLACK BEAUTY is one such beast, an all-star-cast adaptation of the Anna Sewell novel. I haven't read the book but this wide-ranging and wide-reaching film seems to have the right touch of authenticity to it.It's a heartfelt and moving story in which the horses of the era are mistreated and put upon by their human owners, although there's still time for a few joyous moments here and there. Elsewhere it's as downbeat and depressing as many a Catherine Cookson adaptation, although the presence of numerous familiar faces (like Sean Bean, David Thewlis, Peter Cook, Peter Davison, Jim Carter, Alun Armstrong and John McEnery) keep it more than watchable.The film is well shot and the acting honours obviously go to the various horses who do commendable jobs. My only problem really is the Hollywood-ised decision to give the horse a twee and childish voice-over from actor Alan Cumming. As ever, this is entirely unnecessary and slightly mars what could have been a near-classic. "},{"Title":"Entertaining and fun horse movie shot in marvelous outdoors with very well trained animals","Date":"20 October 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Exciting life of a horse named Black Beauty is here expanded to include the adventures of the humans who surround the horse . Set in 19th Century England , about the fates of horses, and the people who own and command them, are revealed as Black Beauty narrates the circle of his life and seen through its own carefree life . It deals with a horse's trials as it passes from an owner to owner , experiencing from benevolent guardianship to ignorant abuse . The unfortunate black stallion reminds his life through from his birth through his existence as a colt, and the many hardships , passing several owners both good and bad and suffering hardships after achieving maturity .Handsome take off of the Anna Sewell family novel but sometimes fails to capture qualities that make Sewell's book a classic . The animals in this film were in no way harmed or mistreated , and all scenes in which they appeared were under strict supervision with utmost concern for their handling . Narrated quite energetically by the horse itself with voice of Alan Cummins , as the story is told of the horse's life and through its profound and wizened eyes . The impressive scenery , photography and music enhance the story of ¨Black Beauty¨ and its adventures , sufferings and adversities . The tale is treated in good sense and high sensibility ; environment , horses , landscapes combine to enhance the glories of nature , one of which, after all, is silence . Good cast full of fine British actors as David Thewlis as Jerry Barker , Jim Carter as John Manly , Peter Davison as Squire Gordon , Alun Armstrong as Reuben Smith , John McEnery as Mr. York , Eleanor Bron as Lady Wexmire , the notorious Sean Bean , Peter Cook's last film and James Cosmo acting was cut out of this film . Colorful and glamorous cinematography by Alex Thompson. Sensitive as well as emotive musical score by Danny Elffman who married the screenwriter and filmmaker Caroline Thompson . The music all plays with the soul , it is so delicately composed, performed, and chosen for the movie that it is worth seeing just to enjoy the soundtrack . Other film based on this classic novel are the following  First silent version , 1921 , titled ¨Black Beauty ; first sound rendition of 1933 by Phil Rosen ; ¨Black Beauty¨ 1946 by Noel Nossek with Mona Freeman and Richard Denning ; ¨Courage of Black Beauty ¨ by Harold Schuster with Johnny Crawford ; ¨Black Beauty¨ 1971 by James Hill with Mark Lester , Walter Slezak, Maria Rohm and Peter Lee Lawrence and various TV movies and TV-series . This equine melodrama for grown-up adolescents and children will appeal to horses lovers ; resulting to be the best filmization of the classic story to date. "},{"Title":"A truly beautiful story...","Date":"17 August 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Black Beauty is one of the most touching movies that I have ever seen. You may think that it will be boring at first glance. Just another horse movie, right? Watch it. Do not question it, just watch. I can guarantee that you will, maybe not love it, but certainly find it enjoyable, even if you are not into horses. Black Beauty goes far beyond a simple horse story; it is a tale of hope, kindness, loss, betrayal, sorrow, and trust. The soundtrack brings out the emotional parts even more, creating a story that will move you deeply.There were two scenes that never fails to bring tears to my eyes, no matter how many times I watch it. I do not want to give too much away, in case somebody has not seen it yet, but the first of those scenes involves a bridge in a storm, and the other is the ending. I am in no way unemotional when I watch heart-warming movies, but it is a rare thing when they literally make me start crying. Those two scenes were beautifully done, and I would give the movie ten stars for them alone.However, the film was not without its flaws. Again, don't want to spoil too much, but there were several parts of the book that were not included in the movie when I wish they were, or changed when I would prefer that they were not, and some scenes feel a little rushed. That was why I bumped off one star. But it is certainly not a reason to push the movie aside. Even with those issues, it is still a great movie, and highly underrated in my opinion. I strongly recommend that you watch it and see what you think. "}{"Title":"Beautiful and Moving","Date":"9 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I had heard of the novel but was not familiar with the actual story and didn't know it was about a horse's life from his perspective. It is beautifully and authentically shot, and has neither contrived animal cuteness nor a plot with contrived drama and sentimentality. Rather, you see the animals in their natural beauty as well as in difficult situations that you are made to see from their perspective. Horse life is shown in its raw state, both the exhilaration and the brutality. I about balled my eyes out on this film. If you don't at least choke up a little, you may need to pinch yourself to see if you're alive. I did have some good laughs too. Honestly I don't know how they got many of the animal shots. "},{"Title":"Fun movie for the whole family!","Date":"4 July 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I loved the movie! I'm a big horse lover. A very good movie for anyone that likes horses. It was a very nice story told from the horses point of view. The music and the scenery were both beautiful. This is a movie for all ages that captivates the young and the old. If this movie was made in Hollywood they would some how find a way to ruin it but instead was made in England. The English always seem to make nice movies like this without over doing it. The movie as one would expect does not have a lot of action sequences to it. Instead the movie relies on good story telling supported with excellent acting. The scenes with the English county side are beautiful. I would watch again and recommend it to all. "},{"Title":"An Amazing Classic Tale.","Date":"2 June 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" 'Black Beauty' is such a brilliant film, and when I asked my friend if he had seen it, and he said no because it was a 'horsey' movie and they were always the exact same. I was actually quite angered at this statement, Black beauty is a different film all together. The film comparison with the book, was quite clear, while the story line was there, some of the message, that the author 'Anna Sewell' wrote the novel for, was lost in the film. The author originally wrote the book, to make people aware of the brutality and cruelty that was thrust upon horses in those days. Though the director (Caroline Thompson)demonstrated the message, through the bearing reins, whipping and jumps racing (where they raced ginger before she was fit). In the novel there are many events where they come along a horse and rider, who is being cruel, and help the horse. In the film there is no mention of that. Although all in all, it was a great film, and the voice-over of 'Alan Cumming' suited the film the butter to bread, it was his smooth real voice that you would believe, was the very voice inside Beauty's head. The characters well fitted there description in the novel, although what was lost was the story of ginger when she was younger, and how she was treated so badly. As well as the story of the old war horse 'Captain'.The film toys with your emotions and does bring a tear to your eye. twas the first film that actually made me cry, one of the favorites and ALWAYS will be. "},{"Title":"Black Beauty is a beautiful movie","Date":"5 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Black Beauty was so beautiful and moving. I recently saw it again - had not seen it for years. It makes me cry. It is so sad and moving. It even made my husband cry. And if you love horses as much as I do, it's the absolute best horse movie. So much more realistic than the other horses movies, even Secretariat. It was wonderfully authentic and so REAL - what a wonderful job these folks did of making a horse movie that I can believe. The scenes of Beauty and Ginger and Merrylegs and amazing and I loved them - my husband did too. If this movie doesn't get to you, then no movie can. The scenes of the countryside and I assume England are lovely. It's just a great movie. Thank you for this heartwarming movie. "},{"Title":"One beautiful moving film","Date":"6 December 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" There are so many things to love about Black Beauty. It is a truly beautiful, moving film, and do I think it is underrated? Yes I do and unjustly so. For one thing, Black Beauty is just amazing to look at. The cinematography was just tremendous throughout and the scenery was magnificent. The costumes were lovingly designed, and on the whole the period detail was flawless. Caroline Thompson's screenplay also deserves credit. The book is a timeless literary classic, and out of the numerous adaptations of the book, this is the truest. The screenplay itself is enough to evoke tears, Black Beauty's inner thoughts especially were so beautifully written. And she does a remarkable job directing as well. Danny Elfman is one of my favourite film composers, his score for Edward Scissorhands is still one of the most beautiful scores I have ever heard in a film. His score here is just as effective, it never affects the quiet composition of the film, as a matter of fact the tone of it is just right. The acting from Sean Bean, David Thewlis, Peter Cook and Eleanor Bron is all top notch, but the real star of the show is Black Beauty himself, though all the horses look superb. I also thought that Alan Cumming's voice for Black Beauty was perfect, very sensitive and melodious as it should be. The film is so beautiful and has a lot of poignant moments and an unexpected soft centre. If I had one minor quibble, and it is ever so minor, it is that the film is too short. Other than that beautiful; I remember sort of liking the 1971 film, but it didn't have the emotional impact that this adaptation did on me. 10/10 Bethany Cox "},{"Title":"We don't get to choose the people in our lives, for us it's all chance - Black Beauty","Date":"10 February 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is perhaps one of the most moving and beautiful films I have ever seen. I first saw it probably 10+ years ago when my daughter was little and crazy about horses. I had read Black Beauty as a child and it was one of my favorite books. So I was looking forward to seeing it but really wasn't expecting much - just a children's film about an old childhood favorite.Boy, was I surprised. This movie was such a moving film. I still remember it this many years later. (I did also recently watch it again). But from memory, the thing that stood out most to me was the superb narration by Scotish actor Alan Cumming as he brings Black Beauty to life. His voice lent so much charm and personality to the entire film. Usually I'm not a fan of accents as it can make the movie harder to understand. But his enunciation was so clear as to not be a problem. He truly MAKES the film. His voice is so rich, with layers and textures. An American narrator couldn't have possibly been nearly as effective. I'm glad this film didn't go with the special effects to make it look like the animals mouths moved when they talked - it would have cheapened the film and it is much more beautiful the way it feels like you are listening to Black Beaauty's thoughts.The other stand out feature is the musical score and sound effects. I can't believe they were overlooked for any awards. The film wouldn't have been 1/10th the experience without it - it is that integral to the whole atmosphere. Listen for how they use breathing and other sound effects to bring the horses to life - especially when Black Beauty was sick. Another time, when Beauty is teasing Jerry and steals his bread - listen when he brings it back to Jerry. I am almost certain Beauty laughs - in a horse whinny kind of way!Usually, I would comment on the cast - but here, the most important ones are the horses. So I guess kudos go to the trainers and director in getting such great footage of them on film. There are times when they are racing through pastures, or rearing up on their hind legs so that it appears as though they are dancing. And with the beautiful music playing alongside - it is truly magic.The film does great justice to Anne Sewell's original novel of BLACK BEAUTY (1878). It's unfortunate she never lived to see the great success her novel achieved - as she died just 3 months after it was published.This film will definitely pull at your heartstrings. Have the tissues handy, especially if you are an animal-lover. There are great themes of love and loyalty, trust and betrayal. The film will have you laughing, smiling with pure joy, and crying. It ends on a high note with more great scenes of Beauty racing through pastures, reflected in the pond like a dream. Don't miss this one! "},{"Title":"Beautiful","Date":"19 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I have seen this movie about 2 or 3 times, and i just love it. The scenery in it is just beautiful and Black Beauty's voice is cast very well (thought i don't know who it is). Also the costumes and homes seem to fit the time period very well. Sean Bean although having a fairly small part in this film, carries out his role nicely as does the rest of the cast. The horses were beautiful and i felt for them. I'm a horse person. As i said before, the scenery of the British countryside was very nice and the houses were very authentic. I've read the book, and must say that they followed it pretty closely, with the exception of the absence of a few of the horse characters and human characters. The music is nice and fits the mood for the scenes. Overall i recommend this film to children and adults both. For those of you who think it would be too boring, if you just give it a chance, i think you would find that it's very delightful and has a good message. "},{"Title":"Black Bueaty","Date":"20 April 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!! No matter what movie comes out Black Bueaty will always be my NUMBER ONE movie. It is so great! I Know there will never be another movie like that. I've watched it more then a 100 times I think, and I'm going to keep watching it over and over again.It is so sad also, it makes me cry when I see when...well you will have to watch to find out. Black Beauty is an ALL TIME movie that anyone that loves animals should see.The best part is that your not going through the person's eyes your going through Black Bueaty it is as though you are a horse and he is telling you his stories personally. I love this movie, and I hope that everyone else dose, for I will be very offended to see or hear someone say they hated this move. *Gasp* I think I'm going to watch it now. I only have one more thing to say.I LOVE YOU BLACK BEAUTY!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"Wonderful Movie","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I love the movie Black Beauty, it has brought out my passion for horses a lot more since reading the book then watching the movie. Anna Sewell was an amazing writer. The book really shows that animals do have feelings as well and they are not just for show or just to sit there, As the story goes on Black Beauty tells us of what he is getting up to and what is happening in his life, how he feels about it and the way he wants it to be. I think it is a very powerful story and people can learn a lot from it. I also love all the horses in the movie (Beauty, Ginger and Merrylegs) They are all very pretty and well trained and very well looked after in the beginning and very end, i think this is the way all animals should be treated, not just tossed aside like some people out there who don't understand animals needs. If you haven't seen this movie yet and you have a passion for animals i recommend this movie. Black Beauty is a awesome movie. "},{"Title":"I am 10 y.o. this is one of my favourite films.","Date":"9 October 1998","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This is my favorite movie because the horse tells the story, unlike any other horse movies. "}{"Title":"Excellent!","Date":"24 April 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I love this movie. Although I did not see the other versions, this one is perfect. I believe it took a woman director, who obviously has a love of horses, to make Anna Sewell's novel come to life. I love the way it is told from the horses point of view. It starts out when you see Beauty very happily sitting under a tree, at home. He tells the story of his life and makes the point that animals are totally at the mercy of humans, kind or cruel. Ironically, the kindest owners he is fortunate to have lived with are the ones who have the smallest means, he felt more loved and appreciated than by the wealthier ones. Which gives hope to those of us who are not rich and aspire to have horses in the family one day. Anyway, this is a great one for the whole family and especially for horse lovers, which is probably most of us, whether admittedly or not.   "},{"Title":"We don't get to pick the people in our lives, for us it's all chance.","Date":"15 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" My summary line, voiced by the picture's title character, was meant to relate to the general community of horses, but I'm not so sure it couldn't apply to us humans as well. At least up to a certain point; for a good part of lives we're all 'stuck' with family or acquaintances that might not have made the cut if we had anything to say about it.In deference to and with all due respect to other reviewers for the picture here who absolutely loved it, I have to say I just couldn't get very invested in the story. Alan Cumming, the voice of Black Beauty was very monotone in his delivery and along with the pacing of the picture I found myself drifting away every so often, unable to concentrate on the story. I was watching with my granddaughter and even she reverted to playing with some object or other that kept her more occupied.What I did pick up on though was a valuable idea that families watching together could share with their own youngsters. Black Beauty lived through a variety of experiences, some happy and some sad, and those events could serve as important life lessons moms and dads could discuss with their kids as a way to bridge the ups and downs of a variety of relationships, be it family, school or community. Individual vignettes in the story can be useful in helping young kids understand that life has it's trials and tribulations and that unhappy times eventually pass. And perhaps most importantly, as Black Beauty understands - It's good people that make good places. "},{"Title":"Love Of A Horse.","Date":"16 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Caroline Thompson directed this fine adaptation of the popular Anna Sewall novel set in England about a horse with a white star on its forehead named Black Beauty, which in this film narrates its own story(sounds silly but it does work) from his birth as a carefree colt to the many different owners it had(some good, some bad) from Farmer Grey(played by Sean Bean) to young groom Joe Green(played by Andrew Knott) Cabbie Jerry Barker(played by David Thewlis) and a kindly squire(played by Doctor Who actor Peter Davison) Beauty's journey takes him from idyllic country life to London's cobblestone streets. Charming and moving film is fine viewing for the whole family. "},{"Title":"A Very Enjoyable Film","Date":"5 April 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" The performances have a reverent authenticity in this screen adaptation of the classic Anna Sewell novel. There are other screen versions of this film ( possibly some of them yet to come), but this is the only one I have seen thus far, and I found it to be enlightening. While not completely faithful to the book ( possibly due to time and attention constraints), it does a respectable job of giving us the story from the horse's P.O.V., and I think it's probably easier for an animal to get inside of the head of a human than for a human to truly get inside of the mind of the animal--at least in life terms--but this is a very watchable movie. Some of you may want to have hankies and buckets at hand...it can be a tear-jerker at moments. I delayed watching the film because, sometimes, if it's told from the human perspective, it can get pretty mushy and sentimental...but this one is rather balanced, trying more to get the points and morals across than using sentiment as a weapon or a shield. I recommend it for the entire family. "},{"Title":"I think of this film often","Date":"28 June 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I love this film and have seen it a few times. I am totally prejudiced because I live on a horse ranch with four horses and mine is an ex-stallion big (16h3) and, oh yeah, he's black. You've got to give the film and the story some room and accept the anthropomorphic horse driven narrative. The story has all the highs and lows of cinematic drama without dipping into melodrama for more than a moment or two. There are several versions of the book and this is the best production and the most emotional. If you like Old Yeller or The Yearling and you have some Kleenex nearby and want to get completely lost in a wonderful epic of a horse's life and horses he encounters and all the people he crosses paths with then grab some popcorn and your tissues and saddle up with this great movie. "},{"Title":"great family fare","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" this is a wonderful movie that is suitable for the whole family.it's very touching and heartwarming.it is a bit sad though and very young kids should be prepared beforehand.there is nothing that should be traumatic though.the story is told from the perspective of Black beauty himself,voiced by Alan Cumming.this is just one of many adaptations of the novel and i have no idea how faithful this particular movie is to the novel by Anna Sewell,but i do know it is a well made movie.there are moments when you may cry tears of joy,and even tears of sadness,but ultimately the movie is uplifting and hopeful.for me,Black Beauty is an 8/10 "},{"Title":"Very Simply...This is a Treasure!","Date":"3 November 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Of all the film incarnations of Anna Sewell's moving story, this one is most definitely the best. Told from the horse's perspective it is stunningly emotional and beautifully photographed. It has a warmly enchanting music score, great performances from an ensemble of mostly unfamiliar faces and by the animals as well. The directing is crisp and well-paced and the art direction and production values are topnotch. I should also mention Randy Edelman's perfect, fabulous and moving musical score. Best of all it is available on DVD at very reasonable prices. This is the perfect family film for kids, adults, seniors...everyone. It's sweet without being too sugary, very moving and it's one you'll watch often; a classic! "},{"Title":"Beautyfully Riviting","Date":"21 May 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I'm not much of a fan for horse movies, but this one, made the exception. Its beautiful story line, flawless acting...even the scenery left an impression. My family loved it, and at first I was skeptical (a talking horse, sure...that will be annoying) never the case. The narration was astounding...you could feel everything he was saying, the emotion was so well portrayed...believe it or not, I actually cried (when Ginger died)...and I never cry during movies. Even my dad was alittle teary eyed. The score matched so perfectly, I applaud the chief music writer, he has a real gift for score composition. The end is rather happy and whimsical, but the story is not for light hearted, it is deep and at times disturbing in content. Showing the reality of one particular horse from birth on. Even the ending almost made me cry. "},{"Title":"The best for horse lovers","Date":"8 April 2005","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This is decidedly the best horse movie that I have never seen. With splendidly poetic images it shows the life, often tormented and sad, of a horse, told by himself in first person. Who has lived around the horses (I have two of them) knows how much the content of the movie is real. Who loves truly the horses, it will serve to do a conscience examination and to ask himself if he always was right towards them. Some tear is really difficult to withhold, specially if we identify Black Beauty with one of ours loved equine friends. A film to watch, if you are an animals lover, and to do watch to your children. The others people, perhaps, can find it difficult to understand... "},{"Title":"EXTREMELY heartbreaking, and triumphant at the same time.","Date":"28 December 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Re The Black Beauty movie (1994). Although it is now going on 10 years since this picture, I have cherished this story in my mind, until this version finally brought it to life. Although there are many (bad) versions of Anna Sewell's classic, this beautifully filmed, and tearjerking tale of a typical horse life in that era, none touches the heart as this film. The horse was wonderfully portrayed by Doc's Keepin Time, and his phenominal trainer, Rex Peterson, in this timeless piece. Any decent persons' heart will make anyone think THRICE about the future of their animals. We can only hope.  "}{"Title":"Watch it!!","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Best movie I ever seen! For all ages. Watch it! You will be happy and sad, you will be laughing and crying. And read the novel Black Beauty by Anna Sewell. Very interesting book about horses - it helped horses to live better life in 19th century. Very engaging story!T.N. "},{"Title":"Very pretty","Date":"15 July 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I bought this from a discount DVD bin, thinking if it was wretched I could just give it away.  But it's definitely a keeper!  I have a 3-year-old daughter who adores horses, and I have always loved them myself; I hoped when I bought this film that it would have a lot of pretty horses and scenery for our enjoyment.  I was definitely not disappointed.  The horses are filmed artistically, and the setting is stunning.  The acting's good also, and the script is, while not perfectly faithful, a decent adaptation of the novel, but the true stars of this movie are the horses.  Beautiful animals, well-filmed.My only irritation with this movie is that occasionally they relied a bit too much on unnatural expressions on the part of the horses -- tossing heads, rolling eyes, much nipping, etc. -- in order to show the horses' emotions.  It doesn't bother the kids but it does make me cringe a bit.  Not enough to make me fail to enjoy the movie whenever my daughter requests it. ) "},{"Title":"Drama at its finest","Date":"13 June 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Black Beauty was the most moving film i've ever watched. It made me laugh, it made me cry and, overall, kept me wondering if he was ever going to find Joe again. This is what a film should be all about. Anybody who loves horses will love this film! Its drama at its best! The suspense and anxiety thats in this film is enough to keep anyone watching. If you have never seen it, its definetely one to watch. "},{"Title":"Pretty and poignant.","Date":"21 March 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  This rendition was a near-perfect adaptation, beautifully portrayed by a skilled cast.  The cinematography and animal choreography were stunning.  The scenery alone brought tears to my eyes.  A must-see for fans of the book. "},{"Title":"Lovely !","Date":"10 March 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  Caution, does contain spoilers.  Beautifully filmed, emotional and very horse-centered, this is a terrific movie that will draw you into Black Beauty's thoughts and experiences. It will probably evoke tears, and certainly anger as the abuse of these horses is taken so casually by the human characters. The scenery, props and atmosphere are all lifelike and it feels as though you have really been transported back to old England. I think this is better than the book, as it provides visuals of these glorious animals in a way that Beauty's first-person narrative could not. Also there is a stronger and more spiritual connection between Beauty and Ginger in this movie, so her death is much more sad than in the book. Some scenes are just breathtaking, especially for anyone who likes horses. It only suffers in pacing, devoting too much time to some periods of Beauty's life, and not enough to others. (The last part of the film is a little too quick, as several years pass with not enough explanation of the circumstances.) Some parts of Beauty's dialogue may seem trite or overly simplistic, but this is the horse perspective -a view of the world without an understanding of human ways.This is a great movie for anyone who likes animals or has even a passing interest in equines. It isn't necessary at all to have read the book to enjoy this film, which is very well done and sure to please people of all ages. My score 8  "},{"Title":"A wonderful movie.","Date":"30 March 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The opening and ending scenes with Black Beauty sitting under the tree were wonderful. The original book was written with one purpose---to bring attention to the suffering of horses in England. This film succeeds by giving Black Beauty a soul. A very, very good movie that I can watch over and over. "},{"Title":"Not a classic, but a nice, gentle movie","Date":"16 February 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Black Beauty is a nice, bitter-sweet movie. It has a stunning soundtrack, OK acting, a nice story, gorgeous cinematography, and a few likable characters. There have been a lot of adapt ions, but this one shines above the rest because of it's faithfulness to the book.It's main weaknesses lie in the story. It's kind of slight, and a little slow. It's not as absorbing as I would like, but it's still enjoyable. The other main weakness is the acting. The voice-over of Black Beauty stands out too much sometimes, but not enough to spoil the movie, and isn't all that bad. The other actors are only mediocre, and the characters they portray are sometimes stock characters.Its main strengths lie in the artistic realm. The cinematography is so beautiful it causes your heart to beat faster. The score by Danny Elfman is simply outstanding; the strings are breathtaking. If you don't like that movie you will still love the score.I would like to mention its family friendliness. There are one or two scenes that may frighten the youngest and most sensitive children, but there are no morality issues.This movie may function for some as an animal-rights movie. The story was written with that in mind, when horses were treated very cruelly. However it doesn't raise animals above humans the way that movies like Spirit The Stallion of Camero does.So in summary, it's a good little movie, good for younger children, and maybe for a date movie. Overlooking some weaknesses, it's an enjoyable movie. "},{"Title":"Black Beauty a classic novel is reborn","Date":"13 November 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  The story of a black stallion.Sold to a rich person`s home in England.Then later forced to leave his new home.The next people were mean to him and Ginger his new girlfriend.Then when a drunk man rides him with no horse shoes,Because of his pain,He is sold to man who rents horses to people.Then at a horse fair.A man named Jerry Baker buys the horse.He has to be sold yet again.Then for 2 years.He does painful work.One day at a auction.His old friend Joe Green buys him.It is a really great movie.I think you should rent it if you love horses as much as I do.It is wonderful.And full of surprises.I really loved it.It is great rent it now!!!!!!!!!!!!!! "},{"Title":"A masterpiece","Date":"19 December 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I'm not big on animal movies, especially sad ones at times. I get too emotional. But this version of Black Beauty was truly beautiful. Danny Elfman did a fabulous job with the music, as he has done in movies in the past. The cast was excellent. "},{"Title":"The book was much better!","Date":"19 June 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I thought that the film Black Beauty was pretty good. When I voted though, I only gave it 7. This is because I have read the book many times(it is one of my favorites) and I just don't think that the movie does justice to it. So if you liked the movie I recommend that that you read the book! "}{"Title":"amazing movie","Date":"19 August 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  I have read all these other comments and they do not yet do this movie justice. I am a horse owner and I know how hard it can be to train horses. The horses in this movie are so well trained that all their actions really seem like they are feeling those emotions. I know they are a bit fake but it adds effect. This movie is one of those hidden diamonds that are very underrated. I have seen it many times and I still get goosebumps and cry. If you have any doubts i assure you that you won't be disappointed. As i type this i am listening to the soundtrack and i can't help but tear up. The music is beautiful and the scenery is gorgeous. Buy it, rent it, what ever. JUST SEE IT!  "},{"Title":"Black Beauty","Date":"6 July 2007","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" I had read the reviews for this story of one of the most famous fictional horses in literacy, and this film adaptation is the only one so far that has a decent star rating (all others are two, this is three), from director Caroline Thompson (scriptwriter of Edward Scissorhands). Anyway, basically Black Beauty (voiced by Alan Cumming) tells his own stories of all his mini adventures, being given to many different masters, making many friends, doing many services for them, and ultimately his circle of life over many years. His mini adventures include being born, learning to stand and run, his name given, given hooves, being sold to new masters, a fire, falling in love, becoming sick, riding people, and much more. Starring Sean Bean as Farmer Grey, Dragonheart's David Thewlis as Jerry Barker, Jim Carter as John Manly, Peter Davison as Squire Gordon, Alun Armstrong as Reuben Smith, John McEnery as Mr. York, Eleanor Bron as Lady Wexmire and Peter Cook as Lord Wexmire. Kids, especially young girls, will adore this film, and there is some interest for the older viewers as well in this heartwarming drama. Worth watching! "},{"Title":"Oats. Wonderful oats.","Date":"24 September 2004","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":"  For those of you who have not read the story, basically we follow the life of a black stallion named Black Beauty and Blackjack when he has his name changed near the center of the film. We watch as Black Beauty goes through all the emotions and feelings of a human through his life. He learns of love from his mother at birth, and later through another horse named Ginger. He learns of friendship through his first family, through a boy named Joe, and even through a archaic taxi driver. Through the course of an hour and a half, we see the highs and lows of life through the eyes of this beautiful stallion.I feel that the initial response that I will get from this review is that if I do give it a poor review, it means that I agree with the cruel treatment of animals. First of all that is not the case. I am a vegetarian, not that it has anything to do with animals, but it is fun to say. There is something I need to get off my chest about this film. For an hour and a half I sat and watched the cruel treatment of this fine horse by humans. I watched as the director attempted to show that humans are capable of both love and hate. A theme used in almost every film today. My biggest gripe about this film is not with the film itself, but with what was happening behind the camera. During the course of the film, you could not help but wonder how the trainers were getting these horses to move, act, and react on cue. I am almost one hundred percent certain that these horses did not have their own trailers, that they did not have an acting coach, and most importantly that there was a scene rehearsal. I am certain that these animals were thrown right in front of the camera as their trainers did everything possible to make sure that they did everything they were supposed to. For all of those reviews I have read about how this film shows a much needed side of humanity and their cruelty of animals, I think this film is a double standard. It teaches/shows the cruelty of animals, yet we do not see behind the camera. I am not a betting man, but if I was I would have to say that perhaps what the camera didn't show was madness, mayhem, and cruelty. I could see it in the extra's eyes that they were not treated fairly (the extras were cows ... you can tell a lot about a cow through the eyes). Do animals get the same treatment as actors? Is there a union for these horses, or do they have representation? If the answer is no to both of these, then I am going to have to say that we DEFINITELY need to look behind the camera and see the true cruelty that is happening to these beasts.Also, why was is this film considered an independent film? I am going out on a limb here by saying that they only reason is due to Alan Cumming. I think that his early work is considered independent, so they added it to this bookTo sum up quickly, this film was horrible. Not only was my mind constantly questioning the treatment when the cameras went off, but I felt the story was too coincidence. I know it is very Hollywood to have these coincidences, but too many of them make an unbelievable story. To believe that this horse, of all the horses in the world, came full circle to happiness really made me question the sanity of the director. The words coming from the horse were to the utmost cheese factor. The line that sticks so heavily in my mind is hearing Alan Cumming (in character of Black Beauty) say, Oats. Wonderful oats. I was hoping to die a happy man without those words passing through my mind. But oh well, who would have thought it.Overall, this is a children's story and film, so maybe I needed more children to fully enjoy it. Black Beauty was not the film that I was hoping for, nor will I ever rest until my animal friends have proper film representation. I think I am going to call the law offices of Dewey, Cheatum, and Howe. I think they are the only ones that can help...Grade * out of *****  "},{"Title":"Visually arresting, but boring and underdeveloped","Date":"19 January 2005","Score":"4 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Black Beauty is a visually beautiful but in the end disappointing movie. Based on the classic novel, it was fairly highly regarded by critics, but didn't prove itself at the box office. Black Beauty has no problems with visuals. Half of the movie is taken up with wide sweeping shots of the location and endless scenes of horses running. I realize that it's about horses, but watching them run around is not what I had in mind. This movie is saturated and oozing with running horses. I also understand that you can't really get inside a horse's head for a movie, but the voice-over is below average. The voice of Black Beauty is not distinctive and only expresses certain emotions, like fear or anger, which are only demonstrated by raising his voice and talking louder. It gets very old, very fast. The acting done by the humans in the movie is adequate, but they aren't given the chance to become full characters because we're herded through the horse's life at a rapid speed. The plot moves too quickly to be as lavish and rich as the scenery. It gives us no chance to feel for any of the characters, even Black Beauty. Maybe if we didn't have to watch the horses running laps in the English countryside for an hour, there would be time to develop both plot and character. A novel concept. A warning there are violent scenes of animal cruelty which may be too strong for some young children. The birthing scene was too much for ME to handle, let alone some wide-eyed five-year-old clutching her My Little Pony.Final VerdictThe movie is, essentially, pretty horses running around pretty trees, and random spots of hurried plot. If you or your child is not REALLY into horses, I wouldn't bother with this one. "},{"Title":"Awful","Date":"19 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" Well, it's taken me many years to get around to seeing this film. I love animals, I enjoy animal stories, and there are many, many good actors in this cast.I grew up on the book. It's a truly amazing story, and a wonderful look at both the animal cruelty of society in the Victorian era, but also at the growing social awareness of animal rights as well, and the very practical knowledge of people who genuinely know about animals - that an animal always provides its best when well treated, and thus mistreating animals is actually cutting off your own nose to spite your face.In fairness to the film, this message does come across. And that's why I didn't give it 1/10. And, given the little material they have to work with, the actors do their best.What mystifies me, however, are the amount of critics and fans who think this film is true to the original story. It captures the GIST of the original story, and concentrates on the theme of animal cruelty that the original story is all about - but that's all it does. It makes alterations to the original story that make no cinematic sense and - for me at least - made a wonderful story yet another formulaic irritation. As brilliant as the actors are in other films, they couldn't fix this story. I was never emotionally lost in the film, the way I was in the novel. I didn't care about the people or horses at all, and considering the story was originally designed to make people care, that's a brutal failure on the part of this film.Sadly, it is the best Black Beauty adaptation that exists, but it's an appalling shadow of the original book. Read the book and love it, but this film does not do the story justice and makes some ludicrous deviations.What a waste of well trained animals, beautiful scenery and good actors. The film is incredibly disappointing. I recommend Black Beauty lovers stick with the novel and avoid buying this film. "},{"Title":"Boring","Date":"31 May 2005","Score":"0 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Adventure, Drama, Family","Review":" This movie was one of the movies offered for free during the summer vacation for kids here. I had seven kids with me. ALL OF US WERE BORED OUT OF OUR MINDS! I like the story of Black Beauty, but this was a major, MAJOR sleeper! I honestly don't know why I stayed for the entire movie!The acting was bad. The story dragged on and on and on. The kids were behaving, which surprised me to no end, but a couple fell asleep. And yes, as kids will do, sometimes they whined and asked Can we go home now? This is boring!I honestly would not recommend this movie to anyone I liked. However, if I were inclined to torture someone, I'd suggest they go see this movie, then laugh about it later. "}]