[{"Title":"Bordering On Sanity","Date":"18 April 2001","Score":"68 out of 77 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  After reading the couple of negative reviews of Crumb on IMDB I re - viewed the movie one more time just to make sure that the many times when I had seen this movie before, on the silver screen and on video, I have not been in a state of delusion.  With the movie fresh in my mind I want to put out this message to all the people who have made depreciating statements such as what is Crumb moaning about, he's famous now, the Sixties weren't really like that, it was just two hours of whining, rambling and unjustified complaining etc. etc.  go back to your Kevin Costner, Tom Hanks, Tom Cruise big budget Oscar winners, and stop smearing dirt on one of the best documentaries ever made.  So frigging what if it's shot with a hand - held camera and without studio lighting?  Crumb is the real thing, it does not need any trickery or gloss.  Basically it shows Robert Crumb, the artist famous for Keep On Truckin', Fritz The Cat (though he does not like to be associated with either of them) and Mr. Natural, telling the story of his life through his wife and brothers, with a few scenes of him at a vernissage and a comic book store (etc.) thrown in for good measure.  Call it a modern - day version of the van Gogh - story, or a look at the darker (or even just the non - Warner - Brothers) side of the flower - power generation, the human condition, the power of art, the battle of the sexes, a case history of mental illness, psychotic families, whatever.  The story, and with it the film, is amazing and totally captivating.  I have watched it many times and intend to watch it many times over.  Give it a miss only if you expect some good, clean, family entertainment, but do so at your loss. "},{"Title":"Strange and interesting study of a warped genius","Date":"28 September 2004","Score":"42 out of 45 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Robert Crumb must have had a bellyful of people calling him a genius, but that's exactly what he is. Having grown up a bullied, miserable child - and an anachronism almost from the start, with his interests in pop culture ephemera and old-time music - in a dysfunctional family (his father was an overbearing tyrant, his mother an amphetamine addict, his older brother so obsessed with comics that he forces his siblings to draw them), Crumb escaped this drudgery by fleeing to Cleveland, where he first became a staff artist for a greetings card company, then one of their most innovative and prolific designers, before relocating to San Fransisco. His initial impetus was to get some of that free love stuff, but his pen ran away with his thoughts and he wound up virtually launching the underground comics movement. Between 1968 and 1993, Crumb produced some of the funniest, most outrageous, licentious and flat-out brilliant comic book work of all time, and this film is an invaluable insight into the man behind the madness and the mayhem. Turns out Crumb, despite his bizarre appearance (he's stick thin, wears Coke-bottle spectacles and dresses like a character actor from a 1930s comedy) and sexual deviance (he likes nothing more than hefty haunches and big, strong legs in a woman), is something of an everyman - he's married, dotes on his understanding wife and gifted daughter, and feels just as alienated from the 'evils' of modern living as the rest of us sensitive intellectuals! At first glance, of course, Crumb is as weird as they come, but the sight of the aforementioned older brother Charles (a reclusive crank who rarely leaves his squalid bedroom, let alone the house) and younger brother Maxon (a haunted, bedraggled amateur mystic, given to sitting on beds of nails and begging on the street with a wooden bowl) throws the relative sanity of Robert into stark relief. One gets the impression that if Robert had not escaped, he'd have wound up suffering just as much as Charles and Maxon, possibly even more. This isn't easy viewing and the subjects are undeniably resistable, but it does offer a unique and enlightening glimpse into the reality of the old cliché about genius and madness walking hand-in-hand. Recommended.  "},{"Title":"candid","Date":"6 December 2001","Score":"32 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Crumb takes a deeply personal look at 60's counterculture artist Robert Crumb.  The film focuses upon three decades of Crumb's artwork to reconstruct his unhappy childhood, days with Zap Comix in the late 60's, `dark side' period and recent life.  Interviews with him, his wife Aline, family and friends reveal the motives behind his astounding creativity.  Crumb is sometimes hilarious, often depressing and always entertaining &#150; a rare combination in a documentary film.During childhood, Crumb and his brothers Charles and Maxon found solace from their tyrannical father in comic books and drawing cartoons.  Crumb escaped the mental illness that ended both his brother's careers as artists (Charles was equally as talented), but otherwise had a perfectly miserable childhood and adolescence.  Socially awkward, bullied at school and rejected by women, he decided in 1962 (at age 17) to take revenge upon society `by becoming a famous artist'.In 1966, his chemically inspired `revelations of some seamy side of America's subconscious' caught the eye of a Haight Street publisher in San Francisco and Zap Comix was born.  Zap was an outlet for his creative energy, which was rooted in his social difficulties.  He was uninterested in money and once turned down a $100,000 contract &#150; a huge sum of money in those days.  Although identified with the hippie crowd, he could not relate to their culture `My main motivation for drawing was to get some of that free love action'.After a few years of fame, he retired from Zap to express the darker side of his nature.  His later work frequently contained sadistic and violent themes and was sometimes labeled as pornography by friends and critics alike.  Even Crumb isn't sure of his intent `Maybe I should be locked up and my pencils taken away from me'.Critic Robert Hughes says that in Crumb's world there are no heroes and `even the victims are comic' &#150; ideas that don't jive with traditional American culture.  But Crumb has always considered himself to be an outsider and enjoys the feeling of `being very removed or extremely separated from the rest of humanity and the world in general'.  `Words fail me, pictures aren't much better' to describe his disgust with American consumerism.  He now lives in France because its culture is `slightly less evil than the United States'.The film is embarrassingly candid about unhappy details of Crumb's life, such as his brothers' mental illness, experiments with drugs and ambivalent attitudes towards women.  Yet it is apparent that there is no misery or violence in this man &#150; it's all on paper. (Rating A) "},{"Title":"An astonishing look at relativity","Date":"27 January 1999","Score":"28 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  What makes Crumb such an intriguing documentary isn't the fact that man looked at through the camera is admirable or interesting or laudable, although one could make the argument that R. Crumb is all of those things. No, what makes Crumb such a great film is the way it shows the twisted nature of Crumb against the backdrop of his nearly psychotic family. Compared to the world, R. Crumb is a sexual deviant, a lunatic genius, and a perfect candidate to be taken away in a plain white van.  Compared to his family, R. Crumb is completely and utterly normal.  It's this juxtaposition that makes Crumb work over all two hours the movie needs to take its course.   "},{"Title":"Heartbreaking and funny as hell","Date":"28 March 2002","Score":"21 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  What are the odds that an artist can survive family violence, mental illness, sexual rejection, and Big Mac culture?  As far as this film can make clear, three members of the Crumb family had strong artistic temperaments and significant talent.  Only one, Robert, made it out alive, and his life and work are defined by resistance to what should have been a sad fate.To many, this documentary may be depressing, offensive to women, or just too damn ugly to sit through, but it made me as happy as anything I've ever seen on screen.  Art's ability to reveal truth and promote survival is evident in every frame.  I admire R. Crumb's courage to speak unpopular truths, to draw what gets him off, and to ferret out the art he loves at considerable expense and trouble (he's a blues maven; one of my favorite scenes, where's he's sitting on his floor absorbed by aching music, is echoed in Ghost World, when Enid takes home Seymour's record and gets lost in her favorite song).  And like Ghost World, ratty, real American culture is railed at hilariously another favorite scene involves R. on a park bench, disgustedly commenting on the ugliness of everything around him logo-emblazoned clothes, graceless music, ugly plastic everything.By the end of it all, I respected and liked him Crumb enormously.  I'd take his scary-woman worship over the banal musings of a dime-store philosopher any day. And Terry Zwigoff deserves much praise for being able to pull it off (especially as a first-time filmmaker who had very little idea what he was doing).  From high art and family pathos to a lovely animal appreciation of big round female asses, this is far more a roller-coaster, I laughed/I cried film than most others so touted.   "},{"Title":"SOMEBODY gave me an enema.....","Date":"24 May 2001","Score":"18 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  'Crumb' is a fascinating, unsettling, but equally hilarious look at Robert Crumb. Even people who have no artistic talent or interest in the arts would be impressed with this movie. Watching how this man endured a brutal childhood and how he tried to escape it all. His candid remarks are a riot. The interview with Dian Hanson was hilarious, does anybody have a copy of that issue. The segments with his brothers were funny but sad at the same time.  There were only two items I wish they would have included, I would have liked to seen him talk about his tax problems, and second, I wish he would have played a number with band he is in.   "},{"Title":"An unusual tribute to the artistic mind","Date":"5 June 1999","Score":"16 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  A great movie about how expressing yourself through art can save your sanity. People who didn't know anything about R. Crumb beforehand (like me) can get a look at what drives the stories and characters in his often vulgar artwork and comics. For instance, any of the villains in his work are based on people who made his life a living hell when he was kid. Decades after the fact he still seems to be nurturing those old grudges. At first it seems a bit petty and immature but then we meet his two brothers. They are both talented artists as well but they never learned to express themselves through their works as Robert did. They never found an outlet for their obsessions. Charles became an introvert who hadn't left his mother's house for many years and Maxon developed a fondness for sexual harassing women and sitting on nails. It was probably Robert Crumb's art that enabled him to escape from his own head.All three brothers talk in a very articulate yet somewhat detached manner. You get the sense of love between them, buried beneath decades of pain and emotional repression. When a picture of them as teenagers sitting next to each other on the couch is shown, all of them handsome and apparently very intelligent and artistic, I felt sad and maybe even a little mad. Why were they chosen to be the big victims in life? Poor Charles Crumb never had a chance. Crumb is a great movie that probes the darker corners of human emotions (Bobby Driscoll?!) and a tribute to the usefulness of an artistic mind. **** out of **** "},{"Title":"Sex, drugs and piggyback rides","Date":"4 September 2004","Score":"13 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Robert Crumb became an idol among hippies in the 1960's because of the psychedelic comics he drew at the time. In this excellent film, directed by Terry Zwigoff (who also directed the excellent, and also comic book related, Ghost World and American Splendor) Crumb starts out by telling that he hates just about all the work he is most famous for. This is typical, Í think, of Crumb he is uncompromisingly politically incorrect, completely unafraid to speak his mind openly, and above all disgusted by the idea of selling out for money.I have been a fan of Crumb ever since I advanced beyond Donald Duck and Marvel Comics about 20 years ago (this is not to say that I don't love Donald or Marvel anymore, because I do). Crumb is probably the most talented comic book artist of the latter half of the 20t Century. Quite simply, I don't think anyone can draw as well as he does. He is not much of a storyteller, but like I pointed out above, that is more than made up by the fact that he is always totally candid about his life, sometimes painfully and embarrassingly so.Crumb is an excellent portrait of an exceptionally talented artist who also happens to be a total pervert. However, as this film makes abundantly clear, Robert Crumb is practically the ideal model of a stable, well-adjusted person when compared to his mother or his brothers Charles and Maxon. We see once again that great suffering makes a great artist.  "},{"Title":"disturbing, compelling","Date":"20 November 2002","Score":"9 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  I was drawn to this flick as I channel surfed on IFC. Once you start watching, you cannot take your eyes away, like watching a train wreck. This is one very strange person, and one is ready to consign him to the loony bin until you meet the rest of the family, whereupon Robert comes up looking like the very picture of sunny sanity. His brothers Max and George are so clearly unbalanced (and mom's wrapping isn't very tightly tied either), and in mental pain, that it is disturbing to listen to their tortured self-analyses; yet, like some sort of horrible natural disaster unfolding before your eyes, you feel compelled to watch. The home in which George lives with his mother is a showcase of squalor. The revelations of their horrible childhoods with a sadistic and bullying father and an amphetamine-crazed mother, are further horrors in this macabre family story. The refusal of the 2 sisters to be interviewed for the story is an omission that speaks loudly, in view of the revelations of the twisted sexual fantasies of all three brothers; one cannot help wondering what the sisters would have had to say. Aside from Crumb's apparent weirdness, right down to his off-the-wall physical appearance and sartorial habits, his comments on American culture - its materialism and its aesthetic barbarism - are dead on. One notes with interest the photography collection Crumb show us of power lines, telephone poles, traffic signals, and the other arcana of the ugly technological background view of our culture - to which we have become inured - which he uses as a reference for his work, because who could imagine such stuff?Robert Crumb - or at least the impression one takes of him from this movie - is an ambiguously enigmatic character, driven by darkly bizarre inner sexual demons, yet with a weird sort of innocence and compelling aesthetic vision that isolates him from American culture. We are not surprised, at the end, when he decamps himself and his family off to a village in southern France. We are also not surprised to learn that George committed suicide shortly after the completion of the project.The movie itself is coldly dispassionate, making no commentary or judgement on these people, but letting everything and everyone speak for himself. The result is a disturbing yet compelling portrait of a troubled artist and the personal and family history that shaped him. "},{"Title":"Mr. Unnatural","Date":"14 April 2006","Score":"10 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" When I first saw this film at an art house in L.A. I was blown away. I had been reading Zap Comics and it's brethren since the 70s and loved them w/out really knowing why. In this great documentary I found that Robert Crumb was telling TRUE stories ins his comics. Which makes him a great story teller as well as an artist that now enjoys accolades from museums around the world. He is one of those very rare people who can be called a MASTER. He also maintains an honesty and a level of integrity that is just not seen these days, the exception being Dave Chapelle when he walked away from $50 million. It also sheds light on his dark childhood and how he turned out to be the normal one. Music plays a vital part in this movie as well. Crumbs passion for mostly blues music from 1936 and before and his premier collection is fascinating. He easily could be considered a music historian. I live in Colorado and will be visiting Roger Ebert today as part of his annual trek to speak about film near the CU campus and hope I can talk to him about his commentary on this updated DVD. You don't have to be a fan of Crumb's to enjoy this film either. His life story is more than enough. For me this movie led me to become the largest collector of Crumb art in the state of Colorado and enjoy an inside circle status. I can't wait for his book of Genisis to come out. This movie is NOT for children so be warned. "}{"Title":"Explaining R. Crumb","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"7 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Robert Crumb is not everybody's cup of tea. He has been accused of being a racist and a misogynist. This film does much to deal with misconceptions about the artist, but not all the misconceptions are negative.As typical for a documentary like this, there are several artists/critics interviewed about Crumb's work. Invariably, there is some sort of analysis given. Crumb's compared to Brueghel, to Daumier, he's spoken of as a great political satirist.The fact is the first thing discussed in the film is what motivates Crumb's art, what is he trying to express. After a slightly amused, slightly annoyed Jesus! I dunno... he speaks that he doesn't think of his work in conscious terms until _after_ he's drawn it; then he figures out what it's about.This film very subtly points out Crumb is not really anything he's been accused or praised for being. His work is the purest form of his id, his wife, Aline, comments.The film is really his triumph to be himself through a number of horrendous hurdles a brutal father and drug addicted brother; being rejected by women; being tempted to sell out; and legal problems over cartoons. While his two brothers, Charles and Max, both show in differing degrees how their youths were permanently scarred then, Robert Crumb emerges whole, even admirable, in spite of the uncompromising nature of his art. He is unique, his work not easily separable into allegorical meanings or expression of political beliefs.Crumb is a great artist, and he cannot be understood from a few interviews and his art can't reduced into something understandable in clichéd artistic terms. Zwigoff's film shows Crumb in every way available and tries to express his art similarly. At the end, all we can do is be astonished that the man not only survived but flourished, and marvel at the wide range of what he's produced.Zwigoff's style is so seamless, it doesn't feel like his film, but Crumb's. Of course, it is not Crumb's, but that impression is an indication of Zwigoff's mastery of the form. If his own personality intrudes in the fabric of the film by what he shows and how he orders it, he complements rather than obscures Crumb's genius.The result is unforgettable, not just for its exposition of Crumb, artist and human being, but for the experience of letting Zwigoff's work flow over the film and us. "},{"Title":"sharp focus on surreal details","Date":"17 January 2004","Score":"8 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Crumb is a strangely enchanting enigma.  The film is essentially an in-depth character study of Robert Crumb, primordial underground cartoon genius of the '60s.  As I watched, I felt drawn into his world of frustrated sexuality and tormented sensitivity, pulled along pathways of familial dysfunction I didn't even know existed.  Although he is the center of the movie, Robert is hardly the only compelling character in the film.  His family, his friends, his admirers, his former girlfriends, his critics, all come through in very sharp focus.  This film could easily have been nothing more than an homage to R. Crumb's 'seminal' works, but instead offers nuanced interpretation from some intelligent people.  Even the master himself takes a dim view of his creation at times. Yet one comes to understand, through R. Crumb's contrasting interactions with his family, what a curious combination of inner strength and minute perception it is that makes his comic art so accessible to others.  Simple yet mindblowing things, like how he approaches sketches of photographs from a 19th century sanitarium, or his sourcebook with pages of photos of suburban streetlights and electrical substations, give insight into the mechanisms of his genius.  Highly recommended, 9/10 "},{"Title":"A Portrait of Madness and Genius","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  I found this to be a very interesting, very sad, and very revealing look at a dysfunctional genius. Crumb's work is generally intriguing (if not always likeable) so I decided to watch this documentary. Crumb is to the world as his family is to him. Crumb is by no means what many people would consider normal, but it was only through his art that he found his salvation. While his personality has tons of odd quirks both troublesome and entertaining, his family demonstrates how far he had to go to escape. Both of his brothers were talented artists as well, and the differences between them and Crumb are telling. It's also interesting as a true look at mental illness, not the candy-coated or nightmarish visions typically put forth by the media, but mental illness as experienced by everyday people. This movie isn't terribly exciting, and no one character is enormously sympathetic, but it's an extremely interesting look at the madness that consumed a family and how it shaped the brilliance of the one who managed, almost imperceivably, to escape.  "},{"Title":"Should please everyone from (wannabe) intellectuals to smelly dim-witted perverts.","Date":"27 August 2007","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Quite possibly the best bio documentary I've ever seen. I've heard that Robert Crumb hates this film, but that's typical of him and should in no way influence you not to watch it. (For some people, naturally, that may serve as a motive to see it.) After all, Crumb almost appears as if he hates everyone and everything - except his old jazz/blues music and his daughter. (Then again, I've been often told that I myself hate everything/everywhere/everyone, whereas I know for certain that I only despise 95% of the things I'm accused of hating.) He probably feels uneasy about himself too, so obviously he's going to react negatively to a movie where he appears a lot of the time - and a movie that exposes him. Although, to be fair, there is little Crumb ever hid from his personal life, so in that sense there are no major surprises for the more knowledgeable among his fans.It's utterly irrelevant whether you've heard of Crumb or not, or like/dislike his artwork/comics, or if you even care about comic-books or the visual arts. He is a fascinating and intelligent character, only to be potentially upstaged by his brother Charles, who committed suicide a year(?) after this movie was made. Charles is tragedy personified, a shy luckless misfit who could have had as much artistic success as his brother. There's plenty here to amuse, shock and entertain, a constant barrage of interesting little details about the life of Crumb, his family members, his friends, and the underground scene he was/is a part of. Some of the music Crumb loves is occasionally used as a soundtrack, and this gives the film a distinctive feel. Geeshie Wiley's Last Kind Word Blues, which is played early on, is a terrific example of what true blues sounds like. (Forget Eric Clapton...) Robert Crumb often comes off as totally un-PC, yet sometimes his views may be seen as Leftist (i.e. decidedly PC), but essentially he is a mankind-loathing, intelligent semi-misfit who through his enormous talent and persistence (and a little luck - you always need that) managed to forge a unique career, and avoid ending up perhaps like his brother Charles. "},{"Title":"Portrait of an Artist","Date":"23 April 2006","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" I'm writing this mostly as a rebuttal to some of the bad reviews. This is an honest portrait of an artist, like him or not, it's well done, and certainly thought provoking; and while he may not be the best spoken man on earth I thought the film was amazing. But be forewarned he is, to put it plainly, perverted and incredibly eccentric but also honest and self aware, take it for what you will.**possible spoilers below** One comment accused the film of being voyeuristic and going against what Crumb's art is about-which is ludicrous, in the film he sits in a few lounges and draws portraits of people in his sketchpad that are more than voyeuristic- everything about his art lends itself to this kind of look into his life. Hell, he has autobiographical comics that are just as voyeuristic as the film. It's Crumb in his own words closing a chapter of his life. "},{"Title":"A Different Way to View Crumb","Date":"25 November 2002","Score":"6 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  First, I liked this movie very much. But, as you can see from the previous comments, this is a movie that you'll either love or hate. But its hard to be indifferent to it. Zwigoff does a wonderful job of setting a mood that allows you to examine an artist who is depraved, perverse and, yet, insightful.Everyone seems to come away from the movie with an idea that Robert is spared the obvious insanity of his two brothers because of his art. But I see it differently(hence the title of this comment). Even Robert admits that his brother, Charles, was a better cartoonist. Another way to view Robert's success and his brothers' descent into crazy is fame. Crumb was an involuntary icon of the 60's. Where would Robert be today if he wasn't recognized and rewarded in the 60's? If Zap comix had turned him away for his misogynist and racist comics, would he have had the subsequent female relationships that seemed to normalize his existence? What would his fantasizing over a high school yearbook and habitual masturbation meant if he was an unknown sharing a room with his brother at Mom's house?When I watch this movie, I am always mindful that Robert's obvious genius would be lost were it not for his luck at being discovered. I suppose that is an obvious statement but, in Crumb's case, fame has managed to gloss over many unacceptable characteristics. And, maybe, that's not such a bad thing.The film lightly touches on Crumb's relationship with his son and daughter. For some reason, Crumb's bumbling attempts at affection with his children were a bit disturbing. Or maybe its just that Crumb's fixation with wrestling and piggyback riding lingers in your mind when he hugs his daughter.On a lighter note, I've noticed that no one has mentioned the soundtrack of this movie. Designed to be in keeping with Robert's love of old American music, the music helps to define the subject. I wonder why Zwigoff made no mention of Crumb's Cheap Suit Serenaders band.Crumb comments against the crass commercialism of America. And, yet, I first saw this movie at a theater in Baltimore where the lobby was chock full of Crumb comic picture cards, mugs, etc.Crumb, the movie, is a crazy world of contradictions and well worth the ride. "},{"Title":"A painfully revealing, thrilling, shocking and generally interesting documentary about the life of R. Crumb","Date":"9 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" I first found out about R. Crumb through Fritz The Cat even though he was opposed to the movie (which I must say I thoroughly enjoyed!) Anyway, I decided to do a bit of research on the character and found out that a man named Robert Crumb created this spaced out little creature. For a couple of years on, I forgot about the subject. Then, last year I remembered Robert and his controversial works. I was in the city and I happened to stumble across this rather hidden DVD. It was entitled Crumb. At once I stuffed my hand down my pocket and fished out my hard earned $30. And I have got to say, it is the best damn $30 I have ever spent. Crumb will shock you, intrigue you, provide you with facts about R. Crumbs life that you could only hear from the man himself. This movie shows how Crumb reacts to events, what he thinks of the world and what makes him tick. As far as the whole storyline goes, the movie has an excellent soundtrack to add to the whole experience.I'd have to say, if you see only one documentary this year, definitely make it Crumb. You wont be disappointed! "},{"Title":"Insightful","Date":"18 March 2006","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Fascinating documentary about a US underground cartoonist, Robert Crumb. Although I'd heard of Crumb (mainly through American Splendour I wasn't that aware of his work although some of his cartoons were images that I'd seen before. Basically the guy did an assortment of freaky and surreal images straight out of the darker recesses of his mind. Criticised for his portrayal of women in his comics by some, the film delves into what can only be described as a unique family background, where his brothers appear to be as divorced from reality as his comics are. It was good enough to get me to go and check out some of his stuff. "},{"Title":"Has there ever been a better documentary of an artist?","Date":"8 August 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" I don't like Crumb's work. I don't even know if I like Crumb as a man. But what I do know is that I like this documentary just about better than any other documentary I've ever seen.The things that are revealed are astonishing. The levels to which these people present themselves is nothing short of amazing. I've often wondered if I've ever made myself this vulnerable to anyone ever, and yet Crumb and his brothers do it for the whole, entire world.It's a shame that Terry Zwigoff hasn't done yet another documentary, because he obviously has a knack for the genre. While I have liked his other movies, they haven't been nearly as good as Crumb. He seemed to really understand just how close and yet how far back he needed to be at the same time. Crumb is a movie that won't let you go for a long time. If you haven't seen it yet, prepare yourself for something both vulgar and heartwarming, charming and repulsive. "},{"Title":"Exploring the depths of the human psyche.","Date":"8 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" In my opinion documentaries rely on the subject matter more than how the film is shot. To say the least Robert Crumb is an interesting character, which makes this an interesting documentary. I had no previous knowledge of him, so I sat down and watched it. A few minutes in, my first impressions of Robert were he was a quirky cartoonist. Nothing special.The film rolls on. Being someone who can't even draw dog poo if I was give a brown crayon and a piece of paper I was immediately envious of the ease he seemed to draw with. The talent didn't stop with Robert, I was equally amazed with his brothers exploits with the pen.Fast forward to the end. I told my friends I saw this amazing documentary. They asked me what it was about. I said a guy drawing cartoons. -blank looks- oh Didn't quite give the doco justice. The premise of this doco is about a guy drawing cartoons, but where this doco excels is the exploration of the depths of the human psyche with such brutal honesty. This film explored the stuff that is as far back in the human consciousness that you don't even want to know is there. It was absolutely fascinating the quirky and humorous interplay between the brothers and how they had evolved/de-evolved from their childhood interactions to adult life. All brothers sat on the line of the full circle of sanity that meets around with insanity. One of the most interesting things i've seen. "}{"Title":"Riveting...","Date":"16 January 2004","Score":"4 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  I had no idea who Robert Crumb was before seeing this documentary. After watching this film, I am assured that Crumb is one of the greatest living artists. This film, however, uses Crumb's prodigious artistic talent as a point of departure for a deeper look into the family dynamic that shaped his character. Crumb's family is fascinating, and so eccentric as to be almost unbelievable. (One of the film's surprises is that, at first, you think Crumb is a freak, and then realize that, compared with the rest of his family, he is the most well-adjusted and functional one!) The film's epilogue is sad but not altogether surprising, given the clear signals throughout the narrative. A terrific film. "},{"Title":"Great Look at Artistic Process","Date":"9 February 2005","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" This documentary explores two aspects of Crumb's life His family life and his sexual interests. The man is an incredible artist and his works are pure art, even if they are comics. To defend this position, we hear from a British art critic who praises Crumb's work, no matter what the offensive subject matter is. On the other side, we see women - past girlfriends, fellow artists, and others who admit that Crumb is a great illustrator but are extremely wary of the sexist and racist messages Crumb's comics contain. Is Crumb really a sexist and racist or is he commenting on the world? The answer is hard to determine but, after seeing this movie, I think that its both. It's amazing how Crumb, this skinny, ugly, fake-toothed weirdo is so incredibly tapped in to the crazy male id and its sexual desires and racist beliefs.And, at the same time, he's barely able to function in society. He just blends into the crowd and doesn't really understand the world around him. A lot of Crumb's observations on the changing world are used by Terry Zwigoff, who directed this film, in his next movie, Ghost World. That movie is also an adaptation of a comic book so maybe it was there that Crumb's influence was made. Either way, he's the comic book version of John Waters - ahead of his time in grossness, incredibly influential, and not yet surpassed.As for Crumb's family life, the amazing part is that he's the most normal member of his family. His brothers are also great artists but are even worse at functioning in the world. Maybe it's genetics. Maybe it's the torment of being an artist. Seeing Crumb's family humanizes him. Then we see his comics. And we can decide for ourselves if we can separate the artist from the art but, more importantly, we have to decide if we can separate ourselves from the art. Can we laugh at sexism and racism and not be sexists or racists? Does the fact that we find it so offensive mean that we hate sexism and racism or that we are afraid to face our own beliefs (or the beliefs of those close to us)? Bringing out these questions is the greatness of this movie. "},{"Title":"Crumb rocks. this might SPOIL a little of this deliciously dirty little flick (and it might SPOIL an aspect of harold and maude.)","Date":"24 February 2004","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  have you ever wondered if maybe woody allen isn't such a bad guy for marrying his younger asian step-daughter (or whatever she was to him)?did you like the movie harold and maude for being sexually deviant and dark?or remember when george carlin said the dreaded n-word, apparently in protest of the rule that blacks and whites are supposed to use separate vocabularies?  were you impressed by that kind of honesty? i was and i liked crumb for that and many other reasons.crumb is impressively human and real. he's totally candid about the abuse he's recieved and possibly metted out. robert crumb is part geek and part lover, part racist and part woman-hater. yet these and other bad and good elements of his personality were not labeled, but accepted. nor were they censored from his comics or from this movie. in fact, the only things crumb doesn't offer are apologies. eminem, eat your heart out. "},{"Title":"Want to be disturbed?","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Ever feel like your perversions are beyond human comprehension?? Rent this movie; you will be patting your own back and congratulating yourself on your high morals in no time. At the next family get together you will look around at your normal (newly realized of course) ancestry with admiration. For no social circle, other than those seen in paradise lost and my brothers keeper, is odder than those seen in crumb. So enjoy - and buck up young camper, you're not so odd after all.  "},{"Title":"Superb","Date":"15 July 2005","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" This is one of the best documentaries I have ever seen. Hearts and Minds, and Roger and Me, and Farenheit 9/ll, and even Supersize Me are way up there for me, but this one is compelling. I live in a part of the country where controversial documentaries are seldom seen, so I'm a long time getting to this one, but, wow! I just rented it and I'll be watching it again before I send it back. It's very, very good. I'm a woman with some years on me, so a documentary about a man admittedly so hostile to women, whose work is sometimes pornographic, and racist as well, is not someone I would ordinarily pay any attention to, except in a forensic kind of way, but Crumb's story is riveting. What a wacky family! He and his two brothers (his two sisters declined the spotlight) seem to have been just a skosh away from becoming serial rapists or worse--yet it didn't happen. This documentary leaves you wanting more. There are hints, broad hints, about what caused the three brothers to become so dysfunctional. Yet, it's very, very odd isn't it? Crumb, in spite of it all, is a likable and familiar sort of a guy. This documentary, apparently now 11 years old, will leave you wanting to find out more about this family. "},{"Title":"A touching masterpiece","Date":"1 November 1998","Score":"6 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Anybody and everybody should see this film at some time or another.  We are introduced to Robert Crumb, an artistic genius who has gained fame through drawing underground comics, and his eccentric family.  We also meet some of his friends and people who find his work marvelous and others who despise it.  Robert Crumb emerges as a man who isn't as strange as he first appears. What makes him someone to respect is his ability to say exactly what he feels and not hold back.  He is giving our right of free speech here in the states a good exercise.  I especially suggest that bullies see this film, in that they may see what their taunting and cruelty can do to a person (namely Robert's brother Charles).  If you're looking for a true story about an underdog who hits it big, watch Crumb. "},{"Title":"One of the most ignored Masterpieces of our time","Date":"8 April 2000","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Crumb has not gotten its due credit. Very few films of the 1990s have been universally accepted as masterpieces. Crumb should definitely have been one of the few. On the back of the video's box, it proclaims one of the most critically acclaimed films of all time. It is probably the only film of the decade besides _Schindler's List_ that could have claimed that without stretching the truth. Every critic proclaimed that it was one of the very best films of the year it was released. Gene Siskel put it as his #1 picture for the year (having said in his original review I doubt I'll see a better movie this year), and Roger Ebert put it as his #2 only after _Leaving Las Vegas_ (the only 1990s film I'd put above it myself, too).So why do I claim that it is so great? Well, I particularly think that documentaries are much more important than fiction films if they are done well. The purpose of great art is to study and try to educate us about human nature. Documentaries, since they are fact and not fiction, logically can tell us more about human nature than fiction films, which can tell us about human nature, but they necessarily teach it through the eyes of the artists who created the work. For instance, _Hoop Dreams_, which has been accepted by many already to be a masterpiece, s by far the best sports film ever made. No fiction film could have had more insight into the appeal of sports. Also, it is one of the most important films ever made to deal with racial issues for the same reason.Crumb is the most important film ever made on the subject of the artist. Never has a film had more insight into an artist's work than Crumb does into R. Crumb. Each time I watch it, his artwork becomes more deep and complex. Each drawing becomes extremely multi-layered. R. Crumb was hardly inhibited while Zwigoff was filming him, nor were the other people who were interviewed. Crumb spares none of his personal life. Because of this, we learn more about him than we have ever learned about a single fictional character in film history. Not Charles Foster Kane, not Jake LaMotta, not Travis Bickle. No one. R. Crumb is also extremely anti-capitolistic. I love this! He has inspired me with his thoughts. He never existed as an artist to make money. He has enough to exist happily, but he does not live in a mansion, nor does he own a sports team. He does not own a fleet of vehicles. In fact, he can't even drive!  "},{"Title":"Fascinating if unsettling","Date":"9 January 2002","Score":"8 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Absorbing profile of Robert Crumb, an underground cartoonist.  Shows him at work and interacting with his friends and heavily dysfunctional family.  I had no idea who Robert Crumb was (all I knew was that he created Fritz the Cat) and I find underground comics repulsive but I was never bored or repelled by this movie.  It has him talking about his life and his work along with interviews with his family and friends also discussing him and his work.The film shows many of Crumb's graphic work (VERY graphic for an R rated movie) and has him discussing, analyzing and (at times) defending his work.  We also see oppossing or agreement from other art critics or artists.  What's most interesting is that we see he came from a very destructive family and puts all of his hatred and childhood misery into his drawings.  I still don't like underground comics, but this movie helped me understand them...to a degree.  Also a haunting look at a disturbed family...but it's treated sort of lightly...not dark and heavy.Very interesting and well done.  Not for everyone but great for those with VERY open minds. "},{"Title":"Crumb has a magic pen, but don't ask for his autograph.","Date":"6 August 2006","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Legendary underground comic artist Robert Crumb of Keep on Truckin fame is transported back home--courtesy of his equally eccentric friend and cult director, Terry Zwigoff--to pay a visit to his wacky and disturbed family. Crumb, reluctantly, encounters his two bothers and mother in varying degrees of emotional collapse. The mother is a piece of work. She is in total denial about her boys. Crumb's two sisters, however, remain absent from the family's tragic downward spiral--and they don't participate (wisely) in Zwigoff's pet project (The story goes that the director threatened suicide to gain Crumb's full cooperation. Who knows the truth?) Back at the ranch--Crumb does live in the country--the artist's father is dead. His older brother lives in a single room on San Francisco's Skid Row, where he bathes sometimes and sleeps on a bed of nails. He also has dark thoughts about Asian women. Once in a while, he acts on them. His other bother lives with their crazy mother, never works, and reads and collects mountains of old, yellowed and tattered paperbacks. He refuses to read anything new. Everyone is manic depressive. On drugs. And bananas. But somehow Crumb has struck a balance between his art and personal life. He survives nicely with his wife and their daughter in a comfortable ranch house. The dwelling serves dual purposes protection for his massive and priceless blues record collection, and personal solitude from an encroaching outside world. His next step is a permanent move to France! In the end, Crumb, the movie, is a worthwhile odyssey for anyone who wishes to feel better about their own family. You might find this movie on the bottom shelf of the video store or at a psych ward near you. "},{"Title":"Portrait of the Artist as a Lost Man...","Date":"19 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Crumb provides us with and excellent biography of cult favorite Pop/Comic artist Robert Crumb, and a fine synopsis of his work and the circumstances surrounding it.  The two elements are inseparable.  And, just as Crumb's art may not be for everyone, neither is Crumb the movie. The documentary style presentation keeps the film grounded in reality (it could otherwise easily be construed as fiction, so strange is the story).  Much to his credit, Terry Zwigoff conveys well that brand of train-wreck fascination we feel when seeing something profoundly disturbing.  As distressing as parts of Crumb may be, it's nearly impossible to look away. Robert Crumb himself is as unique as they come--he exudes a bizarre sort of aw-shucks perversity that inspires a strange mixture of pity and awe.  His psyche is laid bare on page after page, panel after panel of his work.  One has to wonder what might have become of Robert if he had not directed his energy towards art.  What immediately comes to mind are the unsettling images of his brothers Charles, completely unbalanced, and Maxon, coping in self-imposed solitude, and the distant, grating voice of his neurotic mother.Keep drawing Robert, please.(A small note of caution to those viewing Crumb on a large screen, some of the moving shots are done with a hand held camera and can cause a little vertigo.)  "}{"Title":"Cult classic.","Date":"4 March 2006","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" This film was a remarkable look into the life of an artist known as Crumb. This film shows us that perversion, loneliness, desperation, drug abuse, suicide and genus can all survive in one unique family. I loved this film because it shows life on the other end of the spectrum. Many movies are glamorous and exciting, where this movie is real, honest, dysfunctional and bizarre. The film is a display of Crumb's art work as well as him home town and family. This documentary shows that dark dismal conditions (completly contrary to the normal and healthy conditions of a good person)of Robert Crumb lead him to alternate and original ideas. His unique world view is enlightening and explanatory. I loved this film because it was a vacation into darkness and creativity, and a vacation from the average film experience. "},{"Title":"Power of Art","Date":"4 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Crumb is a documentary, and an emotional glimpse into the life of Robert Crumb. He is a frail, awkward man. A brilliant artist, and goofy personality. His art is rich in bizarre imagery, often sexually related. He is sensitive and passionate. As we meet his family, the story continues to unfold into weird and heartbreaking stories. Art is what allows Crumb to deal with his surroundings. It is about the power of art. A wonderful film. "},{"Title":"Keep On Truckin'","Date":"24 February 2000","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Sit down and get mesmerized by the best- and i mean absolute best- documentary of all time!  It's scary.  It's compelling.  It's brilliant.  Terry Zwigoff (the director) is a friend of Crumb's and he gets all the intimacy and honesty possible from Crumb and his bizarre family, who are the subject of this documentary.  The movie is edited perfectly so it never looses you interest or seems long or uneven.  Consider the scene where Crumb sits listening to his old records and Crumb's art appears on the screen.  Way cool.  And let me say If Crumb's mind is half as screwed-up as his art then he has to be a psycho- but a psycho who makes a great documentary subject!  Even if you don't like Crumb's work or Crumb himself (which is very possible) you have to admit the beauty of this documentary.  And at the end *SPOILER ALERT* when I found out Crumb's depressive house bound brother had killed himself I wanted to ball because I felt so close to him (and the rest of the characters).  At the end of this movie I came to realize the ability family has to screw you up but also I learned that it helps to have an outlet for that pain- in this case art. "},{"Title":"Enough already!","Date":"3 May 2006","Score":"10 out of 17 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Roger Ebert gave Crumb four stars, so we rented it. According to his review, the filmmaker, Terry Zwigoff, has known Robert Crumb for many years, and was as depressed and suicidal during the making of the film as Robert Crumb has been at times in his life.Robert Crumb is a true, tortured eccentric, who found salvation in his art; the fact that he also found fame is almost secondary. By contrast, his brothers, Charles and Max, are basket cases. They were the children of an active monster (their father) and a passive, colluding monster (their mother). There were two sisters, who declined to participate in this film. As Mad Magazine was of the Fifties, so Zap Comics and Robert Crumb's cartoons and artwork were subversive, anarchic emblems of the psychedelic Sixties, although as the film abundantly details, he himself was never really of that world.After half an hour of this film, we were saying, Wow, how fascinating! After an hour, we were saying, Okay, I've seen enough of Charles and Max. After an hour and a half, we were pleading, Have mercy! By the end of this two-hour film, we were feeling as if we'd been tortured by burial under heavy rocks. We came to the end with great relief.I instinctively understand Robert Crumb, but two hours of Crumb's profound cynicism, his indefatigable negativity, his misanthropy and misogyny, his interminable kvetching---not to mention the ramblings of his brothers and various friends, former lovers and associates---is about an hour too long. A skillful editor could take this material and cut it down to a one-hour special for cable that would be a masterpiece. As it is, it drags on and on and on and on and on and on. Too much of anything, even Robert Crumb, is too much. "},{"Title":"What you are is where you were when.","Date":"6 February 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  My comments candidly discuss aspects of the film, do not read them if you consider such to be SPOILERS.I remember back in the 70s or 80s, a popular 'management' training film used to explain behavior, 'What You Are Is Where You Were When', and this film, 'CRUMB', made me recall that. The training film's hypothesis is, what you become as an adult is largely a product of the things you experienced during your formative years, and as an adult only a severe emotional experience could alter any of that. R. Crumb and his two brothers were misfits in school, rejected by girls, and spent their formative years in their shared room, imagining and drawing cartoons. And having sexual fantasies. R. Crumb said by 5 or 6 he became sexually attracted to Bugs Bunny. But he says it in such a 'matter-of-fact' way, and with a smile that you almost accept it as alright. They all became as adults, what they were as kids. One can only wonder if a more well-rounded childhood would have produced different adults.The film itself, which is primarily taped interviews with R. Crumb, his two brothers (two sisters refused to participate), his former wives and girlfriends, and his associates, is a fascinating look at this famous cartoonist. He really is a gifted, self-taught illustrator. When you look at his drawings, and those of his two brothers, you see clearly that what we draw is simply a product of our subconscious. His two brothers were barely functional in 1994 when the filming was done, and one killed himself a year later. But R. Crumb comes across as a fairly normal person, interacting with his young daughter, sharing illustration hints with his grown son. But when Crumb says he has never been in love, never been jealous, and both he and his wife admit to 'fooling around' outside their marriage, it is a wake-up call that these are not mainstream people.R. Crumb is a realist, speaks his mind, doesn't worry about what others think. He admits to his hostility towards women. When a young woman related how fearful she became as a young girl when her brother showed her one of R. Crumb's pornographic comics, he had a genuine concern. No guilt, but concern that 'maybe I shouldn't be allowed to draw my cartoons. Maybe my pens should be taken away. But I have to express myself.' His cartoons are mainly autobiographical. He doesn't drive. He makes fun of the affluent who bought up property near is home, and 'built their dream homes on every hill.' He abhors the commercialism of our society, cannot fathom why people let themselves, for example, become walking advertisements by wearing clothes with commercial insignias or sport teams. In a comic book shop, where some of his stuff is sold, asked for an autograph he said, 'No, I don't believe in that.'As the filming ended, we see Crumb's furniture being loaded up. They moved to Southern France where I suppose they still live. Some art investor paid enough for his old illustration notebooks that he could buy the home in France. "},{"Title":"Pure gold, one of the greatest films of all time!","Date":"29 June 2010","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" I'm in complete shock. I must admit that when it started off with David Lynch presents I knew I was in for something, but I had no idea what. I cannot believe that anyone would expose their life like this. Robert Crumb is what would be described as a pretty sick individual, his family more so. His brothers are talking about suicide attempts, molesting women, etc. Robert Crumb is basically letting you see ever part of his life. We even see him ride around on women's backs, which is apparently one of his favorite things in the whole world.If you are not familiar with him, he is a sort of satirical, sexually obsessed cartoonist, who among other things makes cartoons about his own crazy life. And he is a likable guy. Grim and openly perverted but he does have a personality. He is the amusing outcast who shows the world for what he thinks it is. Director Terry Zwigoff does this almost like a fictional film, of course there are interviews and most of it is conversations between Robert and people who knows him, but sometimes you think of him more as a Woody Allen kind of fictional characters. I is so far from the norm, and so much a character it's hard to believe he's real.The film itself has this weird form of just being. It's a dark comedy, and though it never stops being interesting and you can feel the somewhat morbid comedic atmosphere it's just hard to categorize as a comedy. It's more. It's something true, and something to think about; Though it's pretty impossible to figure out what it is you are supposed to think about. Individuality, society, norms, standards, art, perhaps everything in existence.At it's core you just know this is something special. It's not just the Crumb family quirks and distancing life style, the complete honesty about it and the emotions this brings, it's the look at the artistic work it creates, and maybe vice versa.This film needs to be experienced! "},{"Title":"Mr. Natural! What Does It All Mean??","Date":"25 March 2007","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Mr. Natural Don't Mean Sheeit...One day while searching through my father's closet (about 12 years ago) I happened to come across a couple of comic books. The comics weren't in the best condition, a tear here and there, but they still held up pretty well. Being a slightly big comic book fan at the time (even bigger now) I took a peak at these weird looking comics. Well, I immediately found something special in these comics. Maybe it was the nudity, the drugs or the swears, but I was obsessed with these two comics for quite some time. The two comics were Zap #0 and Mr. Natural #2. I remember on the back of the Zapped comic there was directions on how to smoke a joint or a muggle. Great directions by the way. Ever since I found these two gems, I've become a fan of R. Crumb's work. The first time I saw Crumb the movie, I suppose I was a tad too young to grip what was going on. Thankfully my brother bought me the DVD this past Xmas. I've put if off for a while now, but I put it in last night, and I was immediately brought back to that same type of infatuation with drawing. But something I didn't pick up on the first viewing was all the emotion this documentary delivered. Crumb is a documentary that covers almost all bases of his life. From his tough childhood all the way up to the present as rich and famous artist. If you ever wanted to know who R. Crumb is or how he acts, or what he thinks, this is a must see movie. The film also focuses on Robert's family. Be it his ex-girlfriend, ex-wife or his mother and brothers. When they show up at his mother's house where his brother Charles still lives, the movie takes on a different feel. The scene with Robert, Charles and his mother in the living room is classic stuff. The scenes with Charles are incredibly funny yet pretty damn sad. If you ask me, a movie based on the life of Charles would have been just as good as this. For the reason, Charles might have been a better artist than Robert when he decided to stop drawing. By the end of Crumb, I immediately put on the special features, which unfortunately is only a commentary, but a great commentary nonetheless with the director and Roger Ebert. I usually just check back at the special features down the road sometime, but with this film I had to watch it immediately....even at 230 am. If you're a fan of art, R. Crumb or just a fan of well-made documentaries there's no reason you shouldn't enjoy the hell out of this film. It's definitely one of the best documentaries on a person I've ever seen. 9.5 outta 10 "},{"Title":"The Best Movie of the 90s","Date":"17 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Crumb is not only the best documentary film I've ever seen, but it is also the best movie of the 90s, by far.  Not since Raging Bull has their been an American film as brutally honest and artful in it's portrayal of its tortured protagonist.  Robert Crumb was a sick cult figure to many; a depraved, perverted, misogynistic and racist comic / pop artist that was one of those once in a lifetime celebrities -- a true original and intriguingly weird character in a world known for weird and original celebrities.  But compared to his horrifyingly screwed up family, Robert Crumb is a COMPLETELY NORMAL person.This is the most revealing documentary movie ever made.  By the end of the movie, you feel as though you know EXACTLY why Robert Crumb grew up to be the way he did, and you actually admire his resilience and his ability to live through the crap he had to go through with a psychotic military father, a mother who was strung out on painkillers throughout much of his childhood, and two brothers who are COMPLETELY crazy (Robert also has two sisters, but they declined to be apart of the film)!  The part that makes this film so unbelievably entertaining and watchable is how interesting and deep all of these characters are, especially Robert's scene stealing older brother Charles, whom is in his 50s and has lived at home with his mother virtually his entire life!  Charles has never had sex and lives among mountains of read books in a house he hasn't really left for any reason at all in twenty-five years, although he also happens to be on an incredible amount of pain-killers and anti-depressant drugs at all moments of his life, so leaving probably wouldn't have been a good idea.  He's so unbelievably insane that he's brilliant.  Charles disconnected theories on life, love, social status, sibling rivalry, and his recollections of the childhood the imaginative Crumb family offspring had are some of the highlights of the film.His other brother Max is also quite compelling.  A self-proclaimed sex-offender, Max lives in a cheap hotel room somewhere in San Francisco, where he begs on the street for money, paints paintings of considerable talent, passes a six-foot nylon strip through his digestive system for cleansing purposes and sits on a bed of nails all day that it is speculated that he made himself.  Crumb's mother, who originally did not want camera crews interviewing Charles, is also quite intriguing.  By the point in time we meet her, we already are aware of her addiction to pain killers throughout her kids lives and her lost, goofy woo, are we really on camera? demeanor is quite funny in a disturbing way.  She also boasts jokingly about such things as beating her children and threatening to give the children enemas if they misbehave.Crumb also brilliantly treats R. Crumb with humility towards his art. Robert Crumb is never displayed as a freak and his artwork is never discussed along the lines that normal comic book art is usually discussed. The movie treats Crumb like a serious artist and social satirist.  Scenes are shown in which Crumb's art is being displayed at galleries as prestigious as the Museum of Modern Art in New York, and the film features expert art-critics as interviewee's, who all uniformly praise Crumb's art and humor (although some do it as though they are in no way endorsing Crumb's strange world view).  There are also many brilliant scene's where we see Crumb doing exactly what he does best drawing.  Many art films focus on the personal lives of the artist more so than the art itself.  While Crumb is a highly personal film, the film largely focuses on his art itself (some of his more infamous drawings and strips are debated and discussed with pro and con viewpoints by various art critics and activists) and how autobiographical a lot of it really is.  Some of the best scenes in the movie show Robert Crumb just sitting down on a bench or at a table somewhere, drawing the people who walk by him.  Crumb focuses in on the most clichéd details of the people he draws, exaggerating the ad-wear that they wear (Nike, Addias, San Francisco 49ers, etc...), the looks of desperation in the eyes of some of the crowd, to the loudness and crudeness of the sounds coming out of a kid's boom box (in which he quaintly observes that everything coming out of kids stereo's these days sounds like a piercingly loud guy screaming 'cocksucker motherf**ker').Crumb also gives insight into the artist's personal struggles with the female species and the strange misogynistic art it has produced.  Through revealing interviews with ex-girlfriends and his longtime wife Aline, Crumb comes across as a Howard Stern-like 'softy-on-the-inside,' with kinky sexual fantasies.  The alarming difference is that Crumb's childhood was so devoid of love and normalcy that Crumb himself does not have the ability to truly love another human being apart from his young daughter whom he had with Aline (Crumb also has an older son from his first marriage, but they are not quite as close).The one person who does show a lot of love in this movie for its characters and its subject is Terry Zwigoff, the director of this film and one of Robert Crumb's closest personal friends.  Crumb travels into territory that few documentary films are ever aloud by their subjects to travel through.  It is clear throughout the film that the entire Crumb-clan knows Zwigoff quite well from over the years and feels completely comfortable with him, in spite of his camera crew being there -- Charles especially, who romanticizes the camera with his funny tales of teen-angst (of which he seems permanently trapped in, in a disturbing, J.D. Salinger-esque way) and growing up in a strange household.  Robert Crumb himself seems anxious to get it all over with by the end of the film when he and Aline move to France (the film was shot over a period of six years by Zwigoff at a time with both Zwigoff and Crumb were suicidal), but the film has the feeling a lot of times like your watching a group of old friends sitting around reminiscing about the past and catching up on things with each other.  Very few films capture that personal feeling as well as Crumb does, and very few films treat their subjects with such honesty & humility.  The film is a complete labor of love, and it is the best film of the 1990s by a landslide. "},{"Title":"Crumb, a humanist and philosopher","Date":"10 January 2002","Score":"3 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  One thing I know about this film is that you can tell a lot about a person from their reaction to viewing it.  The range of opinions on the quality of this documentary is as diverse as the critic's opinions of Crumb's work captured within it.  While some say boring, or disturbing, others find it to be strangely uplifting and endlessly entertaining.  I confess, I put myself in the latter group.Yes, it's a unique depiction of a man and his unlikely family.  Indeed, it's a portrait of the artist, his critics, and the context within which he creates his art.  And it's full of hilarity and pathos, to be sure.But what remains with me from this film most of all is the running commentary, which in intimate bits and pieces forms the foundation of a thoughtful man's philosophy.  And it's a very human philosophy, from his wry yet tender recollection of homely schoolgirls in the opening scene, to his despair for those poor souls who don't recognize the absurdity of wearing brand logos emblazoned across their chests.It IS an absurd world, that perpetually reveals the possibility of beauty and spiritual connection.  Crumb is an honest man, calling it like he sees it.  And there's love and passion in that deadpan voice, for those that listen.  "},{"Title":"Close to the bone","Date":"23 March 2007","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" It's amazing to read the negative critiques for 'Crumb'-- the venom poured onto it by reviewers with little explanation as to why they reacted so strongly. Just like the negative critics in the film itself, the critics here take everything Crumb produces at face value and lash out blindly with declamations of misanthropy, misogyny, racism and whatever other damning indictments they can lay their hands on. It seems the more emotionally honest and direct a film is (or a cartoon strip for that matter), the more people will hate it.I suppose if you hold a mirror up to someone's ugly face, you shouldn't expect him to be grateful for being given the chance to see the way he really looks, even if this is the way we all really look. "}{"Title":"the outsiders who make it and the ones that don't; a documentary with true rhythm and honesty","Date":"5 September 2005","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Documentaries about artists can go one of two ways, either very insightful, with images that stick with you, as well as possibly entertaining, or very boring. This will often depend on the merit of the filmmaker, and how personally they connect with the artist and the work itself (some of it is more made for films to show just to get kids to fall asleep in school). Terry Zwigoff, however, is a filmmaker very much in tune with his subjects; his fictional films, the comic-book adaptation Ghost World is cynical (or skeptical) but with true heart, and Bad Santa is as dark as comedies can get. With his friend Robert Crumb he gets one of the most candid, and smooth, documentaries from the 90's. It may mean more to people who are from that period; Crumb is still a legend in the underground comic-book/art scene, not quite breaking into a 'mainstream' but still with his immense cult. But for one from the following generation, I was often mesmerized by his work.A good part of the film is just Zwigoff using his camera to get into the main mind-set of Crumb, not just necessarily with interviews with his family members or friends and co-workers (though there is a lot of that), but also through the presentation of his work, often in medium close-ups, with awesome blues melodies and tunes in the background. Crumb's work is morbid, satirical, drug-inspired, occasionally racist (for a purpose), ultra-sexual (the Fritz the Cat adaptation film of his work was the first X-rated animated feature), and funny in most respects. One particular description by Crumb over a comic of a woman with a headless body being seductive for a main character is very fascinating, as it brings out several different reactions when reading it- laughter at the random-ness of the characters, romantic drama with the man's lusting for this headless woman, and pure odd-ness at what goes on here. You scratch your head in confusion, or maybe have to put it down in disgust, but if you have the stomach for it it's somehow rewarding. If nothing else, the actual form in the ink and use of colors is often miraculous.Then there are the interviews. With Bob Crumb himself he's always in a fairly good mood, very personable around those he loves and admires, and those around him- mostly the women whom have inspired, terrified, and amazed him over the years- and without any shame or shyness about his work. And when it comes to his family they too are just as candid; it's a little depressing, to be sure, to see the state of his brothers (Charles, in particular, who is actually an identifiable character for many outsiders in the world, only to an extreme), and the tales of his father. Some of this goes to explain some things about the psychology of the Crumb mentality, but the fact is Bob Crumb does let it all hang out in his comics, as he admits usually instinctively. There is something about the subject of the artist as a confessional, as someone who is so personal that he can't necessarily projects to a specific 'audience'. It's appropriate, therefore, that a filmmaker like David Lynch produced the film; the similarities are striking in how they both reflect their own desires and hates with the idealized Americana of the 50's.At times 'Crumb' is a little un-settling, but never for the wrong reasons. It's not for the average comic-book fan, and for those who just love and respect artists in general will find much to admire in Crumb's style. "},{"Title":"Must See Documentary","Date":"20 August 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Honest, Scathing look at alternative cartoonist and his family. His relationship with his brothers Charles & Maxon and the genesis and motivation for his art are well captured by Director Zwighoff. Sometimes disturbing, but always entertaining, Crumb represents one of the best documentaries of the 1990s. "},{"Title":"LOVED IT!","Date":"16 January 2003","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  One of the best documentaries ever filmed.  Zwigoff is a genius; Crumb is a genius (eccentric but a genius) and the film is brilliant.  If you enjoyed it at all you have to see Ghost World and American Movie.  Cannot recommend it enough. "},{"Title":"classic documentary","Date":"19 June 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  One of the two best documentaries I have ever seen......Little Dieter Needs to Fly is the other.  This has to be the most dysfunctional family ever caught on film.  Makes the Osbournes look like pikers!  But don't mistake that comment to compare the two.  Different worlds completely.  Crumb gives you a psycho-view into the twisted minds of a family fruitcake. Truth murders fiction again!   9/10.  See it. "},{"Title":"The anti-icon?","Date":"11 February 2002","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  While some may perceive the Crumb family as disturbed, or 'dysfunctional' for the PC crowd, many would not. From the general living conditions to the quirks and frightening characteristics, some folks are not at all surprised by the lives these people live. With the right marketing, this has the potential for big cult classic status.But that wouldn't be Crumb's way.What a paradox - this artist with such great talent and wide appeal, and especially marketability, shuns and despises the whole corporate greed lifestyle. Consequently, R. Crumb epitomizes the underground comic genre. And unless you go looking for his work, you won't know what you're missing. Keep on trucking says it all, and I don't mean the Dead song.This film is worth your time if you're into documentaries, particularly those about gifted artists.  "},{"Title":"About as good as it gets","Date":"20 April 2001","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Lets face it, Crumb and particularly his family, are such an interesting documentary subject Terry Zwigoff would have had to work hard not to present an entertaining piece.  Even so, what Zwigoff was able to do, was craft a fine film that provided the viewer with a comprehensive understanding of the artist, the era that he worked in, and the lasting impact he will have on American culture.  The art of documentary film making is often an allusive one.  Zwigoff has given us a fine example of what the genre has to offer. "},{"Title":"In my top 5 films, ever","Date":"31 January 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" I always hated R. Crumb's comics, finding them misogynistic and racist and weird and unfunny. In my factory-town hippie youth, the boys who found them funny were boys I avoided. (I never met a girl or black person who did like them, though a few may exist.) So you'd think I might hate this movie, or not want to watch it, or that this review would be negative. But no. I love a good documentary and this is not merely good; it's a great one, directed by film genius Terry Zwigoff. Crumb the movie riveted me, showing me an intricate portrait of a complex man. This is not a short movie, but I was always engaged--great pacing and editing, surprising and revealing choices of scenes.To me what it says about art (or craft) is far less important than what it says about this one man.Crumb had a childhood that looks worse than the worst horror film I've ever seen. Bad father, bat**** crazy mother, and three genius boys that I suppose may carry the crazy gene too. As Zwigoff takes us into that bizarre home and the lives of the other brothers, we come to see that R. Crumb's art and life is a triumph of the human spirit, a flower blooming out of burbling sewage. To me, it's not an attractive flower, rather a noisome and homely thing, but dang it, a flower, and I ended up applauding him for doing so well with such beginnings.No matter how crazy your family is, you leave this film thinking, wow, thanks Mom and Dad for not being anywhere near this bad. Your own tiny neuroses will seem charming and mild in comparison to the brothers'. You leave the film with the sense that all things are possible--if Crumb did this with his life despite what you now know, what the heck is holding you back?And if a film can change people, even for a short time, this one has the capacity to make you more understanding of the worst people you meet. What if they had this much baggage? How can you possibly know what made them what they are? Everyone is doing the best s/he can, and while some days that seems like bad news, after watching the film, it feels like good news. "},{"Title":"Anykind of Artist can learn from this.","Date":"11 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Primarily You are in the presence of a master creating and displaying his art, and throughout these portions of the film any kind of artist will find much to learn from this man. The comparison made that he is the modern Dürer is very apt.Secondarily You are watching one the most humorous and (blackly) entertaining films ever produced anywhere. Yes, we are reassured once again that an (the) artists' personality(ies) cannot never be confused with or substituted for the work they have give us; the strongest humor comes from the aon-old maxim the truth is stranger than fiction...p.s. One last thing - had seen this piece over a decade ago, but a recent review of Crumb's 2009 outstanding Genesis work led back here and there to review. If you haven't read it yet do it tonight/day! "},{"Title":"Strange behavior","Date":"28 February 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Robert Crumb came out of the 1960s as the leading underground comic book artist. Sexually explicit material, usually with women drawn with huge buttocks were his signature. Album covers, including Janis Joplin's Big Brother and the Holding Company being the most well known, show a real and unique artist at work.Filmmaker Terry Zwigoff brings his camera into the Crumb family home; can you say dysfunctional? ? The word is not strong enough to describe this modern day Adam's Family. Robert's brother Charles looks like Lerch and despite his agoraphobia is also a creative genius. The Crumb's interactions are a train wreck in the making that you can't take your eyes off of. The brothers are both certifiably insane and yet hugely talented. Crumb is one of the best documentary's ever made. "},{"Title":"darkly fascinating","Date":"16 May 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" I was never a fan of R. Crumb's work, finding it unpleasant and ugly, but I heard the documentary was good and it certainly is. This is a fascinating portrayal not just of the highly eccentric Crumb but also of his even more off-kilter brothers. They are a very messed up family, so messed up that their upbringing was probably even worse than it is described in the movie.The film works in a number of ways. It does a good job of exploring Crumb's artwork, where it came from and how he approaches it (even though it's mainly about the personal we do see some of his craftsmanship as well. It shows how his comics generate extreme reactions, most notably in the opposing reactions of a pretentious English guy who talks about Crumb as a great artist and a painfully politically correct woman who says he legitimizes horrible fantasies by expressing them.But more than anything, this is a movie that reveals the Crumb's disturbing personalities and dismal lives. Perhaps the most disturbing thing about it is how casually they discuss themselves, laughing boisterously as they talk about their odd sexuality and abusive father.It's a rather downbeat documentary but well worth watching. "}{"Title":"This Is Real Life","Date":"28 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" A cinematic portrait of the controversial comic book writer/artist and his traumatized family.Crumb is the perfect subject matter for Terry Zwigoff, who is best known for Ghost World, an adaptation of a graphic novel. Zwigoff clearly has an interest in independent comics and knows how to present them in a way that makes them interesting and accessible to people. Some of Ghost World's biggest fans have never read a comic book, and I suspect one need not know who Crumb is to appreciate this documentary.His brother Charles lives in a cloistered environment of books, which is an interesting sight... he speaks of not yet having read Kant or Hegel, but you can see nearby a copy of a Buddhist book, suggesting that such things may not be beyond his range of interests. What Charles does now is unclear. Presumably nothing. And the other brother, Maxon, is even more bizarre.The constant cynicism is a welcome perspective. He seems happy, but Crumb constantly talks disparagingly of things. His attitude is interesting, and sometimes he suggests a Luddite viewpoint. He also, despite needing money, turned down Saturday Night Live and the Rolling Stones... running from fame.A gallery owner calls him the Daumier of our time and the Time art critic says he is the Brueghel for the second half of the 20th century. I suppose being compared to classic art is a compliment, though the fact they are such obscure names may not be complimentary at all... I do not know Daumier or Brueghel's work, so I cannot even say if I like it! If Crumb is not weird enough, just wait until they invite him behind the scenes at a pornographic Leg Show photo shoot. "},{"Title":"R. Crumb....The Little Man Who Lives In My Head???","Date":"21 July 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Not so much about the comics of R. Crumb, so much as the very, very, personal life of the man. Few documentaries get this deep under a subjects skin, even for Crumb, who always drew and wrote with his Id completely exposed anyway. The film never let's your feeling's about Crumb settle or congeal into an easy interpretation, at times he's just a normal guy, others a sex addict, a misogynist, a crotchety old man, an absent and loving father, an abused son, and a younger brother living in the shadow of an even more disturbed older brother. Not to mention the younger Charles who panhandles meditating on a board of nails, or his two sisters who wont speak to him because of his work. Crumb's work is disturbing, funny, grotesque, pornographic, and surreal, and it completely imitates and represents the man and his life, it's not always enjoyable, intelligible, or decent (how does Crumb respond to White-Man arguably his most racist comic, It's about my father I think...., and after watching this, I will give the guy his daddy issues, and take him at his word.) This isn't a good movie, because Crumb is such a great artist, he's a hugely important and prolific figure in the world of comics and graphic arts, but this movie is good, because it's a great documentary, it asks all the right questions, and it's arranged as compellingly as any fiction movie, and it has at it's heart something sadly lacking in many of Crumbs best works, empathy. Terry Zwigoff who would later direct the Dan Clowes comic Ghost World, to similar success, of humanizing the absurd and morose. Even in the parades of his sexual fetishes (R. Crumb was the champion of the big butt and thick powerful thighs, years before Sir Mix A lot), political and social disgust, arrogance and neurosis...a real human being manages comes through out of a man who worked his life into a caricature. "},{"Title":"Excellent view to the life of the underground legend R. Crumb","Date":"7 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" I never heard about this film until one day (like 1 month ago) that i was just looking around some DVDs stores and i saw it. R. Crumb is an underground comic book writer so is not rare that this film isn't commercial and here in Mexico is very rare to find it. i don't miss the change to buy the DVD because i know R Crumb and i like a lot Fritz the cat and i admire a lot his work. I mean i'm not the greatest fan of R. Crumb in the matter of collector but i know his work and i totally like it. So i never see R. Crumb in other videos and i didn't know how was his personality so now i can tell you that is just a unique person.Crumb is an excellent view to the life of R. Crumb, his family and his work. Based on interviews with Crumb, his wife, his two brothers (Maxon and Charles), his mom, his son and some other people that know him and also some critics.So the film is based on that in the time when R. Crumb was leaving America for going to France. Crumb is a genius in his work but he is just the same kind of person that when he was a teenager. I mean he can't change, he says that when he was very famous Janis Joplin ask him Don't you like girls?, of course said Crumb and Janis said So why don't you let you hair grow and buy a velvet jacket.... Crumb said that those things wasn't for him so he can't change.So this film is just full of that kinds of things that make you see the personality of R. Crumb.About Charles Crumb's brother was the person who introduces Crumb to the comic books when they were kids and was very talented but he start to be far of Crumb. In the film you see him as a sick person that has 3 suicidal attempts, that never leave his home and is always taking medicines. Is a very sad story because this film was dedicate to Charles because he die some time later of this interviews.As a conclusion this film is not only for R. Crumb fans, is a very unique and great documentary and is a must see for all the film fans. But like Crumb said about the film Goodfellas this is not for children.DVD love it, just to have it in my collection is great. Contains comments by the director and by Rogert Ebert and also the preview of Terry's new film. "},{"Title":"Full off only the Crumb(s).","Date":"25 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Director Terry Zwigoff followed his friend Robert Crumb for six years with his camera. What concluded from this voyage was a passionate, humanistic, and incredible film about one of our most intimate artists. A cultural icon and possibly lost in the mind, Crumb is a delicate and difficult subject to follow. His random words and ideas scatter this film into different directions, but somehow Zwigoff keeps it all together. Normally, I write much more about the films that I watch, but this is one of those rare films where watching it and experiencing it yourself firsthand is better than any written word. Impressive and an instant cult classic! Grade ***** out of *****  "},{"Title":"Whew!","Date":"29 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  It takes a lot of work to get through this film.  Not because the film is boring or slow, but because it throws a lot at you.  I wasn't too familiar with Robert Crumb's art, but through the course of the film I identified several familiar pieces I never knew he was responsible for creating.  What a brilliantly odd and sometimes painfully truthful perception of the world he has in his extensive catalogue!  I'm not what one would call a fan, nor is most of his material for my taste, but to watch him explain his structural and comic techniques, I was able to understand his mind that much better (again, more work).  After seeing the film to its end and having endured watching R. Crumb with his they can't be real family, I was left stupefied, depressed, educated, inspired, and somehow uplifted.  If you allow yourself into this movie, you will be moved. "},{"Title":"Interesting Documentary of Underground Cartoonist and Family","Date":"8 June 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Warning! Spoilers ahead! This movie succeeds largely because the documentarian does not inject his bias into the story, nor does he push any sort of agenda. He lets his subjects give their side of the story. He listens to both sides of the argument, whether they approve of what Robert Crumb has done as an artist, or whether he is nothing more than a bizarre pornographer. In all, the neutrality of the movie-maker is this film's best selling point, and I highly recommend this film as one that doesn't beat you over the head with its opinion or message; it lets the subjects do the talking.On the topic of semi-famous underground cartoonist Robert Crumb and his family, the film leaves one with an uneasy feeling at best. Charles, Robert's brother, and his mother reminded me of the recent HBO Grey Gardens movie, which itself was based on a documentary. If Robert Crumb can be perceived by some as a stark eccentric who cannot fit in to modern society, at least he has been able to create a stable home life with a loving family of his own. This movie is utterly tragic in its portrayal of Crumb's brothers, Charles and Maxon, especially so since Charles is gifted with exceptional cartooning skills (his artwork looked superior to Robert's best efforts), yet was cursed with severe psychiatric problems which prevented him from entering society as a functional individual. While Robert is a functional member of society, the overall impression the movie gave was that he was somewhat distant from other people, including his kin, and could not pick up easily on the feelings of others. The most poignant example of this was a brief (maybe one minute?) description of his father by Crumb's son from his first wife. Still, it was delightful to see Crumb nurture his children by helping them do artwork of their own.On the surface, Crumb may seem like a unique if peculiar individual snobbish, detached from the outside world, relishing in dressing in anachronistic clothing and listening to old jazz records. Still, the impression was of a kind-hearted individual who found release through art. I did enjoy the movie's inclusion of those who objected to Crumb's art as blatantly pornographic, though my sense is that Crumb's work does not have the mainstream popularity which would make it troubling to society at large, nor the messages in his illustrations singularly sexual, to classify it as straightforwardly pornographic.A solid effort. I highly recommend this film to those who love documentaries. "},{"Title":"Truth through and through","Date":"8 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Crumb is an amazing documentary about an extraordinary artist. Most great movies are great because they carry kernels of truth Fellini on sexual desire and repression, The Godfather on the vagaries of morality and business, Casablanca of things bigger than ourselves, the great (anti)war movies on how politicians and generals coldly manipulate young men and ultimately murder them, etc., etc... But the classics are stylized accounts with kernels of truth. Crumb, in contrast, is truth through and through uncompromisingly laid open. You don't realize how rare truth is until you finally see it.Crumb's own oeuvre is a study in truth, inhabited by a menagerie of characters that haunt his subconscious rigid White Man, farcical hippie guru Mr. Natural, Amazonian Angel McSpade, the subhumans who beat up his brother as adolescents, and his own self-pitying self.When he became a counter culture hero, Crumb promptly put the would-be worshipers at arm's length with his openly perverse sexual comics. He lampooned America and its critics alike, though lampoon isn't quite the right word, for his powerful critiques are frequently wordless, midnight black humor, if it's humor at all (see, for example, his History of America at www.zubeworld.com/crumbmuseum/history1.html). He drew what he felt and never sold-out, even turning down a commission to draw a Rolling Stones album cover because he didn't think much of their music. During the filming of the movie, he and his wife are moving to the south of France because America has become just too ugly, commercial and crass.Interviewed in the film, he and his brothers acknowledge being unpopular wimps, abused by their father and many of their peers. Underlying the truth in his work lay the truth of his life and family, exposed with embarrassing candor. His older brother and mother never leave their small, poor home, though they have nothing in common so they just maintain an uneasy truce. His younger brother lives as a monk, drawing a long linen tape through his body to clean his intestines while sitting on a bed of nails. Neither brother has ever had sex.Crumb, it's clear, loves them, and it's a painful, poignant love because he's also detached. What can he do after all, except accept them? His work too, is poignantly portrayed at one point he sits semi-autistic listening to soulful old records (he's a collector), with a slow panning over a collage of haunting illustrations.Crumb is routinely referred to as a pervert. And of course his family is deeply disturbed. But so is much of America. And so is much of the world. Psychiatrist Alfred Adler observed that The only normal people are the ones you don't know very well. So of course Crumb is not normal. He has allowed us to know him. "},{"Title":"Unsettling, but if you can stomach it it's quite fascinating","Date":"22 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Fascinating but a tad overrated documentary. The Life of seriously disturbed comic book artist R. Crumb is discussed in this low-budget documentary from the filmmaker that brought us 'Ghost World' and 'Art School Confidedntial'. My largest complaint with the movie is it is a tad too long. Crumb is an interesting fellow and there's a lot of interesting things to tell about his life through interviews with him and his two extremely neurotic and creepy brothers Maxon and Charles, but it just gets a tad old after the first hour of the movie. Creepy doesn't even begin to describe it though. These people really unsettled me, as I think they were supposed to. Crumb is described as a sexual introvert, someone so uncomfortable and nervous about his sexuality and he deals with it by writing his extremely violent, misogynistic and racist cartoons. At the end of the film you'll want to wish you'll never encounter this disturbed individual or his deranged family. Interesting viewing, but again it drags a bit for my taste. Grade B "},{"Title":"Terry Zwigoff, Robert Crumb","Date":"29 August 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" This is a not only a great documentary but also a great movie. The music is awesome. Each interview is smart and is the perfect length. The coverage of the actual cartoons is superb. Terry Zwigoff treats the contentious bones of Crumb's work evenly by showing both his detractors and devotees. The movie makes you think about whether or not Crumb is a misogynist, jerkstore, racist, sadist etc. I tend to decide that he is none of the above, just misunderstood. In fact, it seems pretty obvious that he loves women. Though he's revealed some of his most brutal sex fantasies, you couldn't imagine him ever, like, abusing a woman.. In the commentary, Terry Z talks about how he did a screening at Berkeley to a terribly negative response, mostly because people were disgusted with Crumb's character. Anyway, a fascinating document.. take a look. "},{"Title":"A powerful documentary","Date":"28 June 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Robert Crumb has already been identified in the counterculture of the late 1960s and early 1970s as a creator of the cartoon characters Fritz the Cat (that was turned in a first X-rated feature animated film which Crumb passionately hates) and Mr. Natural and for cover art for Big Brother and the Holding Company's Cheap Thrills. Terry Zwigoff's documentary examines a man behind his works, his tastes, hobbies, and phobias and the forces that have contributed to producing a very original and controversial art.Director Terry Zwigoff spent six years in making the portrait of an Artist as seen by Crumb himself, his spouses, ex-girlfriends, his son Jesse, various artists and art critics, and the members of his family. Speaking of the strange and dysfunctional families, Grumb clan could definitely take a prize. Of three brothers, only Robert Crumb was able to come through his upbringing with his sanity, talent, and ability to create and to communicate still intact but at the same time, he is a man with many inner demons, sexual and psychological that he reveals and fights through his art. His two brothers, Max who is a confessed sex-offender and Charles who had lived all his life in his mother's house and would commit suicide one year after he gave the interviews for the film, were both gifted artists themselves but they could not leave their childhood memories of a father, an overbearing tyrant and sadistic bully, and a mother who became an amphetamine addict behind them and to move on with their lives. The interviews with Charles and Max are devastating, shocking, and very sad. It would be interesting to listen to their two sisters but they refused to talk in front of camera for the film. The most fascinating aspect of the film is the fact that a viewer does not have to be a comic book fan or have knowledge of the counterculture or the specific cartoon characters to appreciate and admire it. I am not a comic books expert or fan. I've heard of Crumb before but only in regards to the films that also have impressed me a lot, Ghost World and American Splendor. It did not stop me from realizing that the documentary about Robert Crumb, his life, his works, his struggle, his anger, his obsession with sex, his non-conformism, non-sentimentality, his rejection to do mainstream even it means saying No to making a lot of money, and his ability to look at the circumstances and deal with them with a dry humor is an amazing document which provides a thought-provoking character study and the deep psychological insight in the creative mind of an artist. "}{"Title":"cherry crumb","Date":"14 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Three psychotic genius brothers, two sisters who refused to be filmed, one delusional mother, one straight-as-an-arrow father. Robert, Charles and Maxon Crumb The Karamazov Brothers they aren't. Sex? Yes, we all have our inhibitions. Drugs? Remember, moderation is the key. The story? A frail, anti-establishmentarianistic comic artist who would rather draw a woman and jerk off to his own creation rather than rogering the real deal. Interested?R. Crumb makes a fantastic subject because his inhibitions never remain silent. His mighty pen becomes his mighty sword (which one ex-girlfriend would reveal as never exaggerated). T. Zwigoff's portrait of comic genius Robert Crumb makes a mockery out of everything and anything normal to us. After existing with Mr. Crumb and his family for 2+ hours, we leave pondering the unlimited tiers of normalcy. Comparing him to Breugel and Van Gogh is not unrealistic. His personality compounded by the outside world churns his own reality which becomes his favorite fetish the comic. Why are we interested? Answer even though R. Crumb's own beliefs become contradictions as he becomes known, his integrity in expressing his vision(however sick it sometimes can be) has remained true to himself. It is rare indeed to find an artist who's produced over three decades of work which was never compromised or adulterated by money. Crumb won the prestigious Grand Jury Prize at the 1995 Sundance Film Festival. "},{"Title":"Wonderfully twisted film","Date":"1 December 2000","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Certainly one of the best documentaries I've ever seen, I'd rank CRUMB not far down the list from ROGER AND ME and THIN BLUE LINE. This is an intimate and unsettling glimpse into the life and family of truly twisted American pop icon R. Crumb, his views and even his strange sexual appetites.Zwigoff's portrait treats its viewers to just a taste of what it must have been like growing up as Robert Crumb in a family so full of mania, phobia, drug dependency and sexual repression that it makes the famed cartoonist seem normal by comparison.Like R. Crumb, the film pulls no punches and finds no subject off limits. It's an entertaining, although disturbing, watch and the artist's work is the highlight of the piece.You'll never look at a headless concubine quite the same way after watching it! "},{"Title":"strange man with a stranger family","Date":"18 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  An excellent but deeply disturbing documentary about the comic artist, Crumb, who came up with the Keep on Truckin cartoon.  He seems like a weird little man but his other brothers are even stranger than he.  A must see if you like documentaries. "},{"Title":"black and white heaven!","Date":"4 July 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  When I discovered underground comix in the early 'seventies, my personal favourites were Gilbert Shelton and Robert Crumb. Shelton's Fabulous Furry Freak Brothers and (of course) Fat Freddy's Cat, an adjunct to the Brothers, always cracked me up. Shelton, however, was almost always portraying head humour Crumb had a dark side.R. Crumb's drawn-from-life yet cartoonish women were always legs-and-bum for you Americans, legs-and-fanny. The inclusion, in this film, of comments by feminists juxtaposed with same by his ex-lovers, is perhaps more indicative of the American psyche, and its reluctance/need to embrace fetishism, than it is of a feminist need to expose Crumb as a proto-rapist a portrayer of porn.The need for satire, whether for political reasons or no, is what makes cartooning an incredible source of fun indeed, a source of what makes us human in the first place. Thus Robert Crumb.However, this doco indicates just how awful life can be when all your family is (apparently) clinically insane. Crumb's visitation to his brothers is poignant (as per the blurb) but as affirming as it is disturbing.Genius IS as close to insanity as is often indicated.      "},{"Title":"brilliant ! who knew documentaries could be good","Date":"18 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  i saw this wonderful movie yesterday ,and i highly recommend it.I sat through the entire movie with a smile,what a fantastic member of the human race,Robert Crumb is.The Crumb family gives a whole new meaning to the word Dysfunctional,and it made my family look really sane)love it. Go on see it and if you don't like it,see a doctor.  "},{"Title":"Brilliant, eccentric, annoying","Date":"24 July 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Like the more extreme of Robert Crumb's comics, a little bit of this movie goes a long way.  I can only take so much of anybody's whiny self-indulgence (what his brother Charles refers to as an excess of narcissism), even if he IS a genius, which R. Crumb clearly is.  At least he says it all with a smile and a shrug, having gained some perspective over the years.  Still, his genius is artistic, and is limited to his artistry.  Many of his statements are expressed in sweeping, categorical statements that reflect a nostalgia for an ideal bygone era which Crumb himself -- in his demythologizing of the Ozzie 'n' Harriett '50s -- denies ever existed.There's a chilling sequence in Crumb that lingers in mind.  Robert is show-and-telling us one of Charles's last (early '60s) homemade comic books, one of a series titled Arcade and featuring stories derived from the Disney film version of Treasure Island.  As Robert turns through the pencil-drawn pages, there comes a point where the text takes over  the word balloons become bigger and busier, the characters reduced to tiny talking heads.  Next the characters disappear completely, giving way to page after page of nothing but words carefully rendered in tiny hand printing -- which then segues into notebook after notebook of unintelligible scribbling.  By that point, the nervous laughter of the audience had given way to an awestruck, sinking silence.  It reminded me of the All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy scene in The Shining, with the obvious exception that it was true -- a genuine glimpse into the abyss.Seeing Crumb made me want to read some of his comics again, but I wouldn't be interested in seeing the movie a second time.  Nor do I think I'd particularly want to spend time with the self-absorbed Mr. Crumb himself... let alone, God forbid, his family. "},{"Title":"A modern masterpiece","Date":"19 April 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  I love this film.  I love films about eccentric people.  In a way, the people with the wierd hobbies and the obessional interests are the normal ones.  They have a strange passion for life.  I will never forget the opening image of Robert Crumb sitting alone on the floor, amidst an enormous old time LP Record Collection, that he has amassed over a lifetime.  The Jazz tunes twinkle on the soundtrack, and throughout the film, they are the perfect accompaniement as we see extreme-close ups of Crumb's gritty, exceedingly detailed, and very bizarre artwork.  If you like Crumb, I highly reccomend these portrait films -- AMERICAN MOVIE by Chris Smith, THE CRUISE, and BUDGET LIQUOR by Morgan Miller (which is like a Robert Crumb drawing come to life.)  Keep on Truckin' "},{"Title":"Dynamite movie!","Date":"18 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  This film is one of the best films I've ever seen, but it's hard to explain just why.  It was exceedingly candid, honest, informative, educational, appealing, revolting, gray, and black and white.  Perhaps one of the reasons I liked it so much is because I was espousing similar views only a few weeks prior to catching this excellent documentary on the IFC.  What I really connected with were his views on society . . . his comments about all the wires and technology all over the streets, with total disregard for blending in with nature . . . total disregard for esthetic considerations.  All the advertisements assaulting us nearly wherever we go . . . and how masses of people walk around with logos/advertisements all over their hats, shirts, jackets, etc.  It like we're living inside a giant circus!  The only thing missing is a big tent on top of it all! If you really listen to what this guy, R. Crumb, is saying -- it's obvious how intelligent, perceptive and refreshingly real he is.  He is an incredible talent that has not sold out.  Watching HIM draw, made ME want to draw!  The excellence of his art was very inspiring.  One of the most brilliant scenes takes place towards the end . . . his drawing of the same corner, as time goes by, and the corner takes on more and more crap. This is a DON'T MISS film.  Whether you agree or disagree with Crumb's statements, attitudes, etc. . . . whether you like, or dislike R. Crumb, these things are somewhat moot . . . this is EXCELLENT film making, with a completely fascinating subject, and much of what makes it great cannot be reported.  You must experience it!!! "},{"Title":"Crumbs","Date":"21 February 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Years before 'Ghost World', Terry Zwigoff first made a name for himself with this documentary about Robert Crumb, author of 'Fritz the Cat' and other raunchy comic strips. The film strikes a nice balance between interviews and montages of Crumb's work; a lot of time is spent on the camera gliding over the inventive images that Crumb generated over the years. His images are provocative and Zwigoff again strikes a great balance between interviewing those who hate his work (believing it sexist, racist and worse) and those who think he is misunderstood. Crumb himself gives sadly little insight into the rhyme and reason behind his work. Early on, he claims to never work with conscious messages and later on he admits to having no idea where the inspiration came for a fake advert. Crumb's brothers are also interviewed, and while Robert is the famous one, it is Charles and Maxon who are the most intriguing. Both seem disturbed, whereas Robert is actually well-adjusted and happily married with a doting preteen daughter (though his choice to make her watch 'Goodfellas' is odd). It is hard not to wonder how different the film may have been with Charles and Maxon more in focus. Charles was in fact an accomplished artist himself but unable to ever restrain himself, while Maxon has some perversions, almost as odd as those seen in Robert's comics. 'Crumb' is an interesting documentary either way and even if one finds some of Robert's images offensive, there is no denying the artistry and imagination required to come up with such bizarre concoctions. "},{"Title":"Honest depiction and explanation of Crumb","Date":"7 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" This movie could not have been called R. Crumb, because while the movie (indirectly) explores the themes and origins of his art, it is just as much about his troubled family, and how they all ended up where they are.R. Crumb himself seems like a dork that has grown successful and found happiness in that - but at the same time resents all the things that made him a dork in the first place. His obvious love and admiration for his brothers is obvious, but tainted by the reality of their situations.Oh geez is Crumb's (comic-like) reaction to some of the more horrible stuff his brothers talk about, and he does not reflect over what they are saying (on film). The movie is a honest depiction of Crumb in the sense that he (and people around him) openly talk about his strange (and sometimes scary) sides - but the movie never gets personal for him. Only for his brothers.That said, the documentary does not point to his brothers and say This is the explanation for Crumb's art. It does not simplify his art, even though some of the people commenting on it in the documentary are clearly trying to. It takes you on a journey through the themes of his art in a way that feels fluid, but that is really done point for point.And that is why this documentary work so well. You feel like you are just following this character, but you are actually being taken into a carefully curated commentary on his work. "}{"Title":"interesting characters","Date":"10 November 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Robert Crumb is a cartoonist who is most famous for Keep On Truckin' and Fritz the Cat. He is renowned for his outsider counter-culture cartoons in the 60s and 70s. When he is first on the screen, he seems to be the introverted weird nerd that everybody picks on. The movie interviews his brothers Maxon and Charles, and then we realize that Robert is most normal and well-adjusted of the brothers. Robert reveals his juvenile sexual visions, the tormented childhood, and his controversial inappropriate cartoons.This is an interesting insight into the outsider mind of Robert Crump. I also love the two brothers and their relationships. These are fascinating unique American characters. It's also interesting to see the women in Robert's life. The movie is a little too long. I find that parts of it is relatively repetitive. Overall, it's a good documentary of an interesting personality. "},{"Title":"Undoubtedly one of the greatest documentaries ever made","Date":"21 June 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Documentaries rarely get to the true heart of their subject, at least, none more than Crumb, Terry Zwigoff's passion piece on the work and soul of one Robert Crumb, comic-book innovator, serial piggy-back rider and loather of practically everything modern. The notoriously reclusive Crumb, who self-proclaims that he doesn't like to interact with people he isn't completely comfortable with, would normally be a near- impossible target for any self-respecting documentary film-maker to get even an interview out of. But life-long friend Terry Zwigoff, who reportedly threatened to kill himself if Crumb wouldn't allow him to film him, achieves an immaculately intimate portrayal of what drives the man, and how this strange and often extremely dark-humoured man came to be.Born in 1943 and growing up closely with his brother Charles and Maxon (he also has two sisters who declined to be interviewed), the brother's developed an early fascination with comic-books, mainly thanks to Charles' obsession with the medium. Living with a tyrannical father who often beat them, the three boys grew up extremely damaged and socially inept. Charles was good-looking but, as he describes, there was just something wrong about me,, but Robert would use these experiences as amusing pieces in his sketches. As he got older, Robert wrote for Zap! Comics, and was one of the front-runners in the underground comic-book scene, where he developed the Keep on Truckin' serial, as well as his most famous characters Mr. Natural and Fritz the Cat.Given what seems like unprecedented access to Crumb, Zwigoff doesn't bombard the film with archive footage or talking head interviews (though there is a bit of the latter), he instead allows the story to be told by Crumb interacting with his family and friends, who all seem to regard the man with a lot of love, regardless as to how damaging he has been to their lives. We meet his two brothers - Charles still lives at home with his mother in a room piled high with literature, discussing his inability to get an erection due to the vast amounts of medication he has been given, and Maxon, having recently discovered his own artistic potential, is compelled to sit publicly on a bed of nails and pass linen through his body to cleanse his intestines. This isn't your typical all- American family.Which makes it interesting is that the idea of a husband happily greeting his wife and kids after a hard day's work to sit down to a wholesome dinner in middle-class suburbia, became one of the focal points of Crumb's work. It is something that obviously appals and amuses him, this idea of 1950's all-American perfection where consumerism took centre-stage and capitalism reared it's ugly head. He frequently refers back to a simpler time, where America lay relatively untouched, when people's problems were real and poured their souls into the blues songs he so obsessively loves and collects. His piece A Brief History of America, where a peaceful and green bit of land slowly gets taken apart and replaced by all manners of ugly wires, pylon's and advertising boards, shown here in the film, is especially powerful.Zwigoff isn't afraid to show the dark and ugly side of Crumb either. Shown sketching random passers-by on the street, he formidably judges and satirises them without uttering a word to them. This is a man whose opinion of humanity is nigh-on misanthropy, voicing his disgust at the brands and slogans people feel compelled to wear. His work also went places that most people would leave untouched, such as N****r Hearts, where a perfect, all-white family sit down to a dinner of African- American organs, or the sketch in which a man and his friend rape a woman with no head (later revealed to have been simply pushed down within her). He's certainly a troubled man, but all great geniuses are, or at least should be, and Crumb the film lays it out on the table. Undoubtedly one of the greatest documentaries ever made.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Crumb","Date":"20 September 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" I did not know for some time what this film listed in the book 1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die was about, so I was very interested when I found out it was a documentary about a famous comic book cartoonist who I had heard about. Robert Crumb is the cartoonist and artist who drew and created popular comics and images such as Fritz the Cat, Mr. Natural and Keep on Truckin', he was the major pioneer for the genesis and popularisation of underground comics. This documentary details his life from developing his talent for drawing and making his own comic books with his two brothers, and of course becoming famous, but we also get an insight into the darker and strange regions of his subconscious mind. Interviews come from Crumb himself, his mother, his two brothers Charles and Maxon who are perhaps more strange than Robert, his then wife Aline Kominsky who knows her husband is unusual and his ex- girlfriends, as well as other artists, art critics and historians, and some admirers. The work of Crumb started from childhood with his love for Disney and various cartoon characters, where he and his brothers would create their own adventure comic books, and growing up he developed his bizarre style which included satire and sexual and perverted imagery. It is interesting to hear his various stories about his creations, his relationships with his brothers, his parents and the women he was with, it is interesting to see how disturbed his brothers are (one committed suicide after the film), and it is interesting to see his works discussed, including the mentioning of killing off Fritz the Cat following the cartoon film which he did not approve. This has many elements to it, it is fascinating, it is artistic, it is strange and it is disturbing, Crumb is obviously a genius with his cartoon style and imagination, but his eccentric personality and family background is the most interesting thing to watch this for, a most worthwhile documentary film. Very good! "},{"Title":"Very good and a bit creepy.","Date":"5 January 2012","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Robert Crumb has become an icon in the world of underground comic artists, and this documentary takes a close look at his work and the often unhappy life that informed it with an intimacy that is both gratifying and disturbing. Crumb's art and career are celebrated here on film even while his dysfunctional adolescence, his personal insecurities and his sexual obsessions are dissected by family, friends, pop psychologists and other invited crackpots. We see how, by his own understanding, that young Robert Crumb developed his talent as a vehicle to reach out and connect with other people, especially girls, and then had to deal with the frustrations resulting from his failure to achieve success with this. We see how his cartooning style evolved, how certain repeated subjects and motifs found their way into his work.We get a close up view of Robert Crumb that is almost too close up. The film's intimacy with its subject creates an almost claustrophobic feel, especially since Crumb himself is almost painfully awkward and lacking in personal charm, his mother is an ogress, his wife and daughter seem wary and stiff on camera, and his older brother is borderline crazy.Especially interesting is Robert Crumb's brother Charles, who is also a cartoonist and quite talented but clearly mentally unbalanced. His work shows genuine technical polish and is extremely evocative. It is also morbid and obsessive to the point of wallowing in darkness and despair, since its creator is an over-40, out of work dingbat who lives and works in the attic of the Crumb family home. Charles was a key inspiration to the young Robert Crumb, yet he is also an object lesson. With a little less professional drive and career focus, Robert could easily have followed his brother's path in life and art. "},{"Title":"family of weird cartoonists","Date":"17 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Here is a well done documentary of a very strange man named Robert Crumb who rose to fame as a cartoonist. His comics are off-beat, sometimes racist and almost always degrading to women. There is no disputing any of this from even Robert Crumb himself. Crumb just claims that all this stuff is inside him and needs to come out through his pencil. I actually admire this kind of truthful approach. Filmmakers Martin Scorsese and Federico Fellini come to mind as two others who put a lot of themselves in their work, although they do it on film and not paper. Robert Crumb became popular in the 60's for his psychedelic comics of the time including ZAP comics, one of his most popular. He has two brothers, Charles and Maxon who can also draw well but have had no real success with it. It's hard to believe but seeing these two brothers makes you actually realize that Robert was the normal one in the family! Definitely a scary thought. Has success gone to Robert's head? The answer is no. He consistently turns down offers from Hollywood that would make him very rich. Although I admire things about him, I found him kind of a jerk from how he treated other people. One instance is when someone says they love his work and would like an autograph and Crumb wouldn't even look at him and basically just let out his usual defensive laugh. What is curious though is that his wife, son and daughter seem almost well adjusted. Interesting. This movie is an interesting look into a strange artists life which delves into his tough upbringing to see just where all his twisted ideas come from. The DVD itself comes with a commentary by Roger Ebert and other goodies. Good Stuff! "},{"Title":"Only for thinkers.","Date":"12 July 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  This is a documentary about Robert Crumb, the cartoonist who does raunchy, stream of conciousness cartoons that could only be underground- they're too odd for the mainstream. The movie shows, not tells, possible reasons/ motives for a lot of his controversial stuff, that mainly being his family. The brother who takes tranquelizers and lives with his mom, a virgin somewhere in his 40's and the brother who takes Haldol and makes himself swallow a string and pass it through his digestive system as a form of meditation. The movie raised interesting questions - Do Crumb's cartoons have underlying social commentary, or is it just smut? R. Crumb is predominantly disgusted by the 50's keep-up-with-the-joneses facade of family life, saying it's wrong, scary and those kind of people need help. On the other hand, I wouldnt be surprised if someone said that about his family.  "},{"Title":"Wonderful, inspiring, ironic, tragic.","Date":"5 February 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  This is a bio-documentary on the legendary counter-culture cartoonist, Robert Crumb, whose controversial artwork did as much to define the 1960s-70s generation as the Rolling Stones, hippies, and the psychedelic movement.  His irreverent satirical cartoons exploded from an era which included the Viet Nam war, to thrust him to worldwide status, but even those who grew up during those disturbing times, had no idea who he was personally, or how he came to draw as he did.  An icon of his generation, he was almost anything but its product.As the documentary opens, Crumb has turned a bit grey and his best days are behind him.  But he is doing okay, living leisurely within his means.  He is not uncomfortable letting us know about his background from a dysfunctional family, or sharing with us the tragic conditions of his brothers and mother.  It is all a part of who he is, and how he became.  Cartooning was both his passion and his way to survive.  He credits one of his brothers with inspiring him to cartoon, although both of them became increasingly insane.  That he was able to escape that dark world he credits to luck and his art.As a story, and not just a biography, the view of humanity exposed resonates with any kid who didn't fit in, and whose genius stood outside the gates, tartly observing the scene, like a tourist, with his brilliantly absurd satirical cartoons on the sleaziness of popular culture.  At the same time there is a deeply moving poignancy to his story, mixing an introverted burlesque and near madness with sadness for humanity.  His life emerges out of controversy.  Some find marvelousness in his work, while others see only indecency.  To him, it is a working out of contradictions in his mind.  To the extent that much of it is shocking, it is the American popular culture that is so ludicrously pornographic, for which Crumb could only exaggerate the obvious.  An outstanding study of the mind and society. "},{"Title":"Strange, Bizzare, Fascinating, Disturbing, GREAT!","Date":"21 July 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  David Lynch presents the story of Robert Crumb, so those three words 'David Lynch Presents' obviously sets the tone for what you are about to see, how a documentary about a strange cartoon artist can be so good you never know, but it is.  Crumb is a look into the mind of the man responsible for the Zap Comic, and Fritz the Cat, he's a joker, he's strange he's sexually frustrated, he likes getting piggy backs from ladies! but he is the films hero, and when you look into his life and see his family, he's the most normal one of them all. This is a thoroughly enjoyable and extraordinary documentary, perfect when you want to watch something really interesting! "},{"Title":"Well. . .","Date":"12 May 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  I didn't really know what to expect when I rented this film, but as always, learning about real people is fascinating,and Crumb is no exception. Crumb is one of the few personalities I've observed who has absolutely no ego. He take on life seems to be when will the punchline arrive? Life is a big joke.However, now I know who that guy is on the streets of San Francisco with his little wooden cup, and sitting in the lotus position - Maxon Crumb! Next time I see him, I'm going to say hello -you too! "},{"Title":"A must-see!","Date":"3 December 1998","Score":"","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  If you're looking for a bizarre, yet somehow touching film with characters that are beyond description, then you've just got to rent this movie.  And even if that doesn't sound good, watch it anyway.  Crumb has it all...and is all the more amazing when you consider that these people are REAL.  The artwork is spectacular, the revelations are stunning, the laughs are almost non-stop, and there's really nothing that I can point to in this film that is anything less than terrific.  It's one of the best documentaries ever, and an outstanding movie, period. "}{"Title":"Words Fail Me and Life Is Not Much Better","Date":"5 April 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Spoilers herein.There's an odd reflection between the message of the film and the manner of the film.Crumb is cast here as the pure artist obsessed, deeper than he seems, eccentric, influential, unwilling to `sell out.' And what is supposed to make it interesting is the additional dimension of heavy mental damage in the whole family and touches of sexual perversion. There is an unhealthy aroma of voyerism as we are competently walked through these points -- repeatedly.I felt dirty and offended. Dirty because of exploiting this man's oddity for my own amusement posing as edification. Offended because it is done in precisely the way that Crumb's art argues against.I was/am a child of the sixties. Crumb's art played a large part in defining that era, much more than we appreciate and possibly equal to the oft-cited bands. The art was quintessentially psychedelic, moreso than the rehashed art nouveau rambles and garish colors of others. It created a new visual space somewhere between the intimately personal and the accepted abstractions of the time, but a large part of that was accidental. He found his own visions and we built a (counter)culture around them. Why should we be surprised that he is relevant, or at least interesting now? The talking potatohead `art critics' were a hoot.If there is a redeeming quality in this film, it is not in what it is, but the tacit appreciation for what it took to make it. Its rather like that documentary on Everest where you know that the crew is going through as much as who you see, and perhaps more.Perhaps more. "},{"Title":"Us and Them","Date":"27 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Watch Crumb, and you get an idea about how to continue your life.Despise of his handicaps (which are exposed freely here), Robert Crumb is a winner, compared to Charles and Mason (and their two sisters). Why? Because he simply decided to keep on going and living. All of these characters are almost nobody's idol. You see their ugliness and their beauty. But that's life. That's Crumb. "},{"Title":"More could have been done","Date":"10 September 2008","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" Upon rewatching the film, the first thing that stands out about it is how poorly it has held up as a filmic 'portrait of an artist'. In the intervening years, documentaries such as The Kid Stays In The Picture, American Splendor, and Mayor Of The Sunset Strip have used narrative and filmic techniques that make Crumb seem downright quaint and formulaic, by comparison. From the technique of highlighting the bizarre and uninteresting people that inhabit mumbling cartoonist Robert Crumb's life, to having statically placed talking head experts- such as Femininazi journalist Peggy Orenstein and Deirdre English, a former editor of Mother Jones magazine, who decry Crumb's alleged misogyny and racism, to egghead elitists like Time magazine art critic Robert Hughes who ridiculously masturbate over the most inane and puerile of Crumb's work, to ending the film with a text-laden write-up of what happened after the cameras stopped rolling, Crumb seems to be a relic from another age; which is ironic since many in the film seem to already- by then, associate him with the bygone psychedelia of the 1960s. But that's what it is- a pre-Internet ideal of the classic Junior High School approach to its subject matter. Its only deviance from formula is the deviance of its subject&#133;. The actual film is not bad, merely adequate, which given its hype, is quite disappointing. In rewatching the film, too, there just seemed to be many moments where things were staged for effect, such as when Crumb is confronted in a coffee shop by a young female who objects to his work, and weakly defends himself by stating, 'not everything is for everyone,' or when Orenstein and English pontificate against Crumb, only demonstrating their stolidity, while Hughes bloviates in his defense over minutia that Crumb does not even buy. That anyone with an intellect can take such lowbrow and transitory work with such seriousness says far more about the decline in art and critical thought than anything satirical or lampooning from Crumb's pen. Robert Crumb may be a great comic book illustrator, but he is not a great artist, for technically his work never rises to a visual sense that moves nor provokes the deepest and highest ideas and ideals, and there is no profound message, nor joy, to his work. In short, it and this film are not nearly as great as its hagiographers claim- which seems about right, for that is just like the man himself. "},{"Title":"This Is One Sick Family","Date":"16 November 2005","Score":"15 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" As an old-time fan and reader of Mr. Natural, the underground comic of the '60s, I was interested to view this documentary about the man behind those cartoons.Wow, he was stranger than I figured and judging by his comics, I figured he was a weird dude to start with. This is film worth watching once, just for the fascinating view of this warped man and his even more mentally-ill family. It certainly won't bore you.Robert Crumb is a leftover 1960s radical who now lives in France. That's a good country for him. The two deserve each other.His brother Charles committed suicide shortly after this film's release after spending most of his adult life in his room. Crumb's other brother spends his time sitting on a bed of nails in his house. His two sisters must be somewhat normal since they refused to be interviewed and filmed for this documentary. The mother is extremely fat and very strange. His father, whom they described as a tyrant, was dead. This is one sick family which is probably why film critics across the country raved about this. They could relate. "},{"Title":"Joys of Capitalism and Counter Culture...","Date":"23 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Kaz, you gotta check this out. The guy is a easily, hurt, sensitive guy who doesn't fit in and gets no sexing because the jocks and assholes are getting it all by displaying their Male Power (and the chicks all go 'he's loud and stupid and gosh I find him so interesting'). Like you said before, he's the persona that would move to the East Village (NY) back in the day where he wouldn't get picked on for being different; for being the soft sensitive soul; for being effeminate.So this wimpy nerdy plonker, shy of girls starts to draw and keeps on drawing and drawing from within all through his teens and by lady luck manages to make a living out of it in the 60's. God bless America, because where else in this world could that happen (not over here UK - I had to see a social worker after mum found one of my hand drawn comics). YET! he leaves the US for France at the close of this movie 1993? I say yet, because he is  A persona that would not have been allowed to flourish in France, or anywhere that doesn't have the US' counter culture history.Check his brother too.... not a Mad Yogi but a real Yogi as far as I can check it. His brother mediates on bed of nails , has begging bowl etc . He needs this discipline as it checked his sexual harrassment habits! A True Yogi,I say,   a superfreak who can't get it on so masks it with Yoga as he can't find a nice spot to release and relieve himself..ha ha, while you and I are lucky enough to get nasty in other countries.Pity we were not lucky enough to be born earlier when creative outcasts like Crumb really could for a moment make a living out of their outbursts without a friggin PR Marketing Yuppy coaching you.The movie ends with precisely that, some tosser Hollywood Ho hassling Crumb for 'cartoon rights' on the phone....pause... hey maybe the guys is doing the right thing leaving US for France. What About Us Bro? Looking at this documentary is real history, that time has gone where does the 'hurt, sensitive, guy who doesn't fit in' go? where are our spaces and outlets. My old mates back home are all recluse with NO FUN. Crumb has fun, Crumb had fun ... jerking off to his own cartoons, riding big ass ladies. We gotta come up with a plan and use this documentary as a starting point. PAK POSSE -- Zeech "},{"Title":"Two hours of whining, rambling, and unjustified complaining.","Date":"25 December 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"   Crumb is quite possibly one of the worst movies ever made. It was about one fourth of a good movie, but that was during the begining, and it didn't last long. That good part was a brief bio on how the title character began writing his comics, his struggles to fame, the controversy, and competition that he faced. We're also forced to sympathize with him when his comic, Fritz the Cat was turned into a full length movie without permission. But the movie turned into a borefest when we're introduced to his family, who have absolutely nothing to do with his comics (According to his reasoning, it was influenced by the fact he was a loner in high school). The dysfunctional aspect of his family just wasn't sympathetic, it was uninteresting, and I can't buy the fact it was what made him who he is.(Compared to some broken families, this group of people are perfectly normal.) Thus the whining was unjustified. He's famous. What does he have to worry about? Interesting to note that the real life R. Crumb found this movie misleading! Only see it if you think watching paint dry is entertaining. "},{"Title":"Tiring and Slight","Date":"1 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Terry Zwigoff's documentary about legendary underground comic artist Robert Crumb often achieves its desired intent, namely to deliver some creepy moments about a man with a dour worldview and his deeply troubled family. There's a lot of admiration for Crumb's wondrous talent and fertile imagination and the film makes a case for subjective appraisals of his work. (To be fair, though, Zwigoff often presents his subject from perspectives that are not always complimentary, primarily through critics outraged by Crumb's perceived misogyny.) But the film seems a little long in the tooth and the primary subject himself often seems so slight that he barely justifies a feature-length examination. Crumb himself simply slithers through the film, constantly smiling falsely and frequently obscuring himself and his cranky insights--he grows tiresome pretty quickly and his protestations about not being a worthy subject proves dismayingly true.  "},{"Title":"Odd Character Study","Date":"15 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Crumb consists of a series of interviews with or about Robert Crumb, probably the most famous of the underground comics artists of the 60s. Mostly it's Robert doing the talking, although much time is spent with his older and younger brothers. If you are a fan of Crumb's as I am, this movie provides insight into what makes the man tick. It provides glimpses into the persona who created Angelfood McSpade, Mr. Natural, and Fritz the Cat. It's not all pleasant, especially when it is Robert's older brother doing the talking. If you don't give a hoot about underground comics from the 60s and don't care to know anything about R Crumb, this movie could be a real drag. It really will depend on what you want out of it. My college-age daughter who was expected a tutorial on hippies and their literature was disappointed. "},{"Title":"Of Interest Only to True Crumb Fans","Date":"15 August 2000","Score":"2 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  This looks like a somewhat revealing documentary of some of Robert Crumb's life and what shapes it.  I am a comic collector of 27 years now (as of the year 2000), but I found myself skipping chapters and fast forwarding after chapter 15 of the DVD.  The whole story is just boring.  It's obvious that Crumb and his family are disfunctional, but it's not what I'd consider interesting.  There are a couple of interesting tidbits, but to *everyone* except true Crumb fans, this documentary will bore you to tears.  I'd avoid at all costs.  I rated it a 2 of 10. "},{"Title":"Crumb...a big YAWN.","Date":"11 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  Well, there you have it. Another one of those movies where the release had a positive impact on critics but no real benefit to the audience. In other words, a disappointment. And just because a film is about someone's life does not make it necessarily good.What was wrong with Terry Zwigoff's Crumb? About one hour in, the film delivered a taste of biographical brilliance. But what really ruined it was how the documentation turned into a barrage of rambling and self concerned babble. Imagine a camera focusing on a group of doctors, talking, laughing, and gabbing about something you couldn't care less about. What's more, this goes on for 30 minutes, it's in one room, and you can't understand what they're saying. That's exactly what Crumb was like. If you like to see that in a movie, I recommend Crumb to you very much. For anyone else, skipping the flick would be a smart move.Woodstock, Monterey Pop and Roger & Me were all excellent documentary films. Not because they were made by well known directors, but because they focused on something either historical or interesting. Crumb, whose character, real life Robert Crumb, was not very sympathetic, did not need to be in order to make it interesting. However, Crumb was not. Dismal, bland, boring,  and insipid, Crumb is recommended for those who think all independent films should be good. "}{"Title":"Unwatchable","Date":"5 February 2001","Score":"2 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  I made it through a little more than half of this abomination only through sheer will power.  The critics have got to be joking.  The only points of interest are those segments where the film displays Crumb's drawings, and possibly a few prurient details of Crumb's life and longings (if you go for that sort of thing).  Otherwise, this freak show gets boring fast. "},{"Title":"Should be renamed CRUMMY","Date":"18 October 2002","Score":"5 out of 18 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":"  When I sit down to watch a film, I expect to either be entertained, educated, or be exposed to a thought provoking set of circumstances.  This film achieved none of these objectives.  I suppose CRUMB was supposed to fill objective number three &#150; and be thought provoking.  The only thought I had is `Why the hell am I wasting my time watching this `genius'?  If R Crumb is a genius, well -- as he annoyingly starts most of his thoughts throughout the entire film -- `ya know&#133;..' we have seriously lowered the bar.  How many times can a grown man say `YA KNOW?'   GOOD GOD!   I was hoping for a nuclear attack while I watched this wretched film.  How people who are such losers could be interpreted as entertaining is beyond me.  I hated every single solitary second of this film.  Crumb is a monotone self-indulgent mess, and I am talking both of the film and the person.  Seldom have I seen a film with more unlikable people.  Charles should have killed himself years earlier and spared himself a life like that.  He probably committed suicide after screening an advance copy of this film.  Every time Crumb giggles, I just want to smack him.  Every time he spoke, I cringed and wished I were deaf.  Every time I saw one of his Shi**y comics, I wished I were blind.  Only David Lynch could have made this film. Only David Lynch would have WANTED to make this film. This film SUCKS.  I hated, hated, hated, hated, hated this film.  It should be shown only at lobotomy conventions.  My version of hell is being strapped to a chair, having my eyes forced open with toothpicks and being forced to watch a never-ending double feature of CRUMB and ERASERHEAD.   David Lynch is the Devil.   "},{"Title":"Awful Biopic","Date":"12 July 2007","Score":"3 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Documentary, Biography, Comedy","Review":" This biopic was a yawn-inducing nerdfeast, about one of the most overrated comic artists in America, we just learn how a repetitive and exremist craze-sex obsessed cartoonist becomes the wet dream for a spoiled generation of unsocialized ill-dressed nerds who fantasized with buxom women reading Crumb's Big Ass. We also spend time with ugly Crumb's brothers, Max (epileptic, women molester who lives in San Francisco) and frustrated Charles. Yeah, we get it, Crumb's home was a deliriously freak circus. Zwigoff introduces us to Crumb in his sanctum sanctorum, the small studio behind his house in Winters, California, but there's one thing Zwigoff doesn't tell us, however, and that's why Crumb has become such a famous cult figure. Though most reviews have so far been positive, Crumb was attacked by some critics as Andrew Sarris in the New York Observer, for its notorious sexism present in his artwork. In the film, Crumb says that around the age of 17 he wanted to succeed in art as an act of revenge against all the school girls and bullies who abused him. Now he lives in France while ironically U.S. market is full of his nasty figurines. "}]