[{"Title":"Flawed but Gripping","Date":"8 February 2008","Score":"35 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'The Client' is perhaps one of the many films that won't be enjoyed as much after one has read the book. I, having not read John Grisham's novel, quite enjoyed it. Sure the movie has its flaws in the form of plot holes, caricatures, obvious clichés etc, but it essentially manages to keep the viewer engaged. 'The Client' is further backed up by strong performances. Susan Sarandon makes full use of her powerful screen presence and easily stands out. No wonder she's an exceptional actress. Reggie Love is one of her most memorable performances (among the so many she's already given). The late Brad Renfro, as the young Sway, is very competent and does impress in several scenes. Tommy Lee Jones is funny (both intentionally and unintentionally). From the supporting cast, Mary-Louise Parker leaves a mark. William H. Macy barely has more than a few lines but has a dignified presence. The villains both look and act like caricatures. In a nutshell, it's an interesting film with a flawed but gripping plot and marvelous performances. "},{"Title":"Dark and gripping","Date":"13 August 2002","Score":"34 out of 44 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Susan Sarandon should stick with the tough  minded lawyer more often. Perfectly cast in  the role of Reggie Love, she brings a certain  charm to a role which could have lacked in  that department. And to make matters even  tougher on her, she was almost outshined  by Brad Renfro, who made quite an impression  in a film such as this. While the film was put  together in a rather conventional way, with  Tommy Lee Jones playing an over clichéd  character, the film is still rather gripping. A  decent film to have in your collection, and  one of the better John Grisham book-turned-movie  adaptations. "},{"Title":"Above Average Legal Tale.","Date":"20 October 2004","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Wow, what a cast! And they all deliver the goods too. Susan Sarandon is an exceptional actress. Watch the scene in Dead Man Walking when she visits the family of one of the victims. She doesn't just sit quietly. She actively listens to them. And Tommy Lee Jones uncovers the comic side of his dashing political lawyer. Even the eleven-year-old kid gives a spot on performance, anything but cute, which is a relief. The smaller roles are equally well done although there is less to be done well. J. T. Walsh is always good. Mary-Louise Parker never makes a wrong move as the stressed-out mother. Ossie Davis is a monumental presence as the judge. Bill Macy is given only a few lines.The script isn't bad either, especially in the first half of the film, in which the characters are being established. There are, alas, three clichés.The bad guys LOOK like move bad guys usually look. They dress in black, have long greasy hair, are engraved with threatening jailhouse tattoos of barbed wire and things, and they never seem to enjoy themselves.There are also two stereotypical scenes which really should have been avoided. In the first, the boy, Renfro, is trying to sneak out of a hospital. He pokes his face through a door into the reception room, where he sees his mother and two cops walking around. In the shadows he also spots the man he knows is trying to murder him. So what does he do? Does he run to his Mom and the police for protection? Certainly not. He does what aay potential murder victim would do. He dashes away from safety, down several flights of an empty stairway, followed closely by the squinter with a knife. The scene that follows is lifted straight out of Coma, with the killer being locked in a refrigerator. The other stereotyped situation is towards the end, when (just by the most improbable of coincidences) Sarandon and Renfro reach an empty boat house at the same time as three of the heavies. The two innocents try to avoid being discovered. There is a lot of tiptoeing around on creaky boards, a foot chase through some bushes, one of those scenes in which one person holds a gun on a second, and the second smiles and says, You don't have the guts to pull the trigger, and walks up closer to the muzzle.I've pointed out these weaknesses not because this is a bad movie. It's really pretty good. But the cast is so outstanding that any weakness in the story is the more highly illuminated. See it, if only to see the range of facial expressions into which Jones is able to fashion his face. "},{"Title":"Pure Hollywood cliche - with a lame plot, to boot.","Date":"16 July 2002","Score":"17 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"    ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS*** This movie is completely formulaic, melodramatic, and contrived.  Everyone but William H. Macy overacts to the point of charicature, which is appropriate, since the film is a charicature of its genre.To be specific, I think the movie fails on 3 fronts1) The plot is rife with logical nonsequiturs.  At the very core, the entire basis for the movie falls apart with any scrutiny.  The kid is only a threat to the mob if he DOESN'T talk - once he talks, the damage is done, and he's of no interest to the mob (I don't think the mob kills kids for telling the cops what they know!).  So, to protect himself, the first thing he would do is squeal.  Even ignoring the big plot lapse, there are several aspects that leave you scratching your head, like why is it that the DA, who's trying to convict the mob assassin, is the BAD GUY in this?  Why is the kid so mad at his lawyer?  Why did the kid break out of jail - it was the only place he was safe!  These nagging questions just go on and on as you watch this movie.2)  The actors overact.  In the case of Tommy Lee Jones,he does a great job in creating a slick, manipulative DA (see above), but it is so cliche, as to be cartoonish.  Susan Sarandon does a good job, also, but it's not really a role that should have been oscar-nomination material - aside from her past life troubles, there's not much there for her character.  My complaint with her is that her character is, again, cliche.  The most egregious bit of overacting belongs to Brad Renfroe, though I blame the director.  As opposed to sympathizing with him, his yelling and cursing tantrums made me want to slap him.  He was way over the top.3)  The movie was sheer formula; predictable, familiar.  Little kid takes on the evil and/or incompetent adults - and, of course, wins.  Throw in the rediculously cliche mob wiseguy, the slick media-savvy DA, the good-hearted, smart-as-a-whip, beautiful female attorney, the wise, self-confident unflappable southern judge (black, for good measure), and the secretly menacing cop, and voila!  It's basically a 60's Disney movie on steroids. The cute, snappy repartee between the lawyer and the DA, wherein the (female, of course) 2-years-out-of-law-school domestic relations lawyer goes toe-to-toe and holds her own with the powerful, iron-fisted DA, typifies this movie.Judging by the vast majority of other comments, I can see that most people weren't as put off by this rather typical John Grisham-Hollywood concoction as I, so it must be entertaining to a large audience, but please don't confuse it with good cinema. "},{"Title":"Compelling, engrossing and well acted thriller.","Date":"17 March 2003","Score":"11 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Client is an enjoyable and well executed thriller overall. While the directing, script and overall product are far from amazing and sometimes quite bland, the Oscar level performances compensate for the easily over-seeable flaws. Perhaps the child of the title, Brad Renfro, can be annoying in parts he gives a decent enough performance nonetheless. Too bad about the drinks and drugs problem he has today. Susan Sarandon gives another terrific performance, this time as an alcoholic lawyer. Tommy Lee Jones' character doesn't have much to do with the plot but he's a welcome addition to the film, even though. While it is easy to find fault with the film it's easier to just sit back and enjoy it. I chose the latter so I thought it was a good, if not spectacular movie overall. 6.8/10. "},{"Title":"Heroism very new/very old","Date":"20 December 1998","Score":"18 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Mark Sway is a real hero here, although he is not only a mere child, but a disadvantaged child in the middle of adult power structures breathtaking in their deviousness and casual cruelty. The theme of youngsters forced by circumstances into adult roles and responsibilities, particularly in being more level-headed and mature than their parent(s) has become as strikingly common in contemporary literature as it was strikingly uncommon until about a generation ago.  But there are ample parallels to real life in pre-Romantic history. It is really our modern assumptions of prolonged childhood and adolescence which are abnormal in the fuller perspective of human experience.  Aren't we on the verge of these concepts' retreating from the apogees to which western culture pushed them in the 19th and early 20th centuries?If so, this film is on the cusp of the trend.  Yet it might never have worked but for the director's good fortune in locating Brad Renfro for the lead role. What a find!  His earthy, protean spunk and obliviousness to any cute brown-nosing towards his elders, simply because they are elders, make him entirely convincing in the part. He is, I hope, on his way to being a great actor, but perhaps it will continue to be this film which shows his freshness most clearly.Not that it isn't very taut cinema in other regards. The build up of drama in the opening scenes is superb, with acting, cinematography, and the score all combining to provide a seamless experience.  As one critic put it, it starts like a house afire, and the fire never goes out.  This is a film one can see again and again, noticing additional fine touches each time. "},{"Title":"Another Great Grisham Book Turned Into A Movie","Date":"9 February 2004","Score":"8 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Back in 1994, I read this book and just like other John Grisham's novels, with the exception of The Pelican Brief, once I started reading, I couldn't put it down.Director Joel Schumacher and Screenwriter Akiva Goldsman did an excellent job keeping the movie within the storyline without doing a horrible hatchet job most do to novels. In addition, there was an excellent flow to the movie.  It kept moving along;  There wasn't very many slow moments in it and it kept me on the edge of my seat.The casting was great as well.  I liked Susan Sarandon as Reggie Love, Brad Renfro as Mark Sway, Tommy Lee Jones was a perfect fit as the Revered Roy Foltrigg.  Will Patton as Sergent Hardy, was an excellent sleezy and conniving officer.When I saw Anthony LaPaglia as Barry The Blade Muldano, I didn't envision the greasy sleezeball he portrayed, but someone more tougher or perhaps more thuggish.  But Anthony LaPaglia fit just fine.  This is a movie worth renting.  "},{"Title":"Very Absorbing, But Could Have Been More!","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"4 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Client is a good film with moments of extreme greatness especially for a courtroom thriller such as this. But there are also scenes where they should have been added into the editing room. The film was excellent in the beginning, slows to a crawl in the middle, and picks up in the end. If it stayed like the beginning, this film would have been flawless.After a 11-year-old kid and his brother witnessed a suicide, the kid hires an attorney to help protect him and his family from threatening mafia members and a stubborn Federal District attorney.The acting is very good in this film. Susan Sarandon seemed like she was born to play this role. She was just perfect! For a kid who never acted before, Brad Renfro was brilliant as the snobby 11-year-old.Overall, this is a slightly above-average crime thriller. Sarandon steals the show as her role of the attorney. Joel Schumacher directed a masterpiece compared to the Batman films he would take over after this film. I rate this film 8/10. "},{"Title":"Good performances here; some plot holes","Date":"9 October 2001","Score":"8 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Somehow the plot holes didn't seem so glaring in Grisham's novel. Anyway, this is one of Susan Sarandon's many excellent performances. And Tommy Lee Jones gleefully chews the scenery here. You might think he is overacting, but he is really playing a character that comes across that way. Brad Renfro was an excellent find for this part. I haven't seen him in anything else, though. I imagine his Southern accent will hurt in getting other roles. Current TV stars Bradley Whitford and Anthony Edwards were non-entities in this film. It's a good film, not great. Grade B- "},{"Title":"Interesting and thrilling however flawed","Date":"30 January 2011","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The premise of the film attracts. On practice, this premise is half successful and half average. There are scenes when it is good and thrilling and also scenes which it leaves to be desired.This was the film debut of a young and promising talent named Brad Renfro. And what a glorious start for his career! Not so much for the movie itself which isn't that great, but for his demanding role and especially for his absolutely impeccable performance. He was such a talented young actor, so lively, so energetic and so dedicated to his actings that it's difficult to believe and imagine that his life was destroyed by drug addiction and that, now, sadly he is no longer alive. He was 25 when he died. He was one of those old school young talents like you don't see in this generation, one of those really eternal.Brad Renfro plays Mark Sway, a boy who (together with his younger brother Ricky) witnesses a drunk and out-of-his-mind fat, brute guy trying to commit suicide in the most unusual way by putting one end of a garden hose in the exhaust pipe of the car and the other end into a rear passenger window, and rolls up the window, so that the carbon monoxide poisoning can kill him.Mark attempts to prevent that unsuccessfully. But on the 2nd attempt, the insane brute sees what he is doing, grabs him and takes him into the car with him. The entire sequence inside the car is extremely intense. More than seeing, you can feel the tension and panic on Mark Sway he's sweating, shivering and fearing what that crazy lunatic might DO to him. And his little brother is no less anxious with the stress of the situation. When the 2 brothers escape, the guy shoots himself in the mouth, a horrifying event witnessed by the 2 brothers. The younger brother goes into major shock.Mark Sway lives a living hell since then. He is threatened by a mafia shark with a knife in case he tells anyone what he knows. The boy becomes so frightened that he is forced to lie and even speaks aggressively. Mark swears often, but even when he swears he's cool and cute.After the beginning, another tense scene is when Mark is chased by a criminal but he manages to outsmart him. The story has a happy ending.The best things about this film are the 2 most tense scenes I mentioned, the happy ending and the amazing acting by Brad Renfro and the kid who plays his cute younger brother. Brad Renfro's brilliant acting makes this movie better than it would have otherwise been without him. "}{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"31 December 2004","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" First off all, you should always read the book first. I think it is a pretty good adaption. John Grisham fans should not be disappointed by the choice of actors for the parts in the book. Especially Tommy Lee Jones, a personal favorite, plays his part well, and his scenes with Sarandon are the best part of the film. They keep testing each other and have some verbal clashes but in the end you can see Jones' character isn't as bad as he seems and he clearly respects Sarandon's efforts. Only negative comment for this movie is that it never seems to reach the suspense it is aiming for and so it becomes good entertainment for one evening but forgettable soon after. "},{"Title":"Enjoyable Thriller","Date":"29 December 2006","Score":"6 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Mark Sway (Brad Renfro) and his little brother are witnesses to the suicide of a mob lawyer. After his brother falls into a coma and he becomes the target of the mob and the federal prosecutor (Tommy Lee Jones) he is forced to hire Reggie Love (Susan Sarandon) who is an attorney with a chequered past and a courageous heart.The direction and story are both very strong, and i thought Jones and Saradon both put in great performances; and even if i did find new-comer Brad Renfro's character a little annoying at times, it wasn't at detriment to the film.The Client is a tense and dramatic thriller that has enough entertainment value to forgive it, its minor plot holes.7/10 "},{"Title":"Really?","Date":"14 July 2013","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I finally sat down to watch this. I'm not big into 'lawyer' movies, and this plot never made much sense, but it got three stars on the tivo, so I said sure, why not. First off, to be clear, I never read the book, nor have I read any Grisham novels.I never got the plot. Kid somehow finds out 'important' information, but won't tell anyone. Sounds, um, reasonable, sure. He then races to find a lawyer (and he doesn't trust lawyers) in order not to say anything. And I'm still not sure what the lawyer did for him, except get his family out of Memphis (which the DA should have been doing immediately).I couldn't stand ANY of the characters! Mark Sway just swore a lot and didn't have a clue what he was doing (and some people call him the 'hero'!). Not sure what Reggie the lawyer was trying to protect the boy from, for she seemed far more concerned over the law then the bad guys.The Barry 'the Blade' character made me wonder whether he was some guy who was posing as a mob killer, and thought that's how they dressed and acted. For he seemed as far from realistic as one could get. The cop that finds Mark has got to be one of the worst cops in Memphis. Kid finds body, you think he's hiding something. So the obvious way to get him to talk? Of course, try to scare it out of him! It always works!The federal agents seemed to be about as inept as possible. The DA made me wonder why anyone would pay attention to him, let alone the media. The family is in the hospital under police watch, but there's a detective down the hall watching the room? How does that happen? Speaking of the media, how about the supposed newspaper reporter. Taking pictures of the kid in the hospital room? Really? And the newspaper not only gave out his name, but printed a big picture of him?Finally, this is all about 'finding the body of the senator', but they never explained WHY that was important. A body is just a body. Sure, it can show the senator is truly dead. But not once did we hear If we can find the body, we're sure to find proof that the blade did this!. Let alone, why would they think they could find it? Had they ever found any of his other victims? And did those not help send him to jail?Oh, and I didn't even get to the part where they go to NO to find the body for some insane reason. Anyone who thinks this is even a good movie needs to watch some good movies. Watch the Shawshank Redemption, and then watch this, and you'll see what I mean. "},{"Title":"Such interesting characters come from John Grisham","Date":"19 July 2012","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ironically enough I saw a Perry Mason episode a few days earlier where a young kid around Brad Renfro's age comes to Raymond Burr seeking legal advice and got taken on as a client eventually. I wonder if John Grisham saw the episode and got the germ of an idea for a book.Renfro is a most wanted individual. He saw a lawyer from New Orleans kill himself and before he died he revealed where the missing body of a Louisiana State Senator was. It seems as though organized crime put a hit on him and the discovery of said body will cinch an indictment against Anthony LaPaglia the number one contract killer in the New Orleans mob.So US Attorney Tommy Lee Jones wants Renfro. LaPaglia wants to silence him. It's all way too overwhelming for Renfro's mother, some poor white trash woman played by Mary Louise Parker. And too overwhelming for Renfro who finds Susan Sarandon as an attorney who will guard his interests.Susan Sarandon got a Best Actress nomination for this film and on the strength of her scenes as a righteous attorney guarding Renfro's interests and her very tender scenes with Renfro earning his trust which was not easy. Sarandon hits all the right notes and every emotion from her in this film rings true to life.Brad Renfro was a complete unknown who was cast in the film because he was a local kid and he does come across as a real kid and very well. Half of Sarandon's nomination should have been credited to him. Sad indeed that he proved to be another young Hollywood tragedy.Down in the cast in a small part that he really makes count is Ossie Davis playing a judge who is trying to sort out everyone's rights in this situation. Davis was a great authority figure on the bench.John Grisham novels have such interesting characters they seem to be almost ready made for a screen adaption. The Client is no exception here, you will be engrossed in the story within seconds of starting to watch this film. "},{"Title":"This Legal Thriller Is Worth It","Date":"27 December 2011","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A sterling cast headed by Oscar-nominated Susan Sarandon makes this slick thriller one of the better adaptations of a John Grisham bestseller,The Client.The film stars Susan Sarandon, Tommy Lee Jones and Brad Renfro together with Mary-Louise Parker,Anthony LaPaglia,Anthony Edwards and Ossie Davis.It was based on Grisham's bestselling novel about a street-wise kid, Mark Sway, sees the suicide of Jerome Clifford, a prominent Louisiana lawyer, whose current client is Barry 'The Blade' Muldano, a Mafia hit-man who killed Senator Boyd Boyette.It was written by Robert Getchell; together with Akiva Goldsman and it was directed by Joel Schumacher,both of whom worked in another Grisham adaptation, A Time To Kill.Mark Sway witnesses the suicide of a Mafia lawyer, who confesses that the Mob was behind the murder of a U.S. senator. Mark's brother is traumatized into a coma by the incident; gangster Barry Muldano is soon on Mark's trail, and in desperation, he arrives at the office of recovering alcoholic lawyer Reggie Love. With the Mob after them, and a ruthless federal attorney trying to force Mark to reveal what he knows, Love battles to guarantee the safety of her client and his family. The relationship between Reggie Love and Mark Sway is the center of the film, adding considerable character development to plot's routine elements.This legal thriller isn't a masterpiece of suspense but it has its moments and is capable of providing entertainment.Susan Sarandon, the emotional center of the narrative, received a well-deserved Oscar nomination for playing a recovered alcoholic lawyer who interacts with the boy as a surrogate mother and a lawyer that holds the viewer's interest on the main characters of the story. Although the film was formulaic, it still is worth the view for it has a good story to tell. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Suspenseful","Date":"28 November 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I was hooked from the start when, because of the great writing, acting and directing, I felt concerned about the characters even though I knew they really weren't in danger because they were the crux of the movie. And that pleasant surprise continued right to the end of the film with its clever writing that had me alternately enthralled or chuckling (appropriately) at plot twists. Another pleasant surprise was that it had a PG-13 rating. Aside from the rough language many teens actually use, there was no unnecessary gore, sex or violence. Ironic given the Mafia plot line. You get the point & feeling without the unnecessary graphic element most other directors would go for.I suspected it would be a great movie with Tommy Lee Jones and Susan Sarandon in it & I wasn't disappointed. The one deduction was for some obvious plot holes.The shattering information that the lead died as a teenager in real life of a heroin overdose just makes it more of a tragedy that his talent is gone. But he did himself proud with this, his debut. "},{"Title":"Good film and nice emotional situations","Date":"30 September 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A nice little thriller. The heroes are two kids who, by accident, some summer afternoon, witness a suicide, well witness in fact a little bit more. The two kids are living with their mother in a trailer, a mobile home. There is no father. They are indigent people. One kid gets into some kind of a coma caused by the post-traumatic syndrome of the event and the other hates cops, super-hates the FBI, does not trust lawyers and yet he picks one more or less by accident. The suicide is connected to some important murder by some kind of mafia and the whole gist of the case is to find the body of this dead person. Then of course the kid does not want to speak being afraid for his family. The lawyer has to support him but she cannot do anything illegal. The child is an enterprising young man of maybe 12 and he is as difficult to keep in one place as the north wind itself, except that he is coming from and going to all the cardinal points at the same time. The rest is detail and you will love to discover these gritty details. Keep in mind the central element in this film is a compass. And enjoy the chase.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID "},{"Title":"flawed but highly watchable","Date":"5 July 2010","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" From the novel by John Grisham comes this gripping thriller about an indigent southern boy whose life takes a shocking turn when he witnesses the suicide of an infamous mafia lawyer. Not only does this endanger his life as well as that of his family, it also makes him the target of a relentless district attorney (Jones), and the FBI who believe he knows more than he lets on. His only friend in the midst of it all is Regina Love (Sarandon), a competent but inexperienced lawyer with her own personal baggage. Imperfect but entertaining adaptation may not bear close scrutiny, but the story holds you from start to finish, director Schumacher does an excellent job of building suspense, and a strong cast is at work headlined by a rock solid Sarandon, a flamboyant Jones, and a real find in young Renfro. *** "},{"Title":"Boy hero saves the day","Date":"27 August 2009","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This could have been a children's film boy hero outwits authorities and beats villains. Such is the predictable plot. Others have pointed out that the story rambles pointlessly and could easily have been shortened to half an hour. To make matters worse, the film becomes schmaltzy in the last ten minutes.Tommy-Lee Jones and Anthony LaPalgia both overplay ridiculous caricatures. In fact all the baddies are like something from a kids' comic.However, all this nonsense is saved by two performances. The best one is that of Susan Sarandon, who is just great in this - especially in her early scenes, in which she wipes everyone else off the screen.Brad Renfro is also amazingly good as the boy. Not many child actors could have carried off this difficult part. He manages to do this without sentimentality.It's worth a watch, but don't spend money on it. "},{"Title":"The Client","Date":"12 March 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It is likely that they showed this film because of the recent death of the Bully star Brad Renfro, from an accidental overdose of heroin, he was introduced in this film. But if that wasn't why it was on again after just three or four months, it is a pretty good film to watch, from director Joel Schumacher (Falling Down, Phone Booth). Basically young Mark Sway (Renfro) and his little brother Ricky (David Speck) see a man, lawyer Jerome 'Romey' Clifford (Walter Olkewicz) trying to kill himself with gas in his car. He catches Mark trying to pull out the tube from the exhaust pipe, and he gets him into the car so they can die together, and while they wait, Clifford tells him about his current client, Mafia hit-man Barry 'The Blade' Muldano (Anthony LaPaglia) and where the body of Senator Boyd Boyette is buried. Mark escapes from the car, leaving behind many fingerprints, and Clifford chases after him, before eventually stopping to shoot himself. When they are found at the crime scene, Ricky goes into a coma because of the shock, and the FBI and Mafia both realise Mark probably knows more than he says. Mark decides he needs a lawyer to hold off questioning and defend him, and he finds Regina 'Reggie' Love (BAFTA winning, and Oscar nominated Susan Sarandon). One of the authorities most anxious to get answers is a lawyer who's never lost a case, 'Reverend' Roy Foltrigg (Tommy Lee Jones), and even without permission from Mark's mother Dianne (Mary-Louise Parker) he is determined. He has his concerns about her, being a woman, and later finding out about her past alcoholism after she lost her kids, but he eventually forms a trust with her. After a long while, after more evidence comes about, Mark eventually tells the truth to Reggie, and after he escapes juvenile prison, they go to find the Senator's body, not far ahead of the Mafia. In the end, the cops get their body, and Mark and his family are put on the witness protection program to a better life somewhere else. Also starring Pleasantville's J.T. Walsh as Jason McThune, Anthony Edwards as Clint Von Hooser, Will Patton as Sergeant Hardy, Bradley Whitford as Thomas Fink, The Silence of the Lambs' Anthony Heald as Larry Trumann, Kim Coates as Paul Gronke, Kimberly Scott as Doreen, William H. Macy as Dr. Greenway, Ossie Davis as Judge Harry Roosevelt, Micole Mercurio as Momma Love, William Sanderson as Wally Boxx, Amy Hathaway as Karen and Jo Harvey Allen as Claudette. From the title, I expected a courtroom drama film, but it is a good film none-the-less. Susan Sarandon was number 25 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars. Very good! "}{"Title":"This put the T in thriller!","Date":"18 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Grisham's novel The Client is a power punched action thriller that has been put on the big screen. The cast for this movie is more exciting than I hoped for. Susan Sarandon plays Reggie Love, a attorney in Louisana who is hired by Mark Sway(Brad Renfro, 1982-2008) whom he and his brother Ricky(David Speck) witness the suicide of a mob lawyer. After the younger brother gets traumatized, the mob begins to target them. Since he had a bad experience with lawyers, Mark meets Reggie, a female lawyer who he hires with little money. Then out of the Lone Star State comes D.A. Reverend Roy Foltrigg(Tommy Lee Jones). He got wind of the situation and tries his best to put the squeeze on Mark, on getting the information of the mob lawyer's suicide. One crony disguise himself as a law enforcement officer when he had Mark locked up. The mob will try their best to silence The Sways, but they haven't got a chance. Very intriguing, emotional, and spell-binding, The Client is a must have in any format!5 stars! "},{"Title":"Plot holes from the start","Date":"8 April 2013","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" first off I want to say even for all the plot holes in this movie it is still an OK movie to watch. But I just could not find it as enjoyable as I could when the kid you have to root for is a snot nosed little brat you want to smack the crap out of yourself. Saying that though even for when this movie was made the outstanding mistakes made by the legal part of this movie is beyond me. First off you have a cop intimidating a child witness which makes no sense, second when Mark was first brought in to talk to the lawyers they never would have anyway interviewed him without his mother because any defense lawyer would then tear apart the kids statement as soon as he took the stand and have all evidence thrown out of court, thirdly this is all based on what the lawyer might have told the kid which considering there is no proof they could ever possibly know what was actually talked about in the car all, all mark had to say was the guy just talked about wanting to die and the FBI could never prove otherwise and everything would once again be thrown out, fourth and finally even if Mark admitted that the lawyer told him something the FBI couldn't do anything with it because it is hearsay and also it broke client confidentiality as soon as the lawyer told Mark so it in no way could have been used as evidence and any evidence gotten from it would become invalid and not usable in a court of law. Also at one point in the movie the FBI hears on a wire tap the guy they want pretty much admitting to the crime and to wanting to whack the kid which is more than enough evidence they need to arrest him. OK movie but just full of to many plot holes to make any real sense. "},{"Title":"Susan Sarandon at her best.","Date":"16 March 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" It took me thirteen years to catch up with Reggie Love, the role that won Susan Sarandon Best Actor from BAFTA. In a way, I am glad I saw this movie now with a familiarity with Grisham stories and Sarandon performances. The story is a bit Disney, but Grisham's plot manages to be engaging nonetheless. Brad Renfro managed to win me over despite my outright aversion to child actors, especially the smart-mouthed kind. Mary-Louise Parker personifies trailer trash mom effortlessly. The cast is deep and extremely talented. It has the great Ossie Davis. It also has the Aussie, Anthony LaPaglia, back when he was a hunk. Pure entertainment with suspense. Susan Sarandon's Reggie is complex and not at all sappy. It could have easily gone that way in other hands. This is a movie that I could see again. "},{"Title":"Good idea for a movie, but it didn't quite make it.","Date":"1 September 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  What a great idea for a movie! And what a shame that (As others have pointed out), the logic in the plot lines  didn't quite make it ring true! Yes, Tommy Lee Jones (like most of the others) overacts, but that's HIM, isn't it? I mean TLJ only every plays himself; he always overacts; I defy you to find ONE movie where that's not true. And yes, Susan Sarandon is brilliant.The biggest problem I have is the young boy's role. I mean even for a bright 11 year old, he simply does too much. Sort of like a serious version of Home Alone. That was a comedy, so you didn't want to believe it. Here, in a drama, you very much DO want to believe it, and ..... you can't. "},{"Title":"Excellent legal thriller based on John Grisham's #1 bestseller","Date":"21 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" THE CLIENT, in my opinion, is an excellent legal thriller based on John Grisham's #1 bestseller. When Mark (Brad Renfro) was being pursued, I got really scared and tense. This was because I didn't want to see him get hurt. It was fun watching him fool the bad guys, though. In my opinion, Reggie (Susan Sarandon) was an absolutely excellent lawyer. After reading the novel, I thought to myself, This movie should be good. To sum this up, the performances were top grade, the direction was flawless, and the casting was perfect. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Susan Sarandon or Tommy Lee Jones, or you enjoyed John Grisham's title novel, I highly recommend this movie. You're in for a good time and lots of thrills, so see this movie today. You're in for a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, lock the doors and windows, and watch it. "},{"Title":"Earnest movie with idiotic plot","Date":"15 May 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This movie was my introduction to Grisham. After viewing it, I felt I would have been better off being introduced to a wad of bubble gum clogging up a rusty drain.  The premise to the film plays false, and the ensuing plot has more holes in it than a junkie. That'd be forgivable, if the characters were enjoyable, but they're not.  Low point of the movie the scene where the lawyer and the brat bare their souls, talking about their lousy childhoods. Since when did surviving a lousy childhood make you some kind of special person? It's that New Age hoky victims-are-beautiful psychobabble at work here. Maybe that's why Grisham is so popular. God forbid it's because of his idiotic sense of plot.  "},{"Title":"Grisham Thriller, Good as Always!","Date":"3 May 2007","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I had a really good time watching this good Grisham's thriller; there are a few thing that putted together make of this movie a good one! (1) A good script; with Grisham sign on it, is captivating, tense and thrilling. (2) A good cast, with an outstanding acting of Susan Sarandon and a good acting performance of Tommy Lee Jones. (3) Great cinematography (4) Good directing of Joel Schumacher that combine all of the previous. The only thing that i didn't liked much was the acting of the boy Brad Renfo, it was obvious that he is a rookie actor; he doesn't show any emotion during the film, even in the most tense situations, but i respect this, Grisham wanted to look this way; i simply didn't liked it.ABOUT THE MOVIE Brad Renfo plays the role of Mark Sway, a boy who don't live in the best economical conditions, who liked to sneak outside his house, one day, with his brother Ricky (David Speck) they saw a man that wanted to commit suicide, an attorney, who before killing himself told Mark that he knew where Barry The Blade Muldano (Anthony LaPaglia) hide the corpse of a killed senator; later, he and his brother witnessed the suicide. The story of Mark here became tense as the Police and the news describe him as witness, and the mafia of The Blade try to find him, thinking that he knows something; Mark don't wan't to declare what he knows to the police, leaded by Reverend Roy Foltrigg (Tommy Lee Jones) and he finds an attorney, Reggie Love (Susan Sarandon) who protect him. The cat - mouse play begin in a tense and good story; Mark mom Diane (Mary-Louis Parker) plays a good role.7/10! another good film of Grisham! and Schumacher! "},{"Title":"Too dull to be properly irritating but too irritating to sleep through","Date":"31 July 1999","Score":"14 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I don't mean to play the prig, but the kid was withholding evidence.  Are we really meant to be on his side?  Surely it's more rational to hope that the forces of law and order get the information out of that little pipsqueak in the end.Of course, it's perfectly possible to sympathise with someone who's thwarting the police - under circumstances other than these.  Were the police evil, or incompetent?  No.  Was the child at all likeable?  No.  Did the child have a rational reason for keeping silent?  No.  (By the way, his justification for all of his questionable beliefs about the wider world was, `I seen it on TV' - presumably we were meant to sigh and say, `How cute.')  Did anything at all interesting or exciting happen at any point during the movie to distract us from the annoying premise?  Not that I noticed.After two hours' of static stand-off there is a contrived ending - the child and his lawyer don't say, `Well, I suppose we'd better do SOMETHING to resolve the plot, such as it is,' but what they do say is almost as lame.  I don't think anyone was even trying. "},{"Title":"Stupid premise for a plot","Date":"3 September 1999","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I want to address some of the major holes in the plot, so if you haven't seen the movie yet you may want to skip this review.Why would the mob assume that this lawyer, who was about to commit suicide, would be telling the kid anything regarding the dead body?  That's a pretty big assumption to make.  OK, so assuming that they did guess right, i.e. the kid now knows everything, why do they think scaring him will keep him from talking?  Wouldn't it be more final just to bump him off in the elevator when they have the perfect opportunity?  But no, let's threaten him only, still giving him the chance to spill his guts to the authorities. But the little jerk can't just tell what he knows, and let the authorities sort it out.  He and his stupid lawyer decide that they must go and see the body for themselves, to be sure that the suicide committing lawyer wasn't lying in the first place.  Yeah, right. That makes perfect sense.  Let's break into the dead lawyers boathouse, and see if the rotting corpse is there, then maybe he'll testify. "},{"Title":"Legal Avenues","Date":"30 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Pressured by an ambitious district attorney after witnessing the suicide of a mob lawyer, a bratty adolescent seeks legal advise from a lawyer who lost custody of her children during her divorce in this legal thriller based on a novel by John Grisham. Susan Sarandon won the BAFTA Best Actress award for the film and received an Oscar nomination for her turn as the divorced lawyer. It is a better performance then one might expect as she does a great job quoting the law when facing up to the DA and fighting all legal avenues available when trying to get the boy out of having to take the stand in court; it is not all maternal instincts, though these do factor into play too. With this in mind, the film grows far too sentimental for its own good in its final few scenes. Brad Renfro's performance as the boy works also against the film; he is so insolent and rude that he is nearly impossible to warm to. The film's most grating performance though comes from Anthony LaPaglia as the rather brainless mafia goon out to get Renfro. The film is admittedly encapsulating though in the scenes where Renfro and LaPaglia manage to keep their mouths shut. There are lots of thrills and chills throughout, whether it be Renfro noticing the mafia tattoo on the hand of a seemingly kind stranger, or Renfro given a scare in a darkened elevator. Tommy Lee Jones also does what he can with his publicity-loving DA character. "}{"Title":"Good film with great performances","Date":"22 March 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 12 year old Mark Sway and his younger brother Ricky witness a suicide Ricky is shocked into catatonia. The suicide lawyer may have told Mark the location of a mob murder victim, so Mark is a possible target. Ambitious district attorney Roy Foltrigg wants to question Mark aware that Foltrigg may not have his best interests at heart, Mark engages Reggie as his lawyer, but Reggie has her own problems.This is a good film had it avoided the rather too obvious (and unnecessary) chase elements, it would have been a great film. Susan Sarandon's Reggie is human and believable, and Tommy Lee Jones' Foltrigg is clever, annoying, and funny - both are terrific performances.But the young Brad Renfro in his first performance is magnetic, and the film is at its best when he's running rings round the adults. His death at 25 and the downward spiral which led to it were absolutely tragic. "},{"Title":"The Ultimate Movie Review! - http//tss5078.blogspot.com - @tss5078","Date":"25 January 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Sway brothers come from a single parent home, one that is so poor, that they have to be left unsupervised. Often times, they go exploring in the woods behind their trailer, but on this particular day, they run into another person, a man intent on killing himself. When young Mark (Brad Renfro) interferes, the man takes him prisoner and before taking his own life, he opens up to the boy about some things he never should have told anyone. Mark calls the police and ultimately lies to them, the way any kid would, but they know it and when the FBI comes into the investigation, the smart twelve year old decides it's time for him to go out and find a lawyer. It took me a long time to watch this film because as a fan of John Grisham, I prefer to read his books before I see his films. As is the case in the Client, a lot of those films are directed by Joel Shumacher, who remains true to the story and produces a tremendous movie. After a nationwide search, Brad Renfro was selected to star in the first role of his brief, but brilliant career. Renfro unfortunately died of a drug overdose fourteen years later, but was well on his way to becoming a superstar. Even in his very first performance, you could see that this kid had what it takes to star in a film like this and really held his own with the all-star cast. Here he's paired with Susan Sarandon, who despite her reputation is often times someone I find unimpressive. She can be fantastic, but rarely seems to fit the roles she's cast in, but not here. As Mark's lawyer, Reggie Love, Sarandon portrays one of her most interesting characters to date and gives a flawless performance. The Client is a story written by one of America's favorite novelists, and what makes Grisham's stories so good is the fact that he is a lawyer, so everything is accurate as well as exciting. Together with a terrific cast, the Client had all the action, twists, and turns a fantastic court room drama should have. This story may have been a little more out there than some of Grisham's other films, nevertheless it is still a film that will hold your interest and keep you on the edge of your seat. "},{"Title":"A Disappointing Adaptation","Date":"17 September 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I realize that a film does not need to, and in many cases should not, slavishly follow the book from which it's derived. But the screenwriters on this film would have done well to pay more attention to how Grisham built the personalities of his characters. These were not the people who made the novel such a great read. I didn't care about them nearly as much, and the interpersonal tensions between characters were often added as an easy way to put conflict in individual scenes, while taking away from the overall conflict and suspense of the story.I felt the same way about action sequences in the story. They just felt like cheap shots, and didn't advance the plot or my understanding of the characters of the situation.Trying to consider this as a standalone movie, without considering the book, it still feels forced and contrived. I can't fault the actors for this; I think they did the best with what they had. But the screenwriters, and to a lesser extent the director, really let me down. "},{"Title":"A bit of stereotypical overacting except for the great work from Susan Sarandon","Date":"18 March 2014","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Mark Sway (Brad Renfro) and little brother Ricky run across mob lawyer Jerome Clifford trying to commit suicide in his car. Mark tries to stop him. Jerome grubs him into the car, and confesses the location where his client Barry Muldano (Anthony LaPaglia) buried a body to the boy. Mark lies to the cops saying he didn't talk to Clifford. The cops, the FBI, and the DA Roy Foltrigg (Tommy Lee Jones) do not believe him. Mark under pressure hires lawyer Reggie Love (Susan Sarandon). Meanwhile the mob sends hit men Paul Gronke (Kim Coates).Brad Renfro is trying real hard to be a brat. In fact, he is trying too hard. He is successful in making his character very unlikeable. Joel Schumacher is concentrating on the kid. I think it may be better to concentrate on Reggie Love. Susan Sarandon does a great job and she saves this movie. Almost everybody else is playing one stereotype or another. Tommy Lee Jones is pouring it on. Mary-Louise Parker is playing the white trash single mom. And don't get me started on the mob guys. LaPaglia may as well be a pirate. Dialing it back would help sell the tension.Then there is the basic Grisham story. I don't buy that they wouldn't just kill the kid. It would help to not make the mob guys such stereotypes. At least then I would believe that these guys don't get a kill every other week. Then there is the Tommy Lee Jones character. He's all stick, and no carrot. Again he's too one-dimensional. Why wouldn't he offer immunity is beyond me. He's all huff and puff at every turn. That's really the big problem with almost everything in this movie. Everything is push up the 11 even if it makes no sense. "},{"Title":"excellent thriller","Date":"26 July 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Two boys witness a man trying to commit suicide,, one of them is brave enough to pull the hose with the rag stuffed in the exhaust out of the tailpipe. unfortunately for him he get's caught , and our lawyer and the child have a conversation,, the little brother tries to save his big brother and things don't go so well , long story short,, boys escape and the lawyer eventually does kill himself,, the older brother found out something from the lawyer that he shouldn't have and has to hire an attorney because, he is being tracked by the FBI, and the MOB. Tommy Lee Jones,, Susan Sarandon, do a wonderful job in the movie,, Will Patton plays a police officer who is really dislikeable. this is a pretty darn good movie taken from a John Grisham novel. beautifully acted,, lot's of great pacing, there isn't anything that I didn't like about the film. "},{"Title":"Some major offbeats","Date":"15 December 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Lots of overacting and horrible fake Southern accents. A bit of ridiculous stuff in an otherwise good movie. Why can't they find Southern people to play these parts? Why do they insist on using actors and actresses that probably have never been to the South? We don't talk that way down here. We just DON'T! Watching it threw me off. The only real diction and pronunciation was the black judge; he was great. Real. Watching Susan Sarandon and Tommy Lee Jones act Southern is painful. I have to go on because I'm supposed to write at least ten lines of content but we Southerners don't need to rattle on to make a point. The bottom line for Hollywood hire Southern actors to play Southern-based roles! "},{"Title":"Thanks Rev. Roy, you've been a real pain in the ass.","Date":"12 August 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I remember this as a great movie by Sarandon (Dead Man Walking), who got an Oscar nomination out of her performance in a year of great movies, the best being, of course, Four Weddings and a Funeral.Tommy Lee Jones (The Fugitive, JFK) was super as the Rev. Roy, and the lovely and talented Mary-Louise Parker (Weeds, Angels in America) was great as Mark's (Brad Renfro) mom. Anthony LaPaglia was just the embodiment of evil as Barry Muldano.The supporting cast reads like a Who's Who of Hollywood J.T. Walsh, William H. Macy, Bradley Whitford, Anthony Edwards, Ossie Davis, and more. "},{"Title":"An intense and engaging drama","Date":"7 February 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This film is about a young boy who witnessed the suicide of a mafia lawyer.The Client tells the thrilling story about a young boy who has to deal with the horror of witnessing a death, the subsequent legal battle and persecution from the mafia. The story is very intense, it grips me and keeps me on edge throughout. I feel for the poor boy who has the misfortune to be at the wrong place at the wrong time. I also want to highlight Reggie Love's selfless kindness to help Mark in the first place. She is a really kind person to help a kid who happens to enter an attorney's office, who might be dismissed as buffing.The Client is an intense and engaging drama. I enjoyed it a lot. "},{"Title":"A Good Film!","Date":"19 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Based on the novel of the same name by John Grisham, 'The Client', directed by Joel Schumacher, in an interesting thriller, that also packs in memorable performances by it's lead-cast.'The Client' tells the story of a eleven-year old boy, who, witnesses the suicide of a lawyer whose client is in the mob, and a female attorney, who, tries to protect him. Joel Schumacher's body of work is a mixed bag. However, 'The Client', can surely rank amongst his better works. He has handled a couple of sequences with ease. However, I would like to state, that, the writing loses pace in it's final 30-minutes. And thus, the desired impact gets distracted. If it had been better or should I say more crisper, this flick would've been a classic affair! Tony Pierce-Roberts's Cinematography is good. Editing is fine.Performance-Wise As told before, the lead casts pack in memorable performances. Susan Sarandon is excellent as the female lawyer. Brad Renfro does a sincere job. Tommy Lee Jones is superb as the calculative U.S. Attorney. Mary-Louise Parker is good. J. T. Walsh is effective.On the whole, 'The Cilent' is A Good Film in all respects. Definitely worth a watch! "},{"Title":"good book, great cast, so-so film","Date":"30 March 2008","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" 'The Client' certainly has a lot going for it. All the required elements are there for a top-notch thriller great source material (a best-selling novel by the reliable and successful John Grisham), a first-rate cast that deliver uniformly fine performances, and all the ace production values one expects from a big-budget film. That the movie comes up short in odd ways is a shame. Newcomer Brad Renfro is excellent playing Mark Sway, an eleven-year-old backwoods kid whose family could be unkindly but accurately described as 'trailer trash.' His mother Dianne (Mary-Louise Parker) has trouble holding on to any kind of job; Mark is a lot older than his years would indicate, having to look after his younger brother Ricky a lot. One day the brothers witness a man commit suicide, but not before he has told Mark about the body of a U.S. Senator, key evidence in a murder trial about to start, and that it is buried where no one can find it. A Mafia hit man is responsible and will likely go free if investigators can't locate the body. For the rest of the film, Mark is chased by the Mafia and threatened by the prosecutors (led by Tommy Lee Jones as Roy Foltrigg). Along the way, Mark recruits a lawyer, Reggie Love (Susan Sarandon) to assist him. The problem with 'The Client' is an inconsistency in Mark's motivations over the course of the film. One moment he's intimidated, the next he's defiant, then back and forth, back and forth. One might argue that he's just a kid and he's confused, but that's not how the character is put forward. As portrayed by Renfro, Mark is amazingly resourceful, clever and street-smart, a thirty-year-old in an eleven-year-old's body. It's hard not to get the impression that his various stalling techniques in revealing the corpse's location are simply a plot device to prolong the film. It's too bad too, because the movie doesn't shortchange when it comes to interesting passages and dialogue exchanges where the characters interact in revealing ways, as well as a nifty and funny courtroom scene with Ossie Davis presiding. Tommy Lee Jone's character is essentially the same as the one he portrayed in the previous year's film, 'The Fugitive,' with just a few minor differences. Jones has probably gotten more mileage from a single facial expression than almost anyone else. It's one that seems to indicate he would just as soon slit your throat as say hello to you. Eventually, attorney Love gets Foltrigg to agree to put Mark and his family in the Witness Protection program which, apparently, could have been achieved at the beginning but then we would have had a thirty-minute film. The ending is very abrupt; no sooner has Love told him where the body is than Foltrigg holds a press conference to announce the case has been solved. He doesn't even bother to verify the body is where it's supposed to be. It's a strange ending to a mixed-bag of a movie. "}{"Title":"Everyone wants to be in a Grisham film","Date":"22 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Author John Grisham is currently the hottest property in Hollywood, with his legal/political thrillers seemingly in greater demand than Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan novels. Everybody in tinsel town, from the top name directors to the highest paid actors and actresses, appears to be clambering over each other in the stampede to get into a Grisham film.The first, and perhaps best, was The Firm from Sydney Pollack, about a young Havard law hot shot (Tom Cruise) who gets hired by a mob law firm that controls its employees lives. Next was The Pelican Brief, directed by Alan J. Pakula and starring Julia Roberts as a brilliant law student who comes up with an all too accurate theory as to why two High Court judges were assassinated.Joel Schumacher has managed to get his hands on the third John Grisham book to come to the screen, The Client. The style is definitely different to the preceding films, with Schumacher presenting a movie containing somewhat less intrigue (none really), yet plenty of 'edge of the seat' suspense. Lacking the plot intricacies of the first two, The Client relies heavily on Schumacher's ability to create tension, which he achieves quite successfully, and of course it depends on the prowess of the lead players.Tommy Lee Jones gobbles up with delight his role of Reverend Ron, the D.A. pursuing vigorously a young boy who knows something that may help put a mobster behind bars for life. Protecting the lad's rights is Attorney Reggie Love, and Susan Sarandon is most admirable in this strong yet vulnerable role, while finally newcomer Brad Renfro performs well his part as the young boy whose run in with the suicidal, and now late, Jerome Clifford, has turned his world upside down.The entire support cast (including Will Patton, Frank LaPaglia and Mary-Louise Parker) and technical team have helped fashion a most enjoyable film, but sadly, once the resolution begins to become clear, The Client peters off to a somewhat less than inspirational ending. Not an unqualified success, however little else detracts from this third John Grisham cinema venture.Friday, September 9, 1994 - Village Centre Melbourne "},{"Title":"A childhood hero","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I think Brad Renfro really shocked the world when he starred in the Client. I am a 25 year old male and I really felt that I could over come nearly any obstacle because of Brad Renfro's role in this film. It breaks my heart that he has died and his death will send a message to a large segment of youth and to those who were impacted by his role in the film to not use drugs, be mature..but most importantly, be responsible. I'm trying to hold back the tears over his death, but I never really had inspiration from another film role..other than the Goonies. The Goonies of course was fun and made many appreciate friendship..but Brad Renfro I believe inspired girls and boys and especially boys to stay strong and succeed in life. The Client is truly a classic film. "},{"Title":"Thanks Rev. Roy, you've been a real pain in the ass.","Date":"16 January 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is the one that started it all for young Brad Renfro (Apt Pupil). he was 12 at the time.I remember this as a great movie by Sarandon (Dead Man Walking), who got an Oscar nomination out of her performance in a year of great movies, the best being, of course, Four Weddings and a Funeral.Tommy Lee Jones (The Fugitive, JFK) was super as the Rev. Roy, and the lovely and talented Mary-Louise Parker (Weeds, Angels in America) was great as Mark's mom. There were many other great supporting performance - too many to mention.It was a great movie and a great start to a too-short career. "},{"Title":"Holes at the beginning of the story.","Date":"27 April 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Thriller about a young boy Mark Sway (Renfro) who witnesses the suicide of a man (Olkewicz) with ties to the mob. The man decides to spill certain details about the mob before his suicide, sucking Mark into the crossfire of a mob murder. The kid must hire his own lawyer (Sarandon) to protect his rights, since district attorney (Tommy Lee Jones) is fixated on taking down the mob and won't stop at anything--even willing to put the safety of Mark at risk. Very '90s, very Schumacher, and very Grisham. Hard to know what to feel for Tommy Lee Jones' character, and it's even more confusing as to why Romey didn't just blow his brains out sooner with the gun right there in the car! A lot of holes at the beginning of the film, and the plot neither fills them or makes up for them. You won't gain anything from watching this so-called mystery-thriller. Am I really supposed to take LaPaglia serious?** (out of four) "},{"Title":"A disappointingly bad adaptation of an excellent novel","Date":"31 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The movie adaptations of John Grisham's novels, with the possible exception of the Rainmaker, have quite frequently proved disappointing and unfulfilling so perhaps I should not have had such high expectations going into this movie. I guess the reality was, however, that I loved the novel and was confident that it could translate well onto the big screen I was sadly disappointed The movie lacks all the charm, depth, humor and warmth of the novel which made the latter so appealing. For reasons that totally elude me, the producers/writers decided to include totally unnecessary scenes and create unnecessary tensions between the major characters that are just annoying and irritating to the extent that they make the movie unpleasant to watch and erode much of its potential quality. The humor and dialog that worked so well in the novel falls flat in the movie Additionally of the characters in the movie seem to have been stripped of the depth and dimension that made them so interesting and engaging in the novel The acting is not much to go by. I can't accurately judge Brad Renfro as an actor because he's not given much to work with. Susan Sarandon is superb in everything she does but even her stellar performance can't add much charm to this film. Mary Louise Parker has given some great acting performances in her time but she is appallingly miscast in this film as Mark's mother. All the other acting is, by and large, forgettable This movie was painful to watch. Avoid it like the plague and read the book instead. "},{"Title":"One of the best adaptations from one of the best author's books!","Date":"5 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I love John Grisham, I think he's an excellent writer, he really packs a lot of everything into his books, from horror to comedy, and everything in between. I was really, really happy to see that the book was being made into the movie. The movie is just as good as the book, I really loved it. I remember watching it for the first time, and remember thinking, OMG, that kid is really brave, the kid being Brad Renfro aka Mark Sway. It's an awesome story, with a great supporting cast.I also loved Susan Sarandon, her character was one of my favourite movie lawyers ever, she's wonderful. Tommy Lee Jones was wonderful to, a really great job on his part. Also, fans of Will Patton and the rest of the supporting cast will not be devastated, because they all did really well.I gave this movie a 10, because in my opinion it is excellent, the story, the cast, the entire movie. Yes, some parts are not as interesting as others, but if your a fan of these types of movies or John Grisham books, I strongly encourage you to see this, and you'll love the movie. "},{"Title":"Another pretty good John Grisham film","Date":"4 May 2005","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I have to say I liked this one better than The Pelican Brief but not as well as The Firm so it is middle of the road as far as Grisham movies go. I don't care too much for Susan Sarandon I feel she's a good actress but I have a hard time connecting with her characters or feeling truly captivated by them even though this particular character was one of her better and more complex ones. The story is a little boy and his brother witness the suicide of a prominent criminal defense attorney but not before he confesses a dangerous secret to the older child. It turns out the lawyer was under investigation by the Department of Justice because he knew something he shouldn't have and it is something that certain nefarious people don't want anyone else to know. Tommy Lee Jones plays a hard-nosed, flashy, and somewhat slightly unethical federal prosecutor who knows that the kid knows something important and that he needs to get it out of him before the kid is killed. The kid reaches out for Sarandon's character Reggie Love, who is a third-rate washed up chain smoking former alcoholic attorney, to keep him safe from the DA and the organized crime group who wants him silenced. Love is actually quite intelligent and competent but also in for a bumpy ride as the kid is a prolific pain in the butt and uncompromisingly stubborn. But she knows he is hiding something that is of extreme importance and he will be eliminated if she does not find out what it is and keep him safe in the meantime. This film does have many big name stars attached to it and the plot is terrific. I really liked Ron Dean's small role more than anyone else's I felt it was the most memorable one of all. The Client is not extremely exciting or action filled but it does have a cool ending and would make a worthwhile addition to anybody's DVD collection. "},{"Title":"A fair comeback for the courtroom drama film genre","Date":"10 November 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The courtroom drama film genre had not seen any major action for a while but this 1994 Warner Brothers release changed that and proved to be a good enough comeback for the fading genre. The story has to do with a boy (Brad Renfro) who was at the scene when a lawyer for the Mafia committed suicide. He knows too much information and is picked up as an accessory in the suicidal shooting. Renfro hires an attorney (Susan Sarandon) to represent and defend him in the trial proceedings. A tense courtroom thriller that is practically reminiscent of examples from the classic Hollywood era such as Twelve Angry Men and Anatomy Of A Murder.  "},{"Title":"not that bad, but not that good either","Date":"9 October 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The first time i saw this movie was a couple years ago on tv, it wasnt that bad, but the acting wasnt great either, the plot was good, it was very predictable though, so i gave it 6/10, if you havent seen it go watch it, its kinda good, but thats just my opinion. "},{"Title":"No mark left unmissed","Date":"26 June 2003","Score":"","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Client, another marginal film from the master of the marginal film, is a B flick trying to look like an A flick. Schumacher manages to wrest some second rate performances from an excellent cast and Renfro's debut is no exception. The sweaty Southern noir atmospherics don't work any better than the music which seems always off target in this clumsy film which only squeaks by on the sheer charisma and talent of heavyweights Sarandon and Jones. Barely watchable, eminently forgettable, and for needy couch potatoes only. (C) "}{"Title":"A young boy gets involved with a gangland lawyer who commits suicide, and is caught between the legal forces attempting to bring the gang to justice.","Date":"28 December 2004","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" The Client, made in 1994 features the type of story that can happen in the pace of today's society. A young boy and his even younger brother slip off from school to indulge in youthful frivolities, and end up as witnesses to a Mob lawyer's suicide. The legal authorities are able to place the youth at the scene of the death, and they suspect the lawyer may have revealed some evidence about a murder that has gone unsolved. The mobsters in the city suspect this too, and the boy is caught between a rock and a hard place, wondering where to go to get help, and to stay ahead of the criminal elements stalking him and his family.Enter in the scene of total chaos two folks who are attempting to help the boy with his problem. Susan Sarandon has the role of a lawyer willing to risk her career for Ricky, the youth, and Tommy Lee Jones plays an ambitious federal prosecutor anxious to use Ricky's testimony to further his own career. Susan's character takes Ricky under her legal protective wing, as it were, and the two square off in an effort to make the young client, Ricky, turn evidence over to them. Ricky is determined to protect his family before doing anything to help the authorities.It's a superb suspense thriller, based on the John Grisham novel of the same name, and both Jones and Sarandon turn in great performances. The movie also benefits from support cast members such as Ossie Davis, Anthony LaPaglia, and as The Client, Brad Renfro. Renfro shows some talent, and one hopes that he hasn't wasted the chance to have a good career. I gave the film a rating of 8/10, and would encourage viewers to keep one eye on the screen at all times. "},{"Title":"Intense thriller. A must see.","Date":"15 September 2000","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Joel Schumacher directs an intense and enthralling catch as catch can thriller based on John Grisham's novel of the same name. A young boy(Brad Renfro) witnesses the suicide of a high dollar lawyer, who is do to represent a Mafia hitman that is accused of killing a Senator. An egotistical district attorney(Tommy Lee Jones), the FBI and the Mafia all suspect that the boy, found at the scene, knows the dead lawyer's secrets. The 'wiser than his age' lad seeks help from a savvy female attorney (Susan Sarandon).This movie leaves you little time to be bored. Not overly dramatic, but causing just enough tension to see you through to the end.Also in the cast are Anthony Edwards, J.T. Walsh, William Macy and Ossie Davis. "},{"Title":"Superb performances from Sarandon, Renfro and Tommy Lee Jones in a usually taut but run-of-the-mill thriller","Date":"1 August 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Having read the novel by John Grisham (A very long time ago) for some reason I only got around to watching the film adaptation last night. Usually, Grisham doesn't appeal to me as I usually steer well clear of courtroom dramas and thrillers alike. But after being persuaded into reading the book which I thought was pretty good and didn't give me a headache like most thriller's and cat-and-mouse chase novels do, I watched another Grisham adaptation A Time to Kill starring Samuel L. Jackson and I really enjoyed it so I decided to give The Client a try. A big reason for watching it, apart from being mercilessly persuaded into it by someone all week, was to see a very young Brad Renfro (I think he was only twelve years-old) in his film debut. Renfro tragically died three years ago from a drug overdose, and I became a fan of him after his powerful and uncompromising performance in the Larry Clarke film Bully.Mark Sway (Brad Renfro) and his little brother Ricky live alone in relative poverty with their mother Dianne in a trailer park in the deep South. Mark and Ricky head out to play and smoke in the woods surrounding the trailer park when they come upon an important lawyer who is about to gas himself to death. Mark tries to stop him but ends up being taken into the car with the man, who tells Mark something about the location of a body that the FBI are trying to find. The lawyers's client is a crazy gangster who told him the location. The man shoots himself, and Ricky is traumatised from this and slips into some kind of coma. The FBI come after Mark, along with a prosecuting attorney (Tommy Lee Jones) to try and get it out of him where the body is buried, but Mark is afraid to tell them in case the thugs who are intimidating him kill him and his family. He enlists the help of a lawyer called Reggie Love, who used to be an alcoholic, to defend him and try and make him safe from the gangsters and the FBI.Without a doubt, the best thing about this film is Brad Renfro's performance. I can't believe this was his film debut. He was magnificent, but unfortunately, he would grow up into a troubled teenager with drug problems and would eventually grow up into a depressed young man as a result before he over-dosed at the young age of just twenty five. Susan Sarandon and Tommy Lee Jones also provide excellent performances, especially Tommy Lee Jones in a performance which stands out as him at his prominent best. Anthony LaPaglia is notable in a manic performance as 'The Blade'. The Client is a pretty good film but my low-rating is possibly just down to my tendency to never really find this kind of films enjoyable. I just find them heavy-handed in their political views, extremely predictable and boring. "},{"Title":"Passable, if dumbed-down version of John Grisham thriller","Date":"21 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Prolific legal thriller author John Grisham was starting to repeat himself, but The Client still manages to be a relatively engrossing novel. As typical of Grisham screen adaptations up to that point, the film version is a bit of a disappointment after the novel.Young Brad Renfro and his brother stumble across the attempted suicide of a Mafia attorney, who confides where a politician's body is buried before doing away with himself. When the authorities place Renfro at the scene, they realize that he knows more than he is telling them and the Mafia assassin Anthony LaPaglia comes to suspect as much, placing the boy and his family in danger. He seeks out the help of a local attorney, played by Susan Sarandon, to defend him against the machinations of district attorney Tommy Lee Jones and arrange for the safe passage of his family.Unlike The Firm and The Pelican Brief, no one can accuse The Client of not keeping the pace moving. Unfortunately, the changes made to the storyline, including some important motivations for the characters, have been omitted and the rationale/dialog has been dumbed down to the lowest common denominator. For instance, we are expected to believe that Jones' driven D.A. suspects Renfro's street wise youth of knowing a secret that would make him a threat to the Mob. Are we then expected to believe that Jones would not logically follow through that Renfro is not speaking out of fear for himself and his family, and that an offer to place him in witness protection would be required? The film is almost to its conclusion before the concept of witness protection is even considered and - by the climax - becomes utterly irrelevant.The film depends on Renfro giving a convincing performance as the boy and he handles himself well. He traverses the punk aspects of his young rebel and crafts a likable, mischievous kid. The casting of Jones and Sarandon in the focal adult roles is a coup. Unfortunately, the story changes remove what could have been some terrific character moments. Additionally, the film spends too much time pitting them as adversaries instead of allowing them to work together. Sarandon, in particular, is solid, but the role as written is lacking in any truly strong moments between her and the boy and/or her and Jones. You keep waiting for her attorney to really lay into somebody and wow us with her legal acumen, but the moment never comes. Mary-Louise Parker is embarrassing as the boy's young white trash mother. Sporting an over-exaggerated drawl, she spends most the film in a state of shrill hysteria. LaPaglia is just plain laughable as the Mob goon after the boy. He is not especially menacing and never seems to have the cunning to top the various other characters. Another dumb idea is having Will Patton play his role of the investigating officer in such a smirky, arrogant manner. He would be the last person anyone would want interrogating a frightened young boy.The film has some minor suspense, but it is also terribly shallow. We never really feel that the boy and his family will ever come to genuine harm, especially after seeing the oafish depiction of the Mob the film presents. The end result is a couple of solid performances, particularly notable work from Renfro, but it never truly crackles to life and becomes the rousing legal thriller that it seems to want to be. However, if you are a Grisham fan, you will probably find this film version fits the bill better than Hollywood's earlier attempts at adapting his work. "},{"Title":"right before Dead Man Walking","Date":"29 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" One of Joel Schumacher's good movies - before he got into stuff like Batman & Robin - was The Client, an adaptation of a John Grisham novel. Brad Renfro (in his film debut) plays Mark Sway, the older son in a white trash family near Memphis. One day while Mark and his younger brother Ricky are having a cigarette in the woods, a fat sweaty man parks his car there and starts letting car exhaust flow into the car. When Mark tries to unhook it, the man shoves him into the car and reveals some dark secrets. After Mark manages to escape, the man shoots himself.Once the police investigation begins, Mark doesn't tell everything that happened, but the police are suspicious. Meanwhile, prosecutor Roy Foltrigg (Tommy Lee Jones) hopes to use Mark's hidden information to bring down a New Orleans mafioso (Anthony LaPaglia), while Mark is tired of getting questioned, and so he hires novice lawyer Reggie Love (Susan Sarandon), who has been having to deal with her own demons.I found the really effective scenes to be the dialog between Foltrigg and Love, as they try their legal skills against each other. It was also good to show how the ordeal affects Mark's family - especially his overworked mom (Mary-Louise Parker) - but the interactions between the attorneys really give the movie its strength. Sarandon's role earned her a Best Actress nomination, and she won the following year for Dead Man Walking. Too bad that Brad Renfro died of a drug overdose really young (his death got overshadowed by Heath Ledger's death a few days later).OK, so we could be cynical and ask how the mafioso immediately figured that his lawyer spilled the beans, or why Mark and Reggie do what they do in New Orleans. Despite those plot holes, I found this to be a very well made film. I certainly recommend it. Also starring J.T. Walsh, Bradley Whitford, Anthony Edwards, Ossie Davis, Will Patton, William H. Macy and Dan Castellaneta (the voice of Homer Simpson). "},{"Title":"A slick thriller that's one of the better adaptations of a John Grisham bestseller.","Date":"9 July 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A female lawyer (Susan Sarandon) takes the case of a young boy (Brad Renfro), a witness to a Mob-related death. He is then hounded by a Mafia hit man (Anthony LaPaglia), while she incurs the wrath of a federal attorney (Tommy Lee Jones).The Client is a decent adaptation of an efficient John Grisham story, bluff and double bluffs, and fast-paced action. Sarandon elevates it above the merely average in her portrayal of a tender, caring relationship with her young charge. For her work in the film, Sarandon was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actress and won a BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role. "},{"Title":"Flawed presentation of a good Grisham book..","Date":"4 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" I recently re-discovered the Grisham novels, and started 'The Client', recalling that I had detested the film back in 1994, despite great expectations, considering the presence of Tommy Lee Jones and Susan Sarandon.Lo and behold it came on an obscure cable network and out came the VCR tape (low-tech, huh?).. the first ten minutes were passable, with the dialogue sticking close to the novel. Once the police and the 'Reggie' lawyer character, portrayed by Susan Sarandon, got involved, I recalled why I was so disappointed 16 years ago.Others here at IMDb have commented on the improbabilities of the story, as it unfolds. My complaint is the pacing and editing. Scenes should develop character or move the plot forward -- preferably both. Once the wayward boy decides he needs a lawyer, let's get on with it. At the hospital where the comatose little brother drools, we get endless and needless bickering, and nasty accusations hurled at 'Reggie' by the boy and his mother. He runs away. He comes to Reggie's house and yells some more. I woulda tossed his butt out. But (oh, it's so sweet) they get to know each other! The bad guys watch menacingly from the street. In fact, periodically, the bad guys pop onto the screen for a few seconds to relate their intention to 'off' the kid (just so we remember this is a suspense film). Then, we're back to Reggie & the streetwise kid to fend off the bad cops/attorneys (who want to coerce him to talk), or to dodge the inevitable bad guy in the elevator or the waiting room. What a mess. After an hour, we are nowhere.Proper directing and editing includes 'selling' the plot, despite its misgivings. Consider another Grisham yarn, 'The Pelican Brief', a good novel and screenplay. We could believe that a gifted law student could devise a credible theory on who would benefit from a couple of high-profile 'hits' - and that people in high places would want to keep the 'brief' away from the press. As soon as the 'law student' finds a journalist to assist her, they work together to dig up the evidence and dodge the bad guys.'The Client' just never convinces us of its premise, and focuses on selling Susan Sarandon's homey, helpful sympathetic desire to help these ungrateful, ill-mannered working-class losers. I'm not buying it. If the film moves along briskly, and builds suspense, I can forgive some improbable plot points or clichés. Not this film. Why the Director or Editor thought we wanted to hear 'Reggie' blubber about her rehab, and lost family, I don't know. But blubbering is NOT moving the plot along, nor does it really develop character.I'll finish the novel - the VCR tape still sits at 60 minutes. "},{"Title":"Meh, Whatever","Date":"17 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Ho-hum screen adaptation of yet another John Grisham pot boiler. Joel Schumacher is pretty much my least favorite director of all time, and Grisham represents the kind of author whose books instantly give me a hankering for classic literature, so the chances that I was really going to think much of this film were slim from the get go.Good actors like Susan Sarandon and Tommy Lee Jones put a lot of effort into the material and give committed performances. But with Schumacher at the helm, trying to make a good movie is like trying to walk up a down escalator. Sarandon was inexplicably nominated for a Best Actress Academy Award for her work, more an indication of how weak a year 1994 was for actresses than how good her work in this film is.Grade C "},{"Title":"good movie","Date":"19 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" excellent movie with a good storyline.the kid was brilliant. well just wanna say the kind of tommy lee jones was given such a meek role.but anyways i enjoyed it. good movie thats it.excellent movie with a good storyline.the kid was brilliant. well just wanna say the kind of tommy lee jones was given such a meek role.but anyways i enjoyed it. good movie thats it.excellent movie with a good storyline.the kid was brilliant. well just wanna say the kind of tommy lee jones was given such a meek role.but anyways i enjoyed it. good movie thats it.excellent movie with a good storyline.the kid was brilliant. well just wanna say the kind of tommy lee jones was given such a meek role.but anyways i enjoyed it. good movie thats it.excellent movie with a good storyline.the kid was brilliant. well just wanna say the kind of tommy lee jones was given such a meek role.but anyways i enjoyed it. good movie thats it.excellent movie with a good storyline.the kid was brilliant. well just wanna say the kind of tommy lee jones was given such a meek role.but anyways i enjoyed it. good movie thats it.excellent movie with a good storyline.the kid was brilliant. well just wanna say the kind of tommy lee jones was given such a meek role.but anyways i enjoyed it. good movie thats it.excellent movie with a good storyline.the kid was brilliant. well just wanna say the kind of tommy lee jones was given such a meek role.but anyways i enjoyed it. good movie thats it. "},{"Title":"Well Done, Brad!","Date":"17 July 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is a well written, well directed movie with excellent acting from not only well-known Susan Sarandon and Tommy Lee-Jones, but also by newcomer Brad Renfro. Renfro plays young Mark Sway, a rebellious eleven-year-old who skips school to take his brother on a hike in the woods. a day of fun mischievousness turns into a nightmare when the boys witness the suicide of a Mafia attorney. Enter Rev. Roy Foltrigg, played very well by Jones, who is determined to get the truth from the youngster, and Reggie Love, Sarandon, who risks her career - and her life - to help him stay one step ahead of Foltrigg and the Mafia, and to stay alive. I was extremely impressed with this film, and watch it all the time. At points, it feels that Tommy Lee-Jones is overacting, but I think that it is the character's personality. I would recommend this movie to all! "}{"Title":"A great suspense thriller","Date":"14 February 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A slick and smart thriller that has you rooting for the good guys all the way. Brad Renfro makes an extraordinary debut as the young hero, resourceful, tough, humorous and longing for a chance at a better life. Susan Sarandon's Oscar nomination was well deserved, creating a moving portrait of a middle-aged woman, abandoned by her children, trying desperately to pull her life together. Tommy Lee Jones plays, well, Tommy Lee Jones, and who does it better? One of the best, if not the best, of the Grisham adaptations. Wonderful cinematography along the way, and an evocative score by Howard Shore. Kudos to Joel Schumacher, one of those directors who critics constantly demean with a sarcastic remark, vainly attempting to pass it off as intelligent commentary. "},{"Title":"Strong character-playing","Date":"17 September 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Joel Schumacher's list of films may not be very long, but the two which I have seen clearly demonstrate that he is capable of creating strong characteriology from his actors. In `Dying Young' (1991) we have perhaps the best performance from Julia Roberts, although in `Erin Brockovich' she does pretty well also. And coupled with Campbell Scott there are some intense moments. Scumacher continues with this kind of character-driven drama with the second of his films that I have seen, both twice, in `The Client', with an as ever exceptional Susan Sarandon as a small-time lawyer and failed mother and wife, and introducing in his debut Brad Renfro, who has the bad luck to witness together with his younger brother how an important politician blows his brains out. Only twelve years old when he made this film, it is evident that Schumacher stumbled on a genius of a lad, for good or bad. Renfro is so natural before the camera, capable of an enormous range of showing feelings. Perhaps only Mischa Barton is comparable. I later saw Renfro in a smaller part in `Sleepers' (1996) in which, coincidence, he played the young part of the character later played by the other Brad &#150; the famous one, Brad Pitt. Though it would appear that Brad the younger is bent on outdoing Brad the elder, as long as the younger does not keep on getting into trouble with the law. As it is, Renfro almost outshines Susan Sarandon herself, but good chemistry keeps the film on course.Sarandon's greater experience was a good guide to go by. She was exceptional, of course, in `Thelma & Louise' three years earlier, and a year later gave an impressive performance together with Sean Penn in `Dead Man Walking'. In 1998 she teamed up with Julia Roberts for a heartwarming twosome performance in `Stepmom'. These are all character-driven dramas and in `The Client' she is no less up to the mark. She is clearly an outstanding actress, whether directed by Joel Schumacher, Ridley Scott, Tim Robbins or Chris Columbus, in the films I have seen of her thus far.  "},{"Title":"The Best Film of 1994 (spoilers)","Date":"22 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the best film I've ever seen that was made in 1994.  This great film is based on the best-selling novel by none other than John Grisham.  It is powerfully directed, and has a great cast.  The movie has an all-star cast including Academy Award-winning actress Susan Surandon as Reggie Love, the hard-working lawyer who risks her own life to save her friend and client, Mark Sway (played by the surprisingly good Brad Renfro).  Surandon deserved the Oscar over Jessica Lange, but at least she won one Academy Award for the film, the British Academy Award (BAFTA film award).  Academy Award winner Tommy Lee Jones turns in a good performance as the cold-hearted prosecuter who will do almost anything to make Mark confess what he knows about a Mobster, who he found out about from the Mobster's lawyer, who killed himself and almost killed Mark.  Anthony Edwards (Golden Globe winner of the #1 primetime show, ER), can also be seen in the film.  This is a must-see movie.  I think what The Client does best is show that lawyers aren't entirely what they're made out to be (some of them, that is) and you see that they still have blood running through they're veins.9/10 "},{"Title":"The Best Grishem on film to date, by far","Date":"5 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the best of the Grishem adaptations, chiefly because of the superior acting of then newcomer Brad Renfro, Tommy Lee Jones, and the always brilliant Susan Sarandon.True, the plot has some holes and the villains come across as uninspired, but the interplay between Sarandon and Jones is always fun to watch, and the sometimes tender scenes between Renfro and Sarandon are surprisingly believable (considering this was Renfro's first role, it is amazing how well he holds his own with Sarandon, one of the greatest talents in film history.)This movie grabs hold of you from the beginning and really never lets up, with wonderful and memorable scenes throughout--the first meeting between Jones and Sarandon being one of the many standouts.  A fun movie that holds up well with repeated viewings--something not that common with thrillers. "},{"Title":"The greatest movie...ever!","Date":"17 November 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  The Client is the greatest movie ever made.  The entire film is the complete package.  Great acting, thick suspense, and just one excellent movie!  The best movie ever! "},{"Title":"Would've been great except for that kid","Date":"11 November 2005","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is one of those movies that I've just been to busy for the last 11 years to see (although I found time to see White Chicks, so....). We all know Joel Grisham writes a great drama, but sometimes the movie adaptions just wear you down.The story is a bout a kid who witnesses a suicide of a lawyer entangled in a huge mafia case. He becomes involved in the midst of the suicide and is given some vital information about the mafia's dealings. When questioned by the police, he denies ever speaking to the man. He finds himself a lawyer and from here his life goes bonkers. In Grisham style, soon there's plenty of people trying to kill him and threatening his life if he opens his mouth. Will he confess, will he run or will he lie? It keeps you interested, but does drag at times and that little kid starts to get on your nerves. A solid cast, with the best work done by Sarandon. Tommy Lee was OK, they basically seemed to steal the Deputy Gerrard character from The Fujitive and tone him down about 30%. "},{"Title":"Guilty.","Date":"6 July 2002","Score":"4 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Susan Sarandon (in an odd Oscar-nominated role) defends a young boy who witnessed the suicide of a high-class Louisiana lawyer who was defending a dangerous mafia syndicate in this terribly uneven and over-rated film that bores the audience from the word go. Sarandon does the best she can with an unsteady screenplay and direction by Joel Schumacher that lacks any substantial pace. Tommy Lee Jones shines as Sarandon's nemesis, but he is not near enough to save this disappointment. 2.5 out of 5 stars. "},{"Title":"Another Hit from Grisham","Date":"15 January 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is the movie that got me into Grisham.  From the very beginning, this movie catches you.  A semi street-smart boy loses the innocence he has left and must protect himself from the Mafia.  Just when it seems it won't be much better, it GETS better. Excellent Cast.  Sarandon, Jones, even Renfro - who I can't stand much of anymore - make this movie what it is. Excellent storytelling.  The scenes, the dialogue, all of it is amazing. I felt the emotion everytime I watched this movie.The only thing that topped this movie was Grisham's A Time To Kill.But That's a whole other story. "},{"Title":"Excellent","Date":"24 September 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  A gripping and action-packed film that you won't be able to switch off once you get started.Starring big-wigs Susan Sarandon and Tommy Lee Jones, 'The Client' is based upon the John Grisham novel of the same name, where two boys witness a Mafia spokesperson commit suicide, but can't tell anyone.Enter Susan Sarandon who the elder brother (Brad Renfro) hires for only $1 to protect him and his family.The plot is scorching, the acting is brilliant (too bad Brad's career didn't last long) and the film itself is genius. "},{"Title":"Another Grisham hit !","Date":"2 September 2000","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Let's face it, John Grisham novels are excellent and with all their suspense and clever plots they always make exciting  Hollywood movies.  The Client is no exception.  It's hard to beat Susan Sarandon and Tommy Lee Jones in lead roles, throw in the rest of a great supporting cast and you have the makings of 2 hours of viewing enjoyment.  Try also Grisham's The Firm with Tom Cruise and The Pelican Brief with Julia Roberts and Denzel Washington.  "}{"Title":"I loved it!","Date":"28 September 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I love this movie. The acting is wonderful, especially the great performance by the young actor who played Mark Sway. Having read the book and thoroughly enjoyed it, I was pleasantly surprised to find that I loved the movie too!I'd recommend it to anyone who likes John Grisham or thrillers. If you don't like his books, than there's really no point in watching this movie, is there? "},{"Title":"Well, I didn't fall asleep....","Date":"24 June 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Like all Schumacher movies, this is seriously flawed. It's quite interesting, and the acting is universally good, but it's a strictly by-the-numbers legal thriller with the twist that the innocent on the run, as in all Grisham films, is a kid (very well played though). Tommy Lee Jones has a large cameo rather than a leading role, playing his Fugitive role of a US Marshal who laughs at just about everything. If it's on TV you might want to watch it, but don't rent it. The Pelican Brief is much better.   "},{"Title":"Who's this Brad Renfro?","Date":"26 April 1999","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Is he a good young actor or is he a good young actor? Throw in Susan Sarandon & Tommy Lee Jones (he seemed to be in every movie in '94) and this is a fun ride.I like the Grisham movies because the one different thing about his works is you don't really know what it's all about. What was 'The Pelican Brief'? What was Tom Cruise on to in 'The Firm'? you really didn't know till the end. What did Romey tell Mark Sway in that car. This was the best of all the Grisham adaptations until A Time to Kill came out. I gave The Client an 8 "},{"Title":"A Disaster","Date":"9 September 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" This is an unfortunate film.If described on paper in a few sentences the story seems of interest. The film is packed with good actors.The problems are The kid they chose is wrong for the role. They keep saying he is 11 when he looks at least 14.The dialogue is a disaster. The scriptwriters should be shot (figuatively--not literally). They have the kid talk and act like he is an adult. What were they thinking? Scenes are too long and drawn out when they have already made their point.Tommy Lee Jones' accent is overdone and obnoxious at the start. Later he tones it down. The scenes with the bad policeman harassing the kid are so poorly done and drawn out that it becomes cartoonish.Some of the females are nice. The kid's mother is cute, and the nurse is more than cute.As it turns out, this movie was a total miscalculation on the part of its makers. And that is a pity----with so much good material (actors) to work with. "},{"Title":"Great!","Date":"28 February 2005","Score":"2 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" OK, so I acknowledge Susan Sarandon is my favorite actress of contemporary times (have you ever seen her in a bad role?). I further confess to having a penchant for political-legal-type dramas/thrillers, and I will even go so far as to say that movies with Southern lawyers have a special fascination to many (Atticus Finch, anyone?), perhaps because portraying Southern politics tackles greater sociological and civil issues that would otherwise carry less meaning.The Client is one such movie, and my favorite Susan Sarandon role. A great credible story, alternately epitomizing Southern politics while also placing the lead character as one who comes from that politic yet challenges it at every turn. Sarandon pulls this off beautifully as Reggie Love - in a world of men, particularly white southern men, she is somewhat weary of the cronyism to which she will never belong, yet solid enough in her own strength and belief in her convictions to hold her own against the mean ones.Great story, but if you've not seen it recently, watch it again, and particularly focus on Sarandon - approach it with these comments in mind, noting how she's totally on with this character and that character's surroundings, it'll add to the film's multi-dimensionality. "},{"Title":"The Client","Date":"22 June 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sarandon is excellent as a lawyer protecting a boy from the mob and more lawyers who are searching for information about a missing corpse of a U.S. Senator.  Jones is flashly as Sarandon's egotistical law adversary.Good performance from youngster Renfro, but shoddy direction by the always infuriating Schumacher who makes the film as a whole impossible to watch and insufferable to follow.  "},{"Title":"Such a classic movie...","Date":"10 October 2004","Score":"6 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Over the summer, I saw this movie for the first time. It was automatically one of favorites. And, actually, this is not my usual type of movie, either. I usually go for more light-hearted, romantic comedies. But this movie was definitely worth watching. After seeing it once, I ordered it on DVD and have watched it countless times since then. The acting in this movie is awesome, and it always keeps you interested. I would recommend this movie to anyone. It's not a kids movie, though. Susan Sarandon has always been one of my favorite actresses, and she excels in this movie. This part was perfect for her. Overall, I gave this movie a 10/10. If you haven't seen it, trust me..it deserves it!!! Thanks, USA_original  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but flawed","Date":"15 September 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I would have enjoyed this more, but I couldn't get over how horribly off its depiction of Memphis was. Weez Memphians ain't nearly as country as them city folks make ya believe.Seriously, they made Memphis look like a hick town. And there were tons of errors in terms of geography.  "},{"Title":"Great Story by John Grisham","Date":"2 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  First of all standing ovation for the young boy Brad Ranft for his great performance. I didn't see a recent film from him but I think if he can repeat this we will see soon a bluckbuster with him. Then I'd like to congratulate Joel Schumacher for this big direction and finally to John Grisham's novel. The story pointed out some problems as the social life for poor people and their rights. Some scenes are perhaps too long but there were enough plots and twists to make it a suspense thriller. If you want to spend an entertaining evening this one works. 7.5/10. "},{"Title":"Great fun little thriller.","Date":"25 July 2003","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is a great fun little thriller with lots of personality and humor, and I rank it as Joel Schumaker's best film.  Brad Renfro makes a great debut; ably accompanied by pros Susan Sarandon and Tommy Lee Jones.<Spoiler Warning>My fav scene is the interview scene, where Brad Renfro's character goes to see the prosecutor played by Tommy Lee Jones.  At the end of it Tommy and his aides are all cockeyed sure and self-congratulatory of themselves; and then Susan Sarandon walks in.  It's a really great set-up and a true highlight of the story.  I also love the Eskimo gag as well.Also, watch out for Anthony LaPaglia as the the prime henchman, and J T Quinn as a fun support role. "}{"Title":"brad renfro is great, same plot","Date":"21 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Although this is one of Grisham's best movies, it still lacks an original plot.  There is enought suspense and intrest to watch the movie.  But the best part is Brad Renfro.  He has spunk and just does a great job acting in this movie.  This is probably the best movie he has ever done. "},{"Title":"John Grishams' finest on screen","Date":"16 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This story being one of my favourite Grisham novels I have read, totally lived up to my expectations after renting it out on video. With the added bonus of a host of great actors, Susan Sarandon, Tommy Lee Jones, that young kid and Anthony LaPaglia, (not to mention other familiar faces)(Wasn't that guy who played the Security Specialist(!) in Miami Vice?), the whole thing gave me great viewing pleasure. Complete with tense atmosphere, the film was portrayed exactly how Grishams novels come across in a book. Gripping and highly enjoyable. "},{"Title":"One of the greatest movies of all time","Date":"28 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  This is one of my favorite movies of all time.  John Grisham is a superb writer.  The acting in this movie is great. Tommy Lee Jones and Susan Sarandon did a great job.  I was always on the edge of my seat wondering what was going to happen next.  "},{"Title":"I don't think she would have liked the ending","Date":"7 February 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" Diverting, workman-like with flashes of wit; a little too slick in parts, and full of the usual PC stuff, e.g., the kindly, wise, and in-charge black judge; a heroine out-foxing the males, with whom the female audience might identify; some bad cops; a hypocritical politician; and what movie audiences never seem to tire of, the Mafia.However, the Mafia types were not glamorized; rather the contrary, and hurrah for that.Susan Sarandon was nominated for an Academy Award, but did not win. She won a couple of other awards, but this was not her best work; still Susan Sarandon even on a bad night is better than most on their birthdays. Brad Renfro who played the kid was adorable, natural and talented. I also like Mary-Louise Parker as the sexy, trashy mother. Tommy Lee Jones played the Bible-quoting southern pol with humor and a touch of warmth.Two quick thoughts(1) Sarandon has Bette Davis eyes, and she is building a career that might someday be compared with that of the Grand Old Dame(2) I wonder if Mary Kay Letoureau saw this.(Note Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote! Get it at Amazon!) "},{"Title":"Nice Plot!","Date":"21 January 1999","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I really liked the script to this movie, in addition to the casting.  One can always see those little quirks of characters like Tommy Lee Jones, somewhat like Christopher Walkin.  The way he faces away from people when he talks, and seems to move and talk simultaneously as though there is almost no one listening but himself. I also liked the casting of Brad Renfro, who looks cute in his younger years, as a contrast to his age in The Cure.  The bond between Mark (Brad), and Reggie (Susan Sarandon), is really touching, but I kinda wish the ending had including a rejoining with her children, as she has not lost the bond with Mark as well.  I guess not every movie has to have circuitous completion.  I still like this movie a lot, and would recommend it to anyone who isn't looking for the most complicated of legal situations that cannot be understood by the viewer. "},{"Title":"Best John Grisham book based movie","Date":"14 October 1998","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I loved this movie so much! The actors and actresses did a great job! This is a must- see- movie. I've seen it ten or so times! "},{"Title":"The boy who knew too much...good thriller...","Date":"12 September 2006","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" John Grisham knew how to milk the most out of a situation that has a boy who knew too much (BRAD RENFRO) about a Mafia murder, relentlessly pursued by the killers while seeking the help of a female lawyer (SUSAN SARANDON in one of her better roles). It's the timeworn tale of a deadly hunt that has been done time and time again in books by Grisham, and usually with top thriller results. While THE CLIENT delivers the goods, it's not quite in the same league with THE FIRM.Joel Schumacher shows he knows how to direct a taut tale of suspense that has the audience wondering how and when the boy will end up in the clutches of the killers. There are several key scenes where the suspense is played to the maximum.I'm usually not a fan of Grisham's type of yarns when they become too complex to follow, but THE CLIENT is relatively easy to enjoy without straining to follow the events. TOMMY LEE JONES is amusing as a crafty Southern lawyer (is there any other kind???), and seems to be modeling his role after the juicy role he had in THE FUGITIVE.Brad Renfro is impressive in his pivotal role as the boy on the run and it's all extremely well done up until its suspenseful climax. Try it, you'll like it. "},{"Title":"Not as exciting, tight or enjoyable as it should have been but is reasonable enough to watch once and the cast of famous faces helps","Date":"9 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Sneaking out to the woods for a shifty fag, Mark Sway and his little brother see a man about to kill himself. When Mark tries to intervene he gets dragged into it, hearing the man's dying confession (the location of a body buried by a top mobster) before the man shoots himself to avoid being tortured then killed by mobsters. With this man dead, the FBI and DA Foltrigg have no case and try to bully Mark into telling them the truth about what he may or may not have been told before this man killed himself. Mark goes to rookie lawyer Reggie Love for help and the pair find themselves between a rock and a hard place as both the law and the mob try to reach Mark and get them to do what they want with no thought for him.I am not a fan of these legal thriller things &#150; never read a book by John Grisham (I've never been that bored on holiday!) and didn't find the glut of films from his work to be as inspiring as their box office success would suggest that they were. Despite this I always try to give a film an honest crack of the whip and so I sat to watch it. The film starts well, with a tense suicide scene that is tense even if it makes absolutely no sense whatsoever but it fails to keep this tension up and quickly it falls into the trap of having lots of powerful people talking loudly and quickly interspersed with scenes or 'peril' and running! It sticks to this formula and, as a result it is very, well, formulaic. It isn't exciting enough and it slightly drags as a result. The threat is never obvious and it never really engages or convinces me as a thriller with the premise, delivery and silly conclusion all failing to make any real impact. It has just about enough going for it to be worth seeing once because the basic plot is OK and is interesting enough to watch but it does feel like a ponderous experience and not a slick, taut, exciting thriller which it should have at least partly been.The cast are not great on screen but, with time it has become an increasingly star-studded film. Renfro may be quite an annoying child, but in fairness that is his character and he does play it well &#150; it would have been worse if he had played a cute and perfect all-American child. Sarandon is solid and seems to enjoy her role &#150; it isn't taxing but it has enough for her to work with without getting bored. Jones plays a clichéd character but he has a good presence and fits with the 'by the numbers' feel to this film.LaPaglia has a terrible wardrobe, a weak character and gives a performance that is unworthy of him as an actor. The rest of the cast is impressive in terms of the weight of faces if not so much what they actually do. People like Walsh, Patton, Parker, Edwards, Whitford, Castellanta, Davis, Coates and Macy make it feel a lot more impressive a film than it actually is.Overall this is a fairly run of the mill film that never really does anything well despite having a few good moments and being generally watchable. There is nothing particularly bad in it but it is very by the numbers and, despite the increasingly all-star support cast, doesn't stand out from the glut of courtroom style thrillers that are always floating around.  "},{"Title":"The client is always right.","Date":"12 February 2003","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Entertaining yarn about a smart arse kid who gets himself caught in a web of Mafia activities and seeks refuge with a lawyer who has a troubled past. If it wasn't for Sarandon and Jones, this movie would have been lost amongst the Video shelfs.  "},{"Title":"SUSAN SARANDON - YOU ARE TRULY BRILLIANT","Date":"21 April 2002","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  I mean, when a movie has Susan Sarandon, it really needs nothing else as far as I'm concerned. She is just the best and there are no words to describe her talent. She just shines. Put this together with great acting by Tommy Lee Jones and Brad Renfro and you have one hell of a movie. Parker also puts in a great performance. I love the rapport between Susan and Tommy, it's just so funny while being clever and witty at the same time. I will admit a slight bias (Ok, MASSIVE bias, but that's not the point) when I say that I enjoyed the movie more than the book. SEE THE MOVIE!! I read the book after seeing the movie and I was greatly disappointed. Had I read the book first, I never would have pictured Susan in the role of Reggie, but I'm forever grateful that she was cast, because she brings a certain spark to the role (as she does with all her roles) that noone else could have done and she really brings out the strong side of Reggie's character. So, I'll just end this with 2 words - SUSAN SARANDON - and leave it at that.  "}{"Title":"'Bout Mark Sway!","Date":"22 January 2007","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" i like that kid, Mark hes like hot even though hes like around his mid/late 20s i think he was really cute and hot in that movie The Client, he was like a gangster boy acting all oh I'm cool i cant be seen with you. my favorite lines were these Lady At Desk what do you want boy? mark i need to see Mr. Beale. lady where are your parents? mark where are yours? lady well... we only do the injured. mark Wellll... I'll just go get hit by a truck and come back. me and my friend burst out laughing at that scene and re-wound the movie so we could watch that part again. another favorite part of mine was Reggie you want a lawyer? Mark i want a lawyer, i hate lawyers, i said i need a lawyer "},{"Title":"Great film, gorgeous men!","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"0 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":"  Call me shallow, but the thing that attracted me to this film when I first rented it were the names Tommy Lee Jones and Brad Renfro.  Tommy is one of the sexiest men alive today and Brad Renfro, although a couple of years too young, definitely gets marks for potential!!  However, before you all club me under the label of whatever it is you think I am, I also really liked the film. It is exciting, tense, has some great lines (mostly from Tommy!) and has the ending that everyone wanted.  OK, some might say it is a predictable Grisham drama but at least it is in the top of its field in its genre.  "},{"Title":"Slick-Looking Left Wing Baloney.","Date":"10 March 2007","Score":"12 out of 32 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Crime, Drama, Mystery","Review":" A spoiled kid with a bad mouth, a feminist lawyer played by Susan Sarandon and a Bible- quoting bad lawman - wow, this Liberal heaven! Man, this is a real potpourri of left wing preaching and propaganda. The anti-Christianity in this film was pretty heavy-handed. What's pathetic is that the religious community didn't speak up against this. I can't imagine if this film had the same bias against Jews or any minority. However, Christians seem to turn the other cheek and put up with this bigotry.It was a slick-looking film with a decent cast both made it so it even kept my interest. That slickness helped disguise the disgusting bias it had running throughout the movie. Of course, critics loved it, too, and it didn't hurt that it was based on a book by a famous and best-selling author, John Grisham. "}]