[{"Title":"Unappreciated Classic! 9/10","Date":"9 April 2002","Score":"111 out of 155 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I nearly spit out my teeth when I saw how low Frankenstein (94) score was.  This film is quite simply spectacular!  It goes in the same category as From Hell, they are both too sophisticated and beautiful to be JUST horror films.  The cleverness of this film and its sheer radiance must throw some people off.  Robert De Niro is the creature!  De Niro gives the foul beast a soul of his own.  De Niro's performance brings out genuine pity, sorrow, and most importantly, fear. Kenneth Branagh has always added a bit of class to his films, and his version of Frankenstein is no different.  A visually brilliant triumph as a director.   "},{"Title":"Underrated masterpiece","Date":"26 January 2004","Score":"96 out of 142 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  One of Branagh's more maligned works, though for the life of me I can't see why.  Sticking closer to the book than to any preconcieved notions of Boris Karloff (perhaps that's why), this injects true horror into the story of a medical student who brings a corpse to life.  If you don't like melodrama then maybe it's not the thing for you, but this deserves a far better reputation than it has. "},{"Title":"Another Great Film from Kenneth Branagh","Date":"4 March 2004","Score":"75 out of 110 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  While many people seem to scorn this film, I found it wonderfully enjoyable.  Like the great Orson Welles, He stars in, and directs, many of his movies.  This one in particular shows some of his more excentric, if not marketable, passions in filmmaking that make movie buffs and connaisseurs alike enjoy this stylized and emotional film.Yes, it is melodramatic.  Yes, the acting is often over the top.  But what many critics of this film fail to recognize is that this is precisly the point.  By staying very true to the source material(until the Elizabeth thing) and the significant changes that WERE made are clear evidence of this.  The book was melodramatic.  What Kenneth Branagh does here is stay true to the spirit of the classic gothic novel.  The great close-ups define the characters, and through them you can understand them.  Do not mistake stylization for poor film-making, because this is a wonderfully made and presented film, that if understood captivates you from the first spoken words(a quote from Mary Shelly, setting up the stylization) to the last frame.Know what you're getting into, a passionatly made film about what drives one to both excel and what drives one to madness, and the dangers of excess beyond reason.  If you have read the book, regardless of whether you liked it or not,see this movie.  You will love what they have retained, and will embrace what they've changed.  this is not a film(not a movie, a film) for everyone.  But for those who are willing to have an open mind, it is pure bliss! "},{"Title":"Deserves To Be Appreciated","Date":"16 October 2005","Score":"40 out of 57 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I didn't appreciate this film until the second viewing, when I saw it on widescreen. Three viewings later, I have nothing but the highest regard for this Frankenstein rendition which is still, as other reviewers have pointed out, the most underrated of movies.One MUST see this on widescreen DVD to full appreciate the incredible visuals. But this film is a lot more than eye candy. Supposedly, it was very close to Mary Shelley's book, which is the best compliment you can give it.I liked the fact that the monster could talk and comprehend and, frankly, I liked the revenge factor and fact the monster decided his fate, not hysterical townsfolk as in the original Boris Karloff film (which has a sadder ending.)This version, in my humble opinion, also had a more appropriate ending the monster and his creator both dying together.All the main characters acted the way you would think they would, meaning there was no ridiculousness here, as so often is the case in horror films. In other words, there was great realism put in a story that is a famous far-fetched-type of tale. To be fair, there are some scenes in which you wonder how the monster got where he did (inside homes, etc.) without being seen....so, to say there weren't SOME credibility issues would not be true...but overall, no complaints here.I'd like to put a quick plug in here for the music, too. Wonderful sweeping classic music complements the astounding visuals. Add an involving story that is tough to put down once you start viewing, and you have one of the most undeservedly-panned movies of our time. "},{"Title":"Not your typical horror film - much much better","Date":"21 July 2004","Score":"67 out of 115 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" (spoilers herein)I saw this movie for the first time, in the dark solitude of my attic late at night. (I was trying to create a scary atmosphere for maximum effect) To my surprise, though, after it finished, I wasn't very frightened, but very emotionally drained. I had expected Frankenstein to be your classic, everyday, lame horror film which you only watch to get some cheap thrills, and see some horrible overacting. I didn't find it so at all.This movie was, there is no other word for it, beautifully done - a powerful, dynamic story of how man attempts to achieve greatness, but ends up ruining their lives and the lives of others as a result. I have not read Mary Shelley's book, but if it has half the emotional effect of this movie, I'll consider it time well spent!What really surprised me though, was that this wasn't a horror film in the traditional sense of the word - it wasn't so that the monster would jump out and the audience would scream. It was more about how the audience would slowly writhe as they realize the tortured motivations of the creature and what he's willing to do as consequence.Kenneth Branagh brought this movie together wonderfully, with both his directing and powerful, memorable acting as the tormented Dr. Victor Frankenstein. Frankenstein is somewhat obsessed with death, after losing his mother at an early age, so he attempts to create a new form of artificial life, derived from various body parts of corpses a life which cannot be so easily extinguished, and is superior to normal human life in every aspect. (except, perhaps, looking normal) However, he soon learns that it's not good to muck around with creating life, when his creation attacks him, and he abandons it. The creature, although initially showing signs of being a sympathetic and caring soul, quickly learns that the ways of man are harsh and judgmental, so he swears revenge on his creator for bringing him into this world of isolation.The 'creature', was played absolutely masterfully by Robert De Niro. Before Frankenstein, the only movies I had seen with him were Analyze This and Analyze That, and those were comedies, so it was difficult to see his skills as a serious actor, but in playing Frankenstein's creation he created a character that is confused, alone, hostile, manipulative and clever a very conflicted anti-hero. The scene at the end at Victor Frankenstein's funeral left me in shock by the sheer aura he projects - mixed hatred with compassion and confusion. In my opinion, his best moment is when he meets the ship's captain who asks him 'Who are you?' and the creature nods to his dead creator and responds 'He never gave me a name.' If nobody felt the power in that line, then I don't know what to say to them. I think De Niro deserved an Oscar, or at least a nomination for this role.The supporting cast is also very good, with Helena Bonham Carter doing a wonderful and chilling job as Frankenstein's wife (another one who I think should have gotten an Oscar nod), and John Cleese (in probably the only downright serious role in his career) being very creepy as Frankenstein's mentor, who realized before that the moral implications of his kind of work cannot be lived with. Ian Holm as Baron Frankenstein was also good, but sadly, his part was underused. It would have been nice to see more of this great actor in this movie alongside all these other great actors. This isn't really a problem for the film as a whole Holm played a relatively minor character, but I have a lot of respect for his acting skills, and I would have liked to see more of them in this movie.This is probably one of the most powerful and draining movies I've ever seen in my life; I was so impressed by it that I had to run out and buy the DVD right away. I realize this film has many critics, who claim that it is 'seriously flawed' - I really can't understand what they're talking about. I guess some people are harder to please than others, but I find it almost impossible to find anything wrong with this film. Perhaps it was expected that it would be more your traditional horror film, but it really wasn't a horror movie - it was a character movie. It's true that there were some disgusting parts (I won't go into specifics, but you can probably get the idea), but they seemed to merely add to the mood of the movie, and increase your revulsion that Victor Frankenstein would have thought of creating such a monstrosity. For anyone who needs a good, powerful movie that'll leave you drained and thoughtful, this is THE movie for you!-9/10 "},{"Title":"Classy, gorgeous monster film","Date":"27 April 2008","Score":"21 out of 27 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Written by Steph Lady and Frank Darabont (who later disowned this film) and ambitiously directed by Kenneth Branagh, Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is a likable film which succeeds mostly in a refreshingly old-fashioned, Hammeresque vein. (I think Christopher Lee hated this movie and equally class-dripping Bram Stoker's Dracula because he felt that they were competing in the same area.) There's the classic monsters (Robert DeNiro!), the period sets, the lovely heroines in the lovely period costumes, the beautiful and suitably turbulent score... Certainly not a perfect film, but as a classy, gorgeous monster movie, it is a woefully underrated one. "},{"Title":"He's my father...","Date":"8 January 2004","Score":"45 out of 78 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Not knowing what to expect, I was fascinated by this movie.  It offered a great story, and finale which lacks in most movies.I loved the Lon Chaney Frankenstein, and loved this one too!  DeNiro was interestingly cast as the monster.  Branagh as Dr. Frankenstein was the most engaging of all, being devastated by deaths all around him and wanting to stop death.  It's really a story of playing God, but also having the ability and intelligence to do it ---- and to have the intelligence to see it was not the greatest decision ever made.  It's just a love story, bottom line.  Wouldn't we want to bring someone back from the dead so we can spend more time with them?  Branagh never got the credit he deserved for this movie.  He directed a brilliant story that could have gone anywhere - yet he kept it within the story of love.  Kudos Mr. Branagh!! "},{"Title":"One of the best horror stories of all time, truly a wonderful movie","Date":"29 July 2002","Score":"19 out of 28 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" In the 90's there was a string of remakes following the classic universal monsters Dracula(Bram Stoker's Dracula), The Wolf Man(Wolf), The Mummy(The Mummy) and Frankenstein(Mary Shelley's Frankenstein). Sadly this is a more overlooked remake that I feel is a very strong movie. Not to deny any praise to the original Frankenstein from the 30's, Boris Karloff's performance is still one of the best and it's still a very scary movie. But there was no Frankenstein film to come out that would remain true to it's original story. In high school we read Frankenstein and it brought up so many interesting conflicts, where do you draw the line between living and playing God? Was Victor responsible for Elizabeth's death? Was the creature really a monster or just a victim? Kenneth Branagh took on this story and did an absolutely wonderful job.Victor Frankenstein is the son of the wealthy Baron and Caroline Frankenstein. At one point in his childhood Victor's parents adopted Elizabeth, who would become the love of Victor's life. Years later Victor's mother dies giving birth to his brother William. Sometime before going off to the university, a grief-stricken Victor vows on his mother's grave that he will find a way to conquer death. On the night of his graduation Victor and Elizabeth promised to wed when Victor returns from his studies. He finds a friend in Henry Clerval and a mentor. Victor comes to believe that the only way to cheat death is to create life. Victor spends months in his apartment working on creating a living, breathing creature. Using dead body parts from various sources, he begins piecing a creature together. Late one night Victor finally gives his creation life, but he recoils from it in horror and renounces his experiments. But it might be too late for him to take back what he shouldn't have messed with in the first place.Robert DeNiro did a great job playing The Creature, what a heartbreaking role to take on and he plays it with such amazing sympathy. He says to Victor Did you ever consider the consequences of your actions? You made me, and you left me to die. Who am I? and you seriously feel so much for him, he is the true victim. As in the book and not in the original movie, Victor does feel like a God when he is doing his experiments, but when he succeeds, he regrets it immediately. Kenneth did a wonderful job taking on this complicated man who isn't evil by any means but a victim of his own intelligence and wanting to cheat death. The supporting cast is wonderful with Helena Bonham Carter and Tom Hulce. The film can be a little over the top at times playing like a soap opera, but when I read the book, that's how I felt about the story as well. The sets, the costumes and the make are just incredible. Frankenstein is an underrated gem and deserves a better look. It's one of the most intelligent horror stories of all time, Kenneth put a lot of love into this film and I think Mary Shelley would be proud.9/10 "},{"Title":"Underrated Version of the Classic Story","Date":"26 December 2013","Score":"14 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" In 1794, in the Arctic Sea, Captain Robert Walton (Aidan Quinn) is a man obsessed to reach the North Pole, pushing his crew to the exhaustion. When his ship hits an iceberg, she is stranded in the ice. Out of the blue, Captain Walton and his men overhear a dreadful cry and they see a stranger coming to the ship. He introduces himself as Victor Frankenstein (Kenneth Branagh) and he tells to the captain the story of his life since he was a little boy in Geneva. Victor is a brilliant student and in love with his stepsister Elizabeth (Helena Bonham Carter), an orphan that was raised by his father Baron Frankenstein (Ian Holm). In 1793, Victor moves to Ingolstadt to join the university and he promises to get married to Elizabeth. In the school, Victor befriends Henry Clerval (Tom Hulce) that becomes his best friend. Victor gets close to Professor Waldman (John Cleese) and decides to create life to cheat death, but Waldman advises him that he should not try this experiment since the result would be an abomination. When Waldman dies, Victor steals his notes and tries to create life. He succeeds and gives life to a strong Creature (Robert De Niro), composed of parts of deceased persons. However he realizes that his experiment is a mistake and he abandons The Creature expecting that it could die alone. however The Creature survives and learns how to read and write, but he is a monster rejected by the society and by his own creator. The Creature decides to revenge from Victor killing everyone that he loves.Frankenstein is an underrated version of the classic story. Directed by Kenneth Branagh, the dramatic story was not well accepted by the professional critics and by many viewers. I saw this movie in 1995 and I have just saw it again on DVD, and it is a great movie that has not aged. Unfortunately I have never read the novel by Mary Shelley to compare with this version that is considered the most faithful film adaptation of Mary Shelley's novel Frankenstein. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil) Frankenstein de Mary Shelley (Mary Shelley's Frankenstein) "},{"Title":"a distinguished dramatic frankenstein","Date":"2 September 2004","Score":"19 out of 30 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  as i watched the trailer of the movie on TV, i thought it'll be another horror movie with the same old clichés, full of blood and disgusting scenes...However,when i saw the movie i was moved by the dramatic melancholic and tragic way in which branagh directed it...it wasn't at all such a trivial horror movie..on the contrary..it was another philosophical deep way of reviving Shelley's novel..it was another masterpiece of branagh's...he adopted the novel in such a delicate dramatic romantic way..and dipped into the moral that Shelley meant by her story..Branagh made of Victor Frankenstein another Odesseus whose vanity and arrogance makes him think that he could imitate God and defy Him..he made him a tragic hero haunted by the death of his mother which has created in him the urging desire of fighting death and creating an alternative life...Branagh's choice of the actors was more than perfect, De Niro made a sympathetic touching creature despite his violence and thick hands ,the creature in this movie managed to escape being another scary pale dead monster walking the earth as it was in the old Frankenstein movies,the genius De Niro made us feel and believe that this creature bears great equal amounts of love and rage and that if he cannot satisfy one ,he'll indulge the other (as he says to frankenstein), Helena Bonham Carter was splendid as Elizabeth,she was like the refreshing breeze in the movie which could decrease the intensity of the bloody scenes, Tom Hulce in the role of Henry was in his friendship to Victor as intimate as the friendship of Horatio to Hamlet, Ian Holm as the baron Frankenstein was very good ,but his part was too small that he couldn't show all his talents, Richard Briers was great in the role of the tender grandfather, and of course Kenneth Branagh himself as Frankenstein was perfect,he could make us pity for Frankenstein rather than hating him. Generally the movie despite its several bloody scenes,makes an intense powerful drama..and makes you saturated with a strange sense of melancholy after seeing it...Branagh's Frankenstein is really a must-see )))  "}{"Title":"Good but a bit too worthy and full of it's own self importance","Date":"1 December 2002","Score":"19 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Victor Frankenstein is the son of a famous doctor who watches his mother die in labour with his younger brother.  As an idealistic young man he travels to university to study to become a great doctor.  However he brings with him non-scientific teachings he has researched into life and the influence of electric currents.  His belief is supported by shadowy lecturer Dr Waldeman and Frankenstein continues his work and brings a man back to life using parts of other men.  Realising what he has done, Frankenstein leaves his monster to die but the creature learns fast and wants revenge for his creation.I have seen far too many monster movies that all blur together and share the same focus on effects and gore than story or character.  So when this was promoted as being close to the original material, dark and more of a story than a horror I was looking forward to watching it.  For the most part it sort of works but it's main flaw runs all the way through it like a stick of rock &#150; it's far too worthy.  Or at least it thinks it is.  The film has a constant swell of dramatic music that is only ever seconds away and it really makes the film feel grander and more serious than it really is.  The film isn't scary but that wasn't a problem to me &#150; it just has all these big worthy dialogue scenes with sudden pauses (up comes the music) and then lines.  It doesn't work and the film feels heavy and even dull as a result.This is never more evident than in Branagh's own performance.  He is far too dashing and too much of a young man gone wrong to be believed.  If he'd played it a little less worthy he would have been more of a human and less a cardboard type.  De Niro really tries hard and did well for me.  He may be stuck with a creature but it has been developed past the cliché (but not far enough perhaps).  I did feel for him and it was all De Niro's doing.  Carter is miscast both before and after &#150; far to light and modern for the role, Briers is OK but Cleese is way to miscast.  First of all the fact that he only appears half in shadows and when he opens his mouth the music comes up doesn't help, but it didn't feel like him.  Quinn is a good cameo but the majority of the cast seem to have bought into the whole `worthy' thing and are dulled as a result.Overall the film is worth watching because it is a good telling of the classic tale and De Niro does a good job of showing us the basic human behind the combined dead body parts.  If only Branagh hadn't been overwhelmed by the sheer importance of what he thought he was doing and had let the film flow and bit more and given in less to worthy music, acting and directing. "},{"Title":"This is true to the original story???","Date":"2 March 2002","Score":"10 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I recently had to read Mary Shelley's Frankenstein for my literature class and I loved it!  So I was really excited to watch the movie that is supposed to be 'true to the original novel'.  Let me tell you that I was QUITE disappointed.  This film is nothing like the original novel.  Kenneth Branaugh should be ashamed.  This is probably his second worst film (after the musical version of Loves, Labours, Lost).  He completely changed the ending, and it was terrible.  If you're ever planning on watching the movie so that you don't have to for a class, DON'T!  And just so you know, I do love the original 1931 version of Frankenstein, even though it is nothing like the novel either. "},{"Title":"Starts off so perfectly, then, suddenly, goes astray. (Spoilers)","Date":"19 January 2003","Score":"13 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Kenneth Branagh took on quite a challenge with this film How do you top the original movie which, while it hardly captured Mary Shelley's book, was so well made for its time?  And, how do you overcome the fact that, for over 60 years, your audience has been ingrained with the image of a bolted-templed, grunting monster as professor Frankenstein's creation, rather than Shelley's patch-work man?  Kenneth Branagh's solution is perfect leave the old classic behind, and instead, follow the book.  If only he had followed through until the end, this movie could have been spectacular. Unfortunately, Branagh took artistic license with the ending, and flawed his masterpiece.  But, the rest of the movie was too good to be completely overlooked because of a bad ending.  I love Branagh's portrayal of Professor Frankenstein.  He is brilliant, passionate, and sometimes visceral.  Handsome, in a scruffy sort of way (I never did buy the squeaky-clean, neat Frankenstein).  I have always admired the talent of the classically-trained Branagh.  DeNiro stepped out of his typical mobster character to play a Creature (*not* monster) which is the closest portrayal I have seen to Mary Shelley's creation.  I was actually impressed with DeNiro's performance because he was able to disguise himself.  When I heard he was cast as the Creature, I half-expected the mobster DeNiro to appear.  Luckily, he did not.  And, yes, you sympathized with the Creature.  He was created, then discarded to survive without guidance.  An ugly quilt of a man.  I enjoyed the chemistry between Frankenstein and Elizabeth.  Their love is very believable.  I'm glad they chose to delve into the development of the relationship from adoptive brother and sister to lovers.  This movie (until the end) is darkly and beautifully rich in Mary Shelley's writings.At one point, I say Branagh even improved upon Shelley's work.  The character Justine is wrongfully accused of murder.  In the book, to prevent further discord, she is forced to falsely admit her guilt and is hanged.  Branagh turned this instead into a lynching by an angry mob in the heat of the moment.  A much more acceptable scenario, in my opinion.  But, just as the audience is swept away but the brilliance of the film, after Elizabeth is killed, the movie loses its way.  As I watched, I remember mentally screaming, No! No! You were doing so well!  Stay with the book!  I was very disappointed with the conclusion of this work of art.  That having been said, this is still an intelligent, very well made movie.  You'll appreciate it more if you've read the book.  My rating  7/10, because it was a fabulous movie sans ending.  "},{"Title":"I Keep My Promises","Date":"16 August 2008","Score":"7 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Robert De Niro as The monster, i would never have thought in my life that it was him. the reason i gave this film 10 is because, like Dracula (Bram Stokers)it tells not just a horror story but a story of love, hope, reason and most of all revenge. We see here that Frankensteins monster is More than a bag of stitched up meat, but is a being with heart and realisation. the story starts with a young victor Frankenstein and continues throughout his university years with Prf. Waldman, the man who gives Frankenstein the flicker of a light bulb to start his experiments with reanimation. After loosing his mother to a terrible child birth, Victor Frankenstein is again confronted with the death of Prf. Waldman, and comes to the decision to steal Waldmans notes from his home after his death and read up on the steps to were Waldman left off, The reanimation of a lifeless object. We are shown how the monster learns to read, and in doing so, find that his maker Dr Victor Frankenstein is to blame for his repulsiveness and ugliness in the eyes of the plagued public, this leads on to the journey he takes in order to seek revenge on the doctor.All in all a fantastic story and an incredibly enjoyable film. "},{"Title":"An Embarrassment","Date":"1 March 2001","Score":"12 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" When Cinemafantastique interviewed Kenneth Branagh on his recently-released version of Frankenstein, the writer asked Branagh to describe his viewpoint, his thematic slant on the story. Quite a natural question for a film maker to be asked, as the notions of theme and point of view are not optional, they are mandatory. A director must decide beforehand on the ideas he wishes to set forth, and craft the means to set them forth clearly. When dealing with a classic, oft-filmed work, he must choose a new slant, and exploit themes that have not been emphasized before (at least, in quite that way), if his work is to be at all original.Branagh's breezy response was something on the order of, I didn't really have a theme in mind, I just wanted to tell a good story.This is precisely why Branagh's version fails is an unanchored, misguided mess. Herewith is a barely coherent hash of styles, a series of boneheaded choices (a snotty Helena B. Carter as the liberated Elizabeth Frankenstein), a tangle of hanging threads -- beautiful clothes with no one in them; beautiful sets that form a backdrop to utter nonsense.And it is dreadfully miscast. Branagh's ego trip as Dr. Frankenstein aside, the worst performance of all is that of Robert DiNiro as his creature. In this role, DiNiro proves that Pauline Kael was right all along. For years, Ms. Kael kept telling us that this mediocre talent was considered a great actor just because everyone said he was. In other words, he had been in the right place at the right time, and had stumbled into his undeserved reputation by pure chance. (Check out the way he sleeps through his role in Casino.) The spectacle of Frankenstein's creature mumbling in that repellent, thick New Yorkese is really one of the sorriest moments in all of filmdom -- there is simply no excuse for such a thing. Did anyone bother to tell him the story is set in Switzerland? I saw this movie in New York, at an East Side theater, and the audience was giggling nervously every time DiNiro opened his mouth. Why nervously? Because they know DiNiro is a great actor... Because they were embarrassed, pure and simple.And they should have been. Branagh's desire to tell a good story, while arrogantly disregarding the most basic elements of storytelling, quite naturally produced the opposite effect. In short, it produced an embarrassment. "},{"Title":"Is a movie about science attracting tragedy","Date":"9 December 2014","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This movie is quite interesting, a very worth watching movie. In this movie, most attract an audience is the environment. That environment has shown actor expresses mood. It has been nice and sad and hates environment, captures the audiences' attention to the movie. Frankenstein is a novel written by Mary Shelley. In 1994, it is taken from Kenneth Branagh's adaptations of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein to create this movie. The genres of this movie are drama, romance, science fiction and horror. A man praises life and creates a monster; however the monster destroys and makes a tragedy.The story begins in the Arctic; an exploration ship saves a man. The man tells the captain about his story. The story is happening on Geneva and his name is Victor Frankenstein who is a doctor. One day Victor's mother born his brother William, but his mother dies. Victor is sad and he hopes can see his mother again. One day he meets a guy and, he tells Victor he has success to let a dead man alive. Victor starts to get interest and he steals that guy notebook. Victor begins to research and one day he uses technology to let a dead man alive. He succeeded to revive the monster and named him Frankenstein. However, the monster is quite ugly. He is afraid and ran away. When the citizens saw him, they were fearful and discriminated against him, children. However, the monster has emotions; he is kind and hopes to be able to make friends and family. Frankenstein runs to the village and hides in a pigsty. People discovered about Frankenstein and drove away him; this shows that Frankenstein hates his creator. Frankenstein kills William (Victor's brother) and Elizabeth (Victor's wife). This lets Victor to hate Frankenstein and he starts to chase him. There are three main characters in this movie, namely Victor Frankenstein who is performed by Kenneth Branagh, Victor's wife Elizabeth who is performed by Helena Bonham Carter, and the monster Frankenstein who is performance by Robert De Niro. The most attentive part in this movie is the actress Helena Bonham Carter. Her acting skills are good. She portrays Elizabeth who is the principal character's wife. When I have seen the film, I personally thought that her acting was outstanding. Elizabeth dies by the monster took her heart, her expression surreal. Of course this is nausea, but she is very good to portray the role of a good wife who will care for her fiancé, miss him, love him, and support to him, also in one part she want to give up her fiancé which shows her powerful love towards him, but finally she went back to her fiancé, she can't leave her fiancé, this s him. However, at last, Elizabeth burns herself. In that time, she has to show one person's emotion for hatred, sadness and despair. Helena Bonham Carter's action and her expression are the level of expertise. In this movie, the part I like is when Frankenstein discovers Victor Frankenstein dies and gets emotional. He tells those expeditions He is my father. On this part, it means Frankenstein although has an unattractive appearance he still has a kind and warm heart. Although Frankenstein hates Victor creating him but he loves him unconditionally. For Frankenstein, Victor is his father. This is showing the people of good morals. The part that I didn't like is when those citizens drove away and hurt Frankenstein, they did that is because they were afraid of Frankenstein. They didn't try to understand and help him. Frankenstein didn't do anything, but those citizens just hate him only because of his appearance.This movie can learn lots of new things. Like technology and emotion and mans, nature at birth is good. The technology can make many things that can beyond people's imagination. It can also create many consequences that would be unimaginable. People only make, but they never think about the results. The emotion can control people to do next, people always change their emotion, and hate and anger are the most dreadful things because this can lead people to kill others for revenge. The man's nature at birth is good which mean when people are born into this world, they are good and innocent; however the society destroys their nature and lets them become hateful and selfish and discriminate against others.I recommend this movie to adults, because it can teach people a few life lessons and morals, allows them to know when a man is born into this world they are innocent. Science and technology can destroy people. This movie was awarded 67th Oscar Golden Statuettes and best make-up award. For this movie, I would not recommend it for children and old people as there a few scary parts and it is not good to old people heart. Also this is incomprehensible for children as they cannot understand the story. The MPAA for this movie is R. For my opinion I think this movie is a well written story with a good outline and plot. Those actors and actresses have captured the scenes and developed the plot. They show their emotion well and used special lighting effect to enhance the environment and the viewer's attention.For my personal opinion of the rating system, I am going to give it an A, four stars and 5. The reason is I think this really is a good movie, it has shown human virtues and vice although it is a little scary and might not suit all viewers. "},{"Title":"Haunting and An Amazing Film!","Date":"7 November 2013","Score":"2 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This film is a piece of cinematic genius. They just couldn't do wrong with this film. Kenneth Brannagh is an acting genius, and he brought a depth to the role of Frankenstein such as movies have never seen before. Helena Bonham Carter certainly turned heads in this production. Her acting, as always, was flawless, and her interestingly beautiful face lent a unique quality to Elizabeth. The monster, played by an unrecognizable Robert de Niro, was perfect. His journey from dumb monster to vengeful beast chilled me to the bone.The screenplay was heaven-sent. And the music - oh, such music! To this day,that music stays with me (and my music player). It is genius work the likes of which would make Beethoven and Mozart proud!All around, this movie is a win! While not for kids, this is definitely worth a watch with teens on up! "},{"Title":"Alive!? Hardly","Date":"1 November 2011","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This movie over-reached itself. There's melodrama, and then there's parodic melodrama. Almost Princess Bride melodrama. The green-light decision is pretty obvious&#x97;Coppola producing, Branagh starring & directing, DeNiro as the creature, Bonham-Carter's face and ability to run in 18th century woman of quality clothes is a plus, John Cleese (!?) doing the fifth business. Ian Holm, Celia Imrie&#x85; and Tom Hulce. What? Casting by what they've done before, not whether the parts were right for the players.DeNiro did Cape Fear with more makeup, Hulce should have giggled more, and really not tried to do a British accent, Branagh should have spent less time with his shirt off (how many months in the gym prior to principal photography?), and John Cleese (the best of the bunch, IMO) should have insisted on less silly prosthetic teeth. The real problem was the script, or rather, the lack of a script. Lines were puerile, motivation lacking, and everyone's reaction was typical overact the crap out of it.In the end, we had to give it the MST3K treatment, mostly referencing Young Frankenstein and Rocky Horror. Thank goodness the DVD version didn't have any special features. I might have been really hard on the film, then. "},{"Title":"An effort to be respected... and avoided","Date":"8 May 2006","Score":"4 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This 1994 Kenneth Branagh twist on Mary Shelley's classic Gothic horror novel finds itself coming into existence in the middle of a decade of constant remakes and endless melodramatic horror films. The basic story is ingrained into America's pop culture a young scientist, Victor Frankenstein, whose obsession with death leads to his obsession with creating life, with playing God. The creation of his monster, a combination of the bodies of executed criminals, (by the way, an entire scene of this movie is devoted to the collection, mutilation, and sewing together of said bodies) goes awry, the creature escapes and, once educated, swears revenge on Victor and his family. Victor marries his adopted sister, Elizabeth, and is driven to madness and subsequent death at his creation's hands. Sadly, it is here that the major similarities between the original novel and Kenneth Branagh's creation end.Mary Shelley's classic Gothic horror novel has been endlessly analyzed and debated over, true to the wish of the late Mary Shelley, who wanted to write a subtle book that made you think, even long after you've finished reading it. Unfortunately, and for obvious reasons, much of the intended subtlety of Mary Shelley's (as well as that of all authors') work was lost in the transition to the stage and the silver screen. The worst of this, thought, is that many of these movies, perhaps for the sake of audiences not familiar with the original text and who did not (do not) like complicated protagonists, try very hard to get the audience on Victor's side. They try to prove that he is, in his heart of hearts, an honorable man who made a mistake, and is now constantly paying for it at the merciless hands of his creation; failing, in the process, to remind the audience that, whatever The Monster is, Victor made him. As the creature of this adaptation says to Victor on the sea of ice in the mountains of Geneva, You gave me these movements, but you did not tell me how to use them. Now, two people are dead, because of us. The overall effect of the movie was, thinking back on it, very bloody. The death of Victor's wife on her wedding night was gruesomely changed to suit the tone of the rest of the movie. The blood in the remainder of the movie deviates unnecessarily from the book, (the creature rips out Elizabeth's heart on her wedding night with Victor, and when Victor tries to reanimate her with Justine's body, the creature appears. They battle for her, and she takes her own life, burning the house to the ground) and it looks very, very fake. The visuals, in this way, are reminiscent of Bram Stoker's Dracula, directed by Francis Ford Coppola, producer of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein. Dracula, which came out in 1992, also involved large and unnecessary explosions of blood. Kenneth Branagh, along with his co-stars, deserves credit for his efforts, but this adaptation of Frankenstein ultimately leaves a bad taste in the mouth that is not the terror provided by a good thriller, but the disgust provided by a bad one. A disgust that is heightened by the fact that the title bears its author's name. "},{"Title":"A Pretty Little Mess","Date":"6 May 2005","Score":"5 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" On the footsteps of the success of Francis Ford Coppola's version of Dracula, someone got the bright idea of bringing Mary Shelley's Frankenstein to life. Under the direction of Kenneth Branagh (Who also plays Victor), the story starts when Victor is found barely alive in the frozen wastes of the Artic, where Robert Walden (Aidan Quinn) is on his own quest. Victor tells the captain about the price he payed for exploring things that should be left alone. Victor, spurred by the death of his mother, is determined to defeat death. With the reluctant help of Professor Waldman (John Cleese, in a surprising dramatic turn) and his friend Henry Clerval (Tom Hulce), he creates a creature and, upon his first look at him, abandons him. The Creature (Robert De Niro)only wants to be loved and not feared, but seeing that every person he meets is repulsed by him, decides to seek revenge upon the man that created him. Victor soon learns that the price for knowledge is high, and that those who he loves will fall victim to his obsession.The film drags in the first part, but once the creature and Frankenstein meet, the action picks up a bit. There is some graphic moments (Elizabeth's death was brutal). It is as close to the book as any typical adaption can be. The visuals are nice, but a bit dizzying in some parts (Especially when Victor was busy creating things.). A good companion piece to Bram Stoker's Dracula. "}{"Title":"Classic of a classic","Date":"9 August 2007","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Branagh's interpretation and changes are brilliant. The film is historically accurate and adds important information regarding medical education and practices in that time period. Additionally, Branagh has added modern psychology to the characterization, thus making the protagonist's obsession and decisions more universally accessible. The creation scene is genius, truly showing us a monstrous birth.I cannot believe that this film did not receive excellent reviews when it was released. As a teacher of literature, I have shown it to my students for years, and every year the entire class sits in rapt attention. They even thank me for giving them the opportunity to view it. I hope that Mr. Branagh remains aware of the excellence of his work. "},{"Title":"A superb adaption from Mary Shelley's book...","Date":"25 November 2003","Score":"7 out of 12 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I think totally the opposite to the user who left a comment above (apart from the bit about Robert De Niro's rear - is it really his in the film?? lol). I really think the film is wonderful and possibly the best film version of the book. A great cast with some fine British actors (Ian Holm, Richard Briers, John Cleese and of course Kenneth Branaugh). They all play their characters extremely well although John Cleese and Richard Briers are hardly recognisable under the costumes (I had to check the cast lists). The film shows a lot of blood and guts but hey! Frankenstein is meant to chop up bits of people! Messy yes but definately not boring. The ending is also really sad ( Lots of stuff to see and not too long a film so I RECOMMEND THIS ONE FOR YOU!!!!!!! If I had to sum up this movie in two wordsIt's alive...! "},{"Title":"Hollywood's Frankenstein - some SPOILERS","Date":"17 December 2005","Score":"8 out of 14 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I have absolutely no clue why it was allowed for this movie to be called Mary Shelley's Frankenstein. If you go read the book, you will realize how incredibly inferior this movie is to the actual text. Robert DeNiro you say? Don't be fooled! His character barely speaks. In the novel, the creature is very eloquent when he speaks to Victor. In the movie, he can barely move his lips. Also, the character of Victor in the movie shows nothing of the internal struggle that goes on in the novel. He is made into a half-Hollywood hero when the creature comes to life, he goes chasing after it with an axe LOL And that is just a small example of how this movie does no justice to the novel. If you have read the book, and you are expecting to see it recreated for the screen, you are badly mistaken! If on the other hand you wanna see a typical Hollywood movie, go for it! "},{"Title":"For MTV attention-span only...","Date":"1 November 2006","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This movie is a disastor. Its very typical of a 90s Hollywood blockbuster, in that its a disconnected mess of flashy images and very poor storytelling.Every single shot is done with a swooping camera, melodramatic music and for rushed dialogue. Almost every scene (count them), begins with a character either running or walking very, very fast. For the love of god, sit still, so we can enjoy the movie, guys.The characters are one-note, and are usually yelling at someone, or are very angry.If anything, the editor should never receive another assignment. In the end, though, it is the director who is responsible for this mess. And therefore, I will never watch a Kenneth Branagh film again! Please, please, rent the 1958 Hammer Horror version instead, or at the very least, the 1937 Universal film.This film is mess.-mike "},{"Title":"Embarrassing","Date":"16 April 2001","Score":"9 out of 16 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  In the interest of full disclosure, I should say that I've never seen the entire movie.  I lasted about on hour or so (maybe a little longer) before the limit of my tolerance was reached.What was wrong with this movie?  Kenneth Branagh, ham though he may be, was decent enough in this movie.  The exact same goes for Robert DeNiro, who got to ham it up a lot while wearing lots of monster makeup.  John Cleese was surprisingly good as a medical professor.  Helena Bonham Carter is always easy on the eyes.  The sets, the costumes, the cinematography, the story, all good.What really wrecked this movie was its ham-fisted direction.  Branagh the Director is infatuated with Branagh the Actor, and seems to work only to highlight to best effect the object of his admiration.  This only serves to make Branagh the Actor look particularly hammy and over the top.  I could feel my face flush with embarrassment as I watch this disgusting display of narcissism.Kenny boy, if you're reading this, may I make a suggestion?  Next time you want to make another adaptation of a Shakespeare play, or a Gothic novel, please consider handing over the directorial reins to someone else who can approach the overarching talent of Branagh the Actor with a little more, uh.... detachment.Think about it, won't you?  Thank you. "},{"Title":"awful... just awful","Date":"26 October 2003","Score":"11 out of 20 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  This was the first Frankenstein movie I've ever watched, and lucky me, I got to see the one directed by the most egomaniacal overacting ugly and untalented man that England has ever produced... that's right, Mr. Branagh. Ever noticed how he plays the lead in ALL of his movies? And since he couldn't play Othello, for obvious reasons, he played Iago!That aside, the movie lacked in many other areas. Pieces of the plot, for instance. Must've run away when they saw the director... It's like he tried to squeeze an entire, well developed novel (and it's questionable as to whether the novel was well developed at all) into a 2 hour movie.And the melodrama! It was almost as if I was watching a soap opera. Too much of the cliche As God is my witness, I'll never let another human die again! People talking to themselves, reading out loud as they're writing letters, lack of narration... these are all very amateur directoral choices. Hmmm, can't think of a way to get the plot across, so I'll have my characters just say it out loud! Very, very poor.So, between Kenneth Branagh's ugly mug, plot holes, and horribly acted melodrama, this movie is a BIG loser. At least I didn't pay for it. It came on cable. "},{"Title":"It's A-LAFF....!","Date":"28 January 2006","Score":"13 out of 24 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Well as awful movies go, and hilariously so, this miscast over-produced silliness is a million carrot rank winner. Under the section titled GOOFS in the IMDb should be link back to this film. I just roared with laughter at De Niro as Frankenstein's monster. Never ever have I seen any actor reduce himself to such inappropriate astonishing and really really funny foolishness for a paycheck. I said it before (about Cape Fear and just about everything else he appeared in from We're No Angels onward) so I will say it again with this mess how many bad films can this guy make? To see De Niro trussed and Freddie Kruger-ed with plasticine scars and all mumble-mouthed grunting 'Have you ever considered the consequences of your actions... (grerble spittle slurp) is so funny I nearly fell from the seat. Huntz Hall from the Bowery Boys would have mugged less. Just because Coppola's Dracula made money the usual accountant minds decided we could have a new Frankenstein. I would have preferred a re release of YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN...although it is not as hilarious as this film. The sheer stupidity of the farm snow scenes where 'thamonsta' sleeps in the hay and 'educates himself' (for weeks on end apparently) by reading the Doctor's stolen detailed scientific diary on anatomy, whilst peeking through the cottage wall...and .. checking out his own stitches and scars and sewn together all male hairy lumpy pimply nooks and crannies beneath his colour co-ordinated designer rags from the prop dept...and... later quietly picking a field of frozen turnips (!!).......we are talking about some Euro bumpkin family who do not realise for months there is a genius monster sleeping on their doorstep reading science books (!!) but like a fairy clodhopper invisibly does farm work for them (like elves that clean shoes)...oh it is all so ridiculous. This film is 'up there' with WHITE MISCHIEF and LOOKING FOR RICHARD and PLAN NINE FROM OUTER SPACE for genuine audience participation as a late-show 'shout at the screen' comedy night. Hilarious! What about the slimy afterbirth waltz performed by De Niro and Branagh, channelling Fabio! Oh God! You have to see it! and.....Don't even get me started on WOLF with Jack Nicholson grinning (at the thought of $20million) as a ...werewolf! You'll moon at the screen yourself. "},{"Title":"I have never laughed so much at an attempt at a serious film....","Date":"16 May 2006","Score":"14 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This was just the biggest pile of s**t i have ever seen and i'm serious. Kenneth Brannagh was frankly embarrassing - please God someone stop letting him direct, produce and act in his films because no one can tell him how awful they are. John Cleese's rabbit teeth were hilarious but by far the two most hilarious parts of the film were the look on Brannagh's face when the monster tells him to meet him up on the ice in a few days (he's thinking why not do it now????) and also the scene where Brannagh attempts to save the guy who taught him in the operating room (the camera work is absolutely classic!). All in all i would encourage you to watch this film but only as a comedy - if you do you will laugh for ages! Oh yes and also check out Brannagh's Hamlet - the guy slaughters every film he touches. "},{"Title":"decent","Date":"3 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" a film who impress for the extraordinary work of all team. acting, costumes, atmosphere, the high ambition to create an exemplary adaptation. the result - a nice film. not the best, not great or far by errors. but decent. the basic sin - maybe the desire to make all perfect. and the not surprising result - the exaggeration. each actor search to do more than a character. a good thing but only as noble intention. Robert De Niro is his creature. in many scenes something missing and the landscapes becomes more important than the acting. but the spirit of novel is present. against the need of innovations or to transform in a Shakespeare play Mary Shelley text. out of doubt, a good film. and this fact is important. the vision of Keith Brannagh and few extraordinary scenes. in rest, the comfortable silence. "},{"Title":"It's Alive &#133; but not lively!","Date":"18 February 2008","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" During the early 90's, generally not the greatest period for horror cinema, there was a short but nevertheless noticeable revival of the genre's most classic & legendary stories. Apart from Kenneth Brannagh's modern update of the Frankenstein novella, there also was Francis Ford Coppola's interpretation of Dracula (undeniably the most famous one of the bunch) and the unsuccessful re-telling of the Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde story in Mary Reilly. These modern versions benefited from superior production values and all-star casts; yet personally I can't say I was a big supporter of the initiative. They're all fine films, no arguments there, but they somehow feel like an excuse for younger horror fans to simply neglect the 'dated' black-and-white originals. The 1930's versions of these tales still form the standard, as far as I'm concerned, and they remain fundamental viewing if you desire to call yourself a fan of the stories. That being said, Brannagh's interpretation of Frankenstein is obviously a good and visually striking cinematic effort, but it honestly won't impress you that much if you're familiar with versions from past eras. Much more than the other aforementioned titles, it too often feels like Kenneth Brannagh intended to bring the ultimate version of Frankenstein and therefore it occasionally feels preposterous and overly obtrusive. Also, and in spite of some really engrossing moments (especially during the last half hour), the director puts the emphasis too much on the sentimental aspects and nearly not enough on the petrifying side of the story. Quite a lot of footage is dedicated to Victor Frankenstein's private life. His role as obsessed scientist is always second to his role as concerned and romantically tormented patriarch of the Frankenstein clan and therefore Brannagh can't hold a candle to the performances of previous Victor Frankensteins like, say, Colin Clive or Peter Cushing. Even the creature as well, albeit masterfully depicted by no less than Robert De Niro, can't seem to find the right balance between frights and pity; something that showed almost naturally in the older versions. A lot of material feels like unnecessary padding and slows down the pace whereas the essential parts of the film are not strong enough to rescue the wholesome. The settings and costumes are deeply impressive, as is the whole new make-up job on the Frankenstein monster (Robert De Niro's mutilated face is likely to shock and repulse the more squeamish viewers amongst us), but the film overall fails in the department of substance. Some highly acclaimed actors are offered too little character depth to work with, like Ian Holm as Frankenstein's father and John Cleese as his reluctant mentor, and others can't bear the heavy burden that comes with the character, like Helena Bonham Carter and Kenneth Brannagh himself. I would easily recommend Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, but only for the terrific illustration of decors and make-up and, foremost, only after having seen the Frankenstein (1931) and Bride of Frankenstein (1935) "}{"Title":"Hardly Mary Shelley's and weakly detailed","Date":"21 March 2006","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Kenneth Branagh's film adaptation of the original Frankenstein novel was undoubtedly a new approach compared to all others. The idea of moralities within reanimation and the prevention of death especially added to the depth and logic of the film. Unfortunately, the process of production had weakly supported this element and the plot itself was left loosely without proper composition.Although the outline of the film was emotionally powerful, the cuts were amateur and the development of the story was unconvincing. Much of the acting, dialog, and sudden situations were too distracting towards the plot. For instance, it is obvious that it was intended for Victor Frankenstein's obsession towards reanimation and sustaining life was a result of his mother's death, but there was lack of evidence in any scene to actually support this thesis in a realistic manner. The same can be said for the creature, whose motivation and anger against society was extremely demonstrated in his violent actions without a tangible cause for his behavior.Achieving compassion from the audience towards the characters is one of the most essential factors in storytelling. I can see Branagh's attempts for drawing sympathy for both Frankenstein and his creature, but their personalities as a result of a traumatic experience is greatly doubtful considering their ambiguous backgrounds, which was very frustrating to watch at my part. Under these circumstances, the whole concept of the film remains unbelievable and difficult to accept as a highly sophisticated story that it really is.A distinctive method in storytelling is clearly needed to support a more convincing plot for this film. Adjusting the story by cutting out irrelevant scenes and expanding the story by adding specific details in the chain of events can be considered as a quick solution to this problem as well.Despite my criticism towards the main characters, I did however find that Elizabeth's character was in fact convincing and logical. The scenes that involved her and Victor were highly emotional and dramatic. Perhaps these scenes were even the highest points of the film. They can be interpreted as highlights; the fact that each time Victor and Elizabeth meet the true state of the current situation seems to emerge, helping the viewers better understand the characters. Judging from this viewpoint, Elizabeth's character was the most crucial to this films coherence.From my perspective, the development of the plot was awfully rushed to make a simple and yet profound point against the many issues brought up in this film. The heavy use of monologue is one of my proofs for this conclusion. I have many regrets, however I do believe there is a lesson in this story worth learning about. I strongly recommend this film in this sense, but not as a source of critical entertainment. I would suggest for all viewers to lower any expectations prior to watching this film. "},{"Title":"good but not great","Date":"14 July 2004","Score":"1 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Despite the fact that Kenneth Branagh set out to present a more accurate representation of the Mary Shelley book, he fails to do so in this film, and gives us a compromised 'hollywood' story. True, it follows the story much better than other Frankenstein movies made, but there are still vital parts of the story which were either completely left out or not well represented (in particular, the cottage scene is very underdeveloped). Vital to the development of the monster's character were the various times he was socially ostracized and treated so poorly that he was driven to his painful anger. More than anything Frankenstein is a tragic drama, and not horror in any way. This movie does not develop the story well enough to convey it.  "},{"Title":"An absolutely brilliant, fascinating and thought-provoking treatment of the material","Date":"1 March 2015","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" After Frankenstein (1931), The Curse of Frankenstein and The Horror of Frankenstein, this is the fourth adaptation of the 1818 Mary Shelley novel that I have seen in the last ten months, notwithstanding the numerous sequels to the first two films. Of those four, this is the most faithful to the novel - which, as with Dracula, I have never actually read - as well as the most faithful version ever made. This is an absolutely brilliant take on the material. After the 1957 and 1931 films (both of which are referenced several times), it is my third favourite Frankenstein film. The film was not well received critically or very successful commercially in the US, which led to the joke at the time that Mary Shelley wanted her name taken off of it which, given its aforementioned fidelity to the source material, is more than a little ironic.As with Henry V and Much Ado About Nothing, Kenneth Branagh excels as both an actor and a director and has rapidly become one of my favourites in each category. His Victor Frankenstein, a character who was based on Shelley's brilliant but often unstable and uncaring husband Percy, is a good and decent man who is undone by his own fanaticism. His attempts to resurrect the dead are motivated by the noblest of intentions. He hopes to allow humanity to cheat death so that people never again have to lose loved ones, an obsession which begins after the tragic death of his mother in childbirth, something which nicely plays into Victor's later problems with giving birth himself. Branagh plays the title character brilliantly, creating a tragic figure who elicited my sympathy in spite of his extremely misguided and unwise experiments. On the directing side of things, the film looks beautiful. The sets and the scenery are gorgeous and the more whimsical scenes at the beginning of the film serve as an excellent contrast to the horror elements later on. This is best demonstrated by two scenes which feature dancing one lovely one towards the beginning in which Victor and Elizabeth are seen at a ball and another, macabre one in which they dance around his laboratory after she has been resurrected. The framework scenes involving Captain Walton's Arctic expedition are extremely effective as his fanaticism offers a nice contrast to Victor's. Unlike Victor, however, Walton learned his lesson before it was too late. I don't know whether or not it is true but, according to IMDb, the producer Francis Ford Coppola wanted Branagh to cut the first half an hour of the film but he refused. This was certainly for the best as these scenes are crucial to understanding Victor's character as well as providing very good contrasts as I mentioned before. I'm not very familiar with Coppola's body of work but I find it hard to believe that he could have failed to understand that. There were not many actors or directors, living or dead, whom I would describe as artists but Branagh is certainly one of them.Another thing that I love about Branagh's films is his great eye for casting, notwithstanding Keanu Reeves and Michael Keaton in Much Ado About Nothing. Much like his father, the film's take on the Creature is a tragic, misunderstood figure. He starts off as gentle and kind but becomes a killer after he is mistreated and abused. His scene with the blind grandfather, the only person who is kind to him, is one of the best in the film. He vows revenge on Frankenstein for abandoning him to the very cruel world of 1793. In line with the novel, this Creature is far more articulate and intelligent than most versions and Robert De Niro is excellent in the role. However, I have to say that I've always found Victor to be a far more interesting character than his creation and this film is no exception. Helena Bonham Carter is extremely strong as Victor's eventual wife Elizabeth, a very intelligent and kind young woman who is murdered by the vengeful Creature on her wedding night. Her love for Victor survives her resurrection but it is not strong enough to prevent her from committing suicide after she was repulsed by her own appearance and its similarity to the Creature's. She and Branagh, who began a relationship during the film, have great chemistry. The film has a very strong supporting cast overall, including Ian Holm, Branagh's mascot Richard Briers, a surprisingly good John Cleese in one of his only completely serious roles, Tom Hulce (who was cast in preference to Branagh as Mozart in Amadeus, though he clearly didn't hold a grudge!), Cherie Lunghi, Celia Imrie and Aidan Quinn.Overall, this is a sorely underrated film which provides a fascinating and thought-provoking take on one of the most widely adapted novels of the 19th Century. "},{"Title":"OK i guess (1931)","Date":"20 February 2012","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" For most people Frankenstein was a Classic horror movie and still is, but for me it was a plain movie which lacked lots of good thrill in my opinion. To someone else they may say, for a 20s horror flick everything was executed just fine, as for me and growing up in a different era it lacked everything that makes a horror movie in my understanding. A horror movie to me is more intense, more off screen gut twisting scenes. I felt because Frankenstein didn't have the qualities of a Jason movie or a van helsing movie it didn't reach my interest. Now, if I had to think of a part that was interesting it will be when the man walked down the street with his lifeless daughter in his hand. That part there was interesting because you felt for the guy, other than that everything else could have put me to sleep. "},{"Title":"This Frankenstein movie has a lot of meaning","Date":"19 July 2010","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This movie really did surprise me. My friend told me it was really scary. I watched and I thought how can a creature who can barely walk, always holds his arms out, and always yells when he's approaching someone so it'll give them a chance to run away (based on the old Frankenstein movie). I did not expect the creature be able to run, have super strength, and talk. After I saw this I learned that this movie was based off the book. That this movie is a closer description of what the book is than the older one. And I'm afraid that the original Frankenstein with the bulb on his head filled with electricity, the nails in his neck, and even one of the most famous lines ever It's alive, isn't in the book. It was all Hollywood at work. So trust me with better effects and it actually being true to the book this movie is way better than the original. "},{"Title":"Entertaining if flawed underrated adaptation of the classic horror novel.","Date":"9 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" The Sea Captain Robert Wallon (Aidan Quinn) and his crew are stuck somewhere frozen in the North Pole. Which Robert and his crew meet the mysterious Victor Frankenstein (Kenneth Branagh). This man is walking alone in the frozen sea searching for help and he's hiding from the unknown. The boat crew could hear from far and they are frightening, what's coming for them. Victor tells a mad tale to Robert from the beginning, where it's all started. From being a young medical student, who's also interested in science as well and he's love with his step-sister Elizabeth (Helena Bonham Carter). Victor begins fascinating with the unusual Professor Waldman (John Clesse). Who believes in science just as much as Victor. Victor discover that his professor could bring the dead back to life but only in various body parts. Which his professor is killed by a poor frighten man (Two Time Oscar-WinnerRobert De Niro). Victor discover the flaw in the design of his professor and as well being completely obsessed. He decides to use various body parts including the professor brain and the murderer's head to bring this creature to life. When Voctor rejects and regrets bringing this creature back to life. This monster looks quickly how to read and think. He also tries help an family as well, which only the blind-man (Richard Briers) could sense some good in this monster. But when he finds rejects and beaten by the blind-man's family. Which this creature with no name decides to find his creator by reading his journal and getting revenge as well.Directed by Kenneth Branagh (Dead Again, Hamlet, Sleuth 2007) made an fascinating character-horror drama with plenty of strong performances, style and strong production designs. This is one of the few films that true by the classic, which it was written by the late Mary Shelley. This film was an box office disappointing, when it was release in the fall of 1994. The reviews were mixed, some critics hated Branagh's film-making style or the way De Niro looked as the creature. There's some flaws in the storytelling and Branagh's camera work might be a bit too much for some tastes. The performances are highlight here and they give their 100 %. The actors played their roles effectively, especially in the supporting cast like Tom Hulce, Bohnam Carter, Ian Holm and Clesse. The monster also looks different than most Hollywood movies. Since filmmaker Five Time Oscar-WinnerFrancis Ford Coppola was probably looking for the same success for Bram Stoker's Dracula. Imagine what Coppola could have produced other horror classic stories, if Mary Shelley's Frankenstein was a success at the box office.The original DVD has an good anamorphic Widescreen (1.851) transfer (also in Pan & Scan) and an fine Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD's only extras are an production booklet and trailers. This movie went on to have an cult following, nonetheless and it went on to be one of the most underrated horror/fantasy films of the 1990's. This one of the better adaptations of this classic tale and it is certainly not the worst one yet. Patrick Doyle's (Carlito's Way, Much Ado About Nothing, Needful Things) music score is one of the stand-outs here. De Niro also worked as the associate producer. This film received an Oscar Nominated for Best Make-Up. Screenplay by Steph Lady and Frank Darabont (The Green Mile, The Mist, The Shawshank Redemption). Darabont disowned the film, when Branagh did many uncredited re-writes of the script. For it's all flaws, this is certainly worth seeing. (****/*****). "},{"Title":"A good try at remaking a classic.","Date":"28 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" In yet another take on the FRANKENSTEIN story, a brilliant scientist creates a creature for the betterment of mankind however when it gets mistreated, it rebels against it's creator, causing several deaths in its path of vengeance. Despite the excellent acting, directing & atmosphere & a bit of suspense, this remake of the popular novel over all fails to exceed past any other remake of the 1931 classic, ROBERT De NIRO is very good as the monster, but his performance pales in comparison to Karloffs & the film takes a long time to get going & is rather overlong & nothing that we really haven't seen before in other versions of the movies. The writers including FRANK DARABONT simply fail to provide us with anything worthwhile to remember it by. Still it tries & at least everyone involved in the movie had their heart into the production. Still worth a look for fans, just don't expect anything to new.*** stars "},{"Title":"Circulatory disturbance!What's new?","Date":"21 February 2002","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Firstly You feel Mary Shelley and her novel when you watch this movie. But this is not as favorable as it seem.The set-decoration and the costumes are too sterile and face.Helena Bonham Carter's hair style...should she be the monster?Sometimes the dialogues are schmaltzy and exaggerated Frankenstein's Bring her back! at the beginning; Henry's No! after Elizabeth's rebirth; Captain Walton's Home at the end;... How obtrusive and sentimental.But there are a few masterful scenes, for example the moments when Justine hangs or Frankenstein gives birth to his dead Elisabeth. The power of this scenes succeed through the excellent string-addicted musical score. It gives Mary Shelley's Frankenstein its face. Patrick Doyle's soundtrack is beautiful, haunting and thrilling. Almost too good for this film.The end? It is worn, but -fortunately- there is one. This film gets the same standpoint like all the other Frankenstein-movies and the novel A human being should not play God. Wow!But if Mary Shelley or Kenneth Branagh make such commandments, don't they play God?Thanks  "},{"Title":"Engrossing purple prose set to film","Date":"23 October 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  As melodramatic as it can be, this movie is very entertaining and a much better reading of the story than previous film adaptations. This is one of my favourite monster stories, and DeNiro makes a good Monster. I loved the lush visuals. Certain death scenes truly shocked me. If you're looking for celluloid perfection, you aren't likely to find it here, but it's a good movie to consider for upcoming Halloween festivities (or any other time you want a good scary movie with a plot). "},{"Title":"One of the Great Modern Myths","Date":"22 December 2012","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" In the nineties films based upon works of literature were commonly given an official title incorporating the name of the author of the work, so this film was at the time often referred to as Mary Shelley's Frankenstein rather than simply Frankenstein. There was, apparently, a technical reason for this connected with copyright law, but some viewers and reviewers took this form of title as an indication that the film would be more faithful to the original book than previous attempts to film it had been. Such an expectation was to be disappointed in the case of something like the eccentric William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet (definitely Baz Luhrmann's Romeo and Juliet rather than Shakespeare's), but here Kenneth Branagh does try and remain more faithful to the original than those old Boris Karloff adaptations from the thirties. (Branagh was so keen on authenticity that he even retained the love between Victor Frankenstein and his adopted sister Elizabeth, something which seems far creepier today, even though they are not related by blood, than it probably did in Shelley's day. The main part of the story takes place in the 1790s, the decade when the French Revolution was at its height, and when revolutionary fervour threatened to overwhelm the rest of Europe. There is no direct reference to these events in the film, but the period is certainly an appropriate one, as young Victor is aiming to bring about a revolution in the scientific sphere far more radical than anything attempted by the likes of Robespierre and Saint-Just in the political sphere. Victor has been obsessed with death ever since his mother died giving birth to his younger brother, and vows that he will use his scientific studies to find a way to conquer death. He comes to believe, from his study of the works of alchemists, that it is possible to create life by artificial means, and persists with his experiments despite the warning of his teacher Professor Waldman that they can only end in disaster. He eventually manages to create a being by piecing together parts from various human corpses and to bring it to life by means of electricity.Branagh not only directed but also starred as Victor, one of two remarkable performances in this film. In this version Frankenstein is not a mad scientist holed up in some spooky old castle, but rather a young student at the University of Ingolstadt. (This was at one time one of the most famous universities in Germany, but it closed in 1799, only a few years after the story is set). Nor is he some nerdy or unworldly intellectual, but rather a passionate young man whose two great passions are his love for Elizabeth and his belief that his work will confer great benefits on mankind. This is a highly physical performance; we get to see plenty of shots of Branagh's naked torso, emphasising his character's passionate nature. The other outstanding performance comes from Robert De Niro as the Monster, or The Creation as it is referred to here. The Creation is, a hideous, deformed creature, yet at first its impulses are gentle, kindly ones. If is only when it is rejected by humanity that it becomes murderous, vowing revenge on mankind in general and in particular on its creator, who has bestowed upon it the unwanted gift of life. De Niro was an actor who made a sensational start to his career in the seventies, starring in films like Godfather II and Taxi Driver, and although his reputation has perhaps suffered somewhat since as a result of his appearing in too many inferior movies, he nevertheless retains the power to shock us by some electrifying performance. King of Comedy, The Mission and Cape Fear were all examples of this power, and Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is another. He manages the difficult feat of making The Creation both frightful and pitiable. Despite the late eighteenth century setting, this is no work of heritage drama in the Merchant/Ivory style. It is rather a visually dark film, one which dwells on the squalor of the past rather than its splendours. Even the scenes set in the elegant Frankenstein family home are rather gloomy; Branagh clearly intended to give it a look which matches the tragic and violent events which make up its plot. (Shelley's novel can be seen as an exercise on Gothic horror as well as pioneering science fiction). Mary Shelley does not perhaps rank as highly in the modern pantheon of English literature as her husband Percy, but she does at least have the distinction of having created in Frankenstein one of the great myths of modern times, a story which is known to millions who have never read her original novel. (I am here using the word myth in William Golding's sense to mean not a falsehood but a truth which can only be told in the form of a story). The familiarity of that story is, of course, mainly due to the many film adaptations, although it must be said that some of those were not very faithful. Kenneth Branagh, however, deserves credit for making a film which respects the intellectual and philosophical complexity of Shelley's original. I would not rank it quite as highly as some of his great Shakespeare adaptations, notably Much Ado about Nothing and Hamlet, but it runs them a close second. 8/10 "}{"Title":"Visually impressive but still a disappointment...","Date":"11 October 2010","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" KENNETH BRANAGH gives dramatic Shakespearean treatment to Mary Shelley's FRANKENSTEIN, playing every scene as if he's in a Greek tragedy of tremendous depth. His over-the-top histrionics become increasingly overwhelming as the film goes on and on, badly needing some tightening in story structure. Instead, it comes across vividly in bits and pieces, stitched together much the way the monster itself was created by Victor Frankenstein.There are genuinely frightful moments with creepiness made more effective by Patrick Doyle's score, but there are equally moments that serve no purpose in the story and are there simply for shock effect, such as the mother's death during childbirth.ROBERT DiNIRO has to suffer beneath extravagantly scarred make-up but does a creditable job as the creature. Despite the realistic make-up, he's never as scary as Boris Karloff in the original Universal film nor does he ever overact the role the way Branagh does with Victor Frankenstein.HELENA BONHAM CARTER is fine as Elizabeth and has some shocking moments toward the film's climax. Visually the film has some majestic photography and the special effects for the fire scenes are both realistic and gruesome.This may be a more faithful rendering of the Frankenstein tale, but due to clumsy story structure and length, it's never tight enough to produce the kind of thrills it was after. "},{"Title":"Despite a terrific cast this Frankenstein demands yawns and not screams","Date":"16 September 2007","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I like Kenneth Branagh I think he is a terrific actor and probably a gifted film maker. I have seem him in some truly magnificent roles but he has this experience and tendency to make this brilliant, lavish epic Shakespearean type stories and to try and put that element to something like Frankenstein, even if that was Mary Shelley's intention, just didn't work. Frankenstein has been portrayed in many different Hollywood films and always as a piece of Horror or action/Horror and I respect Branagh for trying to change that and go back to the more classic literary aspect but I don't think it's what people want and to try and make this story that way is not going to work. Even in trying to make the story more dramatic and important the film turned out to be far less about the creature that was created, and more about Victor Frankenstein and his existence and life and how this situation effected him and I thought that wasn't really the moral that should have been aimed at. I honestly had thought the film would be a lot more visually captivating than it was, I mean it had it's moments and there was definitely the element of darkness and this bleak existence around it but it still wasn't stunningly done with special effects.I have no doubt that directing and starring is no easy feat and I respect any person who can do that. Kenneth Branagh's performance of Victor Frankenstein is wild and over zealous I think. He has moments of complete insanity that are a little over done. I think he really did sink his heart and soul into this project but just maybe got a little carried away but perhaps that is how he wanted Victor portrayed. Robert De Niro...what on earth do you say about Bobby De Niro. I mean the man could do anything and I'd watch him endlessly do it. De Niro plays none other than the Creature itself and does a pretty decent job at it. I find him almost tamed compared to Branagh's wild performance but there is no doubt that he is violent and merciless and you do feel the necessary empathy for the creature, just not as deeply as I would have hoped. To be completely honest I think Helena Bonham Carter as Branagh's love interest is ridiculous. She looks hideous with her enormous hair and dark dresses and thick make up, and her and Branagh look ridiculous together. She has no real emotion to the story and the very important love story is a joke basically. Tom Hulce plays a small, rather unimportant role as Branagh's friend in school and later partner but never really does anything significant.Where I think Mary Shelley's Frankenstein really loses it's steam is that the film is boring. Instead of utilizing all the greatest parts of the legendary story it drags on and on and goes over the same issues over and over again and never really makes you care about the characters. In fact the whole thing feels kind of campy when you're said and done and it's not meant to. I think the goal was to make this classic seem real and vivid and instead a lot of time it seems like a big joke. You never really feel the right emotions for any of the characters including Branagh's Frankenstein or De Niro's creature, or Bonham Carter's jilted lover, or anyone. Clocking in at over two hours Branagh tried to make an epic out of what should be more of a nicely little packaged thriller, monster movie with perhaps more of an emotional tie. Instead this one is a sleeper if I've ever seen one. 5/10 "},{"Title":"Not Mary Shelly's Frankenstein","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I fail to see how this film can go around with the title Mary Shelly's Frankenstein. Almost every single scene in the movie is different then how events took place in the book. It may be better then the old Frankenstein movies, but this one isn't true enough to the book to be called Mary Shelly's. Victor's mother did not die giving birth in the book, she died of scarlet fever. In the book Victor did not have any professors helping with his research into galvanization. In the book, he was friends with Clerval since childhood and Clerval was also studying oriental language at the college after the creature was given life, he never studied medicine. Elizabeth is basically only the same in name. The creature speaks eloquently in the book, not so much in the movie. I can understand that some things had to be changed to fit into the time limit for a movie, but some changes were completely unnecessary, like this one in the book, Victor and Elizabeth call each other cousins, and Elizabeth calls Victor's father uncle. They didn't call each other brother and sister. Why make this change? This movie might be good as a movie by itself, but if you are looking for something accurate to the book, I implore you to read the book because there doesn't seem to be a movie that fits that description.In my opinion, this is not Mary Shelly's Frankenstein; this is Kenneth Branagh's Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"Awesome!","Date":"24 March 2004","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I can soooo watch this movie over and over and just never tire of it. Helena and Kenneth have amazing chemistry together and are talented actors. The movie seems almost like a portrait you can stare at, it's so beautiful. The scenery was simply breathtaking. The costumes were very grandiose and applied the right feel to this movie. I read the book in highschool and noticed the differences, but it didn't make me despise the movie because of its inaccuracies. I actually like the movie better than the book. The book was a little boring, but I think the movie conquered that. Anyways, this is about the film. Frankenstein has a great message. Don't play God. He's much better at it and has far more experience. I think science is God explained and God isn't against knowledge and a quest for searching and understanding, but everything needs to be done in moderation. Unfortunately, Victor pushed it too far. I can empathize with Victor's character and his devotion to life. How he simply can't understand why good people die and just the cruelty of nature. However, there's a purpose to that and he finds himself learning his lesson the hard way. I liked that the creature (as the credits call him) has his own characterization for why he does things. It's not senseless violence, but survival against a world that doesn't understand him. De Niro tapped into that very well and that he desperately wants to be good, but the odds are against him. I think a lot of humans are like that without his added issues. The plot was just great and so was the acting. I loved the music. It added such a romantic swell without being entirely overpowering. There's many layers to this film the love story, friendships, man's mind, consequences of actions...it goes on. This movie tackles all of them greatly. SPOILER STARTS HERE!!! When Elizabeth finds out that he brought her back to life, Helena's acting was superb. She reacted so believably that I was made a true fan. She cannot understand why he would bring her back to this instead of letting her go and this angers her to the point of killing herself for good. She understands immediately what Victor doesn't. You can't expect someone to live looking like that. SPOILERS END!!! The road to hell is paid with good intentions is what I got from this movie.This movie can be applied on today's terms with all the increasing technologies about how to sustain life and cloning people and the various consequences of that. Please do rent this ASAP. "},{"Title":"This movie is absolutely Brilliant","Date":"27 March 2002","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  This interpretation of the story Frankenstein, with personalities like Kenneth Brannagh,Ian Holmes,Helena-Bonham Carter and John Cleese amongst others is so incredible in its execution and dramatic flare.John Cleese,especially,makes a very memorable part as the mysterious mentor Professor Waldman,which shows Frankenstein the secrets of Life.And not to forget Kenneth Brannaghs characterization of the manic, desperate and not too forget intense Dr. Victor Frankenstein is completely without competition.It's in this part Brannaghs sense of Dramatical flare and theatrical intensity really comes into its right, and manages to put the madness of Frankenstein into an incredible sharp relief.You get an understanding of why Frankenstein does what he does.. The Death of his mother,the want to beat Death, all of these factors formed Frankenstein up to the moment where he creates and reanimates the MonsterAh, The Monster.. In all the excitement I almost forget Robert De Niro's excellent rendition of the monster. In his characterization the monster isn't just a lifeless and soulless being,but a humane being with wishes,desires,wants and lusts..He feels and experiences everything with such a strenght and intensity as noone really can describe. And he tries to adapt to a world which is completely hostile to his existence, even his Father he learns will not love him or know him.The Monster is like a child, trying to cope with emotions and feelings much stronger than anything we can imagine or percieve. And maybe it is that which makes the Monster so reckognizable?. Because he is us, and we are him? "},{"Title":"7/10","Date":"27 September 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  this movie got a lot of criticism when it was released. I believe that is unfair. This movie is very entertaining and scary and it has a good script and good acting. De Niro was a strange choice to play the monster, but he does very well with the role. Branagh, also director, was really nothing special as dr. Frankenstein. He wasn't bad, but not really outstanding.I recommend this movie. See it on DVD.      "},{"Title":"great classic","Date":"9 April 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Like Bram Stokers Dracula and The Mummy, Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is a classic horror film. I know that it really wasn't scary but it had a good drama story with it. It also was based closely to the novel which was good. The acting was great. The movie itself was very good. I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes a classic horror movie and likes Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"Kenneth Branagh's inadequate adaptation of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" As is the case with most films made in recent years based on classic novels, Kenneth Branagh's adaptation of Mary Shelley's novel, Frankenstein does not live up to the original book. The clear nuances of the mood established by Mary Shelley and the Gothic literature style in which she wrote are not conveyed at all in the 1994 film. Novels for the most part are more complete, detailed, and expressive than films, regardless of the topic, although this is only part of the problem. There are a number of moments in Kenneth Branagh's film Frankenstein which are not convincing in the least in a theatrical sense and sometimes clearly unintentionally absurd. Examples of this can be observed in any of the monster's aggressive acts such as his murder of Elizabeth and especially Victor Frankenstein's attempted recreation of his wife Elizabeth. The monster and Victor practically fight preposterously for the new creation who has the appearance of a female version of Frannkenstein;s original monster and an infant struggling in her first moments of life. Overall, no intentional comic moments should be included in an adaptation of Mary Shelley's classic novel Frankenstein if one wishes to retain the essential mood typical of Gothic literature. "},{"Title":"Mary Shelly's Frankenstein?","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Wow! What a great movie! Robert De Nero was clearly a great choice for this part. And Branagh's directing - masterful. Mary Shelley would be proud. But on a serious note, what do you think? Did Branagh interpret and translate this novel into film well? Does he appropriately capture the essence of the piece? Where does he fail? Where does he succeed? How would Mary Shelley respond to Branagh's vision? What about the set/setting, acting, cinematography? If you were the producer of this movie, would you be satisfied with the final product? If you were an actor in this movie, would you happy with the film? Is this novel even meant to be a film? If yes, how would your film be different from Branagh's version? "},{"Title":"Devestating Film","Date":"17 November 2005","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" It took me several attempts to view the entire film in one sitting because it gets to a point where you know you are going to witness terrible cruelty, which is difficult to watch. When I finally got through the picture, I was overwhelmed. All in all, it's an unspeakably sad film, direction/screenplay/cinematography/acting all top notch. DeNiro is simply brilliant as the absolutely pathetic creature. Helena Bonham-Carter is stunning as always. Her character is very believable and ends up in an outright jaw-dropping-shocking situation. Highly recommend; however, be prepared for an emotional wringing. You'll be more apt to cry rather than scream with this film. "}{"Title":"who do you root for?","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" this is one of the stickiest contaversies i have ever seen in a movie. typically, there's two sides the good guys and the bad guys. i can choose who i want to root for based on the actions of the hero-be he or she the protagonist or the antagonist. But in this movie there's a thin line between good and evil and the heroes are stepping all over it. they are both good and they are both evil. And what's more, they are both human, as shocking as that is to realize-only one looks more human and the other behaves more human (you be the judge which is which) so who do you root for? whose side do you take? the human in the monster, or the monster in the human? i'm sure i don't know. "},{"Title":"good adaption  of Frankenstein!!!!! WARNING!!! SPOILERS!!!!","Date":"7 August 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  good adaption of Frankenstein has lavish sets and costumes it ha some beautiful scenery and stunning photograph there is plenty of blood and the ending is pretty cool the acting awesome Robert Deniro is amazing as the monster he is creepy and manages to be funny at the same time i LOVE him! Kenneth Branagah is just as good here with his credible and focused show Helena Bonham Carter was surprisingly good here and caught me off guard here there is lots of animal violence it's talky but never boring but at times it gets a bit silly but manages to be a decent watch recommended *** out of 5 oh the ending is kinda sad at least i thought anyway you might think differently "},{"Title":"I'll Take Boris","Date":"31 May 2004","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" ****SPOILERS**** Robert De Niro reviving his famous role of Travis Bickle in the movie Taxi Driver in a different era and under different conditions. With automobiles not being invented at the time, the eighteenth century, of the movie Mary Shalley's Frankenstein. Bob plays just a garden variety murderer who's executed for killing the renowned professor Waldeman, John Cleese. It was the Doc who tried to inoculate him from catching the plague. De Niro or It or the Creature as he's known in the movie has his body kidnapped by one of Prof. Waldeman's fanatical students Vic Frankenstein, Kenneth Branagh. Vic wants to continue the Professor's experiments of creating life out of dead matter. And in him being as dead as you can get De Niro is the perfect candidate. Vic getting body parts from a dozen or so other cadavers and sewing them together has De Niro brought back to life. unfortunately he develops a severe identity crisis by not knowing just which of the people that he's made off he is? He also being nameless becomes the precursor of the famous Clint Eastwood Spaghetti Western character The Man With No Name. For his creator Vic forgot to Christen or name him thus he's always known and referred to in the movie as The Creature! I don't think we're even told what De Niro's character's name in Frankenstein was before he was executed?Like Tavis Bickle in Taxi Driver the Creature considers himself God's lonely Man and yearns for a mate, Cybill Shepherd's Besty from the movie Taxi Driver?, to fill his idle time as well as give him a normal life. It wants Vic to provide him with a woman by creating one out of human spare parts like Vic created him. I guess the singles bar scene didn't quite agree with It.The Creature creates havoc all throughout the movie in his quest to find out who he really is and have Vic get him a girlfriend with It and Vic ending up in the Arctic Sea! What on Earth were they doing there? After the Creature massacred all the sled dogs of a Poler expedition that he ran into Vic is taken aboard the ship by its captain & crew. Bearly clinging to life Vic tells the ship's captain Capt. Walton, Aldan Quinn, the story that we just saw in the movie and finally expires. Now with the Creature all alone in the world he immolates himself on a floating sheet of ice together with the dead Vic who throughout the movie It had a love/hate relationship with.The movie is way over-the-top in the gore department even for a horror flick with all kinds of weirdos like the Creature and Vic and Pro. Waldeman as well as Vic's step-sister, I think?, Elizabeth, Helena Bonhan Carter, whom he marries. And it's her whom The Creature later kills in order to get Vic to bring her back to life and make her his Bride. There was also the crazed ship captain in the beginning and end of the movie who's obsession to find a passage to the North Pole was more important to him then his life as well as the lives of the members of his expedition. Robert De Niro didn't utter his famous quote from Taxi Driver You Talking To Me?! Maybe because in the movie Mary Shelly's Frankenstein ME was someone that even HE didn't know who IT was! "},{"Title":"This is one of the most under rated films of all time,","Date":"22 August 2000","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I think this film is one of the most under rated movies of all time. I rented it out to help me with my English coursework and loved it so much I went out and bought it. The acting is superlative (esp. from Brannagh and De Niro) and the special effects, although not amazing, are good enough. Brannagh skillfully conveys many emotions in this film - horror, sadness, amazement, pity and even a bit of humour (provided by Tom Hulce). The film comes very close to being better than even Mary Shelley's novel and I would recommend it to anyone except those with a nervous disposition as some scenes are profoundly disturbing (especially for younger viewers). It also helps if you read the novel beforehand.  "},{"Title":"Vastly underappreciated","Date":"24 August 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  The Frankenstein storyline is well familiar to most of us.  Victor Frankenstein (Kenneth Branagh) makes a scientific breakthrough by which he can create a living creature from the pieces of the dead.  In this version, Frankenstein abandons his creation, thinking it dead, but it lives and follows him to seek its revenge for his uncaring treatment of it.All of the many good film treatments of the Frankenstein story depend on evoking the audience's sympathy for the Creature.  Frankenstein himself is usually portrayed as a gibbering madman or a callously evil genius.  The brilliance of Branagh's version is that it evokes sympathy for both the Creature and the Doctor.  Branagh's Frankenstein is a classic example of a man whose road to hell was paved with the best of intentions; he is a well-meaning physician whose ambition is to defeat death, and who fails to see the potential consequences until it is too late.  Branagh plays him with all the feverish intensity the role calls for.  DeNiro's Creature is not Karloff's child-in-a-man's-body, but more an adolescent with an adolescent's need for compassion and with an adolescent's rage at being rejected for his appearance.But the strength of the movie is not so much the characters as the energy and pacing as, slowly at first, then faster and faster, everything in Frankenstein's life falls to pieces, with his horror slowly growing as he realizes that it has all been his own fault.  Patrick Doyle's frenetic, pounding score adds immeasurably to this atmosphere of slowly building disaster.  Most of the camera shots are deliciously powerful Frankenstein scaling a mountain in pursuit of his creation, the Creature as a black speck crossing a field of snow in search of his revenge, the Creature's bloodstained hand gripping a block of ice, the ecstasy of Frankenstein's culminating experiment.  Make no mistake, this movie is unapologetic, pulse-pounding entertainment.FRANKENSTEIN has been condemned as excessively gory.  It is not.  There are only two scenes that splash any appreciable amount of blood around.  By modern horror movie standards, the gore level is quite tame.This movie presents genuine, sympathetic characters that you can care about, in welcome contrast to the conventional interchangeable teen-age characters that appear in most horror movies for no apparent purpose other than to die.  It is never slow or boring for a second.  I cannot explain its unpopularity except that apparently some people were expecting another HENRY V instead of this colorful, entertaining, and poignant take on the Frankenstein story.Rating **** out of ****. "},{"Title":"The greatest movie ever made!","Date":"2 May 1999","Score":"4 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I'm not kidding. Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is the finest film ever made, and I think it should be ranked up there with Schindler's List and Casablanca, movies which have earned the right to be called masterpieces.It's an incredible film. Branagh takes the story of Frankenstein to a new level the camera doesn't want to slow down, scenes are choppy, and a lot of it is so fast-moving, the viewer is left utterly confused. And that's the point Branagh was trying to make. The book was written from a nightmare, and Branagh was trying to film it so that it would come across as that one long huge, nightmare. It works great.Branagh also inserts themes of child abandonment and warnings about trying to learn things about nature better left understood. In fact, he takes ever single aspect of the Shelley novel seriously, and because of this, he paints it in some vivid colors that no Frankenstein film has ever dared to do before. He takes the erotic sensuality of the novel seriously (probably inspired by Mary and Percy's own love affair), he takes the text seriously, and he takes the morals and values seriously. Morals that viewers can and will relate to.The camera angles and feverish soundtrack are awesome as well-- M.S. Frankenstein is beautiful film. The performances are also over-the-top. The biggest bow goes to DeNiro as the Creature, but Tom Hulce, Helena Bohnam Carter, Adian Quinn, and Branagh himself give top notch performances as well.All in all, this is the finest film ever made, and it is suitable for all tastes horror, drama, or romance lovers should flock to see this.On a scale of one to ten, this film gets a three trillion.  "},{"Title":"NOT Mary Shelley's Frankenstein","Date":"3 April 2011","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Oh my. Again I ask, why do Hollywood writer have the hubris to think they can improve on the classics? I suppose this awful movie is CLOSER to Mary Shelley's book than usual, but the changes just completely ruin it.One huge problem is Elizabeth. In the book she is a minor character, and passive, and quiet. I guess because Elizabeth is played by the ubiquitous Helena Bonham Carter, the writers felt that they had to turn her into a fiesty independent woman who takes on a role nearly equal to Victor's. It's not a good change. The very worst part is what Victor does with her at the end - this most assuredly was NOT in the book, and it's just gratuitously disgusting. Since the movie is billed specifically as Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, enormous changes in plot are just massively irritating.Another huge and ruinous change is that in the movie, Victor actually accepts responsibility and feels remorse for what he has done. One of the main contributors to the extreme pathos of the book is that Victor does NOT accept responsibility, and he does NOT feel remorse, in any noticeable way. He hates the creature. He has no sympathy for it. In the movie, Victor is given a good reason for not making the monster's companion. In the book, Victor creates the companion for the monster, then rips her apart in front of the monster, because he feels the monster is evil - which of course he would not have been, had Victor not abandoned him from the beginning. I guess the idiot Hollywood writers felt Victor needed to be humanized, but they were wrong. In the book, the true monster IS Victor. In the movie, there is no monster. There's just a guy who made an unfortunate mistake.The casting of Robert DeNiro was terrible. It would have been better to use someone unknown. DeNiro just isn't good at this role; he just doesn't fit. Also you're aware the whole time that it IS DeNiro, which is distracting.All in all, just a really awful movie. If you want to know Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, you'll have to read the book. Bring tissues, as you will be much more moved than you could ever be by this silly flick. "},{"Title":"A failure","Date":"26 July 2000","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I applaud Branagh for taking on this work and getting into the guts of Victor Frankenstein. There are 20 minutes of really excellent filmmaking and some innovative visual images. The problem is that the rest of it is so terrible. Despite a mesmerizing performance from Robert De Niro as the unnamed monster, the movie falls flat almost everywhere. Carter is irredemably terrible; Branagh as the Dr. is uninspired whenever he is out of his laboratory; but the real mistake in this film is the storytelling - there were several points where I just wanted to ask What? You want to pull Branagh aside and tell him that his fulcrum plot point is so poorly explained and so hollow that the rest of the movie becomes truly pointless.I'm a fan of his Shakespeare adaptations, but I have to say that this movie is just a failure. "},{"Title":"Horrifying... for the wrong reasons!","Date":"22 February 2007","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I read Mary Shelley's Frankenstein for A Level English and we watched the film around the same time for Media Studies. I enjoyed the book and I am a big horror movie fan, but I thought this film was awful.It is difficult to believe that with this title sticking closely to the book, and having such an impressive cast, that it could be so awful, but it is. There are times (often) when you should be horrified or scared, but will instead find yourself laughing.It just didn't work and should be best forgotten! Spare yourselves and watch something else, Robert De Niro is in many many films a lot better than this, seek some of those out and avoid this turkey. "},{"Title":"Frankenstein Movie or Mess-up?","Date":"2 November 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Mary Shelley's Frankenstein... having just read the novel, I came into the movie prepared for a fabulous visualization- a great story mixed together with horror and fascination. However, after viewing this remake of the classic novel,I wish I had just stuck to the text or that old-school black and white version. Yes, I think the director tried to follow the the text as best he could without drawing out the film, but he also took some liberties which, in my opinion take away from the overall movie. The construction of Victor Frankenstein's lab was fabulous- that Gothic, rusty, bones-and-beakers room was just like I would have envisioned it. And the monster! That too was a great rendition of Shelley's monster- maybe just a bit too small- although, the only man big enough to really fit the feature type of the original huge monster would be Shaq- and we all found out how good of an actor he was in Kazaam... But getting to the point, the director overdid the rest of the scene where the monster bursts out of his container. I'm not sure where all that goo came from exactly, but the slipping and sliding was way to much for me. I mean, what was the point of that anyway? Don't forget the ending either! OK, so the pyrotechnics were nice when monster-Elizabeth set fire to herself, but where exactly did those explosions come from? It looked like some sort of bomb went off- didn't know a lamp could do that. Or my favorite part- after they find William dead- and the father comes out with the holler we all know so well- nnnnnnnoooooooooooo! Come on now, ease of the drama a little bit at least. Well, those are the overly excessive scenes,and if they were deleted, I think the movie would be many times better. Just take out a few of the unnecessary scenes, or just the excessive parts of them, and there you have it- a great movie. All the parts of a good horror/Gothic/gripping story are there, just the severely overly dramatic parts give an overlying tone of ridiculousness. Sorry for such a smash-review, but seriously- what was up with the half-naked wrestling??? "}{"Title":"Overrated rubbish","Date":"3 June 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" While I give Branagh props for having directed the most accurate Frankenstein movie to date, I believe that it it not right to call this movie Mary Shelley's Frankenstein. This movie falls short of capturing the essence of the novel Frankenstein written by Mary Shelleey through the loss and/or alteration of character details, and the complete disregard of the Gothic elements which characterize the novel.The passion and drive of Victor Frankenstein are lost in the movie's attempts to give reason to his madness.The feminist ideas that are presented in the novel are dashed by a washed out version of Elizabeth.Also, because of the period the book was written in, there was a lot of focus on the natural v. unnatural. The book focuses on a lot of scenery for this purpose, and the arctic is supposed to be symbolic of the frigid isolation that first the monster, then Victor feels. This feeling and idea are lost in narrow, shifty camera angles. "},{"Title":"Miserale and pompous adaptation of great story","Date":"25 May 2006","Score":"6 out of 11 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I had little expectations when starting to watch this movie, but 'boy were the little I had ruined as the story progressed. Although based on one of the all time greatest 'releasing the inner human monster' and 'pay for your affronts to God' stories, the movie was merely an expensive costume drama like those being produced by the dozen at BBC's studios. Almost every frame of the movie is composed in a theatrical style and so much effort is put into making everything looking perfect that most of the times it just looks silly. Like the way the lab is set up Nobody (except a movie character and maybe Willy Wonka) would make such a stupidly intricate transport system for the simple task of getting a 100 kg item into a tub. (And for the record This is a poorly built loft, still no one cares when the floor i flooded by huge washes of water.) Or the drape of Elisabeth flowing (like that of Drakula) when being carried up the stairs, even though they had raced back by horse becoming moist and roughened (and no way the fabric was even big enough to flow like that). These are just a few of many examples throughout the film.For most of the movie, the acting and the characters are OK, that is when they are not overacting into parody. Something that is a bit too frequent. At times it seems obvious that parts are missing, and there is also a poor balance between making boring scenes way too long and shortening the more interesting events. It seems like the film has been cut way too heavily. Still it remains more than 2 hours long.In my opinion Do yourself a favor and skip this movie, it is way better to read the book. "},{"Title":"Do not watch this movie!","Date":"28 April 2006","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I've never seen a piece of literature raped like this before. I don't think that the makers of this film ever even read the book. Mary Shelley is rolling over in her grave. Brannagh, what have you done? I'd never seen this movie until tonight, but not only does it fail as an adaptation, it fails as a film. It's absurdly cheesy and completely denies it's source material. I've always loved Brannagh's work, especially with Shakespeare, but this is a total mess. They really should have at least attempted to make it closer thematically with the novel, particularly if they are going to claim that it is Mary Shelley's Frankenstein. For shame. "},{"Title":"A ghastly remake","Date":"28 September 2003","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  This movie is not worth seeing. Has no merits what so ever. Does not make sense. A total waste of time. I don´t know why Brannagh bothered to try and make this. De Niro is a joke as the monster. Read a horror story instead of wathing this exploitation of viewers. Simply not worth our time.  "},{"Title":"The Worst Movie - EVER","Date":"16 May 1999","Score":"7 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I think that perhaps this movie might view better on video than it did in the cinema.  When I saw it there, it was like watching an auto wreck.  You didn't want to watch it, but there was something strange that made you stay and look at this disaster of a film.  As one person before said, you stayed just to see what horrible idea they'd come up with next.The movie was so filled with such bad over-acting, that it insulted the intelligence of the viewer.  The staircase was an example of the over-the-top design and story devices they used, but that were miserable failures.If you have a choice, never watch this movie. "},{"Title":"An Absolute Mess -- But Fun","Date":"22 August 2006","Score":"10 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I wish I could agree with the more heartfelt recomendations from others here. If I watch this as a big budget Hammer film, it kinda works. But for the talent involved, it's poorly directed, edited, over-acted and generally unpleasant to watch.How can you not laugh aloud at the hairy chested close-ups Branagh gives himself? The birth scene is ridiculous and the endless jump cuts as Branagh tries to manhandle Deniro's bloody naked body...laugh out funny. And I'm a fan of KB's work. But this humorless and jumbled attempt at gussing up the original is a missed opportunity. Deniro does as good as can be expected under the uninspiring stitched make up, but he's still Bobby Deniro as The Monster. Why not stick to Mary Shelly's story? Respect it like bad Shakespeare.There's some good casting bits, but the look of the film isn't cohesive and the endlessly gliding camera can't cover up the dull staging. "},{"Title":"awful awful awful SPOILERS","Date":"8 September 2005","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" THis movies is one of the most ridiculous movies I have ever seen. Brannagh or whatever his name is a hammy over actor. THis movie had some of the cheesiest overacting I've ever seen. The love between him and carter is flimsy and there chemistry is non existent. I had trouble believing any of the acting it was just a joke. THe movie also lacks consistency and logic.SPOILERS How does a doctor who can bring a creature to life for the first time in human history study it for a matter of minutes before mistakingly thinking it is dead, and then just leaving the body hanging from his ceiling. Later in the movie after he decides he made a mistake in playing god, he refuses to repeat the mistake on someone he had cared for by turning her into the monsters bride. Yet this same moral reasoning does not apply when attempting to reanimate his murdered wife like 2 days later??? If you know it will make her a monster why would you do that to someone you truly love????just a stupid stupid movie don't waste your time "},{"Title":"Not Worthwhile","Date":"25 January 2005","Score":"11 out of 21 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" The cover of the VHS edition features a film critic's remark that the movie is Erotic, which gives you an idea of how far from the book this movie has fallen. In Branagh's defense, there are a lot of difficulties translating the original work into movie form as there are many long passages of time in which critical details are summarized, also there is a lot of introspection and conversation that would need to be translated into something more visually compelling. There were key details that Branagh changed, though, without good cause. For one thing, the monster was supposed to be 8 feet tall and somewhat demonic in appearance. Branagh opted for a disfigured Robert DeNiro, presumably to save on special effects (or to avoid hiring a basketball player to play the part). In the book, the monster was quite articulate and we have a better understanding of his wretchedness and his wickedness. Numerous comparisons are made between the monster and Adam from The Bible, also the monster and Satan, the powerful fallen angel. Mary Shelley succeeded in simultaneously creating sympathy and revulsion for the brute, but Branagh completely failed to pull this off. He also ruined the romantic relationship between Victor and Elizabeth, which in the book started as deep admiration and built with some suspense and tension until it finally culminated in their marriage and her demise, but Branagh decided to have them fondling each other more or less within the first ten minutes of the film. The viewer is also forced to watch very exaggerated acting from most of the main characters (DeNiro manages to avoid this) as if they're trying to make up for the poor screenplay adaptation by overacting. In short, the only sense in which this was truly faithful to the original work was in that Branagh took bits and pieces of the original, breathed life into it, and created an abomination. "},{"Title":"Pathetic version of a great plot!","Date":"22 October 2005","Score":"12 out of 23 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This film obviously has no understanding of the original plot (which is still current and worthy of discussion today), but the person(s) responsible did see Bride of Frankenstein and managed to screw up that plot as well when they tried to incorporate it into this film. The Mel Brooks film has more respect for Mary Shelly than this disaster. No wonder a discount chain sold this to me for $5.50. It wasn't worth it, even at that price! The concept of putting together body parts is a contemporary consideration because we are now able to achieve this. The fact that this was written so long ago (by a woman who was challenged by her husband and a friend to see who could write the best horror story) should give it the historic respect it deserves. This film ignores the historic significance and current relevance of Mary Shelly's work. "},{"Title":"Simply the worst film I have ever seen","Date":"24 October 2007","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" There is simply no excuse for this film. If it is meant to be a stylised melodramatic version of the novel, then by any standards of artistic taste it should be melodramatic, not a disastrously badly written hotch-potch of cinematic ideas. The melodrama merely makes the viewer run to vomit in the kitchen sink. The cast is fantastic, stellar; but they are made to spew such insipid, laughable lines that I would not be surprised if not a single one of them doesn't regret being in it - excepting Kenneth Branagh, who is probably still in denial about blotting his brilliant career with this utter tripe. The 1931 version deviates seriously from the book, but is a quality film. This version sticks closer to Mary Shelley's story but is somehow much more of a deviation - a deviation away from a sense of style and wit, and the changes the writers have made (Justine/Victor/Elizabeth love triangle?!) are simply disastrous. I thoroughly enjoyed watching this movie - I laughed pretty much all the way through. If you want to watch a BAD BAD film, this is the one for you. It is the best, worst film I have ever seen. "}{"Title":"Yeah, I'm a monster...wanna make somethin' of it?","Date":"29 October 2002","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  If Boris Karloff were still alive today and watched this version of the classic novel, he would probably die of a heart attack or have nightmares for weeks!After playing gangsters and police officers in so many of his movies, it's nice to see Robert DeNiro stretching as an actor by playing the sad, neglected creation of Dr. Frankenstein.  He does a wonderful job, as does Kenneth Branagh as the doctor.I've only seen snippets of the 1931 film, but today it would look so cheap compared to this one.Bravo Kenneth, you've done it again! "},{"Title":"An unmoving melodramatic flop","Date":"1 June 2002","Score":"17 out of 33 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Robert DeNiro starts off as a Long John Silver type character and ends up a revengeful maffiosi type  Frankenstein. Frankenstein..Revenge! -I knew he was going to say that. I was embarrassingly the only one laughing in the audience especially when frank uses a meat cleaver for his operations and those stitches - monty pythonesque plastic surgeon. The floating/rotating camera-work is annoying and in most scenes people seem to be always running and dashing around the place. Also some of the dialogue These people of which I am comprised- very funny. I would love to see the out-takes of this film as Kenneth Branagh had apparently found it hard to keep a straight face and was laughing at DeNiro all the time. "},{"Title":"Seriously, what were they thinking?","Date":"26 April 2007","Score":"18 out of 35 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Wow, this film is so inaccurate on so many levels. I read the book in 12th grade, and I can't say I liked the story, but that is not my beef with this movie. Why call it MARY SHELLY'S Frankenstein if its not based on her novel? The inclusion of the author's name implies more accuracy, not less.Okay, why is Frankenstein dancing on the mountains with his half-sister and a lightening pole? He was a medical student because of his mothers death, not a random science enthusiast. His mother also died from illness, not childbirth. Frankenstein's friend Henry was from his hometown, not his school. And why did Kenneth Branagh feel the need to slick himself up in goo for the monster-making scene? Also, there was no need for the sex scene, unless it was just to spice up the movie, as Frankenstein and Elizabeth never had a chance to consummate their marriage. And what was with the whole trial-gone-awry!?? It was supposed to be an unfair trail, not a mob-gone-mad and throwing the girl off a cliff. Why was the monster going to secret meetings in ice caves? But the MOST ridiculous part was when Frankenstein tried to regenerate Elizabeth. She's DEAD and should stay that way! Why could he not make the one girl with the perfectly fine body come to life, but magically when he hacks off her head and stick's on his lovers, she sparks to life. And was it necessary to shave half her head in the process? The longer this movie went on, the more i just wanted to laugh. It went so far off base, it shouldn't have even been called Frankenstein, let alone dared to include the author's name as if she'd given personal approval. Unless of course, he knew it was so far removed, people wouldn't recognize and confuse it with Bob Smith's Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"This movie was absolutely abominable to any educated person.","Date":"23 March 2005","Score":"33 out of 65 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I am a high school English teacher who is in the process of teaching Frankenstein to my classes. When I rented the movie Mary Shelley's Frakenstein, I expected it to be consistent with the novel; hence, the reference to Mary Shelley in the actual title. This movie makes me internally conflicted between anger and laughter. The actual novel was butchered. There are countless scenes that are just absolutely fabricated. The movie has consistent scenes which just don't make sense. If you're going to refer to the author in the title, how about actually honoring the poor woman? Make a movie that respects her story, instead of butchering it. Unfortunately, this woman isn't alive to defend herself and disassociate herself from this film.-Victor's mother died of Scarlet Fever, not during childbirth. -Henry Clerval was a childhood friend; not someone Victor met at Ingolstadt (university). -During the whole novel Victor refuses to tell anybody how he created the creature, while in the novel we have all this detail. -Why the hell was Branaugh putting up a lightening rod in the middle of a field where he and Elizabeth are the tallest objects in the area? How is he able to count down perfectly to when the lightening will strike? Where did that scene come from anyway? -They played up the pseudo incestuous nature of Elizabeth and Victor way too much. -The monster cuts firewood for the cottagers; he doesn't pick fricking radishes for them.This is only the very beginning of the movie and I haven't included nearly all the stupidity.If you read the novel, you should be disappointed in this sorry excuse for a film. "},{"Title":"Takes a big dump on all previous Frankenstein films from an almighty height...","Date":"3 December 2000","Score":"37 out of 73 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" ...it's just such a pity that this is faint praise, since this one never quite rises above the B-level in itself. All the elements for a brilliant film were in place a perfect cast (especially De Niro as the monster), breathtaking locations, and for once, complete faithfulness to the real story. With nary a bolt or piece of green skin in sight, Mary Shelley's classic tale of anti-science terror has never looked so great.It's just such a pity that it cannot make its mind up whether it wants to be a pure emotional drama or a straight-for-the-throat horror story. Robert De Niro lends his character(s) the right degree of emotion and subtlety, and John Cleese surprises the stuffings out of me by showing that yes, he really can act. Helena Bonham Carter gives a good performance that allows the rest of the cast something to work with, but her role is sadly underdeveloped. Unfortunately, all of these foundations are brought crashing down by Kenneth Branagh's overacting. Had the wild bursts of energy and madness been a little spaced out (as is generally the case with the mentally ill), a great deal of believability would have been salvaged. Unfortunately, his performance as Victor Frankenstein turns what could have been a modern masterpiece into a sophomoric stage play with production values, captured on celluoid.Having said that much, it is wonderful to see that Hollywood has finally dismissed the childish imitation of Frankenstein that has plagued it since the 1930s. No more bolts, no more stupid-looking makeup, and no more idiotic poses. De Niro and Branagh bring the monster to life in such an elegant way that, in the scenes when we see the monster struggle alone, we just cannot help but feel for him. Indeed, the scenes when the monster is chased out of the town by ignoramuses who believe him to be carrying the plague, one has to wonder who the real monsters of this story are. Speaking as a mental patient who has never to this day been properly treated, my favourite point of this film is the moment where Frankenstein confronts his creation. Hearing the son tell the father how the latter gave the former these major impulses and bursts of violent strength without teaching the poor creature how to deal with them rings so true for me that I still show this scene to the health professionals I try to educate from time to time.If I could sum up my comments on this film in a single phrase, it would be that while we have a long way to go in realising the true horror element of this story, Kenneth Branagh's effort stands head and shoulders above the pack. Well worth having a look at, and the photography alone makes it worth owning on DVD. "},{"Title":"Interesting Take On The Tale","Date":"29 March 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This is a pretty interesting film version of the story. In a roundabout way, it's similar to the Universal Classics because The Monster or Creature is created by Frankenstein and becomes abandoned and lonely for someone like him - a bride - but that's about as far as the similarities go. The Creature himself is more similar in looks to the classic Hammer Horror Frankenstein with Christopher Lee than any of the Universal Horror Classic 'Monsters' (Karloff, Chaney, Lugosi & Strange).As far as the story goes Mary Shelley's Frankenstein (1994) has a good take on the tale but not nearly as good as Universal or Hammer Horror films. That's just my opinion. If you do not compare films (film companies) then you have a pretty darn good monster movie here that is worth a watch if you like this sorta film.6.5/10 "},{"Title":"The environment creates monsters!","Date":"24 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I got a chance to watch this movie about 2 years ago, but unfortunately, just the second part of it. And finally i observed it from the beginning to the end. For sure, i had no the same fear, intense and suspense atmosphere like the first time, but it helped me to understand the characters deeper.It is a story about a man, whose is very talented from his childhood, and his parents have a great expectations regarding him, but suddenly his mother passes away, during giving a birth to his brother and from that moment he decides to make people live forever and to find the way to implement the resurrection of the corps. Finally his dream came true, but from that moment he had to pay for what he had done. The atmosphere of the movie is dark, but extremely attractive. You can't take a look out of it. Soundtracks, the fast change of the shots, uptight ambiance are drawing you into. I felt a deep compassion to the Monster. Robert De Niro's performance is outstanding. In fact, Victor killed all his beloveds, by the hand of the Monster. He created him, but didn't put a soul in. Everyone who is next to him, had to pay for his mistake.Frankenstein is an amazing movie and it is almost criminal how it was underrated. "},{"Title":"Shouldn't be called Mary Shelley's","Date":"22 October 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Nothing like the book so why call it Mary Shelley's? Victor Frankenstein is primarily a chemist and keeps the process of animating a body secret. There are no dead body parts and there is no electricity in the books. Rather it is suggestive that the body is created by Victor and the animation process is a chemical process rather than electrical process... although it does not say for certain how the 'monster' is constructed.This film owes more to early Hollywood and Hammer than it does to Mary Shelley. Also my impression of Victor Frankenstein in the books is that he is an incredibly private person. The 'monster' is created by himself over a long period of time and in deep secrecy and after its creation Victor becomes even more withdrawn in himself. I felt that this film does not portray Victor in this light. By all means keep the film's original title as Frankenstein as a homage to the films of old but to make arrogant claims that it resembles the book suggests to me that the director or the studio officials who decided to change the name to Mary Shelley's Frankenstein have not read the book but instead have relied on watching the earlier film versions of the story. "},{"Title":"Kenneth Branagh's Frankenstein Will Live Forever","Date":"22 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" The Creature is arguably the single most recognized horror icon of the 20th Century, and I am referring specifically to the Karloff/James Whale/Jack Pierce Creature. Various actors of both great and obscure repute have assayed the role, but it belongs to Boris Karloff. This is incontestable. Karloff's iconic and definitive performance as the Creature is inextricably linked to the character itself throughout popular culture.My deal is that I really really like the Shelley novel, and Mary Shelley's Frankenstein actually improves the closing chapters in a way that is unique, to my knowledge. It is remarkably faithful to the book most of the time. Frank Darabont shared a Saturn Award nomination for Best Writing with Steph Lady, who has only one other credit on IMDb. Patrick Doyle contributed a score that is by turns heroic, lighthearted, romantic, and chilling. It emphasizes the story with an amiable insistence that recalls the original music composed for the great silent films.People rip on Kenneth Branagh for his apparent egotism. Victor Frankenstein is an huge egotist. How else to explain his obstinate belief that he alone can defeat Death? Victor sacrifices everything he once held dear at the altar of vainglorious willfulness. I feel that Branagh's feverish direction gives epic material an operatic flair.The love story between Victor and Elizabeth is truly moving. Kenneth Branagh and Helena Bonham Carter famously began a five-year romance during production that ended Branagh's marriage to Emma Thompson. Their infatuation is evident in the way Carter teases him playfully, and when Branagh gazes upon her rapturously. <<<<<<<<<< Start SPOILER >>>>>>>>>> IMO, the choice to have him revive Elizabeth and her to then take her own life is brilliant, and makes Darabont/Branagh's ending a complete inversion of Bride of Frankenstein's ending. Helena Bonham Carter's acting in these scenes is absolutely gut-wrenching. The ending so fried my circuits in the theater that I thought I was literally having an hallucination. It knocked me to the ground, kicked me, and then stuck a hot poker in my ear. I was scared and fascinated by what I was seeing THAT much. The film left me dazed, like after an excellent concert. <<<<<<<<<< End SPOILER >>>>>>>>>> That departure from the 1818 novel is what cinches Mary Shelley's Frankenstein as my favorite all-time adaptation, in spite of the flaws that I describe below.Downers are the head-scratching miscasting of De Niro (who does a fine job, nonetheless), and the decision to make the makeup realistic and understated as opposed to grotesque and terrifying. Branagh literally made everything in the movie larger than life except the Creature itself, which is the opposite of Shelley. I still adore the film regardless, and the scene where the Creature lures William with the flute is etched in my memory. Elizabeth...say my name. "},{"Title":"Or in search of the Barest chest","Date":"8 August 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Not sure what was on Branagh's mind here, but casting De Nero as the monster was way off beam, and the make-up didn't really work. When you know the face of the young Don Corleoni us under that mask you are just waiting for the next smart remark. Thankfully he avoided the excessively philosophically thinking, eloquent and educated monster that was utterly incredible in the original book, but the one moment of reflection between him and Frankenstein in the ice-cave simply did not ring true. There was a poor understanding of the big screen. And some ridiculously comic moments that were too staged. See Bonham Carter running across the lawn to meet Frankie's horse, just makes you ask why he did not ride up to the house? Then after the monster has harvested the field of turnips, the camera pans to De Nero's face in - to let us all know who did it - just looks so pantomime and silly. But the worst thing is that Branagh seemed to use any excuse to get his shirt off. This was a six-pack too far. "}{"Title":"Very scary","Date":"11 July 2015","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This is a great movie. Doctor Frankenstein creates a monster from dead baby parts. This is one of the best horror movie remake ever. This is scarier then the 1931 version. The 30's version is good. But this better. Robert D.e N.i.r.o is great as the monster. Kenneth B.r.a.n.g.h is great Doctor Frankenstein. This movie as great acting. It also has a great story line. This version is one of a few that is very true to the book. This is one of the greatest horror movies ever. It is based on one of the best horror books ever. This movie has great special effects. There are not a lot of movies that are scarier then Frankenstein (1931). This is one of them. This movie is very intense. "},{"Title":"Dr. Frazzled Frankenstein","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Aside from Young Frankenstein (1974), I have never actually seen a movie based on the titular doctor. I have never seen the 1931 Boris Karloff version nor Andy Warhol's 1973 adaptation. In fact, I have never even read the novel. Yet the mythos of the character is so ingrained in our culture that the story is known by almost all. Dr. Frankenstein, a gifted but brash scientist digs up an assemblage of body parts and reanimates them to create a monster he regrets.In this adaptation, The story is told by Dr. Frankenstein (Kenneth Branagh) to Captain Walton (Aidan Quinn), a man looking to make a name for himself by reaching the North Pole. Frankenstein's major impetus for creating life after death stems from the death of his mother giving birth to his younger brother and his major love interest is his adopted sister Elizabeth (Helena Bonham Carter). My guess is family is important to him.While in medical school he befriends a young medical student named Henry (Tom Hulce) and professor Waldman (John Cleese) with similar fascinations with alternative medicine. Waldman warns Frankenstein not to venture further down the rabbit-hole but of course he does and nearly dies of exhaustion attempting to bring his experiments to reality. Once the monster (Robert De Niro) is brought to life, the doctor balks at his experiment and immediately regrets everything he has worked for. The monster however wonders away carrying with it the doctor's journal so naturally the only logical thing to do would be to just forget all about it.Naturally, as with virtually all movies, the bad guy gets his just desserts and we all learn an important lesson on the folly of scientific exploration and achievement. You heard me, the folly of scientific exploration; because progress is an incredible evil that must be stopped or else risk unleashing horrible monsters that will inherit the earth. Its not like Frankenstein could have done a few things differently like have a protocol for destroying the monster then studying it to find where he went wrong. Or failing that he could have always locked the door to make sure his monster doesn't escape.Not that anything really went wrong to begin with. The monster was capable of cognitive thought and motor skills, could speak, read, write and play the flute. It didn't perform Puttin' On the Ritz but had the song been around in the 1700's I bet he could sing it. Additionally, at the beginning of his second life, he was capable of kindness, mercy, and sympathy. The only bad thing about the monster was his ugly mug. For that reason the good doctor gave up on his project, lamented over what a terrible thing he has done and collapsed sobbing on his pillow like a girl who wasn't asked to the prom. Question You made your creature out of random decaying body parts, did you expect it to look like Megan Fox? The rest of the story follows the monster who wonders around for a while before he begins to plot his revenge against the doctor with relentless flair. Frankenstein meanwhile gets caught up in period-piece melodrama complete with lavish sets, high society gatherings and Ian Holm. Eventually things turn tragic then just plain gory and at the end of the tale, Captain Walton turns his ship around so he may live to be brazen another day.To be fair the main message of Frankenstein has been around for ages. The Matrix and Terminator imagine worlds where our hubris creates machines that take over the world. A much better (and underrated) adaptation of the story, Splice (2009) involves a similar creation who is begotten by two impertinent scientists who look to achieve practical purposes like curing disease.Conquering death does have its practical purposes I guess but hypothesizing in order to cure death we must create life, is like saying in order to stop war we need to build better weapons. Furthermore the psychology of the creature and the scientists involved are important factors in the decision making processes in Splice. Frankenstein leaves many of those nuances unexplored leaving you with a good looking movie that seems too frazzled to be impacting.http//www.theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com "},{"Title":"Good Adaptation Of Horror Classic!","Date":"13 November 2013","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Kenneth Branagh directs and co-stars in this 1994 horror film starring Robert De Niro, Helen Bonham Carter, Tom Hulce, Ian Holm, John Cleese and Aidan Quinn based on Mary Shelley's novel. This focuses on scientist, Victor Frankenstein (Branagh) who is determined to recreate life after he loses his mother. Soon, he uses parts of dead people and a criminal (De Niro) to make a living body and succeeds. Victor's dream becomes a nightmare and learns the consequences when his creature exacts revenge. Carter (Fight Club) plays Victor's beloved, Elizabeth, Hulce (Animal House) plays Victor's friend, Henry, Holm (Alien) plays Victor's father, Baron, Cleese (A Fish Called Wanda) plays Professor Waldman and Quinn (Benny & Joon) plays Captain Walton. This is a good adaptation of the horror classic featuring a good cast, great score & gruesome make-up effects I recommend. "},{"Title":"Die Monster , Die!","Date":"22 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Beautiful sets, magnificent lighting and a cornucopia of some of the finest actors on the planet cannot save this film from a real dog of a script and appalling direction. People run here, there, and everywhere. Lighting flashes, Nooooooooooo! is yelled and yelled again. Its a dogs dinner of every trope in the business, with much emphasis on significant lines from shallowly developed characters and scenes that linger or hinge on some inconsequential point that may have seemed dramatic somewhere, sometime, but not in the final product. It's nearly two hours long, but feels like three and perhaps should have been cut to one. There is little to celebrate save one great shot worthy of note, Victor Frankenstein carrying the body of Elizabeth up a winding staircase of towering RKO magnificence whilst trailing a long blood red cape. "},{"Title":"Not great but it's watchable","Date":"22 March 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" It's no secret that Mr. Kenneth Branagh loves him some adaptation. He has directed numerous adaptations from Shakespearian plays and is quite good at it. But in 1994 he decided to take a different approach to adaptation and adapt a slightly more modern, yet still classic, story. This was Mary Shelley's chilling novel Frankenstein. He put together a strong cast, obviously including himself, and got himself a nice budget of 45 million dollars to make his film. The result isn't terrible, but it isn't that great either. It is a vastly different telling of the Frankenstein story compared to the brilliant 1931 film from James Whale. It tells of Victor Frankenstein, an intelligent young man who has a very promising future in the field of medicine. But that changes when his mother dies and he embarks on a maddening quest to bring the dead back to life. After practically going insane he does so, but instead of creating a man he creates a monster. And after neglecting his horrific creation, it escapes and swears revenge on its creator. This is a very odd story and it is one that strangely combines romance and horror into an unfortunately disjointed film.If I could fix this film in just one way and one way only, I would have it slow the hell down! This movie starts with a slow brooding intro in the arctic when we meet Victor Frankenstein who is being chased by his monster. He meets some sailors whose ship is stuck in the ice and they take him in. Frankenstein recounts everything that led up to this point to the ship's captain and the film flashes back many years earlier where the Frankenstein's and their friends are all introduced. From here the movie just takes off, throwing so much storyline at you, not taking time to develop anything fully. Relationships are established and the film just moves on. Major plot points occur and the film gets right on through them and on to the next thing. It is a frustratingly rampant film that just I constantly felt needed to just tone it down a bit and develop this story at a normal and more accessible pace. I'm not saying the film moves too fast to comprehend, but it definitely moves too fast to connect.But if you break the film down and just take the story as it comes, it isn't bad. The setup to the creation of the monster is uselessly long and moments get a bit irritating and you sometimes wish the film would move on, which is ironic considering this film zips through its plot at breakneck speeds. I was really getting tired of the film before the monster was finally introduced, and then the film picked up a bit. Like I said, it is a completely different telling of the Frankenstein story, so that was interesting. The development of the monster character obviously moves a little too fast, staying true to everything else about the film, but it does tell an interesting story. Moments of the film get a little boring but keep its flow moving. The last half hour of this film really made me start to rethink my opinions about the film I had had up until then. The ending is great and very dramatic. You can tell the film has been trying to build up to this moment and that sort of failed, but the ending itself is very entertaining. The film does cram all of its themes of life, death, love, and rebirth into the end and it gets a little sloppy, but the story itself wraps up quite nicely.Artistically this is a pretty nice looking film. The monster is designed well and Robert De Niro's makeup is very grotesque, but it's somewhat amusing knowing that it's Robert De Niro of all people under all that. Branagh shows his knowledge of how to direct a film here, and there are a lot of cool tracking shots and hauntingly beautiful frames. But some of it does go into excess at times and after a while you can get tired of all the dizzying tracking shots spinning around characters as they deliver lines with plenty of melodrama. But it's important not to confuse melodrama with bad acting. The acting here is actually really good, albeit cheesy because of a melodramatic script. Branagh is great as Victor Frankenstein and has some really cool scenes. De Niro as the monster is... well, different. It's not bad but it's very strange to watch the monster learn to speak and write, beginning with not knowing anything to speaking fluently and eloquently in what seems like no time at all. Then of course there's the always strange and always magnificent Helena Bonham Carter who does a great job in this film as Frankenstein's love, Elizabeth. She manages to make melodrama easy to watch, rather than painful.There are a number of things that saved this film from being truly awful. If not for the good acting and nice camera-work this film could have been unbearable. This film tells a story with some interesting themes and some creative aspects, but it just wasn't told as well as it could have been. The pacing issue is probably my biggest complaint, but it's just not a film that is made all that well. It tries to be good, and I say that because I know Branagh is a skilled director with a lot of respect towards filmmaking and how to do it. Frankenstein just missed the mark on a number of things, making it just another film that I will surely forget about soon. "},{"Title":"Could Have Been Scarier","Date":"20 July 2010","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" My first impression was that this was a very good film. Then later on, I had some misgivings. Robert DeNiro was, as usual, brilliant. The rest of the cast wasn't - their characters were caught up in the big weakness of the majority of period pieces - stilted, unrealistic dialogue. This is a very big flaw, as it took away the horror that would have been manifested if you were lulled into believing that these characters had any credibility at all. Instead, they were all one dimensional and paper thin. Because you cannot connect with any of the characters (bad acting, stilted dialogue), you don't feel much emotion, even when shocking violence is perpetrated. No amount of gore could make this overly fast-paced and ultimately unrealistic film seem real.The fact that Dr. Frankenstein relied on electric eels for his electrical source seemed silly. The fact that both the Frankenstein monster and the reanimated bride had stitches all over their faces was never explained. The whole thing with the arctic seemed ludicrous. Victor Frankenstein had every opportunity to shoot the monster, yet never got around to it.The 1931 Boris Kharloff version was superior in the sense that it had suspense. This element was lacking here. Also, the Frankenstein monster of 1931, with the swollen head, forehead stitches, and bolted neck was much more frightening. Kharloff outdid Deniro here.All in all, a potentially great film ruined by banal dialogue and overacting. "},{"Title":"If you deny me my wedding night... I shall be with you on yours!","Date":"20 September 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" After sitting down and watching Kenneth Branagh's 'Frankenstein' for the first time, I find myself thoroughly bemused. His 1994 adaptation of Mary Shelley's famous novel met with pure venom on its original release, and is now widely regarded as nothing more than a failure, and yet it is brilliant. Having read and loved Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus just a few weeks ago, I came to realise how James Whale's 1931 film &#150; despite being a cinematic masterpiece &#150; had completely butchered Shelley's original story, and had permanently distorted how the general public viewed the Frankenstein tale. Thus, Kenneth Branagh took it upon himself to craft a worthy adaptation to a remarkable novel, creating a visually-stunning, highly-theatrical, gripping, wildly over-the-top tragedy that is largely faithful to its source material. Basically, it's the version I'd been yearning to see.Branagh portrays the ill-fated Victor Frankenstein, whose heartfelt bid for eternal glory ends in his losing everybody he cares about. Despite what others have voiced, I thought that he was excellent in the role. Robert De Niro lends his mighty talents to the Creature (and the filmmakers make a point of declaring that, in fact, the monster doesn't have a name), an immense, horrific, repulsive abomination of nature, whose hopeless existence nonetheless commands a certain sense of pity. Helena Bonham Carter is very good as Elizabeth, Victor's devoted life-long love (and adopted sister). Competent supporting performances also come from Ian Holm as Baron Frankenstein, Tom Hulce as good friend Henry Clerval and John Cleese completely unrecognisable as Professor Waldman (or, at least, I never noticed that it was him).Kenneth Branagh comes from a background in theatre, and so it's no surprise to see that he plays the story as a sort of theatrical Gothic melodrama, and he overplays Victor just the right amount. For those striving for realism, this might just seem silly and contrived, but, if you consider the fantastic nature of the plot, it is probably the most reliable direction to steer. At times, however, the director seems unsure as to exactly what genre he wishes his film to be, and it occasionally seesaws between straight horror, swashbuckling adventure and high camp. The sequence in which Victor succeeds in resurrecting Elizabeth from the dead (the one major deviance from the original novel) seems like something that might have sprung from the mind of Tim Burton, and, aside from demonstrating the phenomenal make-up work, it is much too cheesy to fit in with the tone of the rest of the film.I'm in two minds about Robert De Niro's performance as the Creature. When I was reading the book, I imagined that his creation would be a terrifying appearance, with the resultant monster a nasty, repulsive indignation towards Mankind. Instead, the Creature was simply pathetic; I can't imagine anything more morbidly wretched than Victor frantically wrestling his creation's lifeless form within a pool of amniotic fluid. Nevertheless, even given a limited vocabulary, De Niro commands attention from the audience, with his character's waverings between sensitivity and malevolence leaving us with conflicting emotions towards him. All in all, Kenneth Branagh's 'Frankenstein' is an excellent adaptation of literature's first great work of science-fiction, which is as respectful to the source material as it is visual stunning. Roger Pratt's cinematography is simply exquisite, particularly his sweeping aerial photography of the Swiss Alps. Visual effects are integrated well, complementing the story but never overshadowing it. For fans of Mary Shelley's novel, I can't help but recommend it. "},{"Title":"Stirring and exciting retelling of classy novel by actor and director Branagh","Date":"12 March 2007","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" A happy Victor Frankenstein(Kenneth Branagh)enamored his half-sister(Helena Bonham Carter) goes to the University where learns signatures of professors(John Cleese and Robert Hardy).He decides to drop out and continue his studies alone.Then Frankenstein attempting to create an artificial monster(Robert DeNiro) of his own.But he's creating a man made being but inadvertently giving him a criminal instinct.Victor rejects him and the monster flees and after he swears vengeance.The monster terrorizing the countryside and everything gets worse.Then he's coerced by the evil monster into creating a mate for him but he begins a killing spree.The bloodthirsty monster asks to Victor trying to alive recently executed for give him a lover.The prowl starts from monster birth ,continuing his revenge against Frankenstein and back again, until the end in the freeze Arctic where find a captain of galleon(Aidan Quinn).This is a stylish,brilliant and faithful adaptation of immortal,durable novel.It's a well designed recounting of Mary Shelley's horror tale.Spooky images creates impact of numerous key sequences as in the monster creation .This is a good entry of the several adapted times has many ghoulish scenes alongside with some touches of romance.Although creaky at times, but it's still breathtaking for its impressive images.Terrific acting by Robert DeNiro in his portrayal of the monster with a sinister and weird performance.It's an entertaining movie if you catch it in the right frame in the mind.Spectacular images by cameraman Roger Pratt make this picture a real treat.Sensational,evocative score by Patrick Doyle, usual in the movies directed by Kenneth Branagh.The film was nominated for ten Oscars but didn't achieve none.Highly recommended despite it was a flop in the box office. "},{"Title":"This film deals effectively with the themes of the book","Date":"9 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed this. I watch it a couple of times every year or so when I teach it to students and I am continually impressed with the effective way that Branagh deals with the themes of creation/science/loss etc. The 'birth' scene is especially good for teaching story telling techniques and how light and sound are used to create mood. It is a huge improvement on the Boris Karloff film and much better than anything I remember sitting up late to watch in the 70's! Not entirely sure why this has done so badly with press and public. It's good. Not a masterpiece, but a solid, well made film with some excellent performances. "},{"Title":"The Folly of Progress","Date":"8 January 2006","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Kenneth Branagh wanted to create a more faithful adaptation of Mary Shelley's novel, but it is far from being accurate. Too often he lets himself guide by pure sensationalism, he seems convinced that by filming more spectacular scenes than to be found either in the original novel or in the earlier film versions, he will attract a wide mass audience and thus push through his ideological message.For instance Justine, the servant girl adopted by the Frankenstein family, is convicted without a trial and spectacularly hanged by a furious mob, pushing her downwards from a high building with her head tied to a rope. There is not even time to interview her, whereas in the novel she is forced to confess and sentenced to death in spite of passionate appeals by Victor and Elizabeth. However, the Branagh treatment does not seem to make much sense in terms of character development, as Justine has not been convincingly introduced into the film plot. She just has not had enough scenes before as to have become really known to the movie audience, and therefore her violent death won't cause too much emotional involvement.A reasonable condensation of events and the omission of apparently superfluous details is a major problem in any adaptation of huge literary works. Branagh chose to cut down considerably the period of time that the Creature spends in the pigsty hiding from his host family near Ingolstadt. These people are now just poor peasants, and by no means French noblemen on the refuge, as in Shelley's version. And the attractive Arab lady, in love with young Felix, obviously has to disappear altogether from the plot.The idea of Branagh was, of course, not to concentrate too much on the fate of the Creature but to highlight the folly of the scientist instead. And, indeed, to strike out at scientific progress as a whole. Did you consider the consequences of your actions? is one of the key questions the Creature asks a befuddled Frankenstein. Of course, he did not think about it all, he was just overwhelmed by his desire to overcome death, following the sad loss of his mother. The same way, innumerable scientists of the recent history, not only in the field of genetic engineering, might be carried away by the emotional impact of their inventions and discoveries without reflecting on possible ill effects.Warning about the dangers of genetic modification might be one concern of the film. However, Kenneth Branagh has much more on his mind. This is proved by the inclusion of the Arctic frame, not fully understood by some critics (the movie is bracketed with an unnecessary prologue and epilogue, says even Roger Ebert). Here an explorer is heading north on his attempt to be the first man at the Pole. He is so determined that even an impending mutiny by his crew cannot put him off. It is only after having heard Victor's story and after having seen the hideous Creature with his own eyes that his mind slowly illuminates. He has seen to what folly the unleashed forces of scientific progress can lead to. The funeral pyre on the ice, in which the Creature burns his life away, finally leads to his decisive insight the men must sail home instead of striving onwards. The same should be said to modern science and its followers. "}{"Title":"Great Attempt, Still Flawed","Date":"14 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" My critique is simple Branagh should have shelved his ego and cast a younger man in the role of young Frankenstein. Had he done so, the college-bound lad would have been more believable -- the scene where the pre-college Victor speaks with his ageless pregnant mother is laughable, as he looks slightly older than she does. Also, many of the bloopers/inconsistencies would have been avoided, as the extra time would have afforded him the opportunity to concentrate heavily on his editing and directing (i.e. DeNiro's only flaw was his North American accent, Hulce's accent fades in and out of scenes, Mom never ages a day in, what almost two decades?! etc.) Overall, for a man that seems to have taken on more than he should have, it is a very good movie ...but it had the potential to be a masterpiece. "},{"Title":"o.k","Date":"5 October 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" It was good. Some bits were scary at parts but good. The reason I gave it a 6 was because it was a bit hard to follow at times. The sounds gave it more atmosphere and the actors made you feel more tense so if your into scary atmosphere sort of films then watch it. It's good. Robert De Niro was great for making you feel as your in the middle of the action. But there's parts that really confuse you. (most are the scenes that the Frankenstein monster is in) Some scenes are unbearable. The only reason I watched it was for my G.C.S.E and I thought that it was going to be bad but the climax of the story pulled me in so much I was sad when it finished. "},{"Title":"One of the best","Date":"14 June 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" It's one of the best Frankenstein movies, that i have seen, other than Young Frankenstein, which is damn funny.But this movie keeps to the whole story, by Mary Shelley. It's well done, and Kenneth Branagh does a great job of being the doctor. I liked it a lot, but in recalling the facts, i was about 11-12 when i watched it, so it might have had a greater affect, but still good.The way the story is told, is great, i am going to have to buy this off amazon, and watch it again, on of my fav. scenes was the ice/snow scene when the characters in the story meet, this monster as well as the end of the movie. "},{"Title":"The love between director and actor.....","Date":"8 October 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  The story alone set me off, i read it years ago... i didn't think of it as a classic, but a book in a unique field of its own.... As for the film, i thought it was..... a masterpiece and was also in a field of its own. Kenneth didn't (in my opinion) have any bad moments, i thought it was great......... simply..... great...i suppose it is a matter of opinion..... but good going kenneth... i mean its quite rare to have a director 'directing' himself but i think it shows brilliantly, and he continues to show himself through and through Again and again ( rabbit proof fence - genius ) i just wish there was a bride of frankenstein ( even though it doesn't fit in with the story)  "},{"Title":"A Good Movie, If You Love Blood","Date":"9 July 2004","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I'll admit, Branagh does overdue the whole 'Victor and Elizabeth are brother and sister' bit, they CONSTANTLY talk about it, but it is a good movie. Well put together and adapted, and also very unique from other Frankenstein movies. Helen Bonham Carter's Elizabeth is well done, as is LotR's Ian Holm's Dr. Frankenstein Sr. People also will notice the extensive use of bodily fluids from amniotic to help create the Creature (Robert DeNiro) to blood both when Willy's being born and when Elizabeth first dies. The soundtrack is appealing, sweeping in it's melodies and yet dark and foreboding in places. Altogether, it was a good film, but viewers should beware, it is graphic and in places a bit sensual.  "},{"Title":"Watchable, but nothin' to write home about","Date":"9 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  OKAY - having read the rest of the reviews here, ones which say what a remarkable resemblance to the original novel this film bears, can i just say EH? Have you actually READ the book? By Mary Shelley? There are so many plot changes in the movie that they could easily be considered two completely different tales, loosely based on one theme. The greatest of these changes, it has to be said, is the reincarnation of Elizabeth, which never happens in the novel at all. (And how come it takes months for Frankenstein to create the first 'monster' when he manages to do it in a single night with the Elizabeth/Justine monster?) Anyway, apart from glaring plot differences, some of the casting leaves a lot to be desired too - DeNiro is terrible and wooden as the monster, his accent makes it hard to take the words seriously. And did anyone else notice that the words coming out of William's mouth don't actually fit with what the actor is saying? In one point, where he takes Victor's locket to show his friend, he isn't even speaking, and yet somehow words are coming out.Apart from this, the musical score is FANTASTIC, and the rest of the movie is watchable. Don't try to compare it to the novel, you'll just be disappointed, but it's an okay movie. "},{"Title":"Branaghs Evil Creation","Date":"4 February 2002","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  In theory it should be easy enough to create life;take the mind and soul of Kenneth Branagh.pour them into the body of Robert De Niro and sew on the beautiful head of Helena Bonham Carter.But creation is best left to the Creator,and Ken B should have ran off screaming when  he saw this abomination open its watery pale yellow eyesc.Mary Shelley.I read the reviews and they said the movie was not faithful to the bookwhich i have read,but NOTHING prepared me for the hilariously stupid scene where the monster is brought to life!What the hell were you on Ken? 60 years earlier James Whale made the definitive Frankenstein films and in 1971 Frankenstein-The True Storycame much closer to the ending of the original story.Its a waste of time discussing it any further so aall i will say to anybody who liked this travesty--buy the book Frankenstein,or the Modern Prometheus and rent or buy the James Whale movies.Finally if you have this thing on video record an episode of Scooby-Doo over it--far more scary and the laughs are in the right places! "},{"Title":"The reanimated corpse of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein","Date":"28 October 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Despite the title, this is not Mary Shelley's Frankenstein. It's the reanimated corpse of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, stitched together with various horror-movie conventions that didn't exist yet in Shelley's time, partly because we've come to know them from other film versions of Frankenstein. For instance, early in the novel, the 17-year-old Victor Frankenstein begins university and has a couple of quiet office conversations with Professors Krempe and Waldman, neither of whom are medical doctors. He then skips Krempe's lectures and attends only the more inspiring Waldman's. Here, we get the thirty-something (!) Branagh confronting Krempe in a lecture / operating theater, loudly demanding instruction in the ancient theories of Paracelsus and Albertus Magnus -- theories that the novel's Victor had already given up on. It's a flashier scene, it's very Hollywood, and it may be inspired by Shelley's version, but it nearly reverses the novel's point, scrambling its analysis of how Victor ends up going wrong.The portrayal of the Creature also messes with the story's moral. Yes, he's played for sympathy in a way that's in line with the novel; this may be how Branagh and Coppola convinced themselves that they were doing Shelley's version. But as others here have noted, DeNiro, even with a Bronx accent, is not frightening enough. OK, so he's got some facial scars -- he's not eight feet tall, he doesn't look overpowering, and he seems too obviously decent to suddenly start killing people. Granted, it would be hard even for a great actor to capture the eloquent and well- read yet savage beast that Shelley imagines, but you at least need to make him look frightening enough that we can understand people attacking him and fleeing in terror. The fact that he's ugly, as he puts it, isn't enough to explain the tragedy. In that regard, a more traditional Halloween or horror-movie Frankenstein might actually have served the story better.There are other very big changes, especially late in the story, but I won't give them away. If you leave Shelley out of it -- and in fairness, the producers should have left her out of the title -- and if you overlook a number of things that don't make much sense, then it's a glossy and reasonably entertaining version of Frankenstein. But it's not Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, it's another in a long line of loose adaptations. "},{"Title":"Kenneth Branagh's Frankenstein.","Date":"5 April 2012","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Actor / director Kenneth Branagh's film of the literary classic certainly offers all of the things that a big budget, major studio production can afford. This is very large scale stuff, melodramatic to a fault, with admittedly eye popping sets and costumes and booming music by Patrick Doyle. The movie isn't exactly subtle about its messages, either, as it shows the price that men pay for their obsessions. The wraparound serves as a cautionary tale to intrepid sea captain Walton (Aidan Quinn), as he and his crew run into Victor F. (Branagh), in hot pursuit of his creation (Robert De Niro), while on their way to the North Pole. Victor relates his entire tragic story to Walton, as he yearned to go beyond standard teachings and probe the mysteries of life and death, eventually contriving his own being, who does not take kindly to what he sees as an act of abandonment. The creature becomes determined to get back at Victor any way he can, forcing the creator to face up to the problems that he had caused. (At least in this adaptation, co-written by Steph Lady and Frank Darabont, our mad scientist had nothing but the best intentions and has the good sense to be racked with guilt, rather than creating a miracle for the sake of his own ego.) The movie does have good energy, to be sure, although there are times that the camera is moving too much for the movie's own good. The acting is very sincere from all involved. One doesn't exactly ever forget who's playing the creature, and he won't make anyone forget Karloff, but De Niro still doesn't really do a bad job at all, and he does sell the sense of rage and passion of the character. In fact, his scenes as the creature learns to speak and makes a connection with an old blind man (Richard Briers) are the best in the movie, and it's at this point that the movie truly becomes involving. Branagh, who looks pretty good running around with no top on, makes Victor a multi dimensional, flawed yet compelling protagonist, and the supporting cast is superb, with Tom Hulce as Henry, Helena Bonham Carter as Elizabeth, Ian Holm as Victor's father, John Cleese, in an impressive dramatic performance, as Professor Waldman, and Robert Hardy as Professor Krempe. The atmosphere is undeniable (those scenes on the ice floes are full of foreboding) and, importantly, the story does build to an emotional peak, getting better as it goes along and delivering a whopper of an ending. While this adaptation may not attain the classic status enjoyed by the 1931 Universal film or even the 1957 Hammer version, it's reasonably entertaining and amounts to a fairly well paced two hour & three minute long study of one man's folly and need to accept responsibility. Seven out of 10. "},{"Title":"Prospero's Prometheus","Date":"5 November 2011","Score":"","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Good wombs have borne bad sons. - Shakespeare (The Tempest) James Whale directed Frankenstein in 1931, a somewhat iconic film based on Mary Shelley's novel by the same name. It has very little to do with Shelley's novel - in which the legendary Dr Frankenstein creates a creature from the body parts of deceased humans - but its spooks, special effects, Gothic sets, expressionistic lighting and sordid plot would nevertheless spawn a slew of Frankenstein movies, all of which similarly have little or nothing to do with Shelley's novel. The film's central plot &#x96; a warning against reckless scientific experimentation, god-like human hubris and the unseen ripples of the Industrial Revolution &#x96; nevertheless makes it one of the world's first science fiction films.Actor Kenneth Branagh, chiefly known for his Shakespeare adaptations, would direct a version of Shelley's novel in 1994. His film reinstates some of Shelley's themes, omits others, and deals superficially with most. The cautionary warnings against reckless science are all there, but Branagh leaves out the incestual overtones of Shelley's book, which posited all love as a transference of incestuous love (Frankenstein falls in love with and arranges to marry his sister), and Frankenstein's desire to create a man as, not only an arrogant means of becoming God, but an assuaging of personal loneliness and incompleteness. Indeed, Shelley goes further and has Frankenstein desire his monster to be both a child and a lover, the monster becoming a substitute for both the sister Frankenstein can't have - a sister whom fills him with incestuous dread - and the son he dare not sire. The asexual monster thus becomes Frankenstein's means of safely sublimating his passions. Indeed, Frankenstein's obsessions with working in his lab and labouring on his creature are what literally, continuously postpones him from marrying his sister. Unfortunately all Frankenstein films skirt over these psycho-sexual issues.Of course Frankenstein's aim to bypass Original Sin and create a creature devoid of lusts (he animates stitched together flesh with electricity) backfires completely. His creation instead reveals itself to be a grotesque, uncontrollable beast. I will be with you on your wedding-night, Shelley famously has the monster growl, before the beast breaks free of its master and goes on a rampage. It then seems to get more violent as the couple's wedding day approaches, until it and Frankenstein's newfound wife merge, the beast mercilessly killing her after Frankenstein refuses to create for it its own abominable wife.Ironically, while all the Frankenstein movies focus heavily on Frankenstein's monster, Shelley's book treats the beast with much ambiguity. Her monster is ghostly, an apparition, and may not even exist. She suggests that the creature resides largely in the doctor's mind, and that the acts of murder attributed to it are due instead to local paranoia; but of course such things are ignored by film-makers looking for literal shocks. Who want's a metaphysical Frankenstein's monster?Shelley's novel was heavily influenced by Ovid's Promethean Myth and Milton's Paradise Lost, but the attraction for Branagh is its loose similarity to Shakespeare's The Tempest, in which a wizardly guy called Prospero essentially plays the Frankenstein role. And so Branagh shoots Frankenstein with a whirlwind aesthetic, a continuous visual tempest in which every camera move is operatic, every emotion is overplayed and every single sequence is massively, hugely, bombastic. People detest this aesthetic, but of course the source materials (Tempest/Frankenstein) are themselves about chaos, risk and disorder; man's arrogant plans collapsing under the wild weight of the cosmos. Both tales also open with famous shipwrecks (Branagh even goes so far as to smuggle Shakespearean lines into his film), and Branagh's film literally spends most of its time flailing about and whirl-winding out of control. And of course at the centre of this storm is Branagh, playing both Prospero and Victor Frankenstein in the film, and the wizard/scientist/director outside, marshaling all this wild electricity and struggling to keep it together. Why should the film be a success when, in a sense, its designed to flail and fail? And who does Branagh get to play the monster? Robert De Niro of course, an actor with the right mix of passion and stupidity to invest himself totally into a role which requires brainlessness. De Niro's always been overrated; here he mumbles and pulls faces while acting like an idiot. It's one of the most drearily literal, boring Frankenstein's monster renderings.Still, the film has some stellar set design, is hilariously bombastic and has many good moments. It's a trite tale and a trite treatment of Shelley's novel, but fun when you tune into Branagh's meta story and/or are familiar with Branagh's Shakespeare adaptations.7.9/10 - Worth one viewing. "}{"Title":"The Best Adaptation That I'm Aware Of","Date":"9 June 2009","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Victor Frankenstein creates a living man from pieces of deceased men. The creature he makes, though, feels abandoned, and soon turns bitter and plots his revenge on Frankenstein. The viewer is torn between its sympathy for the creature and its pity on Frankenstein.Another reviewer has written that this film takes a big dump on all previous 'Frankenstein' films from an almighty height. The language is a little more colorful than I am used to using, but the sentiment is completely accurate. Having read and enjoyed the Frankenstein novel (though Dracula is better), it was nice to see a telling on film that didn't wander too far from the script.With Robert De Niro as the creature and Helena Bonham Carter as Elizabeth, the cast is very impressive. Throw in Ian Holm and a few other acting giants, and this should be a memorable film. Somehow, though, I fear it has fallen through the cracks and has not been recalled by many. Even I was somewhat confused about the DeNiro presence. Everything in this film runs smooth -- the directing, photography, the pace. There's an odd light-hearted moment with the creature and Frankenstein slipping in what is either water or amniotic fluid... that probably could have been cut. Overall, though, this the definitive Frankenstein adaption. "},{"Title":"Terrified me!","Date":"6 October 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" If you're a fan of horror movies, then this movie is not for you. But, if you're absolutely terrified of blood and gore (like me), you'd enjoy the film more. I had to watch this film in my English lesson (because we were studying the book) and I nearly fainted. Some of the boys in the class thought it was stupid and not scary at all, but most of the girls were terrified, including me. I know this sounds stupid, but if you're scared of the movie, you'll actually enjoy it. The boys, who thought the film was just idiotic, didn't bother watching it, so they didn't manage to enjoy it. But after I watched it, I thought ''Except for the scenes that made me feel like hiding under my table, that movie was actually pretty good!'' Victor Frankenstein's actor wasn't very good, but I thought Robert De Niro was fantastic, and so was Victor's fiancé (forgot her name). Sorry if this review barely makes any sense! "},{"Title":"Not what I expected....","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I read the book, which I liked very much, before I saw the movie and I am very sad to say that I was very much disappointed...It wasn't what I expected... The movie is nothing like the book, which is excellent, so if any of you want to know the real story of Frankenstein dedicate some time to read the book and don't bother watching the movie!!! Mary Shelley communicates great messages through her book, which unfortunately are lost or twisted in the movie. Of course, I should say that Robert DeNiro's performance as the monster was splendid. It was one of his best roles. He was so good, that occasionally I forgot that Robert DeNiro was the monster. He is perfectly adapted to the role. "},{"Title":"Not as bad as people say...","Date":"10 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" FRANKENSTEIN is one of the most creative and historically prominent stories in literature, and after scores of recreations, Kenneth Branagh has decided to give it a try.KB's version is a melodramatic exercise in overacting and great make-up. With theater actors galore, some good set designs, and one or two corsets, this film had the passion and the budget to deliver. And it did, but just partially.Victor Frankenstein, after the passing of his mother, makes an ode to himself to become a successful doctor and search out medical truth through what every means necessary. This leads him to follow in a predecessors footsteps, by continuing work that would inevitably rebuild life.He grows a little mad, and before he knows it, literally, he has a super strong corpse puzzle, who is just a little confused as to what he is and how to act. Frankenstein decides to reject his creation, only to be awoken by his new pal the next morning. The monster escapes, learns the truth of his life, and swears revenge.Robert De Niro is pretty bad ass at times as the creation, especially one scene where he stands outside a burning cabin, and Helen Bonham Carter is great as well, but both suffer from the occasional ham and cheese, as does the whole of the film(a certain scene with a storm cloud), and you just have to shake your head and laugh.It's not really gory, and not that violent or graphic either, but I guess the subject matter and Kenneth Branagh's chest hair is reason enough to merit an R rating. "},{"Title":"My goodness, Branagh, how did you get through the door with a head that size?","Date":"29 November 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" The film was good. But.....Good points first It was almost completely faithful to the book until halfway through. Great acting from all involved. Music, costumes and scenery were all great.Bad points It strays from the book so much the further into the film you get. Most of the time, it's to make the story more dramatic and 'Hollywood'. For example Justine is trialled in the book but hanged instantly in the film. Also, Victor meets the creature on a glacier whilst on holiday with his family in the book, whereas in the film the monster purposely comes to find him. Victor does not end up creating the second monster in the book, but in the film there is an awful sequence in which he reanimates Elizabeth, who was violently murdered. She then sets herself on her fire and runs through the house, setting it on fire and jumps from a large height. Many other changes were made, however some were simply to cut time (as movies do).One major thing is that in the book, Frankenstein is a flawed man (a quality of a Greek Tragedy). This leads to his downfall, and nobody can deny it. However, in the film Ken Branagh obviously could not stand to play a bad character (think of what it would do to his image!), so any flaw of Victor mentioned is transferred to the creature, portraying him as the morally evil one. This completely rules out one of the key points in the book - the nature/nurture argument. If you raise your children properly, they will turn out fine. If you leave them to nature, anything could happen. Victor did not care for the creature, so eventually, after A SERIES OF TERRIBLE EVENTS (not caused by the creature), he has no choice but to turn bad. However, the film shows him as the bad guy (ok, when the monster is with the cottagers he's trying to be kind, but when he tells his tale to Victor, he is portrayed as completely evil - in the book, he's trying to make amends). So there we go. If you have no intention of reading the book then watch this film. If you like extravagant scenes with explosions and violent deaths, watch this. However, if you love the wonderfully intelligent novel by Mary Shelley, you may want to give this one a miss (at least after watching half of it). I guess we're still waiting for a faithful film... "},{"Title":"Don't waste your time","Date":"30 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Robert DeNiro is beyond his talents. He is a one trick pony who can only play a New York street guy, nothing else. See the original with Boris Karloff to see a performance that works. Branaugh admitted that DeNiro was miscast and would not take direction well.The 1931 version has better acting, better dialog, and a better director. The special effects are quite good for its time and still hold up today. Don't miss it if you haven't seen it. The only positive thing this one has is it sticks to the novel, but everything else is worse.Color adds nothing to this film, since much takes place in snow and the monster is dressed in a Trappist Monk's habit. DeNiro is ludicrous! "},{"Title":"Underwhelming","Date":"12 August 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Branagh's Frankenstein, for all of its flaws and imperfections, is undeniably interesting. Given Branagh's history and Shakespearian background, it is surprising that his adaptation of Mary Shelley's pioneering sci fi horror is orchestrated the way it has been. Infamous for his incredibly accurate and rear-numbingly long interpretation of Hamlet, Kenneth Branagh isn't a name usually associated with making changes and taking dramatic liberties with film adaptations of classic works. In Frankenstein, this is exactly what he has done. Some of the changes are indeed welcome. Victor Frankenstein's obsession with his project is well played out by Branagh, and the addition of a strain on his relationship with Elizabeth is a dramatic necessity. Most of Shelley's formal, almost poetic dialogue has been discarded in favour of a more realistic sounding script, unfortunately likely to cater for the less literature - orientated of audiences. Nevertheless, this works well and compliments the late eighteenth century set piece to a high degree. It makes the film more believable and the characters more susceptible to empathy whereas a direct script may not have worked in a film for mainstream audiences. Whilst these and other changes are minor and do not harm the adaptation with artistic license, there are too many key omissions and additions that do just that. In the sequence wherein Robert De Niro's Creature begins learning human abilities such as reading, communication and emotion, the ever so relevant works of literature which he reads in the novel are absent. In Shelley's text, the Creature reads Paradise Lost, a novel telling the story of Adam and Eve's struggle upon leaving Eden into the imperfect real world. The parallels between Adam from Paradise Lost and Frankenstein's Creature are many. Both have been forced into the world by a creator who has turned his back on them, Frankenstein in the eponymous novel, and God in Paradise Lost. Both must learn to adapt to this new world whilst struggling to come to terms with their harsh dismissal from that of their birth givers. While not essential to the plot, a nod to that work of literature would have been welcome. Also missing, and far more damaging to Branagh's doomed movie, is the tremendous sense of loss and loneliness that drives the novel. In Shelley's text, Victor often reflects on the passing of a better life and the doom and gloom that his failed experiment has brought him. He loses all his cherished loved ones in such a short time and it completely destroys his spirits. Branagh made a fatal error in omitting this, one which renders the character of Victor as less amiable than he could have been and ultimately severs the emotion this film creates. Whilst (despite the dismissal of certain themes and sub plots) Frankenstein is somewhat a faithful adaptation, the Wedding Night sequence takes huge liberties and is completely unnecessary. Victor barely mourns his wife's death (which, prior to the reanimation, is extremely faithful to the book) before chopping her to pieces in order to bring her to life. This scene, completely absent from Shelley's novel, is clearly done for no other reason than to shock audiences. The idea that Victor would spend his life married to a living corpse is repulsive. Shelley's Victor would not consider this, seeing as he regards his creation as a Demon. It is an utterly ridiculous ending, although it does highlight the issue of who the real evil is. Surely Victor cannot assume his creation is evil if he is willing to marry a similar creation. Ridiculous ending aside, the film could have been saved by strong performances from its lead players. Unfortunately, excluding Branagh, these are not present. Tom Hulce is almost emotionless and undesirable as Henry Clerval, who Shelley intended as an optimistic and joy bringing presence whose death (again completely left out in this interpretation) utterly cripples Victor emotionally. Helena Bonham Carter's Elizabeth is also unconvincing, failing to strike empathy and sympathy into audiences, whilst De Niro's curiously Italian - American Creature is underwhelming and gives the impression that De Niro is having as much fun playing the creature as we are watching him. Overall, Frankenstein's under-performing leads, glaring omissions and unnecessary additions (not to mention atrocious lighting and a ridiculously out of place soundtrack) make this film almost impossible to enjoy or indeed take seriously. Unfortunately, seriousness is exactly what makes the Novel so impacting. "},{"Title":"Good but flawed","Date":"18 June 2006","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I went into this with very few expectations, simply because I didn't know what to expect. I must say it turned out to be a decent flick, but rather hit-and-miss in places.The plot is a classic one, and it is handled very well here. The message is made quite obvious, and while that isn't necessarily a bad thing, I do wish that they would have been more subtle about it. It also suffers from some very bad writing, with many very poor lines. Still, it's an interesting account of the story.The actors are, for the most part, very good. Branagh does a great job on both sides of the camera, but he really shines here as an actor. He does a fantastic job as Victor. As for DeNiro, I'm somewhat torn. He gave a great performance as the Creature, however I'm not sure that I liked how the character was portrayed. He was a very uneven character, who seemed to change his entire mindset on the drop of a dime. Perhaps this was intentional, but if so it wasn't handled very well.One thing that I rarely comment on about of movie is the score, though I feel the need to mention it here. A good, though generic, score, I was very annoyed at how intrusive it could be. It seemed very out of place most of the time.Finally, the pacing was very uneven. It moved along at a good clip most of the time, but was almost unbearably slow in the middle.Despite it's flaws, this is a pretty good film. I enjoyed it, and it's recommended by me.7/10 "},{"Title":"Absolutely atrocious - other than the scenery, avoid at all costs","Date":"24 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Yes, I know the movie is almost 12 years old but I've just watched it for the first time and it is quite simply so bad that it prompted me to register just to comment.I gave this movie a 3/10 and that was only for the scenery. The casting and characterisation bothered me from from the opening scenes in the Arctic. I can't help wondering if those involved with the screenplay and casting choices actually read Shelley's Frankenstein or simply read an abridged comic book version.I understand taking certain artistic licenses when adapting a novel to movie form, especially one written in the 1800's but... in my opinion, this movie went too far.Minor spoilers, only in the first quarter of the movie should serve to illustrate my point The movie opens in the Artic in 1794. It then flashes back (yes, this is true to the book, besides the names and locations one of the only things that is) to 1793 when Victor leaves for University. This leads the viewer to believe that only the passage of one year was involved between leaving for university, creating the creature and chasing him to the Arctic. For any who have read the book, this is glaringly inaccurate.The second liberty that made me cringe was Henry Clerval. I think Tom Hulce was one of the few good casting choices in the movie but they played too fast and loose with the characters background. In the novel, Henry was Victor's friend in Geneva. Henry wanted to go to university with Victor but Henry's father wanted his son to learn business, not the sciences. Henry does not arrive in Ingolstadt until AFTER Victor gives life to the creature. In the movie, Henry is a student of science who meets Victor for the first time at university.I could go on but I this post would become far too long. I will agree with a prior review I read here that lead to my making this post, the scenery is beautiful but there was no complete faithfulness to the story. "},{"Title":"An intense story","Date":"24 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  This movie captures the essence of Mary Shelley's book but takes a few liberties with her story. Watch this film without commercials and editing for TV to get the full effect of the drama and tension. The few gory scenes could have been omitted and the film not affected. Definitely not a movie for the squeamish. I wish the screenplay writer would have explored Victor Frankenstein's internal conflicts further. He claims he has made a horrible mistake--whether it is due to what he has discovered, or what he has created, is somewhat vague, but seems to be both. He reacts to the situation by ignoring it, and faces it only when forced to. The movie vilified the monster, whereas the book, portrayed the monster with more sympathy; more as an innocent child caught up Victor's distraught thoughts and emotions.  "}{"Title":"Related to the book","Date":"31 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Related to the book alright, but with a twist on the bride scene. The only two lines that are an homage to the original are Don't Touch tat. And It's Alive! Kenneth Braggan plays the creator, and Robert DeNiro as the creation. Chilling, and thrilling. Better than the 1931 movie. There's one scene where Kenneth Braggan is looking muscular in creating the creation. That scene got spoofed in a DEXTER'S LABRATORY episode called Martial Kombat. If you enjoyed that film why not watch BRAUM STROKER'S DRACULA. "},{"Title":"Wonderful adaptation of the Novel to the screen","Date":"15 July 2002","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  De Niro is great as the monster, Branagh excellent as the obsessed doctor, Helena Bonham Carter and John Cleese all add to the enjoyment with superb performances.  The effects are awesome and all of this with a magnificent story brilliantly adapted for the screen make it a splendid spectacle.  We really enjoyed it. "},{"Title":"Why do people resent Kenneth Branagh so much?","Date":"2 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  **WARNING  CONTAINS SPOILERS**I've never been able to understand why people resent Kenneth  Branagh so much.  To my mind, he's a fine actor, a very good director, and his failures in each area are more than made up for by his ambition--when he screws up it's because he's tried for something magnificent that proves to be just out of his reach.  As opposed to most people, who can screw up on things that aren't worth achieving in the first place.  But there seem to be a lot of people that just hate Branagh--that go out of their way to be annoyed by him.  I just don't get it. This film was produced by Francis Coppola and American Zoetrope, and his Dracula cohort James V. Hart, and it shares that movie's aim of trying to make a film true to the literary spirit and themes of the original novel.  That said, in feel and approach it's very much Kenneth Branagh's movie.  In place of the baroque immersion in setting and atmosphere that Coppola usually brings to a project (particularly Dracula), we get the fantastic energy that Branagh pours into his work.   It really is the first Frankenstein movie to capture the Romantic spirit of Shelley's book.  The frequent appearance of fire (especially the scene of the monster holding aloft the torch at the end) remind one of the book's subitle  The Modern Prometheus.  And Branagh's portrayal of Victor embodies all the promise and hubris of Shelley's protagonist.   And at the same time, the film manages to be a really good Gothic horror flick, too.  The lab setup is wonderfully imagined--everything one could want from a mad scientist's lab circa 1794--and some of the scenes are among the weirdest and most horrifying ever filmed.  Horrifying in the old-school sense, the feeling that you're watching Something That Should Not Be.  I'm thinking of Victor's weird dance in the amniotic fluid with the newly reanimated monster, still unable to stand.  It goes on forever, while the viewer becomes more and more aghast at what is being shown.  Then there's the climax, where he reanimates his bride, and the viewer realizes he's truly gone mad. The movie manages that rare trick of being two things at once  an intellectually satisfying literary movie and a ripping good adventure  Performances  Branagh's great.  Helena Bonham-Carter is also superb--her post-reanimation scene alone is worth the price of admission.  She must have had a lot of fun doing that.  Tom Hulce is fantastic as usual in a bit part.  And John Cleese is astoundingly good in his cameo. The only real problem with this movie is Robert DeNiro.  Physically, he's perfect for the role--a more monstery-looking Frankenstein's monster you couldn't ask for.  But once he learns to speak, it's Brooklyn, and it just about ruins the movie.  For this film to work the monster has to be alternately horrifying and poetic--you have to believe that under all those scars and stitches is a sensitive, wounded soul.  But every time DeNiro speaks it sounds like he's saying You lookin' at me?! even if he isn't.  The accent ruins it.  The monster's utterances are essential to the book, but I think it would have been preferable in the movie to have him remain mute, rather than let DeNiro speak.   If you can get around that, though, it's a fine movie. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Mary would be somewhat proud....","Date":"6 May 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  The last filmed version of Frankenstein to date was Kenneth Branagh's 1994 film, Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, starring Robert De Niro. The aim of this film was to stick as closely as possible to the literary source. In the end, director Branagh, who also played Victor Frankenstein, and writers, Steph Lady and Frank Darabont, still changed some parts of the plot, but nevertheless finally came up with a film that was at least made in the spirit of Mary Shelley. The film begins on the North Pole, where Walton's ship hits an iceberg. The crew then picks up a man traveling the icy region, who reveals his name as Victor Frankenstein. In contrast to most other films, Branagh kept the frame with Walton, to whom the story now is narrated by Frankenstein. The film then shifts to Geneva and presents us with Victor Frankenstein's childhood and adolescence. Here the film is different from the novel Victor's mother dies giving birth to William, his experiments with lightning are not in the novel, and Victor does not make the acquaintance of Henry Clerval before he enters the University in Ingolstadt. In Ingolstadt he meets Professor Waldmann. He once performed experiments similar to those of Frankenstein, but gave them up because they resulted in abomination.' When Waldmann is killed in a hospital, Victor takes the Professor's records in order to continue his works. He starts to assemble his creature from the body of Waldmann's murderer, Waldmann's brain and the limbs of dead people. Waldmann's death and his involvement in experiments, dealing with the creation of life, were added by screenwriters Lady and Darabont. In the novel Waldmann is simply a Professor of chemistry who encourages the ambitious Frankenstein. Branagh and the screenwriters also invented a method to show how Victor gives life to his creature. Branagh said that the vision he had had in mind for the creation scene is `of a child being born to parents who then walk out of the delivery room, leaving the child for dead, covered in this bloodstained fluid'. In a giant laboratory in the attic of his house, Frankenstein puts the creature into an aquarium filled with amniotic fluid and animates it with electricity produced by eels. When the creature finally has come to life we see Victor struggling with a naked, `goo-covered' man, who appears clumsy and can barely walk. Again and again the man falls down until Victor, taken by horror, speaks, What have I done? Believing the creature dead he goes to sleep. The following experiences of the Monster are massively shortened in comparison to the novel. We only see the Monster being beaten by the townspeople once. He then flees into the woods, where he hides in the pigsty of a poor family. He secretly supports the family by bringing in potatoes from their fields and learns how to read by watching the mother teaching her daughter. Here the film completely drops the episode with the Turkish girl, Safie, and there are also no books by Plutarch, Milton and Goethe. Instead the film introduces a brutal landlord whom the Monster kills when he rescues the blind grandfather. Branagh also drops the Monster's narrative. Instead the film's plot develops chronologically, except for the beginning, shifting between the Monster and Frankenstein. The film deviates from the original plot of the novel a couple of more times throughout the film, but is very much faithful, much more faithful than previous adaptations. Branagh's faithfulness to the literary original particularly shows in his presentation of the Monster. Like no film before, Mary Shelley's Frankenstein presents the Monster as the victim of its circumstances, as a pitiful creature, who is driven to evil by society and its maker. By casting Robert de Niro, an actor of average height, as the Monster and not making him an 8-foot tall giant, the Monster becomes more human. Despite the changes in the plot it can surely be said that of all film versions, Kenneth Branagh's movie comes closest to Mary Shelley's novel. The movie preserves the central ideas of the novel, straightens the plot, and removes implausible elements, for which the novel has often been criticized.  "},{"Title":"Frankenstein-Italian style!","Date":"26 February 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I like this film very much.  It kept my interest all the way through.  I go into a movie house with an open mind and just let the screen take me wherever it's going.  This movie took me to some of the most picturesque places I've ever been.The landscape and interior scenes are photographed beautifuly.  The story is told with the warmth and care it deserves.Mr.'s Cleese, Branagh, Hulce and De Niro all give powerful performences with an extra bit of Umph from Mr. Quinn.The ladies too are exceptional in their respective roles.I don't think it was better than Bram Stoker's Dracula but, I think it was right up there with it.  These are two great and entertaining films to watch back to back.  Neither of them will ever be done any better.  And if it was at all possible to do, then they would have to put Mr.'s De Niro and Oldman in the same movie.  Now that would be a horror movie!!!  Ciao xoxox "},{"Title":"The name says it all...","Date":"21 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  This movie has been so critisized that's almost too hard to believe.Kenneth Branagh is a great actor and director although not perfect. But then again does anyone know anyone without flaws?I think that the Branagh film was closer to the original story than anyone ever was. It points out what it supposed to do so and that's an evil side of science which mustn't be put aside but dealed with and taken care of if apparent.Robert De Niro was very good as always and Helena Bohnam-Carter was good, too.The plot is a little blank at some points but that doesn't diminish the film's value in any way. Too many things had to be put in three hours time that it seems only natural.Aidan Quinn, on the other hand, was a successful choice for his part as he showed the proper arrogance.Kenneth Branagh as Victor Frankenstein is inspired for one and one reason only he illustrates the well motivated but too enthusiastic scientist who makes the fatal mistake, in a genius way. And I believe that this is what he should do and does it greatly! His directing may have flaws but they're not to be strongly critisized as the whole package is very good.The music fits perfectly and so does the scenery.It's meant to be a horror film not as an image but as a concept. So does Mary Shelley's book. That's the whole idea.Practising Medicine is frightening on its own. Making such a mistake makes it even more. I'm sure that those who can understand this, will find the film exquisite. So did I.It's about time we understood that Frankenstein is above all human. A man who tried to do what he naturally couldn't. Give birth to a creature. His craving of this gives the whole point and as the desire was Dr. Frankenstein's ... ... the name says it all. "},{"Title":"Interesting adaption of the book","Date":"16 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  My senior English class in high school had to read the Mary Shelley book, and then our teacher showed us the movie.This film is probably the best adaption of the Mary Shelley book. The actors are all great, especially Robert De Niro as Frankenstein's monster. And Helena Bonham Carter is SO how I pictured Elizabeth in the book.Another good film from Kenneth Branaugh and company. "},{"Title":"Nothing like the book","Date":"22 February 2000","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Although it bears only a passing similarity to the original novel, it's still an interesting film and worth a look if you enjoy such adaptations. Watch this only as entertainment. If you're trying to avoid reading the book for english class then don't bother, as there are such drastic differences between the book and the film that they could almost be considered two different stories.  "},{"Title":"WHERE Was the Mary Shelley in This?!","Date":"29 November 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I don't know what movie other people who thought this followed the book were seeing, but it did NOT! The book is fresh in my mind, as I finished reading it a mere 20 hours before watching the so-called movie version, and the only thing this movie had in common w/the book was the fact that there was a creature in it! How to begin? Lesse...(1) Victor knew Henry from CHILDHOOD, not from school, as the movie would have you believe. (2) Victor's mother died from ILLNESS, not childbirth! (3) Elizabeth NEVER followed Victor to school and his Professor did NOT die! (4) Where was the creature's long, flowing, black hair?! (5) Justine's end was NOT via lynch-mob! (5) Too many of the occurrences took place in the wrong places! What happened to the hut in the small town, for instance? (6) Felix's family was all wrong; his fiancée did come from overseas, but the other woman was his sister! (7) Victor did NOT just decide not to make the female creature because the creature chose his mother's body! Victor was actually only moments away from bringing a female creature to life and he tore her body apart! (8) What happened to Henry's death? (9) Don't even get me started on the whole Elizabeth reanimated thing! (10) The ending was wrong! Victor died of bad health and the creature jumped off the ship, off to kill himself! (11) The beginning was wrong, too! The monster passed by the ship first, on a sledge. THEN Victor approached, also on a sledge, NOT on foot! (12-50) Just too much to name! Now, I know that movie's always take artistic license, but this one just took too much; it wasn't even recognizable as the same story as the one I had just read. Mary Shelley's name should have been nowhere near this tragedy! And if you loved the book, stay far far away from this massacre of a movie! "},{"Title":"THIS is Frankenstein","Date":"23 February 2009","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" For those who are loyal to the classic Boris Karloff portrayal of Frankenstein's monster, this film will make you red with anger. Aside from that, this is a rather brilliant movie. It is not a horror film, it is more of a Gothic drama. The story comes to life with Kenneth Branagh's theatrical mind, and he keeps tight pacing all the way, never plodding for a moment. The acting is decent from everybody, and the movie is full of illustrious camera work, set design, and haunting music. What stands out more than anything however is Dr. Frankenstein's monster.Robert De Nero's performance is unique, because instead of being a mindless hulk, he plays the monster as more of a human being who can talk, think, and even read. He he does not just kill at random, this creature has a purpose which is revenge on his creator for making him an ugly figure. The monster portrayal is the part of the film where it can get controversial. One of the problems with treating him this way is that there is a lacking fear factor. While he may be cunning and villainous, there is no great sense of monstrosity to him. In fairness, one could say that this creature sort of has a life of his own and should probably not be compared to the original Frankenstein monster. The make up job on De Niro is sensational, and it really deemphasizes his mole. He is a whole new kind of Frankenstein.Kenneth Branagh's film does not fully honor Mary Shelley's classic masterpiece, but it feels engaging and fresh, and it shines new light on one of the most memorable literary creations of the 19th century. "}{"Title":"Branagh's version is the best (and the scariest) version ever!","Date":"20 October 2007","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I get a nack for literary movies, as I said many times. Even from the classic horror novels with literature's famous monsters  Count Dracula, Dr. Jekyll & Mr. Hyde, The Phantom of The Opera, The Headless Horseman, The Hunchback of Notre Dame, and...The Frankenstien Monster. The original Frankenstein novel was written by a women named Mary Shelly in 1818 - she knows how to scare people with her masterpiece. And many versions had been made for the silver screen; but to me, this version with actor/director Kenneth Branagh (Hamlet from 1996) is the best and the scariest version ever!Kenneth Branagh plays Victor Frankenstein, a scientist who is obsessed with conquering death, after his Mommy Dearst died due to complications giving birth to his little brother William. I mean HEL-LO! I'm SOR-RY you can't get ever over losing your mom, on the account of your little brother, but it dosen't mean you go all CRA-ZY! I was surprise Vic didn't blame Willy for their mother's death. In medical school, Victor makes friends with a fellow student, Henry Clerval, clashes with the hidebound Professor Krempe, and finds himself fascinated by the secretive Professor Waldman who, he learns, once fell foul of the authorities for conducting illegal experiments. Setting up a laboratory in a hired attic, Victor sets about achieving the ultimate aim of his research cheating death. After another public argument with Krempe, Victor is almost kidnapped by Waldman, who shows the student his rooms and his secret laboratory. Waldman explains to Victor the Chinese practice of acupuncture, and how it might affect the electrical energy of the body. Victor expounds his own theories on the overcoming of death. His words have a dramatic effect on Waldman, who reveals that he once came close too close to the artificial creation of life...During an enforced vaccination of the people of Ingolstadt, carried out by the staff and students of the university, a man objects hysterically to the treatment, and in his panic stabs Waldman to death. He is hanged for his pains. The devastated Victor breaks into Waldman's laboratory, securing the scientist's notebooks before anyone else can see them. Upon reading them, he discovers just how close Waldman did come to creating life.Inspired, and in defiance of Henry's warnings, Victor prepares to go one step further than his mentor. By rough and ready means, he acquires his materials, including the body of Waldman's murderer and Waldman's own brain, and sets about creating an artificial man. Applying his knowledge of electricity, Victor sends a massive charge through the inanimate body that he has put together. Climbing up onto the metal tank in which his creation is housed, Victor cries out for it to live; and for a brief moment its eyes flicker open only to close again. Victor turns away in despair until a knocking sound comes from within the tank. This might sound disturbing, but that tank look like a giant womb/pressure cooker as they trying to go with in the film. That's all I'm tellin' you, you will have to see the WHOLE film.I was surprised by the negative reviews, this an awesome version of Mary Shelley's novel, with a great cast like Tom Hulce; the scene where he fainted was funny. Ian Holm as Victor's dad, John Cleese as Professor Waldman, though many disagree he did play a good role. Robert De Niro as the Monster, and Helena Bonham Carter as Victor's love interest Elizabeth, I think she was great for the role. "},{"Title":"Yet another perversion of Mary Shelley's Masterpiece","Date":"3 September 2006","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" As far as this film goes as a horror film, it's not that great. It was made more for entertaining the mind that giving you nightmares. The acting wasn't too hot, scripting was a little corny, and story was deliberately altered in some very serious ways from the book!I wouldn't get so much on this movie's case if it wasn't advertised as Mary Shelley's Frankenstein. The story only resembles that of the book! Before you go and invest three bucks in this movie (or however much closeout movies cost in your area) please read the book. It is a beautiful piece of literature that has never been successfully portrayed on the silver screen. I expected truncations, sure, what story adapted for the theater doesn't. But it's not so much they removed portions, they incorporated segments of their own design! And bad ones at that! So bad it negated much of what the original story had to offer!Please don't be fooled by the title Mary Shelley's Frankenstein because it's not! Watch this as one of those wanted to be dramatic, but didn't quite make it movies. Please Branagh and Lady, spare us the grief and actually read the book before you blunder into putting someone else's name on your crap! "},{"Title":"The Hallmark Channel Would Be Proud","Date":"26 September 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Good lord. With Francis Ford Coppola, Kenneth Branagh and Robert De Niro on board I think we could have expected better than this movie, seemingly stitched-together as badly as the monster himself from snippets from Mary Shelley's novel, snippets from the 30's movies and snippets from the Hallmark movie of the week.Yes, the production values and the style is as hackneyed as anything you'd see on that channel between 1 and 4pm any weekday. The sets are as stagey as you'd expect from someone who's trodden the boards as often as KB, but what I didn't expect was the overwrought acting and frankly awful scripting from Frank Darabont (of Shawshank Redemption).Take the creation scene - surely a set-piece of the movie and pivotal in that we should see Victor move from triumph at his successful experiment to horror in what he's created. It goes like this... Victor breaks open the creation chamber, frees the monster and the two of them spend a good minute slipping and falling over in amniotic goop like Stan and Ollie after a pie-fight. Then (somehow) the monster gets tangled up in the washing line (or something) and is hoist to the ceiling. It is at this point the Victor undergoes his conversion from uber-scientist to moralistic buffoon IN FIVE SECONDS FLAT. What have I DONE? he wails.My reaction was this What brought THAT on?? The monster doesn't kill anyone, he doesn't smash anything, he's no uglier than when Victor stitched him together - why does Frankenstein suddenly turn against his creation? The answer folks, is because the story calls for it and the screenwriter was too lazy to explain why. This is the sort of thing that leads me to reach for the fast forward button.The story from then on is pretty predictable, apart from the plot elements that are too daft for words. The monster demands a mate, so Victor makes him one out of his own dead girlfriend, causing a rather obvious love triangle. Why? Because the story called for it and the screenwriter was... oh never mind, you get the idea.I'm making it sound worse than it really is. It's not AWFUL. When the monster and Victor debate in an ice-chasm it reaches into the philosophical core of the book, which has never really been attempted before. However, it's too little, too late - by that time I was already bored. Better to go back to the book, or even better to James Whales' movies - what they lacked in faithfulness to the book they at least made up for with imagination - something sorely lacking here. "},{"Title":"Way under appreciated","Date":"29 August 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I was a little at a loss when I saw this movie in the $5.50 bin at walmart with a bunch of other DVD titles involving the almost complete spectrum of Jean Claude Van Damme titles. Anyway, this movie is easily worth way more in entertainment value. I find a lot of people have not even seen this movie or know it has ever existed. First we have a spectacular performance by Robert DeNiro as the creature, one of the early movies of Helana Bohman Carter's Career. I feel it's a better portrait of the novel than any other Frankenstein movie (My apologies to the Karloff Family). More importantly than shock factor this movie stresses the question put out when Mary Shelley put the book out that whether or not Man should not dabble with godlike power unless willing to deal with the full consequences. "},{"Title":"The truest representation in film of a seminal work of English literature.","Date":"21 June 2004","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Read works of literature; watch cinematic representations of the same compare the vision. Compare the purity of content from film to film and recognize those works rendered films by Kenneth Branagh, are unequalled.Read Mary Shelly's Frankenstein. Do not review this film simply as a member of the jaded field of films devoted to the allure of Frankenstein - rather find the explicit nature of the work represented in Branagh's film.Further explanation is available per individual requirements, as for the required length of this article, my compliance is in protest.Think Peace-Stuart  "},{"Title":"Brilliant Adaptation","Date":"3 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Before I read the novel Frankenstein, I thought about what I knew of the story. All I reallly knew was from those old monster movies and I thought of the story as silly. After reading the novel and falling in love with the actual story, it occured to me that the old movie Frankenstein was very different then the original novel. In Kenneth Branagh's adaptation he sticks close to the story I know and love. Robert De Niro is fantastic as the creature, good scary fun.  "},{"Title":"Breathtaking film! De Niro and Branagh are fabulous!","Date":"27 January 2002","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Unfortunately this fantastic movie is one of the most underrated classics of the mid-90's. What a shame considering how good Frankenstein really is. When I think of all the bad reviews I've read from the papers all I can say is those damn critics are merciless bunch of people. Of course it's their profession to run down terrific films - that's how they get their monthly salary. I have no idea what is so unsuccessful in this excellent and exciting film. Once again the ingenious Robert De Niro proofs he is the biggest chameleon among actors and Kenneth Branagh is fabulous as Victor Frankenstein - the creator of the unholy creature. Frankenstein is also visually more masterful than dozens of other modern horror flicks of today all together. This gripping and entertaining Gothic tale keeps on shocking even though the story is familiar. Shakespeare-director Kenneth Branagh's adaption of Mary Shelley's fascinating Frankenstein is one of the very finest horror movies of the 90's and that's the absolute truth. Brilliant stuff if you're looking for something that looks magnificent, sounds great and has an amazing acting. 9 out of 10. "},{"Title":"A travesty of film making.","Date":"2 March 2001","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  This is a terrible movie, not so much because it is poorly made or poorly acted, but because it tries and fails to take on too much. It takes most of the themes of the book and throws them out the window, it changes the character of the monster entirely, and then puts Mary Shelley's name on it.  "},{"Title":"must see - and must think","Date":"10 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Mary Shelley contemplates issues that are becoming increasingly relevant in this age of cloning and experimentation with melding organic, electronic and mechanical components into a Terminator-like cybernetic organism.What is death? What is life? Is life merely biological? Does biology hold enough for personality?This film, beyond the horror explosion it created in the 1930s and 1940s, is full of political, philosophical and theological themes and challenges.I've read that neural prosthesis is becoming increasingly complex. The ideas we saw in The Six-Million Dollar man, The Terminator and RoboCop are not that far distant. What are some of the implications, not of whether we can forge ahead, but whether we should forge ahead? Mary Shelley's Frankenstein allows the horror to unfold in considering the issues, without excess gore looking for cheap thrills.Good screenplay for one of the greatest stories ever written. "},{"Title":"Another failed attempt","Date":"6 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Mary Shelley's Frankenstein claims to be the first faithful adaptation of Shelley's book, but is nothing of the sort.  Most of this is down to Kenneth Branagh's insistence on making his character heroic Shelley's Victor Frankenstein is selfish, self-dramatising, hysterical and indecisive. Time after time the plot is altered to Victor's credit.  (And I won't even mention the BIG plot change towards the end, where things go really haywire)There are a lot of good things about the film - the sets, photography, make-up are all superb, and De Niro's acting as the Creature is far better than many people give him credit for.  In the end though, it's another missed opportunity. "}{"Title":"Read the book","Date":"8 February 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Um...did anyone involved with this movie actually read the book it was based on?  If they did, all they remembered from it was that Frankenstein never named the monster.  Sheesh.  I was engrossed in the movie just to see what they'd come up with next.  "},{"Title":"great human drama","Date":"30 October 2006","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Frankenstein is a deep human story. I like this movie so much. There are many people who imagine a monster when they hear the name, Frankenstein. It's easy to misunderstand but it's not a monster's name. Frankenstein is the name of the doctor who creates the monster. This story,Frabkenstein, is set in the 18th century. Captain Walton(Aidan Quinn) of a sailing boat toward the North Pole help the man who step on a sled in a storm. His name is Victer Frabkenstein(Kenneth Branagh). The man begins to tell his strange fate. The man connect the dead bodies and give electronic shocks, then the body has begin to move. He notices the importance of a thing as soon as an experiment succeeds and he leave the created man. After that the creature goes to get revenge..... The lament of the man who create who a monster and the monster who were created. It's not just a horror movie. There is a problem about technology to approach a domain of God, what's human being or what's life. A realistic performance by Robert DeNiro(the monster), a beautiful heroine, Helena Bonham Carter, indeed there are many highlights. It's a really sad, profound, thoughtful human drama. Whenever I watch this movie I always feel excited and touched movie so that is the reason why this is my favorite movie. "},{"Title":"Frankenstein","Date":"20 November 2005","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I just finished reading the novel and watching the film Frankenstein. Watching the film gave me a better appreciation for the novel. The film revealed certain aspects of the book which I could not imagine through the novel. The movie was able to evoke feelings of emotion. I especially liked the scene where the monster is observing the family. The monster is able to recognize the struggle that the family is going through, and is able to lend a helping hand. This shows how the monster was able to develop emotions and feelings. This scene strengthens my humanistic view of the monster. While I was reading the novel it seemed difficult to imagine a monster of that caliber being so caring and kind. Watching the film made me become sympathetic to the monster. The monster was shunned by society for no apparent reason. The monster was hideous, but his purpose was not to bring evil and sorrow to society. I believe that society is to blame for the murders which occurred in this novel. Ultimately Victor Frankenstein is to blame; however society did lend a hand in manipulating Victors mind. Victor became obsessed with the ability to control nature. He wanted to test the laws of life and death.I seem to have two different viewpoints regarding Victor Frankenstein's intentions while conducting his studies. While I was reading the novel I began to get a feeling that Victor wanted to test the scientific theories. He wanted to be a rebel and be the first scientist to break through the norm. He wanted to be revolutionary. His obsession with becoming the first and greatest drove him to insanity. It became his life. The book made it clear that Victor felt life and death could be manipulated. His reasons for investigating this sort of work seemed only to benefit the field of modern science. However, while I was watching the movie I tended to perceive a different viewpoint. The main scene which turned my point of view was the scene where Victor brings Elizabeth back to life. This scene was added for theatrical effect, however I thought this scene had a great affect on the overall essence of the movie. It made me believe that Victor was playing God. He wanted to hold the same abilities. His interest in investigating modern science was destroyed, and he was using his knowledge for personal gain. I believe watching the movie and reading the novel together gave me a better understanding of the novel. I was able to interpret and understand different aspects of the story due to my exposure to both pieces.Overall I thought that the story was revolutionary. It shed light on new scientific ideas. We are faced with many similar issues today which are presented in this story. For example, is it morally right to clone human beings? Is it morally right to bring the dead back to life? This novel was a revolutionary piece and has had a strong impact on me as a reader and as a member of society. This story made me think about certain issues which we are faced with on a daily basis. Should we leave life and death up to nature or should we test the realms of this science like Victor Frankenstein had? "},{"Title":"Bad, bad, bad and sometimes worse","Date":"1 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Finally I saw this movie and it's hopeless. It is supposed to be based on the book, I heard. Well, half of the movie is not to be found in the book. At some point it became so ridiculous I was actually laughing.The only good thing in this failure is Robert De Niro, who was very touching as the 'monster'. His performance was very close to the book. He gives the 'monster' a heart, as it should be.Otherwise, don't bother seeing this thing. It's a waste of time and not worth the title of Mary Shelly's Frankenstein. This is actually Kenneth Brannagh's Frankenstein.  "},{"Title":"How could this possibly be unpopular?  Here's one or two ideas ...","Date":"13 July 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  It was a mistake to call this Mary Shelley's Frankenstein; partly because titles of that sort are manifestly silly, partly because it revived fading memories of Bram Stoker's Dracula, a wretched movie if ever there was one. The title helped people to think of this film as a turkey.  As a matter of fact it did quite well at the box office in some places (notably Britain). It would have done better still had it not been for the mesmeric spell that the North American box office casts over the rest of the world.This is Branagh at his best - and he is one of the world's greatest directors.  Two scenes are notable in particular.  The scene where Frankenstein is brought to life threw aside all the old (and not very effective) imagery and started from scratch the result is beautiful (in a disgusting sort of way) as well as convincing.  And the mob lynching around the middle is a masterpiece.  Branagh clearly took the time to understand how a mob works.  There are no flaming torches or upraised pitchforks in sight; no dutifully shouted Gilbert-and-Sullivan chorus (Kill him! Yes, kill him!)  The mob's victim never stands a chance.  We understand why, and we feel the helplessness of it all.But both these scenes are just instances that shine more brightly than the rest.  A sense of obsession and drive is built up from the beginning and sweeps like a wave to the end; and the whole, every frame of it, is gorgeously and grimly shot.  You should be warned that people complain about Branagh's acting, the soundtrack, and the pacing.  I don't know what to say to such people.  I could understand it if they attacked the film where it was weakest. I am mystified when they attack its strengths.  Without the feverish feel - an essential part of the Frankenstein myth - this would be just another safe, dull and forgettable science fantasy.  Perhaps that's what people wanted. "},{"Title":"Laughable camp fest masquerading as high art.","Date":"3 September 2000","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  This adaptation of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein was just as ridiculous if not worse than the original 1940s Hollywood flick with Boris Karloff.  Aside from the over-the-top acting, atrocious dialogue (Brother and sister no more...now husband and wife...), and an utter disregard for the original plotline of the novel, I guess the visual effects and scenery weren't too bad...at least when Kenneth Brannagh wasn't chewing it up!  De Niro's performance wasn't too bad either.Many of the changes in the story seemed to make little sense (WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD).  For example, when Frankenstein resurrects Elizabeth, why did he have to cannibalize parts from Justine's body...couldn't he have simply removed the heart as that was all he needed to revive her?  As well, how was Elizabeth able to set herself on fire or the rest of the house for that matter?  I thought her body would still be damp from the resurrection process?  Even Mel Brooks' Young Frankenstein can be considered a better adaptation of the novel than this godawful, self-indulgent piece of tripe.  A 1 out of 10 rating, out of pity for those involved. "},{"Title":"Outlandish, terrible, boring.","Date":"27 March 2005","Score":"5 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Did you like Wild Wild West, and how outlandish it was? Are you a fan of terrible movies? Do you think movies are sometimes better than the book? Than this movie is for you. Never have I seen a more disturbingly terrible translation of book to movie than in this case. The acting was more than sub par, the scenery outlandish, and not for one second was it ever terrifying. These are the kind of movies you'd leave, or throw your popcorn at. The worst part about it all was that DeNiro's makeup and version of the Monster was promising, but cut short behind a muddle of boredom and sped up story, if only to put a beautiful book into two hours of over dramaticized slaughtering that only came to an end when the fast forward button or skip scene button would be pressed, just to get me out of the anger I felt towards specific scenes.See the original Frankenstein. Sure, it doesn't follow the book and is more based on a play than this version, but the acting is strong, and Karloff's monster, though silent, is a much more believable being. "},{"Title":"A Very Bad Film by a Very Bad Actor/Director","Date":"17 October 2005","Score":"19 out of 38 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I rarely write online reviews, but after reading most of the comments here my fingers couldn't type fast enough. Clearly, the majority of reviewers here saw a different film than the one I did. A masterpiece? Artful? Brilliant? Either that, or they just have poor taste in films. I still have no interest in really reviewing this film, but let me clear up a few erroneous statements from previous reviews 1) Please don't trash James Whale's 1931 film unless you've actually SEEN it &#151; all of it, because it's a far superior film to this, bolts and all. Whale may have changed the story quite a bit, but he captured the spirit of the novel and created one of the greatest cinematic icons of all time. (And Boris Karloff played the monster, not Lon Chaney).2) Although this film is truer to the original novel, it is not faithful and makes considerable changes that alter the overall intent of the story. There is no love triangle in the book, Victor Frankenstein is a medical student of about 18-19 years of age (Branagh is well past the sell-by date for that), and he creates the monster entirely by accident. (No drama whatsoever in the book - he wakes up with the creature hovering near his bed. No electricity, no solar panels as in The True Story, no amniotic fluid as in this film).3) De Niro is laughable as the creature. He's completely out of his element and hopelessly miscast. As for make-up, Karloff is closer to original story (minus the bolts). In the novel the creature has weepy yellow eyes, skin like a cadaver, and is nine feet tall. Karloff's make-up was green because when filmed under proper lighting (on B&W film) green make-up looks deadly pale, almost pure white, not because the monster in that film was supposed to be green. Again, it's B&W folks! This story will always present challenges for a filmmaker because it's not really horrific as a story by our standards, or by the standards of the 1930s for that matter, hence the bolts. It's was a novel of the Romantic Era, and the very premise was frightening in and of itself.The real core of the novel is the on-going philosophical debate between young Victor, and his bastard child - the creature. Yes, it's a novel about creating life and playing God, but underneath that is a novel about both adolescent sexuality &#151; Young Victor, alone in his attic, fooling around with nature &#151; and also the consequences of creating a life and then not taking responsibility for it. Branagh's film is too caught up in hammy acting and nauseating camera moves to ever really get there. Yes, the debates are there, but the soul isn't. It's a vaudeville sideshow masquerading as art. For those with only a passing knowledge of the book, it may seem truer, but Whale's 1931 film is actually much closer to the novel's heart in its depiction of the other, the outcast, the bastard than this ever comes close to. "},{"Title":"The Best Version Of FRANKENSTEIN that I have Ever Seen!","Date":"7 October 2004","Score":"23 out of 46 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I have seen the old black and white version of FRANKENSTEIN and I have seen the HAMMER HORROR version of FRANKENSTEIN, which was titled The Curse Of Frankenstein, and though they are both excellent, neither are as good as MARY SHELLY'S FRANKENSTEIN!We have Victor Frankenstein, who is going to college to study science. He is a very ambitions man, and he wants to study what no school will dare teach Bringing The Dead, Back To Life! So he meets a man who works at this college, who is curious about the same things that Victor is, but for some reason, he refuses to let Victor take it too far. Then, when this man dies, there is nobody to stop Victor from taking his experiments to the next level! This is a MUST SEE for any Frankenstein fans. For those of you who know the story of Frankenstein through the old Universal Monster Movies, this film takes the story of FRANKENSTEIN, and the story of BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN, and combines them. But with a slightly different and slightly better ending. There is a lot more violence in this film then in the old Black and White versions, but it follows the same story line. Robert De Niro gives an excellent performance as the monster. I couldn't believe it was him on the screen. I have never seen him act out a part like this before. But he pulled it off beautifully, and nobody could have done it better. You gotta check this flick out, trust me, you won't regret it!  "},{"Title":"gives us too much and not enough","Date":"7 March 2009","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" When it comes to literature, Mary Shelley's Gothic novel Frankenstein is one of the more significant titles to appear. Not only is it memorable in the fact that it was written by a woman in a time when women were considered the lesser of the two sexes, but it also set up new standards for science-fiction and horror that were expanded even further with following plays and ultimately the 1931 James Whale film of the same name, which featured Boris Karloff as the mutinous, growling monster created from dead bodies fused with electricity. Most of the criticism of the 1931 film focuses on the fact that it is only very loosely faithful to Mary Shelley's original novel. This 1994 adaptation, directed by and starring Kenneth Branagh, is by far, much more adhering to the text, but that does not make it a better film. I didn't think the 1931 Frankenstein was a great film, but it was still twice the entertainment that Branagh's is.The plot is the same one we're all familiar with. A young man (Kenneth Branagh) mad with the passion to create a living being in his own image recklessly instills life into a humanoid made from the bodies of dead men and creates a hapless, but unnaturally durable creature played uncharacteristically by Robert De Niro and before long, his mistake of playing God soon leads to chaos and people near to him fall victim and before long, he soon takes the responsibility of purging the creature under his own wing. But then there's the element that not all of us are familiar with. That the creature has a mind and a heart of its own and that it wants to meet its creator again, with some requests of its own.I do appreciate director/star Branagh's will to stick with Mary Shelley's original novel, but what I did not appreciate was his failure at supplying us with an appreciable motion picture that ultimately turned out to be nothing more than pointless and forgettable.Like Roger Ebert said in his television review of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, Kenneth Branagh has a habit of going over the top with his movies and this is another example. There are many scenes in this movie that are way too explosive, way too loud, and way too graphic to satisfy us such as this rather bloody and fast-moving stillbirth scene early in the picture that did not serve any real purpose in the story than just to give us something to look at.That's what this movie really is. Just something to look at. It's a good-looking movie. The cinematography is crystal-clear and beautiful, the set design and art direction is fabulous, the scenery is entrancing, it feels as if we were looking into an actual world far distant and different from our own. But what Mary Shelley's Frankenstein fails to give us is substance and story and development and in stead focuses on its visual impact, which again, goes way over the hill. In short, it gives us too much and not enough. And as a result, its two-hour running time causes it to overstay its welcome. There are scenes that go on for too long and were not necessary and there are scenes that go by too quickly, but were necessary. And with a movie like this, once the audience starts to lose interest, the look of the film doesn't amount to a hill of beans anymore.Are there any positive aspects to Mary Shelley's Frankenstein? Yes, there are. And some of them are quite powerful. Number one, Robert De Niro was fantastic as Frankenstein's creature. De Niro does not rely on his grotesque-looking makeup to give the impression of a troubled creature, but instead embraces and surpasses it with his performance and there were some scenes where I actually felt a little moved because he was so great in the movie. The creature, like in the novel, is not the big lumbering green-skinned monster with electrodes emerging from its neck and mindlessly attacking people in rage. Here we have a sympathetic and tragic living being with feelings and emotions and a mind equal to that of a man's. De Niro gives us the most impressive Frankenstein's creature we have seen yet, even better than the Boris Karloff performance from the original. And that was a classic image. Unfortunately, De Niro is not seen enough and Branagh is seen too much and unfortunately Branagh is playing a very dull Victor Frankenstein.That's another thing I might as well mention. Apart from De Niro, we have no interesting characters. Gene Siskel noted that Helena Bonham Carter's character as well as the others were treated mostly as props in the background and he was correct with his criticisms. I did not connect with any of the characters except for the creature and in a movie like this, that is imperative otherwise you're quickly losing interest.Bottom line, this is a real shame. Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is a major missed opportunity. It's a well-acted, good-looking movie that I was still thoroughly bored with and unfortunately cannot suspend my disbelief and negative attitude toward the film to give it any recommendation except to those who want to see a faithful movie based on Mary Shelley's Gothic classic. "}{"Title":"The schism of up-close and far-away","Date":"23 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This one comes with caveats. One is NOT who stars Robert DeNiro, Kenneth Branagh, Tom Hulce, Helena Bonham Carter, Aidan Quinn, Ian Holm, and John Cleese. Wonderful. I failed to successfully read the original novel (when I was in 5th grade), and cannot assure you this is faithful to Shelley's work, however it is SO different than ALL the other Frankenstein movies, it MUST be more accurate &#150; which is a plus &#150; and THIS is where I place my caveat. There's a schism in the creation of this film &#150; a huge one between up-close and distant. Incredible, slimy, gory, exciting detail was given to the characters, laboratories, machines, and other frontal objects, but the distant views &#150; landscapes, snow, fire, explosions, water, storms, ships, icebergs&#133; was left budget and designer hungry. I'm going out on a limb here Branagh was the director. He is a theater man. He stars in, works on, and recreates epics intended for the stage more than the screen (Shakespeare, etc.). I think he sees and thinks as a theater man not a film man &#150; with special effects needing only to be symbolic of their reality. If you can get past chunks of snow that look and behave like Styrofoam, then you'll enjoy this weird, huge tale full of doom, warnings, lessons, and Victorian Karma. "},{"Title":"not great as it should have been but still pretty good","Date":"2 November 2007","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" what can i say about this film which hasn't already been said.....not much. I first saw this on televisiion when i was twelve and thought it was cool how they made it new and more serious. I have however just finished reading the book which is excellent and now we are watching it again in class. After the first 30 minutes of the film, my friend whispers to me that this movie has terrible acting. Later I correct him. The acting isn't bad, there simply is no character development. For example, in the beginning of the film when Victor's mother dies, we as the audience are suppose to feel something but we don't. She had what, a total of 2 minutes of screen time. I think brannagh just rushed through things just to get to the creature which is expertly played by De Niro. Brannagh must have been worried about the wide release and how he'd have to keep the audience interested. Therefore he missed out some good things and made the movie worse. The parts with the creature are done extremely well and the overall theme and feeling of the movie are perfect. I'd give it a 7.5 out of 10 just because of de niro. "},{"Title":"remove Kenneth Branagh and its perfect.","Date":"1 January 2006","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Kenneth Branagh had really good intentions in creating a version of Mary Shelley's classic tale Frankenstein that did not rely on the Hollywood version that has plagued the minds of us, and our ancestors since the 1930's. The creature was not green, did not have bolts jutting out from his neck, and of course, did not have the elevator shoes. The creature was basically normal looking-- if you look past the scars and jagged skin-- and stayed almost perfectly to Mary Shelley's vision. The monster was not created in a castle in Transylvania, and there was no hunchback assistant.However, a different writer should of been hired for the job. The dialogue is unrealistic, and cheesy. Kenneth Branagh should of stayed behind the scenes in the director's chair and not have gotten up in front of the camera, since his acting was exaggerated and too emotional for the part. Yes, the Victor Frankenstein in the book was a crybaby in his own right and was quite emotional, but if you could take that and multiply it by ten, you get Kenneth Branagh's rendition.However, the rest of the cast--Robert De Niro as the wretch, Helena Bonham Carter as Elizabeth, and John Cleese whose acting was surprisingly good, felt the actual emotion of the story, and brought it out onto the screen. The scenery is beautiful and the cinematography is just perfect for the story.All in all, the movie's basically perfect. Just remove Kenneth Branagh from the equation and it'll be more than perfect. "},{"Title":"Scary, graphic and quite good version of the story","Date":"2 July 2005","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Let me start off stating that I've never read the original novel by Mary Shelley(though from what I hear, this is one of the most accurate versions, as far as film goes). This is a very good story of how man tries to 'beat' or fight death, and of how a lack of concern for the repercussions of your actions can come back and haunt you later. The main problem with it, however, is that it comes off heavy-handed and grand, seemingly attempting to be more than it is. The dramatic music seems overdone, as does much of the dialog. But for what it is, it's quite good. There are plenty of jump-scares, and the violence is well-done and effective. The plot is well-written and interesting. The pacing seems a tad odd, at times off, but mostly works to the film's advantage. The acting is great, in particular DeNiro as the Creature. It's an unusual role for him, but when you think of how much effort he puts into each and every performance, it makes perfect sense. The characters are well-written and credible. The film is thoroughly entertaining and well-made, though it does occasionally become too heavy-handed and Branagh is at times self-important. In the end, I would guess you'd be better off reading the novel... but if you feel like watching a fairly good visual presentation of it, this film would be a good choice. I recommend this to fans of anyone involved in the production of it, and possibly of the original book. Don't expect it to follow the novel word-by-word, though. 7/10 "},{"Title":"Saw it for the second time after a long time...","Date":"1 October 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I barely remember watching Mary Shelly's Frankenstein the first time, as it was late at night and it was running on HBO. But after more than a year, I decided to go out and rent it again and give it a second 'welcome' hoping to see a decent reincarnation (no pun intended) of the classic Novel by Mary Shelly. I was a little disappointed after watching it. I have never read the original novel, but I simply did not like the pace and direction of the movie. Or to further specify, I didn't like the pace and direction of the story other than the Creation Sequences. They seemed very hasty and unpleasant, and many times kind of rushed in their shooting. I think Branagh should've taken a look at his Co-star's (Tom Hulce) other Barok film AMADEUS and learn a little from Milos Forman in the direction of such an era. I was disappointed with that. However, what I was not disappointed about were the creation sequences and especially the last creation sequence with Elizabeth. Some of the creepiest stuff i've seen, and very well done with the camera moving around Victor and Elizabeth, adding the well placed confusion to the scene. Bravo on that, but sadly thats about it. The performances were ok, DeNiro was cool, but I simply love Tom Hulce. good stuff from him again. And even John Cleese was very good, as i barely recognized him. I think Branagh should stick to acting, because thats what he's great at. Acting and directing at the same time may be a little bit too ambitious because both seem to lack when done together. i don't have a rating system, but i suggest to watch it atleast once, but dont expect an epic, or anything close to Bram Stoker's Dracula in Quality. "},{"Title":"great warning spoilers","Date":"3 April 2003","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  i like to save up money and buy a dvd once and a while after hearing about it or seeing it,a while ago i bought bram stokers dracula what a waste of time, it was cheap and didn't stick 2 the original story but it was hailed. a while later i saw frankenstein i saw a few good names and it was cheap so i bought it. i think it's the best movie i've seen in yonks,dark,violent,good plot and the end was thrilling.i enjoyed the execution of justine and loved the rip(can't spoil it too much). but i ask my dad about if he'd seen it and he said when it came out it was a flop. BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT  "},{"Title":"Not the best film in the world, but still enjoyable","Date":"22 January 2002","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I'm not sure why some people are so vicious towards this film. Granted, its not the best in its field, but was more satisfying than others. Personally I liked Kenneth Branagh as Victor Frankenstein. Robert de Niro should have had more screen time, but the look and style of his make-up was a welcome relief from the flat-head, bolt-thru-the-neck Hollywood monster. The breathtaking scenery matched the novel perfectly, and the monster was shown to have a certain amount of dexterity (as in the novel) instead of a lumbering hulk.There have been comparisons with Dracula (1992), and while Dracula had some gorgeous colours, I found it to be overlong and had too many mis-cast actors. I thought Kenneth Branagh and Helena Bonham-Carter were more believable in their parts as a couple than Winona Ryder and Keanu Reeves were in Dracula. Dracula had Keanu Reeves, Frankenstein has Robert De Niro, nuff said.The first half hour of the film was a bit awkward, but the highpoint of the first half for me was the scene where the creature is given life. The novel is very brief in the scene where the creature is bought to life, whereas movie adaptations seem to put a large amount of focus onto it. This film does too, and in this one its quite elaborate, but its incredibly satisfying. Kenneth Branagh was perfect in this scene as he desperately tried to bring his creation to life. So overall not a perfect film, but enjoyable for fans of the novel. "},{"Title":"Visually beautiful, but lacking","Date":"26 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  While visually one of the most stunning films I have seen as of late, this film drifts quite far away from the novel it claims to be faithful to. All that aside, De Niro as the Monster and Branagh as Frankenstein are magnificent. Look for John Cleese, I almost didn't notice which character he was. 7 of 10. "},{"Title":"Robert De Niro and Kenneth Brannagh","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Robert De Niro was just the actor of the 90's. Wesley Snipes was teamed up with him. Samuel L. Jackson was teamed up with him. He directed and produced his own movie. He finally appeared alongside Al Pacino in 'Heat'. He was just the man of the 90's. In 'Frankenstein', only his popularity is tapped into rather than his personality. His character almost goes unnoticed in this film, and you wonder to yourself what Brannagh was trying to say. "},{"Title":"summoning up the problem of playing god--this film furnishes a particularly cold and lush vision, in view of contemporary cavalier creation-enactments in bio-engineering, and genetic-godly techno","Date":"11 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" . . . concerning Frankenstein, I didn't have Branaugh remotely in mind--I thought the spectacle (cinematography) was--in it's extravagance--impressively highly-achieved. Another reason the film struck me very strongly is for the story inherent, the inquiry about man vis a vis nature, and the problem of soul, and suchlike stuff. The morality tale or allegorical relevance, exposed or drawn cinematically in that 1994 film, I found edifying, but then I'm a precious aesthete in some ways. Still--to a general audience only casually informed or interested in the problem of playing god--particularly in its contemporary enactments, of which irradiating vegetables seems scary to so many!--the film could be tonic. The film will require something unlikely, or uncommonly discovered, though, in a general audience--namely, a particular mental associative capacity, and an apperception of moral and scientific features in history.It would require (and those not having seen this film, may not take my point here) the capacity to experience horror (of fire), the ravaging influence of ill-conceived beings, and the everstretching vast polar range of bitter ocean, where the hand rises up from almost-frozen salty waves, with a monstrous grasp at all so large, cold; then, again, tries to rise, once again looming among the massive blockages of ice shelves everywhere around --this being widely shot from below horizon (or choppy sea) level, dig . . .well, I could go on, I, who think for an achievement of the dreamworld, that perhaps Kubrick's The Shining, is that auteur's best work, better than Heidegger's remarks in On Being (which would be impertinent here, except that he speaks about connotations that underlie the word shine, that are useful in commenting upon The Shining--here I refer to a film, only, and not a book by S. King!!However,when I speak of Frankenstein, above, of course I'm not considering the film as it stands solo. --One could, though.But, heck-- one COULD speak of Gods and Monstories and Bill Condon, couldn't one!!!? Pardon my spel (ling) t--he debbil made me do that. monsteries, monsters, brides, etc. "}{"Title":"the original creature had hair","Date":"27 April 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Perhaps what some reviewers forget in their onslaught of Branagh-bashing is that Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is told from Victor Frankenstein's perspective. Branagh's directorial narcissism, however accurately it may relate to his real-life persona, is justified in the fact that his character is not only the narrator in the film, but is the narrator in the original novel (well, if you don't count Captain Walton who held such an infatuation for Frankenstein that his retelling of the story might as well have been Frankenstein's words) and particularly enjoyed talking about himself for nearly two hundred pages there.At any rate, I personally enjoyed this rendition of the novel, especially when comparing it to The Curse of Frankenstein, in which the creature finds a blind man and his grandson in a forest and kills them for no particular reason. Another review accused Branagh of changing the monster's character entirely, but I've never seen him portrayed more accurately; the only major change of character was that Mary Shelley's original creature spoke very articulately (thees and thous) while DeNiro often spoke dreadfully slow or in broken English. (...and the original creature had hair)Well, I'm running out of words, so I'll end this with a thumb up and a half, the half being Helena B. Carter biting her pillow making love. That's some good Elizabeth. "},{"Title":"A Heroic Failure","Date":"30 April 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  This was a heartfelt attempt to bring the greatest horror story ever written to the screen. Unfortunately, the adoption is just to convoluted, making it hard to make an emotional connection with what is happening. Ironically, the best section is the climax with the Bride, were the film differs from the novel.Too much time spent with Victor Frankenstein, not enough time getting to know the creature. "},{"Title":"A great book, an interesting but gory twist.","Date":"13 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  In his efforts to make a faithful screen adaptation of Mary Shelley's classic novel, Kenneth Branagh seems more fit to outdo most of the gore effects Horror flicks of the 60's introduced to us. Granted, the film always keeps you entertained and never bored, but some details along the way just spoil it. First of all, I don't remember Frankenstein's monster being bald. Secondly, Roger Pratt's photography seems like it was tied to a merry-go-round all the way through the film. Third, the film score mixed with the frenetic camerawork and performances give the film an unusual feel. Despite that, the film is blessed with fine, if not sane, performances by both leads, De Niro as the Creature, and Branagh as Dr. F. The film is very well done, but as if progresses something just seems to be missing.  "},{"Title":"Hate it","Date":"23 March 2014","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I never wrote a review for anything I've watched, even Stalker the masterpiece that changed my life, but this movie, evoked the hell out of me, I just hate everything about this movie, bad directing, bad screen play, bad makeup, bad music .... it's much more less than I expected . I think people are ranking it good because of Deniro, which reminds me  DiNero! how the hell you did this??? Helena is the only one who played her role passionately, but this didn't even help the movie, it only helped Helena . The first and the last scene are low quality in terms of decor & directing. it's more like a teenager director read the book and came out with this bad interpretationAll I want to say is that it's truly very overrated .. "},{"Title":"The Road to Hell is Paved With Good Intentions","Date":"5 August 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Victor Frankenstein is inspired to become a doctor by the tragic death of his mother during childbirth. With the help of his mentor's notes and plenty of necessary human parts, he creates an artificial life form. Victor rejects the artificial man he just created due the horrifying outlook of the creature. He tries to kill it and promises to change his own nature for the better. The monster escapes and later swears revenge.Among the many remakes and reboots of horror classics in the 90's, this one was brought to screen by Kenneth Branagh along with superlative actors such as De Niro, Helena Bonham Carter, Ian Holm, John Cleese and Tom Hulce among others. Branagh obviously wanted to class up the epic horror story and so goes for the emotional touch instead of pure horror. Helena and De Niro gave amazing performances, but they are hampered by the hamfisted writing and direction. After a great start to his character where he was totally immersed in it, you can see De Niro almost giving up by the end. Branagh who also plays the lead as Victor Frankenstein is overzealous and an unsympathetic character even when he tries his hardest to make you empathize with him.At the end of the day, the Frankenstein is pretentious, yet flat and uninspiring. There's melodrama and then there's the parody of a melodrama. Unfortunately, this one falls in the latter category even with all its good intentions. There were several times where I unintentionally burst out laughing. I haven't read the novel, but this movie sure doesn't deserve to put up Mary Shelley's name and tarnish her reputation.4/10 "},{"Title":"Tribute to M Shelly","Date":"18 February 2013","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Forced to Survive in the real world, a man-made creature losses his Child- like innocence and transforms into an adult with bitterness, lust, vengeance - and deadly reasoning.This movie is a great tribute to Mary Shelly's novel. I read the novel when i was a kid, this movie just great, Robert DN plays the awesome monster, who longs for worldly things like normal human after being artificially created - a possible reference to Genetic engineering gone to waste like Terminator seeds (by Monsanto).other references or rip-off made by Time Burton Frankweenie in 1984 i think and then again animation in 2013 "},{"Title":"Kenneth Branagh's Frankenstein, in my opinion, is the most successful screening of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein.I'm very impressed!","Date":"11 December 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Science versus Religion The Idea which was Destined to FailWith knowledge comes personal responsibility; the denial of responsibility leads to tragic outcomes.Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is a movie about a scientist Victor Frankenstein who becomes obsessed with the idea of creating life after his mother's death, which devastates him. He works hard for a long time until his creation is complete, but the first signs of life in the monster's corpse terrify him and he decides to destroy it. The creature, however, manages to escape from Frankenstein's laboratory which then becomes the start of his agony. After he steps into a real world he is not accepted by society, but on the contrary, is faced humiliation, aversion and reprobation. Thus, all these facts give a start to a tragedy which does not leave anyone indifferent. In my opinion, it is misnomer to call the existence Monster as most of us do. I would rather say he is a victim, a pathetic creature - an outcome of human-being's uncontrolled thirst for knowledge. However, as we know, Victor Frankenstein did not pursue anything bad, all he wanted was to reduce human-being's suffering of loss. Initially, his intention was to bring people happiness, because after he lost his mother he felt on himself how it is to lose someone. But unfortunately, he could not accomplish what he desired to accomplish, in fact. He totally failed. In the rest of my essay, I would like to talk about the reasons of his failure. First reason of his failure is the fact that by creating the existence, doctor Frankenstein oversteps all the bounds of morality and deference to God. Moreover, he oversteps all the bounds of science. He was excessively thirsty for knowledge, but that was the limit. Consciously or unconsciously, but by creating the human-like existence, he automatically becomes omniscient &#x96; that is, God-like. However, as we know, from religious perspective, no one except God is allowed to do anything like that, as our protagonist does. In order to realize his crazy idea, Frankenstein sweeps everything away on his road including all aspects of ethics. However, even his idea about creating a human, is out of sanity that can foreshadow his eventual fail. No matter how good and kind Frankenstein's intentions were, his attempts to outreach almighty goes beyond the limit and, in the long run, he pays a very high price to all his deeds. Second reason that leads him to fail is his irresponsibility to his own creature. After creating the being, Frankenstein himself becomes terrified of it. How come it is possible? Is it typical of a father to get scared of his son? When God created us did he show the same attitude to its creatures? &#x96; No. After almighty created us we were put into a paradise, where our roots Adam and Eve were supported with everything &#x96; shelter, food, work and the most important thing &#x96; the Father's love and care. But what the poor existence faces after he is created? &#x96; Reprobation. The doctor is the one who creates the creature and he must be the one who should take responsibility for his life. However, as we watched, Frankenstein initially treats his creature as a neuter gender and even does not bother himself to name it. I think if he had taken care of his being and taught him what is good and what is bad, things would have taken completely another turn. And the final reason of such a tragic end is the rejection of the unnamed by society. The creature is bitter and dejected after being turned away from human civilization, much the same way that Adam in Paradise Lost was turned out of the Garden of Eden. One difference, though, makes the creature a sympathetic character. In the biblical story, Adam causes his own fate by sinning. In this case, Frankenstein causes the creature's hideous existence that leads to the creature's being spurned. Thus, being over and over again rejected by society makes the creature become violent and revengeful. Such a poor, devil-may-care attitude of people to him kills all good traits in him. To conclude, no matter what is the creature like, no matter how good or bad he is, his monstrous appearance would never allow him to grow accustomed to society. He is created to be rejected. It is fact, very bitter fact - the outcome of human-being's irresponsibility and egoism to fulfill its thirst for knowledge. According to Bible, knowledge is considered to be an evil that can destroy the humanity. Just like Eve, doctor Frankenstein reaches for a prohibited knowledge. He goes beyond the limit of a science and morality. He acts against God's rules, which does not lead to anything good, but to a severe punishment. "},{"Title":"Sweeping Epic of Misery & Madness","Date":"24 November 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Much like Bram Stoker's Dracula (Coppola produced), here is a stylish, beautifully filmed, & acted update of a classic story. Some people fault Kenneth Branagh for his hyper dramatics, both in the direction, editing, & his acting in this film. I say it was just terrific! Here is a man so obsessed by his mother's death, that he wants nothing less than to bring an end to death! His whirlwind performance is a hypnotizing! A man so possessed by his vision, that it would eventually destroy everyone around him he loves & eventually himself. The most extreme case of irony, of a man who wanted to give life, but in the end brought nothing but death.Robert De Niro. What can I say about his performance as the monster? Not since Boris Karloff's great portrayal, have I seen such pathos, love, & and anger in Frankstein's creation. His interpretation should of at least won him an Oscar nomination. Nothing short of brilliant!Mary Shelly's Frankenstein is a film filled with a tornadic vortex of emotions, actions, & circumstance. It is a film that can sweep the viewer in to it's catapulting crescendos & crashes. An emotional roller-coaster ride to one man's oblivion. Profoundly sad, but also, profoundly mesmerizing! Only the Bride of Frankenstein matches this film in importance, as a truly transcending film from a classic story, of one man's madness. "},{"Title":"Branagh Creates 2 Monsters with this Abomination","Date":"26 September 2012","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Sister, Friend, LoverI believe that this quote, said early on in the film, shows just how abysmal this film really is. To start this review I must first say I have recently read the third edition of Frankenstein for my English Literature course and can honestly say it was one of the greatest books I have ever read. I was well accustomed with what I believed the story to be from how it is often portrayed in various media, but was completely mesmerised by the story, having so many underlying messages and themes, a story that takes us all across the world which gives this novel the worthy status as the pinnacle of the Romantic and Gothic Genre. In the 1930's we got Boris Karloff's iconic portrayal of the monster, a landmark of film, but it certainly did not translate Shelleys wonderful book well to the screen. In fact for nearly 70 years there has never been a Frankenstein adaptation that has ever been faithful to the original book. And so some goon in Hollywood decided Kenneth Branagh would be the go-to guy for the book adaptation. It is actually surprising how someone with such talent (said with a sore heart)could mess up this badly is truly more shocking and horrifying than any event in this film.It starts off like the book; Walton's ship is trapped in the arctic, where him and the crew see the monster far off and meet the eponymous Frankenstein (Branagh). The characterisation of Walton was just plain awful, not being the romantic adventurer desperate for human companionship from the novel. This character in the book was interesting as it is he whose letters frame the whole novel, it is him who learns Frankenstein's lesson at the end, and it his personality that mirrors Frankenstein's and The Monsters ideologies; Frankenstein's quest for knowledge and exploration and The Monsters need for a companion. But in this adaptation he is barely there, and when he is he is poorly played, acted more like a pompous and arrogant captain than a man striving to explore. And where is the relationship between Frankenstein and Walton? No, Branagh believes that it be better that the captain is aggressive to him, so he can just fall straight into his convulsing story. We are then introduced to the love story between Victor and Elizabeth (Helena Bonham Carter). I do really like Helena Bonham Carter in other films (Particularly in Sweeney Todd) but here it is like watching a completely different actress, as she theatrically throws herself with no meaning or skill from scene to scene. As the pivot to the events in the book, we have Frankenstein's mother die, but in a completely different way to in the book, so we get a gory shot of a dodgy birth. They have also from this film adaptation got rid of Victors younger brother Ernest, changed it so it is Victors professor who has the idea of bringing dead matter back to life, Making Victor meet Henry at university... Eventually all this artistic licensing and changing of the mythology has made this film completely different from the original novel and alienating any true fan of the book. For example, the death of Judith isn't as severe as in the book it is the law that kills her, whilst here it is a lynch mob. It is as if Branagh ran out of running time in the second half so tried to quickly summarise the rest of the book. But in doing this, has stopped it being even remotely Gothic. Where is the vast scenery, where is the slow picking off of the various characters... It is a rushed and bloated mess.The one possible saving grace for this film is Robert De Niro, who does actually create a believable and quite emotional monster. But he is so rushed and thoughtlessly thrown through the action that the audience finds it hard to connect with this innocent gone bad. The rest of the acting in this film is wooden and unbelievable, so the characters that are so well rounded in the book are taken back a step. The penultimate change to Elizabeth's death, making her resurrected in one last experiment by Frankenstein, is just ridiculous and at that point was the last straw to this abhorred film. The ending attempts to be bittersweet, but fails to see the ambiguity that Shelleys novel was regaled with. I did not care when any of the characters, even Victor, died, and I doubt anyone else could.Branagh, a lot like Victor himself, has taken bits of beauty from the book, built and constructed it into this monster and as soon as Branaghs monster has opened its eyes we are revealed to how hideous and monstrous it truly is. You want classic Gothic, read the book, and stay away from this film. "},{"Title":"Well designed and well intentioned, but there is something missing...","Date":"25 July 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Mary Shelley's Frankenstein certainly isn't a terrible film, far from it. In fact, it is a very good one, with some genuinely disturbing moments. I never did like the part when the monster tears out Elizabeth's heart, or any of the two hanging scenes, they disturbed me so much. I also felt there was something missing-Kenneth Branagh assures there is plenty of character development, and attention to detail,which is much appreciated, but sadly the film is a little soulless, and its cumbersome length probably doesn't help. Despite all this, there is much to be praised. The film is well designed, with splendid period detail with a superb score from Patrick Doyle, and benefits also from being fairly faithful to the source material. Kenneth Branagh does a good job directing, and delivers a fine performance as Victor Frankenstein, and Helena Bonham Carter looks beautiful as Elizabeth. Out of the more secondary roles, Tom Hulce is good as Henri Cleval, and Richard Briers gives a believable turn in the role of Felix. The best actor though in the movie, is Robert DeNiro as the monster- while his performance was genuinely terrifying at times, there are others when you feel sorry for him. Overall, a good film, undermined by lack of depth, but the detail and the performances salvage it from sinking into disaster. 7/10 Bethany Cox. "}{"Title":"Fails as a 'Horror'","Date":"24 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Kenneth Branagh's poor attempt at making a film of Mary Shelley's 19th century novel 'Frankenstein' fails to give across the message that Shelley's world famous creation manages to do. The adaptation mostly follows the line of the book with the enthusiastic Professor Frankenstein who is determined to create life after his mother dies giving birth his younger brother. Despite the fact the film is based on the book it lacks the ability to truly curdle the blood.Isn't the film supposed to be a horror? Although the makeup done by Daniel Parker, Paul Engelen and Carol Hemming was pretty frightening, the film never really gave me that spine-shiver that is expected from a horror. It lacks that sense of darkness and suspense. When expecting an ending that was similar to the book's, it is very surprising to find that Branagh has changed it. The gory scene of the monster ripping Elizabeth's heart out is then followed by a laughable failure of the zombie-like Elizabeth running through the house in flames. Despite the effect's this is unrealistic and whole house is a blaze in less then a minute! There are many great actors in the film such as the multi-talented Kenneth Branagh who both directs and stars in the film, Robert De-Niro who plays the distraught creature, Tom Hulce who plays Henry Clerval (Frankenstein's closest friend) and Helena Bonham Carter who plays Elizabeth, but this still doesn't bring the film to life. Branagh's attempt of the science-obsessed professor Victor Frankenstein is first seen in the cold blizzards of the Arctic wearing a frosted fur coat. He is taken aboard by Captain Robert Walton (Aidan Quinn) and begins to narrate his life, first as a youngster and then how he came to make his hideous creation. His Frankenstein is dramatic and over-acted but doesn't bring out the enthusiasm of Victor Frankenstein described in the novel. Hugely contrasted to Branagh's attempt of Frankenstein is Robert De Niro's superb performance of the creature. His performance conveys the feelings that the creature is described to have such as hate for Victor Frankenstein and lots of sadness. The way he portrays the creature really allows the audience to feel sympathy for Frankenstein's creation.The music seems to play throughout the whole film and is as annoying as Kenneth Branagh's loud and over the top acting. Patrick Doyle's music doesn't give the film any suspense, instead it leaves the audience trying to concentrate on the rest of the adaptation. Also it is hard trying to concentrate when the film is constantly switching from scene to scene, and it's jumpy camera is making you dizzy.The book's sophisticated language appears very simplified as many of the words and some of the language from the book is not used, but this allows the audience to understand more of the story. However maybe if Branagh had tried less to change it and had used more of the original dialogue and narrative, the film could be more interesting and therefore hold the interest of the viewing audience longer.In the scene after Frankenstein (Kenneth Branagh) has brought the creature to life. Frankenstein is lying in his bed, he awakes from a bad dream and the monster appears in a flash of lighting. Everybody knows this cliché from any traditional horror movie! Branagh should have paid more attention to the detail in the book and possibly produced a film much more true to it's title and not the farce that was created.Despite the fact that there are many unimpressive sections of the film there is undoubtedly some parts which will entertain the audience, such as the making of the monster. When Frankenstein is stitching and bringing the monster together there is a sense of realism and anticipation. This bit was enjoyable but unfortunately this short interlude of excitement lasted no more then 5 minutes and soon returned to it's dull but laughable self. "},{"Title":"Kenneth Branagh's Frankenstein","Date":"16 March 2009","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This curious, good-looking version of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein was promoted as faithful to the original work - and, although is follows events much more closely than the familiar version, its changes make it a more different, distant work than you might expect. The overriding theme is not man creating artificial life, and the consequences of this action. Instead, this film is about Kenneth Branagh (as Victor Frankenstein) desiring Helena Bonham Carter (as Elizabeth). As he is unable to consummate their relationship, the sexually frustrated Mr. Branagh goes crazy and creates a artificial, monster man.Both are drenched in goopy embryonic fluid, with Branagh displaying his chest most prominently.The created Robert De Niro (as Frankenstein's Creature) wants to mate, just like his creator. But, when Branagh is about to have sex (finally) with Ms. Carter, Mr. De Niro interrupts. After a near encounter with De Niro, Carter expires. Then, she is brought back to life, with the same face gashes De Niro displays. By the way, why do the creatures have these face gashes? Anyway, now you have two sexually frustrated men vying for the same, once pretty Bride of Frankenstein - and, they don't care how she looks anymore! Will Branagh (or even De Niro) ever get to consummate with Carter? Two dizzying hours later, will you care?**** Frankenstein (1994) Kenneth Branagh, Robert De Niro, Helena Bonham Carter "},{"Title":"from here, the story can go no further","Date":"15 September 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" A common criticism of Kenneth Branagh's version of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is that Branagh (who plays Victor Frankenstein) focuses too much on lavish sets, as Francis Ford Coppola does with his version of Dracula. True though that may be, we can say that Branagh's version stays faithful to the original novel. I've read the novel, and I would describe it as what Jane Austen would have written had she penned an editorial against science. Seriously, it was a real anti-science screed.So, while the movie suffers under its own pomp, it does also show the monster's (Robert DeNiro) side of the story. Probably what makes the movie slightly hard to take seriously - so to speak - is the presence of people like John Cleese and Tom Hulce (Pinto in Animal House).But overall, I recommend the movie. It's mostly a good way to see an authentic adaptation of Mary Shelley's novel. A look at the dangers of taking out ambitions too far. In case you're wondering why the monster looks as he does here, Universal Pictures has the more famous image copyrighted.Also starring Helena Bonham Carter, Ian Holm and Aidan Quinn. "},{"Title":"Mary Shelley is rolling in her grave...","Date":"20 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" this movie is simply awful. i was forced to watch this piece of fecal matter cinema while taking an English analysis and interpretation class. we were focusing on Mary Shelley's brilliant, terrifying, and splendid novel, and our professor was introducing us to different modern interpretations.why they called this movie Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, i don't know, since it veers off so wildly from the original book, it will make any literature fan's head spin. i know, even the original Frankenstein film wasn't close to the book at all, but at least it was done stylistically well and was merely based on the book rather than being touted as the closest adaptation of the book like this one was.everything about this movie is bad, except the costumes and makeup. the script is awful, much of the dialogue laughable if nothing else, and even the most interesting scenes only inspire boredom. this film has such a great cast de Niro, Helena Bonham Carter, Ian Holm, Tom Hulce, and director Branaugh...but all fail miserably here...mostly thanks to this monster of a script.take my advice. stay away. read the book. the original 1818 version. rent the original James Whale masterpiece of the delightful parody Young Frankenstein by Mel Brooks. this creature is better left dead. "},{"Title":"Untrue Romance, or, Without a Woman's Touch","Date":"15 December 2007","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" All you need to know about this version of the Frankenstein story is that it too is not Mary Shelley's story Frankenstein, or The Modern Prometheus. It is a cinematic adaptation which only loosely follows the bone-dry skeleton of the Romantic novel&#133;that is, its only claim to being Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is the inclusion of various details which other treatments ignored entirely. This however, does not mean that it does the neglected material any justice.The most unfair damage which this treatment does to the original is to remove all the romance and replace it with a lot of Hollywood bluster. For any of you who have read the novel, the way in which various characters in this movie grab each other by the cuffs and go about rudely thrusting one another against hard surfaces will seem quite alien. Gone are the lonely, wistful men of Shelley's novel. In their place are savage, violent, and intemperate movie machos.The second most criminal offense which this film does to the novel on which it was based is to digress into lengthy, fictitious elaborations upon the story. Frankenstein's education bares no resemblance to his own account in the novel&#133; it is a movie in and of itself&#133; a regular young Frankenstein. What this movie lacks in intellectual and creative honesty it attempts to make up for with period authenticity, occasionally dwelling upon the studio's research into the day's scientific foibles rather than furthering the plot. Every time the cholera epidemic or quarantine is mentioned, you'll know that the film is striving desperately at a historical correlation with more vigor than it attempts to translate Shelley's novel. The actors and actresses want you to believe that they have assumed a character from a different time&#133; but really they sound completely and utterly like themselves. Branagh should be ashamed of himself for his work here&#133; there isn't a romantic bone in his performance throughout. Such work belongs on the stage floor of a shoddy, incestuous English playhouse where actors rapidly spout their lines like barking dogs who never once heard of meter, or the use of a light touch. Branagh, and his studio, who have brought us many filmic (though schlock) productions of Shakespeare, have woefully underestimated the average horror fan. This film is suitable only as light entertainment, and will enthuse only children who hated the novel. As much a crime to written literature as Peter Jackson's Lord of The Rings films&#133; an extreme makeover envisioned by corrupt marketing executives in attempt to keep the public consciousness stunted and easily manipulated. De Niro has been transformed, but little else is remarkable about this entire work.((50%. An expensive and overwrought production which betrays its original in about every sense possible. Branagh should stick to the stage, instead of chopping up the romantic novel and bringing it back to life as this lumpy, shapeless monster.)) "},{"Title":"Why do people hate it?","Date":"25 February 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This movie takes a lot of heat from critics. I disagree with them. I think it was slightly ahead of it's time and, if it came out today, it would be widely celebrated. This film is a great adaptation of Mary Shelley's unforgettable tale of playing God. Unlike it's predecessors, the monster is not a monster, there are no bolts in his neck just scarred flesh. The monster of this film is made quite human by De Niro who plays the part with the curiosity and innocence of a child. The ability to make the audience sympathize with such a grotesque character is an enormous feat and that alone makes this film respectable. It's actually difficult to decide who to root for at times. Then there's the special effects which are, for the most part, excellent. The climactic fire sequence still amazes me when I watch it. This films only downfall in my eyes, is it's over dramatization of events. Sometimes you find yourself thinking, OK, calm down enough is enough&#133; it's just too over-the-top. However, a little too much drama is easily overcome by the many things this film has going for it. "},{"Title":"Disappointing version which tries to be faithful to the original story, but fails to ever really get going.","Date":"6 November 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Actor-director Kenneth Branagh made big noises about the fact that his version of the Frankenstein story follows the Mary Shelley novel more closely than previous ones. However his claims were a touch misleading, as there had already been two very faithful TV movie adaptations, the first being Frankenstein The True Story (made in 1973 with James Mason), the second Frankenstein The Real Story (made in 1992 with Patrick Bergin). What Branagh was probably trying to get at was the fact that the two most successful cinematic versions of the story (the 1931 Universal release and the 1957 Hammer classic The Curse Of Frankenstein) were not particularly true to the original source material. This 1994 adaptation does, however, try to stick to the plot and themes of the Mary Shelley story. Unfortunately, for all its respect and accuracy towards it origins, it still emerges a disappointing movie. There's no real sense of terror, mood nor atmosphere.Arctic explorer Captain Walton (Aidan Quinn) comes across Victor Frankenstein (Kenneth Branagh) wandering in the frozen wastelands. Walton takes Frankenstein aboard his ship, where the latter sets about recounting the amazing story of how he came to be there.A young and brilliant science student whose mother died during child birth, Frankenstein recently created and brought to life a man-like creature (Robert De Niro). However, the creature later escaped and fled into the neighbouring forests. Having spent time observing people and seeing seeing what it means to be human - especially the very human emotion of love - the creature returns to demand that Frankenstein create a second, female creature that will become its mate. By this point, Frankenstein has developed serious misgivings about the whole experiment and refuses to agree to the creature's demands. Angered, the creature seeks it vengeance by tracking down and killing Frankenstein's friends and family, while leaving the man himself alive to wallow in guilt over the terrible beast he has unleashed upon mankind. Realising the creature's plan, Frankenstein leads his monstrous creation into the Arctic wilderness where he plans to destroy both it and himself.While the film looks suitably impressive, thanks to Tim Harvey's production design and Roger Pratt's rich photography, it has no real heart. It's just a cold and uninvolving affair, filled with scenes and performances that seem generally staid and unenthusiastic. De Niro is the only actor who really does himself justice, giving a thoughtful and physically commanding performance as the creature. Branagh is not convincing as Frankenstein (he is clearly more suited to Shakesperean roles, and lacks the chilling believability of, say, Peter Cushing); the usually-dependable Tom Hulce gets too little screen-time as Frankenstein's friend Henry Clerval; and Helena Bonham Carter's scenes as Frankenstein's adopted sister Elizabeth are too overwrought, giving the actress no hope of developing an appealing characterisation. The best scene in the film is easily the part where De Niro's character comes to life, but at most points this is a totally unfrightening movie. All the effort and energy has gone into the designs, little into the film's more horrifying aspects. All things considered, Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is a disappointment which, while watchable, should have been much better considering all the time, money and talent that has been thrown at it. "},{"Title":"One Man's Celebration of Himself","Date":"20 August 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This film would be considered a piece of cinematic art were it not for the overinflated ego of Kenneth Branagh. You can only imagine how much scenery the British version of Orson Welles (only a lot less fat) chews up, considering he had a heavy hand in the writing, and not only directs the film but cast himself in the title role. To sum up the film, here it is Kenneth Branagh raving. Helene Bonham Carter with an afro. Kenneth Branagh raving. John Cleese with some bad teeth. Kenneth Branagh raving. Robert DeNiro and Kenneth Branagh rolling in a very homo erotic way in some goo. And that's it.While I show the utmost respect for Branagh's impressive roster, his in-your-face thespian tactics don't translate onto film very well at all. The end result is his portrayal as Dr. Frankenstein as an arrogant, jittery madman with delusions of grandeur. Having read the original novel, the good doctor is much more subdued and determined. Kenneth simply seems to be thrusting himself into every single crevice of this film as if to say this is all about ME! Robert DeNiro doesn't pull off the monster very well, due to the fact that this movie clearly does not show you a monster, it shows you Robert DeNiro trying to be one. In past film incarnations, considerable effort was made on the part of the creative designers to make the man underneath the makeup seem monstrous. In this film, it was almost as if an effort was made to make sure we never forgot Look, it's an important Hollywood actor trying to be menacing. To me, this film would be more at home as a segment of Masterpiece Theater than an actual film. The only thing scary about this film is the size of Kenneth Branagh's head. "},{"Title":"Extremely overwrought version of 'Frankenstein'","Date":"2 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Mary Shelley's Frankenstein (1994) Kenneth Branagh, Robert De Niro, Helena Bonham Carter, Ian Holm, Tom Hulce, Aidan Quinn, Richard Briers, Robert Hardy, John Cleese, D Kenneth Branagh. Overwrought, gore-ridden depiction of the classic Frankenstein saga is a major disappointment when it's less faithful to the narrative source. As usual, Branagh (who stars as the mad doctor) keeps the camera constantly moving through a nightmarish, frantic style. De Niro wasn't the best choice as the escaped creation, considering that under all the makeup he still reminds us of a grinning De Niro. Unredeemed by the efforts of cast, director, and an artistically handsome production. 124 min., rated R. ** "},{"Title":"bad casting and other thoughts","Date":"28 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I just saw this film the other day and it made me wonder how people could take a concept like Shelley's Frankenstein and just ruin it. I mean, this film wasn't awful, but it wasn't good either. Something about terribly unrealistic scenes just bother me. With regards to the first commentator of this page, it is NOT Victorian-era. And for my final thought, is it just me or is the co-star Tom Hulce a bad actor? It seems like everything I've ever seen him in he's basically the same person, same manner of speaking, same actions, everything. Whether he's someone from the 18th century or a contemporary character he adds no innovation to his roles. Ugh. By comparison, Branagh is brilliant. "}{"Title":"Patchy","Date":"19 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" (SPOILERS herein) I really looked forward to seeing this film, as I had heard it followed the book more closely than anything previously. I suppose it did, but for Pete's sake, why can't Hollywood just tell a story? What the hell was the deal with the ripping-the-heart-out-and-reanimation crap? I didn't mind that they didn't kill off Henry, and I didn't mind how they shortcut Justine's death -- it made it slightly less tragic, a little less painful. There were 2 or 3 Huh??!! moments throughout the film, but nothing too awfully distracting. But then I guess KB decided Mrs. Shelley's ending wasn't quite Hollywood enough, and needed a little more flash and gore.Overall, the film is very patchy. There are some very good moments, probably even the majority, but they are jarringly interspersed with moments ranging from mediocre to appalling. Too bad. Hopefully some day someone will really tell this story properly on film.Here's some advice to future filmmakers it's a *tragedy*. Don't try to gloss it over. If you want to make a film of this story, ignore everything that's been done before, just read the book and keep that in mind. I was quite impressed with De Niro's portrayal of the creature. That was the one point I was most dubious about going into it, but I should have known better. If you can get someone like him, you're good in that department. Don't cast your girlfriend as Elizabeth, unless she truly can portray the grace and elegance of Shelley's Elizabeth, rather than the edgy, grating portrayal here. Be sure you hire a good editor; this film could have been greatly helped with one. And above, all *tell the story*! Don't fiddle with it. I know you can't cover every little detail, but you can keep the integrity. "},{"Title":"Very Cheesy","Date":"4 October 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  This film starts off with a potential to be very good and I was rather looking forward to watching it. However the film is very cheesy and as a result I cringed at some points as it was just too ridiculous (I.e when the monster is rolling around on the floor with Victor)The special effects were embarrassingly poor and the acting didn't involve the viewer in the story at all. At times the story was confusing. The scene in the film which made me laugh out loud (as it was so poorly directed and thought out) was when the re-living woman drops a lantern with a small amount of oil and the whole house goes up in flames instantly as if 20 tonnes of C4 had been put into the rooms. This is ridiculous as a small lantern fire would not grow this quickly and carry on exploding all of the rooms as quickly as it did. The explosion wouldn't even reach the main hall of that house. I was rather disappointed and would have to be generous to even give the film 5/10  "},{"Title":"What the Hack?","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes Branagh's pretty good. Sometimes he's a hack. Which is what he did in the editing in this thing, sometimes called Mary Shelley's Frankenstein. It should be called Kenneth Branagh's Frankenstein. Just look at the creation scene. He could have slime wrestled with a naked Helena Bonham-Carter . . . but NooooooOOOOOOOooooo! (I guess he got enough of that at home) He has to do it with Bobby De Niro! Well, he is English. As for H B-C, I guess she'd had enough as well, since she moved on to another director, Burton, who also is sometimes good, sometimes a hack. I guess those who don't learn from history are doomed to repeat it. And as many period pictures as she's been in, you would think she'd have learned that by now.  "},{"Title":"An Abominable Science","Date":"12 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Kenneth Branagh does a superb job acting and directing this film about a grisly consequence that was born from the industrial age of science. The young and unconventional Dr. Frankenstein (Branagh) challenges passe teachings of medicine in the hopes to uncover new and exciting methods to assist patients. But in his unsated struggle to discover and help lead a medical renaissance, he starts up the abandoned work of one of his professors who gave it up years ago because it lead to abomination. But Dr. Frankenstein refuses to listen to the cautions of his associates. He equips a laboratory and prepares himself to do the unimaginable - piece together a human being a bring it to life.Meanwhile Frankenstein is carrying on a relationship with his adopted sister, Elizabeth (Helena Bonham Carter), which I must admit was a bit disgusting, despite the accepted incestuous relationships during that time. When his experiment threatens his relationship with Elizabeth and threatens his own health, Frankenstein abandons the work, all but convinced that the abomination he created would perish on its own. But some horrible acts just never go away and soon come back to darken your door. And this is exactly what happens when The Monster (Robert De Niro) pays a visit to his maker. He demands to have a bride of his own, created just a he was, imperfect and grotesque so that he would not feel physically inferior or horrendous. When Frankenstein refuses, The Monster takes matters into his own hands in a gruesome act of vengeance.In the end, we see how some things once done, can never be undone. And how the consequences of what we do can disastrous effects. This film adds a bit of poetic justice to the quite believable acts of noble doctors who acted in the name of science without considering the morality and humane repercussions of their work. Mary Shelley created an immortally gripping work of horror spawned from a summer night at Lord Byron's. 8/10  "},{"Title":"The truest representation in film of a seminal work of English literature.","Date":"20 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Read works of literature; watch cinematic representations of the same compare the vision. Compare the purity of content from film to film and recognize those works rendered films by Kenneth Branagh, are unequaled.Read Mary Shelly's Frankenstein. Do not review this film simply as a member of the jaded field of films devoted to the allure of Frankenstein - rather find the explicit nature of the work represented in Branagh's film.Further explanation is available per individual requirements, as for the required length of this article, my compliance is in protest.Think Peace-Stuart  "},{"Title":"Not as good as James Whale's attempts","Date":"23 May 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Not as good as James Whale's attempts, but thoroughly enjoyable, thanks largely to the performances of the three leads. Branagh is naïve, and borderline mental, De Niro adds a unique human  touch to The Monster, whilst remaining deeply threatening, and Carter is her usual over the top, eye-shadowy self. The first on my top 150 list of the odd resurgence of &#145;literal horror movies', which occurred in the nineties, this is an interestingly emotional film. We feel pity, and hatred for both Frankenstein and The Monster, and the end leaves us with little hope or happiness. Different from the novel in many respects, Branagh keeps the Gothic feel of the text intact, via the authentic sets and costumes.   "},{"Title":"WHAT THE HELL HAPPENED TO THIS FILM?","Date":"25 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  WHAT THE HELL HAPPENED TO THIS FILM?Was Kenneth Branagh smoking some crack or something when he got towards the end of film,deciding that he didn't like the book anymore, to screw it over completely.This movie has potential, it was good up until the death of Elizabeth which Branagh screwed up, she doesn't get her heart ripped out in the novel, she gets her neck broken just like in the TNT version.Elizabeth is not resurrected as a monster in the novel, she is buried and that is it, Victor goes mad and goes on to pursue the monster just like in the TNT version.This very bad segment killed this entire film, the end was exactly like the book but still could not save this film.Can you say try again Mr. Branagh, can you say failure.I smell a very terrific remake coming up.Tell me if Mr. Branagh can make a 4 hour word for word version of Hamlet, why the hell can't he stick to the book for a simple story like Frankenstein.I rest my case.This movie recieves the harshest rating I can give!no stars.   "},{"Title":"Odd Adaptation to the Famous Novel.","Date":"3 March 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  An utter mess that wastes the talents of many performers and makes a classic novel look like a common Stephen King-based horror film adaptation. The title says it all as the mad doctor (played by director Kenneth Branagh) has a real problem with death. Thus he makes science run amok with the creation of a monster (Robert DeNiro) with shortcomings a mile long. Naturally the monster is discarded of, but the monster vows revenge and will stop at nothing until his creator feels the pain and degradation he has felt. Mary Shelley's Frankestein is somewhat true to the novel, but Branagh's unique take on the classic is more annoying than interesting. He takes depth away from an amazingly deep novel that poses many questions about life, death and the role that God plays with human beings. Branagh used high-class actors (Helena Bonham Carter, John Cleese, Ian Holm, Tom Hulce and Aidan Quinn) and gave them time-wasting cameos and dialogue that bored more than interested. DeNiro does what he can to salvage the ugly emptiness, but he too becomes lost in the shuffle as his screen-time fails to fill the dead spots the film has. Branagh's own self-indulgence hurts DeNiro's part immensely as well. Overall a fair film, but honestly a huge disappointment that never comes close to anything remotely impressive. 2.5 out of 5 stars.  "},{"Title":"To hell with Boris Karloff...Robert De Niro is the man!","Date":"5 January 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Yes, I do apologize, Boris Karloff is the master of the macabre as he was the original FRANKENSTEIN. But, I feel that this 1994 updated version of Mary Shelley's classic tale of horror is far better.I love the way the story is developed and the way it actually holds your interest (like how the 1931 film did not). I love the gloomy art direction and the great performances from the well-known cast. Robert De Niro gives an astonishing performance as the monster.The costume design and script were both done beautifully. 18th century Geneva is re-created almost so beautifully, I would almost want to live there. The sky is very gloomy and grey and it has that sudden ring that made a lot of people love SLEEPY HOLLOW. So, yes in my opinion, this film is far better than the 1931 version. I know many people consider it to be the greatest horror film ever made, but it just does not hold my interest, and this movie does. It takes Mary Shelley's classic novel and throws in some new twists and some thrills that may lead to some actual, genuine shocks. I left this film thinking only one thing WOW!FRANKENSTEIN (1994) gets 5/5. "},{"Title":"New Frankenstein with human feelings","Date":"24 December 2002","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  If you saw the former Monster of Frankenstein played by Boris Karloff compared to this new one played by Robert De Niro, you will see enormous differences between both. Karloff's one is more horror while De Niro's is more literate, he is able to listen, to think, to read and to discover who is the bad doer. In any case, everyone is free to choose any of them. If you are looking for pure horror, then take Karloff, but if you want to see more reasonable film then De Niro is the choice. This film gives the opportunity to reason, in fact the bad is not the monster but his creator, and the film came at the time when some scientists are looking for human cloning not paying enough attention to the problems of ethics of this issue.    "}{"Title":"Engaging, thoughtful film.","Date":"8 January 2001","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  **THIS REVIEW CONTAINS WHAT MAY BE DEFINED AS SPOILERS**This film is made by the incredibly powerful performances of Robert DeNiro and Kenneth Branagh. They bring an intelligent style to not a  simple gore-fest horror story but a relevant and symbolic questioning of an age-old philisophical problem Should science take the place of God?Branagh brings his own style to the role of Victor Frankenstein with great effect-he is a sympathetic character who has the best of intentions but does not understand the complexities of his actions until it is too late. But it is Oscar-winner DeNiro that steals the show as the pitiful creature. He has a commanding screen presence as well as a yearning, inquisitive look that virtually demands empathy. The days of a flat-headed giant with bolts in its head are over and this creature is much more believable (for lack of a better word). The creature is (as one user stated in a previous review) almost like an adolescent. It needs guidence and understanding. The scene which depicts the creature taking refuge in the barn of a family is one of the most memorable of the movie. The only person that the creature can relate to is the only one that listens-a kindly old blind man, until it is chased off by the man's son.On top of all of this, Branagh's direction is, as always, impeccable. He captures the mood of Shelley's novel. The music and photography combine to create the intensity which is one of this film's many distinguishing features.Mention must be made of the fine supporting performances. Helena Bonham Carter is mesmerising as Elizabeth. Ian Holm, Aidan Quinn and John Cleese also provide reliable perfomances.If you are looking for a gore-fest, this film is not for you. But if you want intelligent filmmaking, put MARY SHELLEY'S FRANKENSTEIN on your must-see list.****1/2 (out of *****) "},{"Title":"Better than they say; superior to Coppola's Dracula","Date":"10 October 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  MORD39 RATING   **1/2  out of  ****For some reason, this works for me as a retelling of the novel more than BRAM STOKER'S DRACULA (1992) did. I think it's flawed, but more satisfying than Coppola's mess. It seems that the Frankenstein legend is more acceptable to play with than the Dracula legend.I want to start by defending DeNiro's monster. I think it would be a good and acceptable performance in everyone's eyes if there never had been a Robert DeNiro in the movies before. The reason many folks don't like him as the creature is because it looks like Mr. Gangster DeNiro running around with scars on his face. Try to get over your preconceived picture of Bob, and he's fine in the role.I like the choice of Helena Bonham Carter as Elizabeth, but who ever thought of casting the too-American/Modern Aidan Quinn as the ship captain??? As for Branagh himself, I'm pretty indifferent to him one way or the other. He's more or less adequate.We feel for the monster in this movie, and truly understand his plight. There is a silliness regarding some scenes I can only hint at (Mine! No..MINE!), but it doesn't sink the whole show.The film's look is stunning.I guess the bottom line for me is that MARY SHELLEY'S FRANKENSTEIN, while not a perfect interpretation of the novel, captures more of the feeling intended by its author than what Coppola failed to accomplish with his take on BRAM STOKER'S DRACULA. "},{"Title":"Depressing, overly artsy, sorry piece of work","Date":"12 July 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  This movie was easily on par with Bram Stoker's Dracula as one of the sorriest adaptations of classic literature to make it to the screen.  Far too lavish in design and severely lacking in feeling, this is truly not the movie to try to unwind to.The one exception was De Niro, who was only marginally melodramatic in his role.  Everything else was predictable and simply unpleasant.  It was like a train wreck that you foresaw and simply couldn't put an end to (without hitting the stop button, that is!).Please heed my warning Leave this one on the shelf. "},{"Title":"Visually Stunning","Date":"25 April 2000","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Glad to see that I'm not the only person that liked this movie. Walking out of the theater, I thought this movie was a great experience. I loved the visuals and the performances. when I read what the critics wrote about it and how so many people hated the film, I couldn't understand why. This film is a great movie to watch. Branaugh did an excellent job. Because of the sweeping visual scenes, I recommend catching this film on a widescreen tv, you won't regret it.  "},{"Title":"This movie is about Victor Frankenstein and  the creation of his monster","Date":"13 December 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I really enjoyed this movie version adaption of the Mary Shelley novel.I think that Kenneth Branagh did an exceptional job as  Victor Frankenstein and Robert De Niro's portrayl of the monster is exquisite.I also like Helena Bohnam Carter's portrayal as Elizabeth. "},{"Title":"I donno. I thought it was fine.","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I donno. I thought it was fine. A little too frantic. Too much shock value with the ripping out the heart and dancing with a corpse and sexual references. I don't know WHAT to call Robert De Niro's performance...and Kenneth Branagh was too bland. I read the script later and realized he ruined the meaning behind the dialogue. Great sets. Great costumes. A valiant effort. "},{"Title":"Zeh Beseder","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I think Kenneth Branagh's remake of the famous tale of Frankenstein is the very first true story of Mary Shelley's novel. It holds on to the major concepts of the Frankenstein novel. I believe some of the scenes are extremely well done. Beautiful scenery. Frankenstein's motives are easy to catch and yet still intriguing. If you think about it, the movie contains such literary tools as metaphors and similes. Mesmerizing. The actors were well-picked. A must see for any Frankenstein lover such as myself.. "},{"Title":"Good Movie","Date":"8 May 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I hadn't read the book before seeing the Movie, so I didn't go to the theatre with any expectations. I thought it was well made and the acting was good. Only, I thought the bit where he brings back Helena Bohnam Carter's character was a bit absurd. On the whole a good Movie. "},{"Title":"More than a simple genre flick","Date":"25 March 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Well-filmed adaptation of May Shelley's novella, with Kenneth Branagh's trademark broad cinematic strokes, vital camera motions and visual flair.A lot of people didn't appreciate it for what it was - not a campy horror film like previous versions of the book, but a pretty faithful adaptation of it, full of grand philosophizing and romantic idealism.Robert De Niro is the troubled Creature, and Branagh is the obsessed Dr. Frankenstein who is eventually reviled by his blasphemous creation. Frankly, I didn't understand why Dr. Frankenstein would so quickly turn against the usefulness of the daring scientific method that allows him to achieve a scientific breakthrough of Promoethean propoetions. Part of the problem is that Branagh makes the doctors who object to creating a new life seem like old fuddy-duddies - you can't help but sympathize with Frankenstein's goals. So why Frankenstein tries to wipe out the Creature, rather than fixing its defects, is unclear.The film is feverish and florid, with more heart than head, but largely succeeds in bringing an engaging visual excitement to the story. "},{"Title":"Branagh Irks Me, Frankenstein Bores Me, But I Love This Movie","Date":"18 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Branagh strikes me as a brilliant jackass, so this a great film to hate him in - he plays a brilliant jackass. It's really absorbing, though. Never took a toilet break once. Can't tell if DeNiro was really good or just absurd, but I loved him. "}{"Title":"Utter Disappointment","Date":"2 November 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  1993 Kenneth Branagh presents the world with his vibrant, earthy, and joyous adaptation of Much Ado about Nothing.  YAAAAAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYY!!!1994 The same Kenneth Branagh presents the world with his lame, boring, dreary, adaptation of Frankenstein.  BLLLLLLEEEEEAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHH!!!Last summer, I finally got around to reading Frankenstein. Within a few days of finishing the book, I found myself on IMDb and -- what should I find? -- a recent film version directed and starring none other than Kenneth Branagh, one of the most talented men of his generation and a personal favorite of mine!  What!?  It co-stars Helena Bonham-Carter, Ian Holm and Rovert de Niro!  Gracious heavens above, it even has John Cleese and Richard Briers! I began to count the hours until the video-store opened.What I saw was nothing short of the complete inverse of my expectations. In fact, this pitiable piece of celluloid was so anguishingly boring, that I turned it off about 2/3 of the way through.  Specifically1) If one of the surest signs of a poorly adapted screenplay is the loss of narration, then this screenplay -- to put it delicately -- sucks.  The narration is omniscient and chronological, which makes the film powerless and utterly, utterly boring.2)  What!?  Couldnâ?Tt we at least MENTION Paradise Lost???3) What couldn't Branagh find any extras?  Why do all of the scenes in Frankenstein Hall look so EMPTY?  (Note with the right bunch of people, you can get a good laugh by saying Today, I am eleventy-one! when Holm gives that little speech from the stairwell).4) Branagh's first priority seems to be filming himself shirtless.  His second is over-acting.  His third is to make-out with Helena.In short, this film was a waste of talent and creative ability; donâ?Tt let it be a waste of your time. "},{"Title":"A disappointment from Branagh","Date":"11 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Not a pleasant film to watch because I admire Kenneth Branagh and this film was a major disappointment from such a creative force. It's a self-indulgent (how many times do we have to see Branagh running around feverishly without his shirt - until we can count his chest hairs?), poorly conceived, and photographed re-telling of the beloved Frankenstein story (see the Turner Network version - - much better). "},{"Title":"Ridiculous.","Date":"25 June 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Kenneth Branagh had a real knack for  unusual cinematography in this; always dark, rainy, the camera moves around like a rollercoaster as several generic mechanisms run. You really don't know what's going on. A real change of pace from the Boris Karloff movies- and the Novel- and also a bad one.The casting director who chose Robert De Niro to play the Frankenstein monster obviously had something else on his mind; Looks like they just cooked up a bowl of oatmeal and then spilled it all over his head...Add in a few grunts, and you have the Creature. Where's the Taxi Cab and the rats? "},{"Title":"A very brave effort; a very bad result.","Date":"5 January 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Francis Ford Coppola and Kenneth Branagh make a very brave effort in retelling Mary Shelly's story, especially in a time when all anyone recalls is that the monster's name is Frankenstein, and that he had a flat head. It's too bad the effort fell as flat. The film starts with promise, then takes a nasty and predictable turn when Dr. Waldeman is murdered. What follows is just another uninspired gory romp, trying to disguise itself as a true retelling of Frankenstein. This movie bares no more resemblance to the original novel than any other incarnation. Kenneth Branagh needs a kick in the teeth, Coppola needs to return to his glory days as a brilliant film maker, and De Niro needs to ask himself why he keeps taking on such awful roles. If these guys were to make a film of the life of Christ, they would have Him climb down from the cross and kick some Roman butt, and still claim accuracy. "},{"Title":"oops","Date":"16 April 2008","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" My class as a class of GCSE students studying Frankenstein as a coursework text found the Film to be a gross travesty and a total misrepresentation of the book. I am not entirely sure which edition Ken was working from, but i don't think it was the 1818 or the 1831 edition. It attempted to be serious when there should have been frivolity and it failed at being taken seriously when it should have done, in fact i would not have been at all surprised if Victor Frankenstein proceeded to burst into song and further accompanied by the monster with light cabaret, in fact, it would have been a welcome relief to guide my attention further away from the awful acting of Kenneth.Though credit to Robert De Niro, as always, played his part brilliantly. if you want to understand the real story of Victor Frankenstein, READ THE BOOK FIRST! "},{"Title":"What was Brannagh on when he made this?","Date":"5 June 2004","Score":"3 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I cannot begin to express how awful this movie is. The entire thing feels like a train gone out of control. Brannagh uses bizarre camera moves, slams on the gas for some scenes and floors the brake for others, making the movie feel very disjointed and very stop and go. Unnecessary usage of the fish-eye lens also shows up for no apparent reason at least once to my recollection.Brannagh completely ignores the entire idea of exposition and just throws things at the audience and hopes we don't question them. Examples - Where did Victor get what had to be about 100 gallons of amniotic fluid? And how did he keep them viable while accumulating them? What was the point of lightning experiment? (It seems thrown out there for no real reason.) How does Victor get to the Creature's location of the mountaintop while keeping his hair perfectly coiffed? How did he climb that mountain in such a short amount of time? If he never intended to use it again, why did he move his equipment back to the house, and why have an elaborate pulley system already installed for it? How did he get another 100 gallons of amniotic fluid when he flips out and decides to resurrect Elizabeth? Since there was no real damage to Elizabeth's head, why did he stitch her face up? Also, not really a question, but the electric eels took me three viewings to understand what they were supposed to be; very poor explanation of a key plot element. Also, the climax with Elizabeth being reanimated, and subsequently igniting herself, is easily one of the dumbest scenes ever filmed.Just a bad movie all around. The only thing that is watchable is the Creature's speech in the ice cave, but I can never sit through the movie to get to that point. DeNiro is completely wasted with a godawful script and director. Had Francis Ford Coppola directed this, maybe it could have been better executed, along the lines of his Dracula film, two years earlier. As it is, DeNiro's performance is the only saving grace to this mess, and really, after the ice cave speech, DeNiro's performance is boiled down to angry grumbles and bled of any semblance of the intellect he shows in the ice cave speech. A complete waste of America's greatest actor.Also, though John Cleese's role is not intended to be humorous, he seems like he stepped right out of a Monty Python sketch. (The monkey's hand doesn't help.) Ian Holm is wasted as well, as is Tom Hulce, who seemed to think he was still playing Mozart. Overall, an awful bit of drek that has a few flashes of quality provided by DeNiro, but the movie ultimately collapses under the weight of it's own stupidity and frantic, out-of-control-train pace.  "},{"Title":"The love affair between Branagh the director and Branagh the actor...","Date":"25 June 2005","Score":"6 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Kenneth Branagh has so much talent he doesn't know where to utilize it best. Hint costumed horror epics are hardly the place. This is a highly unpleasant, indifferent take on the infamous story of Victorian-age madman who brings a corpse to life. Lumpy, overlong, both unsettling AND boring, Branagh doesn't even try to keep this thing on track. His own performance as the insane doctor is frenetic and uneven, and, puzzlingly, self-admiring. Robert De Niro is affecting as the monster, but some of his violent acts clearly step over the line into poor taste. Handsomely-produced but not eerie, just sour.*1/2 from **** "},{"Title":"The real monster here is Kenneth Branagh's ego","Date":"5 April 2007","Score":"21 out of 43 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" DeNiro playing Frankenstein's monster was great idea, and the performance feels true to the character in the book. Sadly it comes off as if he were cut out from another film and pasted into this farce. Seeing it in the theater back in 1994, I was embarrassed for everyone involved except for Branagh, who can share the blame with the producers in making this thing. Grown adults were pointing at the screen and laughing, and not just when John Cleese showed up. His scene was the first unintentionally funny one - Cleese's dour character was straight out of about twenty Python sketches. But the birth scene, dripping not just with melted jello but with shallow, pointless undercurrents of mother and child and homo-eroticism, was made more ridiculous with comically timed editing. It's one of the worst things I've ever seen in a Hollywood movie. You've got to wonder what people are thinking sometimes when making a horror film - did Branagh, or whoever had final cut of this thing, get chills up their spine at any point? Could they feel anything other than blind, empty sensation? Yeah! That does something! Yeah, it makes the movie really suck. This movie is a lot of things, mostly a really good lesson in really bad film-making, but it is not scary, nor does it carry any of the message or subtext of Shelly's book. One would like to think that Branagh approached this as an assignment with a big paycheck, which could cut him off from some of the blame, but from his blustery, overstuffed interviews at the time, he took it, and himself, very, very, very, very seriously, and I'm sure he thought he was adding something profound to the great cannon of the Frankenstein legend. What a pompous fraud. "},{"Title":"Elizabeth Frankenstein Journal to the end","Date":"23 December 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Funny how it is the words of a fashion writer, once recommended, that enlightened mo of Frankenstein's existence. Frankenstein -- the power of imagination, as per the run of her words, unto her I dedicate the overtones of C16 fashion portrayed here and their insinuations as seen today.From the height of the turn of the millennium is an adaptation of an influential mad scientist story. One Dr. Victor Frankenstein and his wayward creation.Portrayed here is malevolence doctored by a brilliant professor. How sweet the creation didn't have to be a child to his creator as is almost invariably dished out. It instead seeks an embrace. Maybe for a taste of the bitter side of the world, there is an accidental altercation with landings on his head.As with certain decisions, self-examination sets in and, -what have I done Destroy this mess. Oh no!- breaks down.All the same, it awes to see a differently faced, and portrayed Frankie. The inclusion of new, or rather twisting parts of the sub-plots do not disappoint. Only the coherence is wanting.One is left to stitch up these pieces, dishearteningly producing similar monsters, what the National Socialists called whichever art they disliked.What a safe world without handrails; before 1973. "},{"Title":"more overblown costume melodrama than horror","Date":"20 September 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" In 1794, Captain Robert Walton (Aidan Quinn) is obsessed with reaching the North Pole. His ship is frozen in and he encounters Victor Frankenstein (Kenneth Branagh) followed by his monster (Robert De Niro). It's back in 1773 Geneva. His father Baron Frankenstein (Ian Holm) brings home the orphan Elizabeth (Helena Bonham Carter) whom Victor loves as they grow up together. After the death of his mother, he vows to eliminate death. In 1793, he's studying in Ingolstadt under the tutelage of Professor Waldman (John Cleese) and befriends Henry Clerval (Tom Hulce). Waldman is experimenting with electricity inspired by the Chinese. When Waldman dies, Victor steals his notes and tries to create life despite Waldman's warnings.This is more of a costume drama than a horror. There is a fundamental problem with director Kenneth Branagh's vision. It feels like a lifeless melodrama. He's better off to cut out much of the beginning. Most of it is unnecessary other than introducing Helena Bonham Carter and having his mother die. The monster should be the heart of this movie but it takes too long to get there. The grotesque is so close but Branagh holds back. Instead, he's concentrating on making a broad melodrama. This is the shameful part because the experiment and the monster is well done. The overblown melodrama actually fits that part of the movie. The inclusion of the original ice voyage is again unnecessary but at least, it's something different. "}{"Title":"A Head scratching Rendition of a Master Work From An Otherwise Acclaimed Filmmaker","Date":"11 May 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Mary Shelly's Frankenstein is among the most influential books on modern culture ever. It is most widely remembered for the 1931 James Whale adaptation, an undisputed masterpiece. There have been several other adaptations of the novel, notably the series produced by Hammer Films. Kenneth Brahnagh is a beloved director known for his adaptations of Shakespeare's plays, he is also generally loved for his work.So why does this film fail on every worthwhile level? Well...Firstly, it is clear that the romantic style of Mary Shelly's novel is out of Brahnagh's comfort zone for a start. Frankenstein is a hard book to adapt as it is mainly told through first person narration. In addition this narration is long winded and (unlike the timeless writing of Shakespeare) is a clear product of the era, likely seeming ridiculous and overindulgent to modern viewers. Therefore the vehemently loyal adaptation of the novel, characteristic of Brahnagh, fails to work and leads to some ridiculous scenarios. James Whale correctly overhauled the books plot, only leaving the initial concept and key themes intact, to fit the story to the medium of film. Brahnagh does not, to unintentionally hilarious effect.'Brother and Sister no longer' Elizabeth moans on her wedding night to her husband. I cannot believe this line was kept in the film, or written in to begin with.Despite this however, Brahnagh chooses to detail the creation of the creature, unlike the text. This is done in hilariously overblown fashion, complete with tacky womb symbolism and logic bending plot-holes (how he move that equipment into his small apartment? How did he keep the eels fed and alive? Did he need help? etc.). This, to me, shows a lack of understanding of the subtlety of the novel and a desire for forced visual flair, ruined by the poor and jumbled production design throughout the film.The acting and script are also appalling. I have given the most glaring example of the horrid script, however this issue is present throughout the running time. The acting exacerbates the issue. Brahnagh is also out of his depth in terms of acting in the title role, with a lack of emotional depth and unconvincing facial expression. The supporting and background actors are similarly weak. The elephant in the room however is Robert De Niro as the creature itself. This is among the most egregious examples of miscasting ever. De Niro's charisma is buries under make-up, his personal flair and improvised dialogue (best seen in his collaborations with Martin Scorsese has clearly been removed by Brahnagh as to not interfere with his vision/loyalty to the text. De Niro is not a particularly physical actor, in terms of portraying animal-esk movements and communicating with little dialogue, and his expressions fail compared to the legendary Boris Karloff. In short, the acting is a trainwreck onscreeen.In conclusion, it is clear that this film was a misguided disaster. Bragnagh went on to better work, the Whale version remains better remembered, the novel is still a classic, and De Niro's career was quickly placed back on track by Scorsese and Quentin Tarantino.This film is little more than a foot note in the histories of all these icons, defiantly for the best. 1/10. "},{"Title":"Over-the-top Gothic mania","Date":"12 March 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Kenneth Branagh's 1994 version of the oft-filmed Frankenstein story offers a mixed experience. On the one hand, the film has some fine actors and LOOKS great -- sets, costumes, locations (England and the Swiss Alps), etc. There are some good scenes, like the creature's time spent with the peasant family where his unseen help is mistaken as a good spirit of the woods. On the other hand, the film is so over-the-top it's hard to enjoy, specifically during the first hour, before the monster escapes, and the final 40 minutes or so. The tempo during the initial 55 minutes (and then later) is ultra-manic -- characters are introduced, scenes flash by, times constantly shift, the soundtrack blares and everyone overdoes it. Seriously, the characters are so melodramatically over-the-top in every scene I just wanted them to stop, take their meds, and chill for about five minutes.I realize Branagh wanted to throw everything in but the kitchen sink but, by doing this, he failed. This is definitely a case where less is more. Take, for instance, the bookend arctic sequences; they could have been omitted altogether with no harm done. Branagh needed to take a chill pill and cut out unnecessary details so viewers could enjoy the Gothic settings and get to know the characters. But, no, everything's so manic it's laughable -- people constantly emoting, yelling, running, confronting, fighting, dying -- Ahhhhhh!!!!! NoooOOOOOoooooo!!!!! Et cetera. It's like Branagh assumed everyone watching the film would have ADHD or something. Of course, I realize some people may prefer this approach; if so, they'll likely appreciate this movie.Regardless, the film and cast do look good and Robert De Niro's great as the creature. I especially liked the aforementioned part where the monster finds sanctuary with the rural family (unbeknownst to them); in fact, I wish the film would have spent even more time developing this important sequence. It helped us get to know the creature and have compassion on his plight; but when he ludicrously frames someone with a locket and murders a boy all sympathy is pretty much lost. On the other hand, he IS a 'monster,' after all.Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is similar to 1992's Bram Stoker's Dracula in that they both look awesome but are ultimately disappointing in their storytelling. But I like Dracula more because of the well-done first hour or so; not to mention it's not ridiculously manic.GRADE C- "},{"Title":"it's 2014 I'm viewing this for the 1st time..this is a laugh riot ..omg !","Date":"12 February 2014","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" No Wonder i never seen this film. Heck nobody ever talked about it or compared it to or mentioned it with Frankenstein of any period Nosferatu no Boris Karloff No not even Albert and Costello's version this movie is so gosh darn silly that it has been put back into the deepest darkest part of forget it ville Hollywood.Now Remember i'm watching this rat bait twenty years after it was made.man oh man some things get better with time but not DE Niro as Big Frank or should i say stanky Franky and then they tried to jam two Frankenstein movie's into one BY dragging the bride out. Wait one thing was better.Now i can see it digitally i can easily jump from space to space as i watched it.Well every real actor in Hollywood needs to have one classic monster film on the resume.I just saw the new 2014 Frankenstein that looks like a spin off of the underworld vampire sequels not much better than this just more smoke and mirrors.Well 20 long years have past you know every real actor in Hollywood needs at least one classic horror film on the resume.Well thank you Bobby De Niro and god bless you you have done it all and there is still more to come. "},{"Title":"Surprisingly Good But Yet Slow!","Date":"14 May 2013","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Kenneth Branagh's film adaptation of Shelley's classic novel, Frankenstein, is probably more faithful to the novel than other adaptations. Robert DeNiro gave a brilliant performance as the Creature almost unrecognizable. Kenneth Branagh is wonderful as the mad scientist Victor Frankenstein but I was confused by why he abandoned his creation perhaps he realized his abomination. Shelley was way ahead in writing about how man wants to play and be God but not realizing the consequences. The film has a strong supporting cast with recognizable British actors and actresses. Helena Bonham Carter is great as Elizabeth but don't forget Ian Holm as Victor's father or Cherie Lunghi as his mother. The film's quality is first rate but perhaps slow moving at times until the conclusion. Still Branagh is always brilliant especially as Victor Frankenstein. "},{"Title":"Good film but not as faithful to the novel as it likes to claim","Date":"1 November 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This is a good film but it does NOT follow the Frankenstein story quite well. I think Francis Ford Coppola put a little more effort into his version of Bram Stoker's Dracula than what he put into his adaptation of Mary Shelley's Frankenstein.First the deviations from the novel 1. The creature In the original novel he had long black hair and did not speak like a Stroke victim. He was actually hyper intelligent and learned exceedingly fast. He was very articulate, perhaps more so than his creator and quoted things like Paradise Lost. In the novel he did not sound like a stroke victim.2. Elizabeth's heart was not ripped out in the novel. She was strangled.3. Elizabeth was never brought back in the style of the Frankenstein creature in the novel. For many this is the point where the film jumps the shark.4. I don't like that this film leaves out the secondary moral of the story. The first moral is always remembered in films that one should not tamper in God's territory, that we should not mess with nature. But what many films forget is the secondary moral, that like a child who had been neglected by a parent the creature had to learn to forgive and that revenge would bring him no peace. I don't know why so many films leave this aspect out.If you want a version of Frankenstein that actually follows Mary Shelley's novel check out the version produced by Hallmark and released to DVD by Lion's Gate starring Luke Goss as the creature. That mini-series version of Frankenstein from 2004 is the most faithful to the book and has (in my opinion) the most sympathetic version of the creature.Now, aside from straying from the novel I will not deny this is a good film, even if some moments are rather hammy and feel as if they were created specifically for the film. This is still an enjoyable movie and does retain the basic ideas behind Mary Shelley's novel. This is a good film with many good actors and special effects that hold up well after nearly twenty years. It's a timeless story and when done correctly the film adaptation is ageless. This was done well. This is one of my top five favorite Frankenstein movies.My favorite Frankenstein films are as follows 1. The Hallmark version of Frankenstein starring Luke Goss and released through Lion's Gate in 2004. Don't confuse it with any other Frankenstein productions from 2004. Make certain it is the version with Luke Goss as the creature if you choose to watch it.2. The Bride from 1984. Not to be confused with the more well known Bride of Frankenstein this one starred Sting as Baron Frankenstein and Clancy Brown as the creature. This one is a guilty pleasure for me because even though it is cheesy (and very Hammer-esque) it is one of the only versions to have a happy ending for the creature.3. Mary Shelley's Frankenstein. This one is good for it's production values and for drawing attention to the original novel. It's not as faithful as it likes to boast but it is still a good movie.4. Frankenstein created woman. This is a good one released through Hammer and featuring Peter Cushing as Dr. Frankenstein. This one is cheesy but enjoyable and has all the trappings one expects from a Hammer movie.5. Frankenstein with Boris Karloff for creating the famous archetype. This 1931 Frankenstein does not follow the book but it is good film and was well made. The image of the creature in this film adaptation with his flat head, bolts in the neck, (apparently) green skin, and elevator shoes is probably the most well known and most associated with the creature even though it's nothing like what Mary Shelley described.6. Bride of Frankenstein, the sequel to the Karloff version of Frankenestein and directly continues where the 1931 version ended. "},{"Title":"Why deviate so much at the end?","Date":"5 July 2012","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I appreciate that film makers can take some liberties in making a film in order to aid the flow of the film and to assist the audience's understanding without having to explain too much via a narrative. People on here are complaining about how the mother dies in childbirth or of smallpox and various other minor details. In reality they don't add or take anything away from the film or the story. However, and it is a huge however, the liberty taken towards the end of re-animating Elizabeth is a massive deviation from the plot. Until that point I was really enjoying the movie. Although it didn't contain quite enough of the conflict in Frankenstein's mind, and whether Frankenstein's monster is a hero or a villain, it was a very solid adaptation of the novel...UNTIL the ridiculous scene where he tries to re-animate Elizabeth. Why does he need to do that? Why not just follow the original? Completely ruined it in my mind, despite a very good final scene. "},{"Title":"I am done with man....","Date":"8 October 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Based on Mary Shelley's novel, Frankenstein tells the story of Victor Frankenstein, a promising young doctor.Devastated by the death of his mother during childbirth, becomes obsessed with bringing the dead back to life.His experiments lead to the creation of a monster, which Frankenstein has put together with the remains of corpses.It's not long before Frankenstein regrets his actions...Despite the films sumptuous visuals, locales, and a cast that would impress in any other film, one cannot help to compare it to Coppolas, over the top and insanely brilliant Dracula.And thats the problem, the film isn't insane enough, and can become quite boring when there are more intimate scenes.But they are very few of these said scenes, and for the majority of the film, it's a taut, brilliant epic-like movie.The film begins with a very eerie and brilliant opening sequence and then we are treated to the narrative, until we get back to the present narrative.Branagh shows he can handle a massive budget and skillful actors and such a celebrated story. His performance carries the whole film, and he makes a believable titular character and shows raw emotion throughout.De Niro, however, is not what you'd expect. I was expecting a Max Cady'Bickle sort of monster, but here, ironically enough, he is the most human character in the whole movie.The film gets lost a little in the final third, and the added 'treat' of the Bride is mis-handled and not really necessary (haven't read the book, sorry) and takes the film in a different direction.All in all, it's a beautiful film to look at, with some great performances, but it can drag at times. "},{"Title":"Outstanding","Date":"17 April 2011","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" When i saw this movie i was outstanding to see how they caught the big parts of the book and took them and added a little more exiting to it and then made it onto the movie.The movie were great and even tho the actors weren't the best it did not really matter since the story was so good and thought full to fit the movie screen.I really liked that it was not the exact same as the book cause then it would be better to watch one of the other Frankenstein versions, this movie did exactly what it was expected to do, bring a little horror but at the same time a lot of excitement to the reader and the movie. "},{"Title":"A Classic brought to film","Date":"18 July 2009","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Doubtless, everyone has reasons for bringing a classic to film - these are usually popularity, hence guaranteed income. Certainly that may have helped garner the stars that this feature has embroidered into its fabric. But, where this film succeeds is in its absolute faithfulness to the story - a point that cannot be trumped enough. Full marks to Mr. Branagh for getting this right. A piece of Mary Shelley lives because of this director's faithfulness; for the first time Frankenstein's monster is presented as he was meant to be, and we begin to see on film the science-fiction in this story rather than the horror and superstition. The movie presents Robert De Niro with a fresh role and the actor gives us a solid performance, free of the type-cast gangster trappings. "},{"Title":"ZZzzzzzz.....","Date":"28 February 2008","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" MY GOD. This film makes me wonder how Kenneth Branagh can even find work, for anyone who lives in Britain, you will understand completely when I say it looks like a BBC film. I have never seen such a film filled with as cheese and hash as this. I repeat MY GOD! Gah... someone just shoot me. The only decent role in the movie is Frankensteins Monster played by Robert DeNiro, but even he doesn't pull it off well. It also failed when it tried to be a horror towards the end with the ever cheesy rip-out-the-heart-in-front-of-the-lovers-face idea. NO MORE FRANKENSTEIN MOVIES I SAY, NO MORE! N.B Was the naked translucent goop wrestling scene necessary?F.Nich "}{"Title":"This film is for everyone- Under rated and Under appreciated jewel.","Date":"3 September 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I have read the novel of Frankenstein, written by Mary Shelley. It was a terribly philosophical book, and is an emotional read. Like Branagh always does- he has taken Frankenstien to a new level and made it accessible to those who would not read the novel. I believe this is the only version of Frankenstein that is really true to Shelley's novel. Branagh successfully shows Frankenstein's obsession with preventing the deaths of his family, by creating life and the ironic turn that this attempt takes. And it's not just a monster movie, the rest of us will be drawn in by the romantic story between Victor and Elizabeth. Helena Bonham Carter is stunning as Elizabeth and Branagh looks pretty good himself. Robert DeNiro is slightly out of place, but his performance as the monster is also very good. Finally we see the monster as he was intended- not as a green man with bolts on either side of his head. Terrribly underrated. Don't listen to the critics- rent it and see for yourself.BVIG "},{"Title":"Mary Shelley's Frankenstein","Date":"27 June 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" The novel by Mary Shelley has been remade and reversioned numerous times, the Boris Karloff version is obviously the most famous, this version directed by Kenneth Branagh (Henry V, Hamlet, Thor, Cinderella) is probably the one that sticks closest to the source material. Basically Victor Frankenstein (Kenneth Branagh) grow up in Geneva with his adopted sister Elizabeth Lavenza (Helena Bonham Carter), who becomes the love of his life. Victor's mother dies, whilst giving birth to his brother William, he vows as a scientist to find a way to conquer death, he studies at university in Ingolstadt, where he befriends Henry Clerval (Amadeus's Tom Hulce) and finds a mentor in Professor Waldman (John Cleese). Victor comes to believe the only way to cheat death is to create life, Professor Waldman warns him not to follow through with his theory, as it is an abomination, after Waldman is murdered, Victor takes his notes and begins work on his creation. Victor makes a creature using dead body parts from various sources, including Waldman's murderer and Waldman's own brain, Victor becomes obsessed with his work, and does not stop during the cholera breakout, he even sends away a concerned Elizabeth. Victor finally completes his work, and brings his creation to life, but soon after recoils in horror at what he has done, and renounces his experiment. The Creature (Robert De Niro), hideously deformed with facial and bodily scars and stitching, escapes and runs into the wilderness, with Victor's coat and journal, he spends months living in a family's barn without their knowledge. During this time the creature learns to read and speak, he tries to get closer to the family anonymously helping them, and converses with the blind Grandfather (Richard Briers), but the returning family chase the creature away and abandon the cottage, the creature reads the journal of Frankenstein, learns of his creation and vows revenge. Victor believes the creature is dead, and returns to Geneva to marry Elizabeth, the family is devastated when his younger brother William is murdered, servant Justine (Trevyn McDowell) is framed for the crime and hanged by a lynch mob. The creature approaches Victor, demanding to meet him, the creature demands that Victor make a companion for him, promising that if he does he and his mate will disappear, Victor does gather his tools he used before, but he refuses to use the body of Justine, breaking his promise, the creature vows revenge. Victor and Elizabeth are married and takes precautions when they go on honeymoon, but the creature accesses Elizabeth's bedroom and kills her, in desperation Victor races to bring her back to life, stitching her back together, with Justine's body parts. He is successful and Elizabeth awakens as a reanimated creature, the happy reunion is brief, as the creature appears, Elizabeth approaches him, then she is horrified to realise what she has become, Victor and the monster fight for her affections, but Elizabeth commits suicide, setting herself on fire, and causing the mansion to burn to the ground. Victor has been telling this story to ship Captain Robert Walton (Aidan Quinn), leading an expedition to reach the North Pole, Victor has been searching for the creature to kill him, he dies of pneumonia, the creature finds him and weeps, in the end a funeral is held, the creature takes the torch for cremation, and burns himself alive with Victor's body. Also starring Sir Ian Holm as Baron Frankenstein, Robert Hardy as Professor Krempe, Cherie Lunghi as Caroline Beaufort Frankenstein, Celia Imrie as Mrs. Moritz, Hugh Bonneville as Schiller and Jim Carter as Executioner. Branagh directs fine, and casting himself as the mad doctor he does fine also, Francis Ford Coppola assists producing, De Niro does give a good moving performance as the man-made monster, and the supporting cast including Hulce, Carter and Cleese are suitable. The creation of the creature is indeed the most spectacular scene, and the special effects and make-up serve their purpose well, I think the only problems are that, though faithful to the novel, it is not as frightening (or ways funny like the 1931 classic) as it should be, it is more about the design and content, not enough heart and soul, but overall it's not a terrible horror film. It was nominated the Oscar for Best Makeup, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Production Design. Okay! "},{"Title":"The best way to cheat death...is to create life - Victor Frankenstein.","Date":"18 April 2005","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Mary Shelley's Frankenstein begins with some scrolling text that reads 'the dawn of the Nineteenth Century. A world on the brink of revolutionary change. Alongside political and social upheaval, scientific advances that would profoundly change the lives of all. The lust for knowledge had never been greater. Among the pioneers, Captain Robert Walton, an explorer, obsessed with reaching the North Pole. As the prize drew closer his voyage would uncover a story to strike terror in the hearts of all who would venture into the unknown...' An on screen caption informs us that it's the 'Artic Sea 1794', a boat is tossed about by giant waves during a ferocious storm. The crew spot an iceberg, despite their best attempts the boat becomes grounded on an icepack & completely frozen unable to move. Captain Robert Walton (Aidan Quinn) orders his men to free the vessel. As they work a shadowy figure walks towards them out of the mist, it's a Dr. Victor Frankenstein (co-producer & director Kenneth Branagh). But there is also something else out there, something both hideous & dangerous. Inside the Captain's quarters Frankenstein begins to tell a tale, a tragic & unbelievable tale... A tale which starts in 'Geneva 1773', Victor lives in a very big posh house & is the young teenage son of famous physician Baron Frankenstein (Ian Holm) & his wife Caroline (Cherie Lunghi) who also have an adopted daughter named Elizabeth (Helena Boham Carter) & a natural daughter named Justine (Trevyn McDowell). 'Three years later', Victor is studying to become a Doctor, like his Father. His Mother is expecting a baby but dies during childbirth, this is Victor's first experience of death & leaves a big impression on him. Victor & his adopted sister Elizabeth are now engaged to be married after Victor returns from University to further his education & research. Now it's 'Ingolstadt 1793', Victor arrives at the University of Ingolstadt & almost immediately upsets one of his teachers Professor Krempe (Robert Hardy) with his unorthodox ideas, another teacher named Professor Waldman (John Cleese) looks & listens on in the shadows. Victor befriends another medical student named Henry Clerval (Tom Hulce) as he continues to upset the establishment with his ideas. Professor Waldman decides to have words with Victor, Waldman also shows him some of his experiments that regard the re-animation of dead tissue with electricity. Victor is fascinated & when Waldman is murdered he finds his notes & decides to save Waldman's brain by transplanting it into another body & bringing it back to life. Victor succeeds, but only in creating a twisted vengeful creature (associate producer Robert De Niro) with only one thing on his newly transplanted mind, revenge against the man who created him... Starring, co-produced & directed by Kenneth Branagh I thought this was a good solid adaptation of Mary Shelley's famous novel Frankenstein by screenwriter's Steph Lady & Frank Darabont. It has wonderful production design credited to Tim Harvey, Frankenstein's laboratory equipment & dark brooding Gothic surroundings have surely never looked better. The Swiss locations look beautiful as well. I didn't think the cinematography by Roger Pratt was particularly special though & the film as a whole looked a little flat & unadventurous. The acting is good by all concerned, although Helena Bonham Carter as Elizabeth didn't impress me as much as everyone else (sorry Helena!). Robert De Niro as the monster is terrific, he looks just like I would imagine a crudely stitched together man would look like in reality helped greatly by the impressive make-up effects De Niro is buried under. Unfortunately Frankenstein has a great opening half that is well paced, interesting & entertaining but a poor second half that just goes nowhere fast. After Frankenstein has created his monster character motivations & actions are somewhat underdeveloped. To be honest not much actually happens during the second half, although one or two moments keep things moving along & helped to maintain my waining interest throughout the two hour running time. And that's another problem, it's far too long & this film could have done with being edited down by at least twenty minutes, I mean the opening & closing sequences that bookend the film are unnecessary in my opinion so that's ten minutes straight away Mr. Branagh! There isn't much gore in it, a ripped out heart, some gruesome looking cadavers & some stitching with needle & thread. There are also a couple of graphic hangings, too. Overall a good horror with maybe a little to many soap-opera melodramatics for my liking & a definite poorer second half than first. Certainly worth a watch & I'd imagine it would be pretty easy to find a cheap copy somewhere or watch it on T.V. for free, not bad at all. "},{"Title":"very good adaptation","Date":"10 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" I saw this in English after we read the book and I thought it was very well done. We really see the torture the Wretech goes through in this movie. It pottery's the book in a very god way. The movie is much more graphic than i pictured the book but that is just me. DeNiro was very good as the Wretch or Creature as it says in the credits. If you have read this book or want to get into Frankenstein see this movie along with the original Frankenstein movie I feel this is a strong movie and is very well done. the acting is superb if you liked the original chances are you will enjoy this. The story was great and this movie is just as strong as the book so go ahead and check this one out seven out of ten starts "},{"Title":"An accurate reproduction with its own style...","Date":"22 November 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" It's hard to write a good review of a film for an audience that is so varied. Obviously a film can't please everyone; however, if you take an honest look at this film and truly consider its meaning, you'll find a masterpiece. On the other hand, if you let little things like a bad special effect or a poorly executed line ruin the whole film, what's the point of watching movies?Some people just won't get it; however, for those with a more open mind, you'll find great recreation of Mary Shelly's original story alongside Branagh's vision of what Frankenstein could have been. Branagh provides us with new questions and possibilities we might have never thought of by just reading the novel.The movie certainly isn't perfect. It does have some annoying faults, but they just aren't that big. If you judge this movie for what it is, being Branagh's version of Frankenstein and its own work of art, then you'll understand why it is such a good movie and worth discussing... not just watching. "},{"Title":"Faulty potential epic (if that)","Date":"6 June 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  First off id like to say that I, personally liked DeNero as Frankenstein, because he made the role more then a bunch of grunts and added intellegents to the creature, but the fact that he was De'Nero as Frankenstein hurt the overall impact, because i keeped seeing him and not Frankenstein.The film suffers from bad pacing and editing, with scenes going way to fast, then slowing down to a crawl, then flooring it again. The film has no steady pace, no overall pulse. Its just a succession of images that although placed together, form a story, it seemed rushed and don't alow us the time it takes to develop and become attached to the film. Prehapse a better editor or a less paced score would have been better.Also, i do tend to agree with the way the director is somewhat in love with himself, making his own part way overly important (dispite being the main character) and that even though he excepts doing wrong, we still feel this overall self indulgeness from himOverall, its worth checking out once on TV, but not something that will be going on your DVD shelf,2 out of 5 stars  "},{"Title":"One of De Niro's best performances","Date":"13 April 2004","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Robert De Niro as the monster.  Before you even see a picture of him as the beast you just can't picture the Raging Bull looking the part or even pulling it off.   Kenneth Branagh is a first class director and if anyone disagrees then just look at his 4 hour version of Hamlet. I think he did ok as far as Directing goes but I think looking back at it, it could have been a lot better and more thought into Victor's life.  As far as getting De Niro to play Frankenstein then that was a bloody good idea because he brought the monster to life.  But the introduction into Victor's childhood was very good into his years as the teenage enthusiast.   I wished the story was taken a little slower as we didn't really get to see Victor and his mother blossom.  There's one scene where she is pregnant and she disturbs Victor during one of his tests and she just speaks about his seriousness as a little boy and that's it, nothing else like them spending time together or her teaching him the ways of the world which would have not gone a miss so that was disappointing.   The best parts were when he was in University and meeting with John Cleese to discuss the methods of creating something after death.  Every scene where we see Frankenstein in action is just excellent as De Niro has made Frankenstein more lovable and hated than ever.  When he is sleeping in the barn and secretly helping the family who's barn he is resting and strikes a bond with them even though they have never met him is very nice and we see the more sombre and kind side of the monster.  Everything else with the film is good but De Niro's performance is just excellent and faultless in every way.  I was very taken by Aidan Quinn's performance as the Columbus like ship captain who is hell bent on reaching the North Pole.If you don't like the look of this and want to avoid it then I would just watch it to see what they have done with the Monster and what De Niro did to the character because it will open your opinions. "},{"Title":"Robert De Niro?","Date":"3 August 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I saw this movie on video again recently and I finally truely knew what this movie was saying. Man I had forgot how insanely great of an actor Mr. De Niro was and is. I can only say this movie was a bit disturbing in its scariness, that is a good quality, and it was a lot closer to  the true Frankenstein attempts then it's predecessors. Kenneth Branagh is a pretty skilled director and actor. I know  this movie was a little ripped-up by the so called critics, but when did that ever  mean anything to the true critic???????????????? YOURSELF........................ "},{"Title":"Not a bad stab at the Frankenstein legend!","Date":"20 March 2003","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  * Terrible * * Below Par * * * Not Bad * * * * Good * * * * * Brilliant WARNING *SPOILERS* Throughout the years there have been countless attempts to bring Mary Shelly's so called classic novel Frankenstein to life.Personally I have seen three of these including this interpretation from actor and director, Kenneth Brannagh.The book itself though in it's time an intriguing and original concept was not what I would class as an excellent novel.So why it became so revered is anyones guess.It isn't as well told a story as it could have been with a more talented writer than Mary Godwin Shelly.The answer must be, at least in my view the actual story itself.  This version of the mythical tale of terror is the closest to the novel that I have seen thus far and possibly not the last.After all, Hammer film studios in the U.K. and Universal studios in America made a bomb on bringing the story and countless unofficial follow ups to the big screen.  This adaptation however presents a different Dr.Frankenstein and a more methodical and intelligent monster from what we have seen before. Frankenstein (Victor is his first name) is the son of a respected, wealthy doctor(Ian Holm) and a loving mother (Cherie Lunghi) in his home town of Geneva in Austria.When he is a young boy of about six his mother and father introduce him to a little gypsy girl named Elizabeth (Who grows to be Elizabeth Bonham Carter)who they have adopted.Her mother and father are dead as a result of Scarlet fever.The two of them grow to love one another as brother and sister but eventually they grow to be in love with one another.  Good things cannot last however and in the case of Victor's mother it's a sadly tragic event in the Frankenstein household.Having fallen pregnant once more, Victor's mother dies giving birth to a little boy who is named William.The tragedy of nature that takes Victor's mother from him drives him into despair more than any of his family.so much so that he becomes obsessed with finding a way to combat death so that those who love another can be together forever.  It's some time after the death of his mother, seven years in fact that Victor leave Geneva to attend the university of Ingolstadt in the hope of becoming a qualified doctor.  It's at Ingolstadt that Victor meets his soon to be best friend and companion, Henry Clerval (Tom Hulce).A light weight person with a sarcastic sense of humor, Henry is a more grounded person than what he appears to be on the surface.He become Victor's conscience and often chides him for his unhealthy obsession with life and death.  It's here as well that Frankenstein also meets his anatomy teacher Prof. Waldman(An unrecognizable John Cleese).Waldman was a once brilliant young young doctor who like Victor was obsessed with seeking out a way to overcome death.This obsession lead Waldman to practice illegal and unethical experiments in the name of science.However this only would result in the discovery of his misdeeds by the proper authorities. Now but a mere teacher he hopes to try and steer Victor clear of making the same mistake that he did.But by doing so he unwitting allows Victor to see the notes that he had written so very long ago on the discoveries he had made.It is not until the untimely death of Waldman at the hands of an enraged patient he is attempting to vaccinate against small pox.  This enrages Victor who respected and admired his contemporary.That however does not detract Victor from continuing Waldmans work from where it left off and well...you pretty much know what happens next.  All in all this is not an altogeher bad movie.Kenneth Brannagh as tried his best to try and bring the story to the closest it can be in just under two hours.The casting choices for the most part are good.Robert DeNiro is indeed an inspired choice to portray the creature that Frankenstein reanimates from bits of various corpses.He lends a bitter melancholy to the tragic creation that he is.Reviled and loathed by all that he meets the creature is one of the classic personifications of the outcast in society.  Brannagh sadly does not totally live up to the promise of bringing Frankenstein to life.His performance is mediocre at best and at key points in the movie is slightly weak, unable to fully come to grips with the character.He is on the other hand is aided by an amazing cast. Helena Bonham Carter effortlessly plays the usual period piece lady with the grace and dignity that had done in the past while Tom Hulce(although his English accent at times is a bit stale)is convincing as Victor's close friend Henry.  Kudos must also be given to John Cleese, Ian Holm and Cherie Lunghi who all give breath taking performances.  Sadly again however the movie is a tad slow and takes a slight bit of time to build up to Victor creating the creature.This is due in part to the amount of backstory that needs to told to understand what motivates our hero.Not only that but some areas of the movie go somewhat over the top.Particticularly in the Creatures birth scene half way through the movie and towards the end when things go seriously awry for Victor.Plus there could have been a better job on designing the stairs in the hall of the Frankenstein household.It looks more like a bumpy chute than a grand staircase.  All in all 'Mary Shelly's Frankenstein' is a reasonably entertaining attempt at retelling an old ghost story.It may not be the most original choice for a movie adaptation but it does add a few new layers left out of the golden oldies all those years ago.Final Rating* * * "},{"Title":"top notch","Date":"13 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  yeah yeah, it's easy to give a film a good canning because it's not like the book. but then you have to realise that it is almost impossible to re-create the written word (lord of the rings and bram stokers dracula to name but a few) but my opinion is that de niro made me feel sad, i thought that frankenstein himself was another scientist driven by his own ambitious mind and not worrying about the consequences. what else was there to achieve? my emotions got going and all in all it was well done.  "}{"Title":"Over the top, but accurate to the book.","Date":"1 March 2002","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I finally got around to reading Mary Shelly's Frankenstein, the book that some consider to be the first work of science fiction. When I finished, I was touched by the sadness and pathos of the creature.This film tends to be, well, overly enthusiastic with its portrayal of Victor Frankenstein's troubles, and the scenes where the creature is created are not in the book. However, it catches the sadness, loneliness, and pathetic nature of the creature (well done by DeNiro!).  Put aside all those bolts in the neck Frankensteins, and see what Mary Shelly intended. You'll like it. "},{"Title":"Although truer to Shelley than most, Frankenstein has a fatal flaw","Date":"9 December 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  When adapting a great literary work for the screen, Kenneth Branagh can usually be counted upon to be as true as possible to the spirit, and even the letter, of the original.  It is, therefore, no great surprise that his version of _Mary Shelley's Frankenstein_ is much truer to the author's work than any prior rendition.  His Creature, portrayed movingly by the great Robert De Niro, is so much closer to Shelley's than Boris Karloff's bolt-necked, green-faced monster that it makes the latter even more of a cartoon than it originally was.  Most of the differences between Branagh's film and Shelley's novel are insignificant.  However, there is one plot alteration that, while it appears minor on the surface, betrays one of the themes of the first science fiction novel ever written.  In the film, when the Creature flees Frankenstein's laboratory, the scientist pursues him with an axe, presumably to kill him.  In the novel, it is the scientist who flees his creation, leaving the new life to fend for itself as best it can.  The reason this plot alteration is significant is because Shelley wrote the novel, in part, to illustrate what could happen if scientists deny responsibility for their work. It must be recalled that she began the novel during a summer she spent with two great -- but very different -- men. Percy Shelley, whom she would later marry, saw man as being basically good and held great hope for the advances he foresaw as the results of the fledgling sciences.  Their companion that summer, George Gordon, Lord Byron, saw man as being, if not wholly evil, at least the greatest source of evil in the universe.  Therefore, his prognosis of what could come from man was considerably darker than Percy Shelley's.  Mary Shelley's book portrays a scientist who is neither wholly good nor wholly evil.  He is a man driven by a true desire to help mankind, as well as by intellectual vanity.  But his motives, both altruistic and vain, are rendered meaningless by his actions. When he realizes his Creature lives, he does not stay with it to ensure that its life is used beneficially.  Nor does he allow his realization that he has committed a fatal error to guide him to undo his work before it becomes the undoing of everyone close to him.  He runs, and by doing so, he actively refuses to take any responsibility for his scientific work.  He sets the work in motion and turns his back on it, allowing it to wreak havoc.  But Branagh's Frankenstein pursues the Creature with an axe, thereby attempting to take responsibility for his actions.  He is unable to find the Creature, but his failure is logistic, not moral.  So while Branagh's film is much closer to Shelley's vision than any before had been, it falls short of being completely true to the message -- and the warning -- inherent in the novel scientists cannot pursue knowledge for knowledge's sake and then loose their discoveries on a world unprepared to assimilate them and use them wisely. Whether they accept it or not, they ARE responsible for their discoveries and creations and for what is made of them. "},{"Title":"Carter's Hair Scared Me Most","Date":"13 June 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I *finally* saw this movie.  I can't believe I've never seen it (I think I was in college, likely drunk, at the time it was released), and I will say that it was worth watching.  The best part of the flick for me was the Frankenstein castle.  Great, great (great!) staircase.  Very Bela Lugosi. And great vast, empty parlor.  (Perfect for a Dracula movie.)  The rest of it ... well, I'll have to say as much as Kenneth Branagh tends to annoy me, I liked his portrayal of the egotist Victor.  But the deviations from the novel annoyed me because I think sticking to what Shelley wrote would have made the movie better.  Plus, they seemed unnecessary!  James V. Hart and Francis Ford Coppola did Bram Stoker's Dracula, which I think was better all around.  Why not kill Clerval, for example?  It made no sense.  I kept expecting it.  I may be crazy, but it seemed like there were parts cut and then pasted back together at the last minute - bad transitions - (i.e., the scene right before Victor and Elizabeth prepare to be married).  And the whole thing with Helena Bonham Carter's hair ... don't get me started.  "},{"Title":"Schizo school of film art","Date":"13 January 2001","Score":"0 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  While I don't think of Branagh as a Jackass as said by another reviewer, his directing of this film is surely an indicator of his ego.I havent even read a professional review of this yet and dont recall them but I can see what they didnt like about it.The medium of cinema is STILL about telling a story and Branagh set about trying to create Film Art without paying much attention to story line. He expects the audience to make assumptions and suspend disbelief while he plays on their esthetic tastes and emotional sides.Simply put, there are too many plotlines that don't make sense.  The father of the little girl chases the monster out tho it's obvious that he DIDNT hurt Grandfather, the villagers' lynching of the maid just because she had the boy's medal. Yet when Branagh sets off to kill the monster, on encountering him, sits down to a heart to heart with him. THEN he ignore's the monster's threats even after he has proved he kills for revenge.Makes for cinematic beauty but as a storyline.. on a par with Killer Tomatos.Yep, the professional reviewers were right, in fact the film is dreck. What a waste of acting talent, and it's all Director Branagh's fault.4 1/2 out of 10 "},{"Title":"This is the REAL Classic!","Date":"5 October 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Staying very close to Mrs. Shelley's original, a beautifully acted piece with DeNiro, Branaugh, and Carter in some of the BEST work of their careers. One often does not experience this story as simple Horror, but rather as wonderful Drama with a strong horror base. The Creature here is no monster in the usual sense. He is more of a man with a grave deformity who is treated with total disdain and fear by all who see him...even though they know nothing of his heart. This is a story of love, and hope, set against inconceivable cruelty. Like many of the folks here I have always enjoyed the old Boris Karloff stuff, as well as Christopher Lee and several other jump behind the seats takes on the Frankenstein name. However none of those little charmers rises to the 9/10 I give this truly wonderful piece of work. Absolutely GREAT "},{"Title":"A screen writing disaster","Date":"13 March 2010","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This film seemed rushed and yet there were meaningless scenes (that have no value to the story) that would carry on longer than tolerated (those meaningless scenes were obviously put there to indulge the makers of this film.)This film at times had two major events in the book that were smashed together in a cinematic mess that would literally happen in two seconds. (examplewhen his mom died and the tree was struck by lighting, both pivotal parts of the story that happened in about 2 seconds) Also, lines were missing, lines which were vital to explaining what was happening in the movie. The dialogue in this film would make an Ed Wood film look like Citizen Kane,and this film could not even be salvaged with the multitudes of fantastic actors. An example of this films awful writing would be when DR.Frankenstein rejected the monster all he could say was NO,NO,NO,NO,NO,NO SIDE NOTE I may be wrong about what the Sam hell was happening in that scene, but it's not my fault, it's the film's terrible writing.The scenes in this film, you could say, flat out forgot the fundamentals of writing a scene (want, struggle, false conclusion,turning point,then real conclusion)Because of the indulgent film making in this movie this film isn't so-bad-its-good this film is so-bad-it's-terribleOver all this film is bad and that's being nice "},{"Title":"De Niro is okay; can't say that for the movie.","Date":"8 May 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This movie presents the human side of the Frankenstein creature. Unlike other productions which portray the creature as a horrible, despicable monster, this movie attempts, with some success, to show the creature as a victim of circumstances. Although at some points in the movie the dialogue is ridiculous, Robert De Niro's performance as the creature is credible. What is not credible, however, are the performances of the other members of the cast. Victor Frankenstein is hysterical and his lady something of a shrill. They inspire little sympathy and the horrible acts perpetrated by the creature are almost glossed over to the point that one can reasonably ask what is all the fuss about? The creature had a right to be upset. After all, he didn't asked to be manufactured. But plausibility is stretched to the limit by asking the audience to believe that such a foolish, emotionally labile man as Victor Frankenstein could actually have the ability to create life from death ... and then do it AGAIN? "},{"Title":"*sigh* why does Hollywood even try?","Date":"11 April 2009","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Just to let you know I don't hate this film just because it wasn't like the 1930s film this really was an awful film. The first problem I have with this film is that the first 40 minutes was so boring, all that happened was the characters doing there usual thing yelling, over acting, well basically just being stupid and annoying all the way through. After those long tedious 40 minutes the monster finally appears but the film continues to be boring.Next is where the film really starts to take it up the ass, this is when the monster learns to speak. The first word he learns is *sigh* friend... pretty original isn't it. So after that the monster tries to learn more words by reading a dictionary, I have absolutely no clue whatsoever about how the monster was able to read so quickly after just recently being DEAD!! and also not only does he have to learn the words but he also has to learn what the words mean and how he is supposed to use them. So after that unrealistic nonsense the monster actually knows how to speak very fluently, I don't get, if it took so long for him to say friend how come the monster was able to speak so fluently in less than a god damn week! Next is when the monster meets the blind old man, only he's not lonely and barely able to fend for himself NOOO! they had to ruin the poignancy of this scene by giving the old man a family and friends, WHAT WERE THEY THINKING!Now back to the other characters, Dr Frankenstein was having trouble the romantic relationship he had with his adopted sister,*sigh* it's bad enough that they added a boring and pointless love story to this film but did it have to be so icky? THEY EVEN GET MARRIED! Probably the funniest scene was when they sharing the stupidest sex scene ever to be shoved out of Hollywood's ass, this was when the film basically transformed into one of those historical porn films only this was just funny not disgusting. After that the monster kills his wife/sister and Frankenstein turns her into the bride of Frankenstein, of course even as the bride of Frankenstein she is still dead annoying! (no pun intended). I don't know what else to say about this crap! I liked Pearl Harbor better than this awfulness, this film is worth as much as much as my puke! This film suffers from a serious case of bad acting, some terrible dialogue, and a development of a monster which made no sense! Of course this was still worth a good laugh. "},{"Title":"movie is a disappointment","Date":"24 June 2008","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This is one of the worst adaptations of a novel I have seen. Mary Shelley wrote a masterpiece that has survived for centuries, but this movie will not earn the title of Classic. The movie contains blatant novel inaccuracies. To title a movie Mary Shelley's Frankenstein implies respect will be played to the original written work. Victor's mother did not die in childbirth, Victor had more than one sibling, there were no sex scenes in the work, Henry did not attend university with Victor, Elizabeth did not visit Victor while he was at school, there was no cholera scare, and there were no electric eels in the novel. A novel of such magnitude deserves an accurate theatrical version. This movie is disappointment. "},{"Title":"English Teacher Says NO!","Date":"3 October 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This movie, despite it's promise on the box to be true to the original, is nothing like the book. It leaves out important details that are important in the book and even makes up quite a few that clearly aren't in there. My students and I read the book and then watch this movie to point out where Hollywood went astray. We laugh out loud at how ridiculously different it really is. We also laugh at the overacting that Branaugh does, but that's another story.I don't really know about the quality or craftsmanship that is in this film, but I know it drives the point home about how important it is to read the book and not rely on Hollywood for the answers to a test or paper. "}{"Title":"The Best Film Version Of Frankenstein Yet And  A Massivly Underrated Film","Date":"6 February 2007","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" When it comes to the film versions of the classic novel by MAry Shelly, they simply don't come any better then this one. Kenneth Branagh, the actor/director of 1989's Henry V and 1993's Much Ado About Nothing, proved he could take classic material and bring it to life in a new and fresh way. And this film certainly is not a disappointment. How this film got the bad reputation it has received is beyond me.Branagh plays the lead role of the young brilliant Doctor Victor Frnakenstein. As he as proved time and time again, there is virtually no role that he can't play. He is the perfect Victor whose naive views of life and death eventually lead to him creating the creature. Branagh is virtually flawless and never fails to get a moment just right. The true star of the film isn't Branagh however it's Robert De Niro as the creature. De Niro's version of the creature might not be physically terrifying but if you've read the novel you realize the looks of the creature are perfect for the character. The evil and horror of the creature lies not in his appearance as we've trained throughout decades of other Frankenstien movies but in his actions. This is certainly true of the creature of this film who goes from being the misunderstood creation to vengeful creature and by the end back to being sympathetic. It's a journey from the novel that gives this version more depth then every other version I've seen.The rest of the cast is top notch for the most part. The only real dud of the supporting cast is Helena Bonham Carter as the love interest Elizabeth. She spends most of the film being a complete bimbo for lack of a better word although she does get one incredible moment at the end with her death and shortly lived resurrection ending in a literally fiery end. The rest of the supporting cast fills out there roles perfectly. Tom Hulce is terrific as Victor's friend Henry and he becomes the ignored voice of reason throughout much of the film. Ian Holm is at his usual best as Victor's father and it is a real shame we don't see more of him in the film. Add on to them short appearances by Aidan Quinn as the explorer Walton, Richard Briers as a blind man the creature encounters who treats him kindly, and John Clesse as the Professor who inspires Victor's creation. As I said, a top notch supporting cast. The rest of the film lives up to the standards set by the cast. The sets are of the appropriate styling for the film and fit perfectly. The special effects are excellent especially with the sequence where Victor creates the monster and later resurrects Elizabeth. Patrick Doyle's score adds the atmosphere immensely and his score for this film is certainly amonst his finest works to date.The script is the msot faithful of adaptations despite of, or rather because of, many changes to the stroy. Elizabeth's resurrection and firey death is a prefect example. But these changes are all done in the style of the novel and actually act to supplement the material taken from the novel. Otherwise the script is a terrific adaptation of the classic novel.With a terrific cast, terrific sets, good effects, an excellent musical score, and a top notch script from a classic, this version of Frankenstein delivers. Kenneth Barangh has one again succeeded in creating another masterpiece of modern film-making. This one doens't deserve it's bad repuation and shouldn't be missed! "},{"Title":"A brave attempt and very nearly pulls it off","Date":"12 March 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" This was never going to get a constant high grade (which it deserves) because of the legacy of the Karloff version. Brannagh wanted to do a 'true' version from the book but if he had, people brought up on the Karloff version would never have accepted it (...what, a beautiful creature with long flowing black hair, superhuman speed and strength and a beautiful way with language... where was the flat-headed, neck-bolted green-skinned grunting stumbling 8-footer?). Likewise, fans of the book wouldn't accept the film if he used any of the 1930's 'mistakes'. Brannagh was left with this connundrum but I think he managed to pull it off... meeting both camps halfway, so an 'ugly' Creature who becomes almost eloquent whose hair has not yet regrown/was burned. Brannagh really does deserve more credit for this film... he even managed to include episodes of Shelley's experiences in the film (electricity experiments...thunder, frog and hand) for reference to the author (Elizabeth is actually Mary Shelley in character). I would have given it a 10 except that young victor shouldn't have been played by Brannagh because he doesn't convince as a teenager. "},{"Title":"Mary Shelley's Frankenstein An amazing film.","Date":"20 January 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Mary Shelley's Frankenstein holds a unique place in film history as one of the most thought-provoking films ever made. Kenneth Branagh's Victor Frankenstein is simply the most obsessed mad scientist ever seen on film, and pays the ultimate price for his actions. Robert DeNiro's creature is a marvel to behold, inspiring pity and causing terror in equal measure. The horror of creating such a being, without soul or identity, has never been told so brutally.The themes of the novel are never forgotten in the film's attempt to horrify. You feel the tension mounting as the birth of the creature draws nearer. The creation scene is spectacular, rivaled only by the 1931 version. While Boris Karloff will always remain the quintessential Frankenstein monster, DeNiro comes in a close second. His final scene, waiting for the flames of his father's funeral pyre to consume him and end his miserable existence, bring tears to my eyes every time I watch it. Bravo! "},{"Title":"Great film","Date":"10 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  I liked this film a lot and thought it was a great version of the Frankenstein movies, because it shows that it's actually a good story. The acting is great, I love Helena Bonham Carter, it has some thrills, and it also has some dramatic events.  If you liked Mary Reilly, I think that you will also like this film.  All in all, this is a pretty good film.  If you're looking for a really scary horror flick, this isn't really this movie for you, but it does have some thrills.  So rent it if you want to watch a good movie, with good acting, and a great story. "},{"Title":"Hulce's terrible fake accent was a joke!","Date":"9 September 2001","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Tom Hulce's fake English accent for this movie was nothing but a joke! This man cannot do any kind of an accent and I wish he would stop trying! Hopeless indeed, extremely fake and his acting added nothing to this movie! Every time I have to suffer through watching this stupid movie I almost get sick listening to Hulce's fake English accent.  "},{"Title":"Don't stop at this castle, there's no life here.","Date":"25 April 2014","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Mary Shelley's Frankenstein was the first true horror novel, a brilliant mixture of 18th century haughtiness slammed headlong into the unwise act of playing God. The style mingled with the horror were the key and without them you have . . . well, you have The Bride.The Bride is a labored, snooze-inducing effort to turn The Bride of Frankenstein into a sympathetic Merchant/Ivory-esqe production and style it up to sell to the MTV crowd. The problem is that it isn't any more interesting then what you had for dinner last night.The movie takes place sometime after Dr. Frankenstein (Sting) has forgotten that his creature (played here by Clancy Brown) threw a child into the lake and thus has pulled his electrodes out of mothballs. Why? Because his creature is starting to feel the itch for some female companionship.Then the creature gets upset that the process is taking too long and destroys the lab just as his bride is beginning to wiggle. Not realizing that Dr. Love Connection has just completed building Jennifer Beals, the creature runs away and hangs around with a circus midget (David Rappaport).Completely forgetting that his creature might come back at any given moment to reclaim his bride, the Absent Minded Professor decides to claim this little Philly for himself and names her Eve. He's made lots of vast improvements over Version 1.0 including removing all of her stitches without a single scar. He tries to teach her the ways of 19th century etiquette, fashion, fine dining and social graces in scenes that will likely bore you into a coma.The scenes between the creature and Rinaldo the midget are kind of touching (in a petting a bullfrog sort of way) as the two make off with the circus and become bosom buddies. Rinaldo even gives the creature a name - Viktor. How ironic.Then Viktor suddenly remembers that he was about to get a bride. This comes as a shock when we discover - now get this - they are linked, psychically> This leads to the inevitable as Viktor returns to claim his bride and one thing leads to another and I can't remember the end of the film because I kept falling asleep.What it boils down to is MTV does Gothic horror. It is made in the style of a music video stretched on for 120 minutes and it's agony getting through them. The movie is like dinner with your least interesting relatives. "},{"Title":"Too faithful for its own good","Date":"30 October 2008","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" Like its near-contemporary Bram Stoker's Dracula (1992), Mary Shelley's Frankenstein achieves the impressive feat of being every bit as dull as its source novel. It may well be the most faithful/least unfaithful version ever filmed (which isn't saying much), but what it's faithful to, in mood and spirit if not always in detail, is one of the dreariest examples of the unreadably dreary Gothic novels of the early 19th century. It aims at seriousness, but reaches only a solemn kind of silliness; lacking any sense of the ridiculous, it often stumbles into unintentional hilarity. Long-winded dialogue, eccentric casting and pedestrian cinematography - there isn't a single shot that would make a still worth framing - all contribute their lifeless parts to a monster that should never have been made. The unpretentious but supremely cinematic Universal Frankensteins of the 1930s and 1940s offer much more entertainment, not to mention art and even poetry, than this crashing bore of a film. "},{"Title":"Frankenstein...as disturbing as it is well-acted","Date":"20 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" As I stated above, this movie was disturbing. I had never seen it before, but my mother picked out of the 5.99 bin at best buy because she loved it so much. I watched it and now I am as hooked as she is. While there were a few obligatory corny bits (I will have my revenge...Frankenstein!) it was still spectacular. Robert De Niro conveyed the part of a tortured soul so well. When you watch the movie, you know that this man was once a well-respected scientist who was one of the most intelligent at the university, and he has been reduced to a wandering madman with no memories who is not even shown basic common courtesies. When he is so utterly consumed by his quest for revenge, he kills Elizabeth, then tries to take her as his own and she still ends up dead, a single act resulting in the death of both Frankenstein and his creation. The movie was dark, gory, and beautiful all at the same time. I have new respect for both Kenneth Brannagh and Robert De Niro. "},{"Title":"An overseen masterpiece!","Date":"11 December 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" If you look the rating here and read some comments you will probably think that this movie is just one of those horror flicks.BUT!! I think everyone should see this movie and make his own opinion, because it has so much good elements, with a very strong and human message, that would be It is the nature of every human being, to want someone by his side.Even if he (Frankenstein, or in general anybody!) looks like an ugly monster he still feels the need for someone who loves him. (To all who don't get why Frankenstein was made to look so bad It just underlines the contrast between how he looks and how he is for real.So much about the not recognized message! Why wasn't it recognized? The movie is made in a bit unusual style. From the sets, to the costumes and sometimes also the acting. But in the end all this isn't that bad, it would ruin the movie!If you can handle this, then Frankenstein is a movie you should definitely see! A movie with an very interesting look to the 19th century, with lots of perfect (and disturbing) parts (SPOILER The wedding night; when Victors leaves Elizabeth alone and goes to look for the creature. When we see it above her and later how it pulls out her heart and shows that (still beating) to Victor. - one of the most disturbing scenes, not only of this movie! END SPOILERS).For it's beautiful message presented in the most disturbing way, a 10/10. If you have the chance get this movie and see for yourself! "},{"Title":"Not Shakespeare","Date":"17 May 2004","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Quick, before it's too late  someone, somewhere, PLEASE inform Brannaugh that Shakespeare and Shelly are NOT the same thing, despite the coincidence that they share the first two letters of their names. What I mean is, you can get away over-acting with the former's work, since people are used to a certain amount of floridness (floridity? fluoridation?) when it comes to performing the works of the Bard; and admittedly, the grand soliloquies of Hamlet and MacBeth do lend themselves quite well to a certain level of pomposity.But this is a freakin' MONSTER MOVIE.  You know, superhuman brutes in high-lift shoes, complete with neck bolts and enough stitching to rival Spalding's production for the year, lumbering about, grunting phrases like Fire  bad; cigar  go-o-od.  Even Mel Brooks got the flavor better.And what's up with having Otter (Animal House) involved in any way, shape or form?  I kept expecting DeNiro to spew mashed potatoes, or crush a beer can on his forehead--although, come to think of it, he DID do some substantial window-peeping with those peasants in the forest.I give it two out of five stars, if for no other reason than the set, costume and makeup folks at least were able to portray Old London squalor effectively. "}{"Title":"Decent adaptation of Shelley; Could have been better","Date":"19 August 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  A fairly good adaptation of Mary Shelley's novel. You know, Jules Verne is often credited for inventing science fiction, but one has to acknowledge Shelley, whose book predates Verne's by 20-30 years. Anyway, it's been about 20 years since I read Frankenstein so I'm not completely up on all the details. It seems that the first half of the movie stayed reasonably close to the novel. There were some significant changes later. To adapt the book, some sort of arctic scenes were necessary. Branagh was OK as Victor Frankenstein. Ian Holm and Tom Hulce did nicely in small parts. I didn't even recognize John Cleese. Helena Bonham Carter, as usual, turned in an excellent performance in a period piece. Her beauty helped the film a lot, and the contrast between that look and her later incarnation showed the suffering of the Creature even more than De Niro's look. De Niro was great in this film. The problems with the film were due to the script and adaptation. I think that De Niro rasped his lines plenty well enough to disguise his usual Brooklynese. And anyway, who can complain about De Niro's accent, when all the other Swiss and German characters spoke with British accents? I thought the film could have better portrayed one aspect of the book, the eloquence of the creature. There were a few flashes of that, but Shelley's creature came to speak like a very well-educated man. Branagh emphasized the suffering of the creature, which is, of course, also essential to the story. Overall, this film is well worth seeing, but probably not worth buying. Grade B- "},{"Title":"Branagh being Fabio","Date":"22 November 2000","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  This is a great version to watch if you can be bothered reading the book. It sticks much closer to Shelley's plot than the Whale version. It is a very enjoyable, lavish film. However if it is a true horror film you are after this one might be a little disappointing. "},{"Title":"who do you root for?","Date":"24 November 2004","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":" this is one of the stickiest contaversies i have ever seen in a movie. typically, there's two sides the good guys and the bad guys. i can choose who i want to root for based on the actions of the hero-be he or she the protagonist or the antagonist. But in this movie there's a thin line between good and evil and the heroes are stepping all over it. they are both good and they are both evil. And what's more, they are both human, as shocking as that is to realize-only one looks more human and the other behaves more human (you be the judge which is which)so who do you root for? whose side do you take? the human in the monster, or the monster in the human? i'm sure i don't know. "},{"Title":"Messy and boring, Kenneth Branaugh's tribute to himself becomes very dull and hard to watch...","Date":"1 September 2003","Score":"2 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  A boring, and utterly messy retelling of Mary Shelly's classic story sees Kenneth Branaugh as the mad scientist Frankenstein (guffaw) and Robert De Niro as The Monster he has created. Interesting in some areas, but overall Branaugh's love of himself gets in the way of the film's narrative. Remind me never to watch a film that shows Robert De Niro's rear for over five seconds ever again. Branaugh's at-the-time girlfriend, Helena Bonham Carter, and John Cleese co-star.2.5/5 stars -John Ulmer "},{"Title":"Prospero's Mistake","Date":"14 May 2003","Score":"3 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.Actors see the world of films in a much narrower way than educated viewers. Among them, Shakespearean actors - especially British-trained ones - have a particularly discernible perspective. The story doesn't really exist except as a scaffold from which to shine multiple beams of light on perplexities, and their metaperplexing behavior. Actors are the controllers of those illuminating beams, meant to inhabit some of the multiple, theatrical platforms the writer has provided. The basic impetus for such an actor is to inhabit as many of these roles as fully as possible.Branagh has done so admirably for a few plays. But what to do about the fact that he is too young to play Prospero? Why adapt the Frankenstein story - which can accommodate a younger man - into a Tempest of course. What do you do with the talented actress you have fallen love with, and who would be a natural for Ophelia in your long-planned Hamlet, but who cannot be such because she's already been there with Zeffirelli? Why you make her your Miranda of course.One can have an amazing experience with this project with those two insights. As with `The Tempest,' this starts with a seatempest, actually using Shakespearean lines. Shipwrecked, the hapless crew discovers our man and his Caliban. In this version however, the Caliban is not cowed but has (literally) taken the girl's heart. The powers of creation and magic from the magician's `strange books' (which are duly noted) have gone awry. This version ends in tragedy.This is very clever idea, impossibly ambitious. We need the best actor in the world to be Caliban, but he has to be the type of actor that isn't intelligently self-aware (like Penn or Nicholson or Brando); instead we need someone who acts the way Caliban would if he were an actor, with full passion and commitment but shocking lack of sophistication. Robert Deniro of course.More and more, one can see how Branagh plays the role of Prospero even in creating the film, and with equal tragedy - and for the same reason the unleashing of grand forces beyond his control. He gets Roger Pratt as the cinematographer, the world's most architectural photographer. We last saw him do his stuff in the second Harry Potter film, and he has also done some remarkable architectural work for Gilliam. He's a tough customer.Now design the laboratory it is a very deliberate meld of the throne room of `Camelot` and the lair of Eisenstein's `Ivan the Terrible.'And we're off! Watch how the order of the film disintegrates as the order of the world depicted does. Watch as Branagh the director fails to understand and control the monster of Deniro. Watch as the god of the environment (Pratt) conspires against the director just as fate toys with Victor. Coppola tried this very same tactic with `Apacolypse' a film about risk in disorder created by risk in disorder. Worked there but not here to judge from looking in from the outside.But along the way, there are some remarkable moments. One in particular the 30 seconds or so of realization on the proto-Elizabeth's face. The entire effort on his part and ours is worth it for that one glimpse into the magic of oblivion - more horrifying than almost any film except possibly the similar ending scene in the the next year's `Safe.'Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4 Worth watching.  "},{"Title":"Entertaining, but sad","Date":"1 August 2002","Score":"0 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Drama, Horror, Romance","Review":"  What happens when science goes too far.  Abomination of nature is created and this film shows the tragic results of this.This film goes down hard, and found it too much.  This movie is heavy and too much for myself, but entertaining too. 7/10 "}]