[{"Title":"Exit Stage Left on this Comedy","Date":"19 July 2003","Score":"15 out of 19 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Exit to Eden was a fine erotic book by Ann Rice, full of texture, sensuality and drama, all of the things the movie is not. Why Gary Marshall chose to turn a great novel into a non-funny comedy with the miscasting of Rosie O'Donnell and Dan Aykroyd is beyond me. The subject of this movie has never been dealt with in a non-X movie and it should have been done with tact instead of a loose comedy hand. The cast is good except the above duo. Dana Delany is great as the Mistress of a pleasure island; she takes a chance and shows her sexy side of herself as well as full body nudity. You watch this movie and shake your head about how good it could have been. read the book, forget the movie. 4 out of 10   "},{"Title":"Garry Marshall, you are a dirty old man","Date":"8 June 2003","Score":"16 out of 22 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  As one reviewer pointed out, the film is neither good or bad.  I think the problem lies mainly in the marketing.  Like many people who viewed this film, I thought it would be a comedy.  It is, to a degree.  Judging by the subject matter, I knew Exit would be at least somewhat risque, but since I found out Garry Marshall directed it, I assumed it would be tastefully done with little or no nudity.  After all, this is the guy who directed films like Runaway Bride and The Princess Diaries, and I think he produced Laverne and Shirley.  Naturally, I wasn't expecting softcore porn! Maybe this isn't an EXACT clone of a late night movie on Cinemax, but it comes pretty close.  I guess I would compare this with certain adult comedies like The Bikini Carwash Company and Beauty School.I was entertained and stimulated by some of the nude scenes, and I never knew Dana Delaney had such an AWESOME body!  I will never look at her the same ever again!  And you've got the handsome Aussie, Paul Mercurio, so there's something for the guys and gals to enjoy.  Unfortunately, I kept waiting for something funny to happen and my patience was running low.Many people think of Rosie O'Donnell as an annoying you-know-what, but that's because many of those people didn't know her until she started doing her talk show.  I watched her show sometimes, but I admit there were times where I just wanted to slug her.  But she was putting on a sing-songy, G-rated persona for the show.  I've seen her one of her stand-up acts on television, and quite a few words had to be bleeped.  So trust me, she doesn't have the same clean-cut persona you've seen in her talk show.  And she does have a reasonable amount of talent as a comedienne, which is why I wanted to check out the film in the first place.  At times she's funny, at times she's not, due to faulty writing and forced comic timing.  Dan Aykroyd has a few funny moments as well, but also seems humiliated to be in this movie.  Don't expect the same high-energy, manic Aykroyd performance he usually delivers.Exit to Eden works out well as softcore porn, but doesn't totally deliver as a comedy.  The film would've worked out better, if it didn't suffer from this identity crisis.My score  5 (out of 10) "},{"Title":"'Wacky' Comedy/Bondage Romance Mix Fails At Both...","Date":"31 March 2004","Score":"18 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  One thing can be said about veteran director Garry Marshall; he'll go nearly ANYWHERE for love and laughs.EXIT TO EDEN may be about as unlikely a mainstream comedy/romance as you'll find, with most of the action occurring at a 'Club Med'-type resort catering to S&M devotees, but someone, somewhere, might have been able to pull it off...but not, unfortunately, the ever-conventional Marshall, who, try as he might, can't make either the comedy (as two cops attempt to infiltrate the club to capture a fugitive 'hiding out' among the 'mistresses' and 'slaves') or the love story (as a somewhat jaded 'mistress' discovers the joys of conventional romance with a mysterious newcomer) more than mildly entertaining.The main problem is miscasting; while a Dan Aykroyd/Rosie O'Donnell team-up might have looked good on paper, on film the two actors have virtually no chemistry together. Aykroyd is better as a 'straight man' than comic, and, as age has given him a 'cuddly' quality (along with extra pounds), the edginess he displayed in THE BLUES BROTHERS or even DRAGNET is gone. O'Donnell, on the other hand, is TOO edgy, and can become annoying quite easily. Her one-liners seem contrived and often mean-spirited...and Rosie in leather is a sight I've been trying to forget for 10 years! Dana Delany fares somewhat better, as the Number 1 Dominatrix (her voluptuous curves, encased in leather, and brief nude scenes have made EXIT TO EDEN a video store favorite), but her personality, fundamentally sweet-natured (more 'Girl Next Door' than 'Supervixen') plays against her. She is simply too 'nice' for her role! Coming off best is Australian newcomer Paul Mercurio, in his first American film. With a twinkle in his eye, he 'plays' the S&M 'game' as a joke, championing traditional romance, and, ultimately, converts Delany to his point of view. Totally natural, Mercurio 'steals' the film from the veteran cast. He, and Marshall 'regular' Hector Elizondo are both so good, in fact, that they seem to have been 'lifted' from a different film!EXIT TO EDEN stumbles frequently, in it's attempt to be both mainstream AND daring, and ends up being boring and a bit distasteful.PRETTY WOMAN, it ain't!   "},{"Title":"Book, movie, all pretty bad","Date":"27 December 1999","Score":"10 out of 13 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I have always thought _Exit to Eden_ Anne Rice's worst book.  Yes, worse than _Belinda_ or even all three _Beauty_ books.  It seemed as if she was almost preaching at us about how freeing S&M can be for all of us.  The characters seemed to experience a lot of tumult, but really didn't feel at all deeply.  Then she marries Lisa off to Elliot.  I'm not sure what S&M advocates thought of that, but it seemed too traditional an ending and basically trashed the point of every preceding page.The movie's worse.  I adore Paul Mercurio.  Strictly Ballroom is one of my favorite movies ever, but-- he seemed to be just eye-candy here.  Why, oh why, hasn't he been really acting since?  Dana Delaney was beautiful, but she didn't seem at all fierce, dangerous, as I would have hoped big bad Mistress Lisa would be.  While O'Donnell and Akroyd were fun to watch, that whole added on plot was terrible!  Why move the focus off Lisa and Elliot's relationship?  Why not take all the bondage/S&M seriously, instead of making it a joke?  Rosie O. in a leather suit, hopping off the set?  Lord have mercy on us all.   "},{"Title":"Any movie where Dana Delaney gets naked can't be all bad . . .","Date":"9 May 2002","Score":"11 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" but this one sure comes close. Delaney is the ONLY thing worth watching in this putrid mess. Rosie O'Donnell has disavowed this picture (with good reason, although why she allowed herself to appear in it at all, let alone being decked out in S&M leathers, is something only she can answer), Dan Aykroyd can just add this to his long list of career-killing disasters (his latest being Britney Spears' stupefying challenge to the digestive system, Crossroads), I don't know (or much care) whatever happened to Paul Mercurio, and Dana Delaney has hopefully gotten a new agent by now. The whole S&M subculture would be a good subject for a movie, but this leering, smarmy piece of swill isn't it. If you're not a Dana Delaney fan, don't waste your time or your money. "},{"Title":"An OK movie nowhere near as good (or bad) as it's defenders or detractors think","Date":"6 January 2001","Score":"8 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This is a movie that is okay and has a decent performance by Delaney and Ackroyd and the best role O'Donnell has had yet.  There are those who hate this film and some who love it.  Since it contains neither Pauly Shore nor Adam Sandler and not a trace of Bo Derek or Pia Zadora, it can't be as bad as so many think.  It may not be Olivier doing Hamlet, but it beats Shatner playing Othello.  Recommended for Dana Delaney and Rosie fans with the obligatory Hector Elizando appearance though he's done much better elsewhere. "},{"Title":"unusual premise not played out well","Date":"14 May 2005","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" SPOILERS THROUGHI really don't think it's as bad as so many say but there's no doubt the movie wasn't quite right. The main problem that I had watching it was the lack of any true laugh out loud funny lines. I did chuckle a few times but for a movie that's supposed to be such an outrageous comedy, it really didn't ever get truly hilarious. Also, what bothered me was the lack of cohesiveness to the story. The thing that came to mind when watching it was that it seemed like it had no structure. It was almost seemed like the cast just got together and decided to ham it up and see how outrageous they could get. It didn't really flow and sometimes it almost seemed like the cast could have been making up their lines spur of the moment. Everyone involved seemed to be having a good time but it looked at times like they forgot about the audience. It was watchable but at times just sort of THERE, and never hooked me in.It had no problem keeping my attention but never became compelling or even very interesting. Storyline seemed to be thrown out in favor of clowning around and trying for outrageousness but something was missing. It's not really a movie that makes you want to view it Twice.Having said that, I will also say this isn't dreadful and I've certainly seen worse. I'd give this about an average rating (5 of 10). No doubt it could have been better but it's not awful. "},{"Title":"The book is in here somewhere","Date":"16 October 2001","Score":"6 out of 7 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I watched this movie, having been a fan of Anne Rice's novels. I found that a few of the scenes did a good job of imagining what the book was suggesting.  These were mostly trivial in the movie.  I really enjoyed the story and managed to sit through the horrible overlapping story (All of Dan & Rosie's scenes) to catch a bit of the fantasy brought to the screen that had been in my head reading the book.  I guess if it had been passed off as other than a comedy, it would have to be labeled pornography.  The good parts of the movie show that this could have been a great project if they had attempted to stay close to the spirit of the novel. "},{"Title":"One of the worst movies I have ever seen","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"22 out of 39 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I have seen many of the uber bad movies on the bottom 100 You Got Served, Glitter etc and I think this movie is up there with them. You Got Served and Glitter are obviously bad, but this movie is subtly the worst movie I have ever seen. I think that after Basic Instinct some Hollywood exec thought Hmm this is the next big thing, mainstream movies with tons of nudity and sex! The problem with this thought is that a)that wasn't the next big thing and b) this movie has none of the traits of a mainstream movie. The acting in this movie is horrendous, aside from Rosie O'Donnell and Dan Aykroyd who play second fiddle to a couple of porn rate actors, the plot is awkward because it has to squeeze in so much sex and the directing kind of feels like a porn movie. The plot is the worst part, in my opinion, there are two distinct plots in the movie that intersect a couple of times and finally conclude concurrently. Nothing all that unusual there, but both plots are so meaningless and free from suspense that the only plot device evident is the switch between soft core sex scenes to Dan and Rosie standing around waiting for something to happen. The only reason to watch this movie is if you really need to see some nudity, and even the sex scenes are nothing special. Most are just standard soft core porn, only in order to pass it off as a mainstream movie even those are cut short. I vaguely remembered when this movie came out and I was pretty excited when it came on HBO, but it was so bad that I could barely go to sleep. If you have any choice in the matter WATCH SOMETHING ELSE! "},{"Title":"Anne Rice Novel Watered Down","Date":"9 June 1999","Score":"5 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Exit to Eden is really a movie with two plots.  The first  combat photographer Elliot Slater travels to the sex-fantasy island of Eden to confront his aberrant sexual inclinations and, while on the island, begins a romance with Eden's head mistress, Mistress Lisa.  The second plot Detectives Fred Lavery and Sheila Kingston also travel to Eden pursuing supercriminals Nina and Omar, who are also on Eden to kill Elliot and retrieve the pictures he has taken of them.  This is a well made movie with some laughs, sex, and bubbly romance.Exit to Eden is Rated R for strong sexual content, nudity, mild language, brief gore, and some violence. "}{"Title":"Has its faults, but still is quite daring.","Date":"30 October 2001","Score":"7 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This film tiptoes around its controversial subject (sadomasochism), and Dana Delany is terribly miscast and always unconvincing as a dominatrix -for example Iman, who co-stars here, would be a much better choice for the role of Mistress Lisa. But, for a mainstream Hollywood picture, this is still pretty daring and unusual. As others have said, the many different genres and styles employed here inevitably clash, and make the film inconsistent - but at least it's never boring. Not for kids.       (**1/2) "},{"Title":"Is it honestly trying to be an erotic comedy?","Date":"23 October 2005","Score":"15 out of 26 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Completely misbegotten adaptation of Anne Rice's book about two cops (Dan Aykroyd and Rosie O'Donnell, a screen-teaming which should've been a hoot) working undercover at an S&M resort to capture a ring of crooks. Garry Marshall directed in a shamefully sloppy manner, without a clue as to how a general audience would feel about this kind of material; his narrative is so clogged with smarmy activity and failed gimmicks (like a voice-over from O'Donnell that is both unfunny and unnecessary) that the picture self-destructs even before the opening credits have finished! Highly unpleasant dud was a critical and commercial turkey, although O'Donnell has gotten mileage out of it by making Exit to Eden jokes at her own expense. "},{"Title":"Almost but, not quite.","Date":"20 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This was a poor attempt, to be like a Benny Hill/Carry-on type Movie. It was a comedy with fetish. But it just didn't have a good on going sketch. ( Stand up comics do!!). Apart from some fetishes being all rolled into one. It did have its moments. A good movie to watch with your female friends but guys may not like it. "},{"Title":"It's an action movie packed with adventure, as well as romance and comedy!","Date":"18 November 1998","Score":"2 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  If you've been wanting to spice up a relationship, Exit to Eden will give you some great ideas!  If you're looking to see some familiar faces, you might recognize Rosie O'Donnell and Dan Aykroyd.  There's not too much violence, but don't let your kids watch it, due to sexual material.  All in all, it's a great movie for an adult couple to watch on a Friday night at home. "},{"Title":"This movie is utter garbage.","Date":"11 July 2000","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Sometimes I just love to watch bad movies.  This is the WORST movie that Dan Aykroyd has ever been in. Rosie is NOT FUNNY, but she was the highlight of this piece of trash as she could at least manage to smile.It was just incredible how poor the script was.  HA! HAHAHAHAHAHA! HA!  SCRIPT? HA ! BAH HA! LOL!That couldn't be considered a script. It was HORRID. Garry Marshall?  BAD MOVIE!Oh my. I can't tell you how many plot holes this has.  You could have a contest to count the plot holes.  The one who gets the most wins.This is only good to see if you want to see a good example of how NOT to make a movie. "},{"Title":"Racy S & M Drama/Comedy","Date":"11 April 1999","Score":"3 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Anne Rice's novel Exit To Eden dealt with a jaded S & M dominatrix who unexpectedly fell in love with one of her submissives and goes to New Orleans to do a little soul searching.  Garry Marshall's film version deals with Elliot Slater who travels to the S & M fantasy island of Eden to deal with his sexual fantasies.  There he meets camp commander Mistress Lisa and the two fall in love and travel to New Orleans so Lisa can see where her mother grew up.  This film was viciously panned by critics and audiences, but I think it is one of the 90's best movies.  If you like spicy, sexual, funny stories, then Exit To Eden might just hit the spot for you. "},{"Title":"What you don't know..... is","Date":"13 October 2005","Score":"5 out of 9 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Exit to Eden.. gets a BUM rap from people that are narrow minded and do not have a clue what the movie was really about!! The Lifestyle that this movie was written about really exists. Maybe NOT to the point of a awesome island as in the movie, but there are a LARGE group of people out there in the world that LIVE that style of life. Exit to Eden touched on MANY true facts about the lifestyle and did a good job. It straight forwardly explained what the different roles are in the life of Dominates and submissives. Inside EVERYONE is a desire to be either one or the other. Some act out on it, others don't. (because they are afraid to!!) The lifestyle is not about sex, its about power exchange All of this was addressed in the movie.Those of you that do not understand this, and were looking for more entertainment were so busy wanting to be amused, that they missed the whole point of the movie. It was nice to see something so vanilla to come out and TRY to explain what others already know.GREAT movie.. Well done, funny, serious, and pretty complete, especially since they were trying to stay within the vanilla realm. NOT everything in the movie was true to form of the lifestyle but it sure touched a lot of things that were.Secretary was another good movie that portrays the lifestyle. It was more real to life than you would imagine. So those of you that are naysayers.. don't you dare watch THAT one.. hahah it would give you something to complain about.Mistress Ladynite "},{"Title":"Exit this film immediately!","Date":"29 November 1999","Score":"13 out of 25 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  When two undercover cops investigate Iman The Terrible, they're in for a romp of pleasure. This may go down to being a milestone as one of the sickest American comedies ever produced, where plenty of S&M is the biggest swap for light-hearted fun. Forget the entire cast that includes Dan and Rosie, because they all possibly wished they hadn't appeared in this picture ever since its first shooting. Best of all, you can forget this movie all in one piece. REJECTED.  "},{"Title":"A film about sex without sex","Date":"25 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" It's a comedy? Well, I tried hard to laugh but, there's nothing to laugh about, nothing is funny. It's about crime? No, I don't think so. What crime? Nobody kills anybody. Is it science fiction and I did not realize, I'm too stupid? No, not really, I have not seen a laser or any atomic fart. The Total Film neither(meaning the film without image, no sound, no music, that film some kind of perfect without nothing in it...), because it has some actors scattered here and there. Only rant, the whole movie, so a waste of time (almost 1h54min). I wonder if Mr. Garry Marshall has seen any film of Walerian Borowczyk? I recommend him to watch a lot of movies before doing other movies. I wonder who told to that woman, Iman, that she's an Actress? And, the great music of my Romanian co-national Michael Cretu (Enigma) is simply useless(not fulfilling or not expected to achieve the intended purpose or desired outcome). Now I know what genre is this you know, there is soft porn and hardcore porn; this one is soft hardcore nothing! 2 from 10. "},{"Title":"The world's first sadomasochistic buddy-buddy-cop comedy-crime-thriller. And hopefully also the last.","Date":"14 April 2016","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I have never read Anne Rice's novel Exit to Eden- indeed, until I saw this film I had never heard of it- but I understand that it is an erotic love story set against the background of the world of sadomasochism. The film-makers took Rice's basic plot and turned it into a comedy, although still set against the background of the world of sadomasochism, and added a plot line about two cops in pursuit of two diamond thieves, thereby creating the world's first sadomasochistic buddy-buddy-cop comedy-crime-thriller.Elliott Slater, a professional photographer, books into Eden, an island holiday resort catering for sadomasochists. Unknown to him, he has been followed to the island by Omar and Nina, two ruthless criminals who are trying to retrieve the film from Elliott's camera- this was in the pre-digital era- which contains a shot which could identify Omar as one of the participants in a jewel heist. Also on the island are the two bumbling Los Angeles cops, Fred and Sheila. Another strand to the plot concerns the growing romance between Elliott and the resort's resident dominatrix, Mistress Lisa, even though the strict etiquette of her profession means that she is not supposed to fall in love with her clients. Sheila also finds romance at the end of the film when a handsome young stud, who also turns out to be a company Chief Executive, falls for her.Back in 1994 the idea for this film might have seemed like a good one, at least to the film-makers. It wasn't. The film proved a flop, both critically and financially. Dan Aykroyd, who at his best can be a very good actor, was nominated for a Worst Supporting Actor Razzie for his portrayal of Fred, and Rosie O'Donnell, as Sheila, won Worst Supporting Actress. O'Donnell, who is hardly Hollywood's greatest glamour-puss, spends much of the running-time dressed in skimpy bondage attire, even though she has to compete with equally scantily dressed co-stars as attractive as Dana Delany and the gorgeous supermodel Iman. There should be a special Razzie for Actress Most in Need of Less Revealing Clothing. Despite her good looks, Delany is not commanding enough to suggest that her character could make a career as a dominatrix, and Iman does little to counteract the widely held view that supermodels are generally ill- advised to exchange the catwalk for the film set. Several other top models were attempting to break into acting during the nineties, but Iman is no better an actress than the likes of Cindy Crawford, Naomi Campbell and Elle Macpherson. Indeed, she is probably rather worse, which is saying something. She comes across as the least menacing criminal I have ever seen. She can't even sneeze convincingly. As for Paul Mercutio- well, I really can't remember much about his performance. And I only saw the film yesterday.Dodgy acting is not the only problem with this film. It is supposed to be a comedy, but it is completely unfunny; I can't think of a single situation or line of dialogue which made we want to laugh with the actors as opposed to laughing at them. It is no classic of erotica, but there is enough suggestive dialogue and enough bare flesh on display to ensure it got an 18 rating, something unusual for a comedy. I felt that this was a mistake on the part of the film-makers. No film about sexual sadomasochism is ever going to be suitable for the family audience, but that 18 certificate means that it also excluded the sniggering adolescent audience, who are the only demographic who might find it in any way amusing. There may be some people who retain the sniggering adolescent mentality well after their eighteenth birthday, but there were evidently not enough of them to save the film from its well-deserved box-office failure.I was surprised to learn that this rubbish was directed by Garry Marshall, who had previously made romantic comedies and dramas as good as Overboard, Pretty Woman and Frankie and Johnny. Exit to Eden may be the world's first sadomasochistic buddy-buddy-cop comedy-crime- thriller. Let's hope it is also the last. 2/10 "}{"Title":"Quirky and  Funny and often sweet","Date":"6 August 2014","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I am NOT a big fan of professional critics. I don't believe they represent the majority of the population. having read exit to Eden by Anne Rice the only way they could do the book absolute justice is to make the film and it would be X rated I only available in adult bookstores. Dana Delaney and Paul Mercurio have a chemistry akin to Richard Gere and Julia Roberts, Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan. as a plot twist instead of Elliot leaving the island mistress Lisa goes after him. the movie decide that they both just take off. I believe the important characters in the book were left out and instead dan Aykroyd and Rosie O'Donnell brought in to bring the quirky comedy to balance out the seriousness of S&M lifestyle. I actually believe this movie would he be even better without the nudity, but it is the nature of the beast to entertain with such a storyline. I strongly suggest reading the book first then you will inherently understand the comedy and the quirkiness appreciate this movie for what it is..... entertaining and funny. "},{"Title":"Unleash your desires at Eden or just make an exit","Date":"6 December 2013","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This film lucks out at being a comedy and sexy, though at times there are some saucy sights of lingerie and high heels. Believe it or not, this is from the same novelist of Interview With The Vampire. Though it's curiously different, and the movie's existence is curious too. This film's break for Paul Mercurio, doesn't do much for him, and he doesn't put in much a performance, surpassed by the other three leads, Ackroyd and O'Donnell the best, providing most of the funny moments. Elliott, (Mercurio) who's had failure of relationships, heads with many other fulfilled people to the island of Eden, a sex school/retreat, where a suppressed group of shy people can work out their mishaps, in different sexual scenarios with different partners. Sounds a lot like Sex World, right. Yes, only Sex World was better. Unfortunately our photographer Mercurio, has snapped too many photographs, one involving a drug exchange by a very dangerous woman and partner. So now we have them being chased down by gangsters This one off for Marshall, is entertaining in the birdwatching sense. We even have a rollerblading contest, and you'll guess the prize, Duh? As well O'Donnell catches the eye of a male someone. Yes this film is bad, not overly bad on the account of being different. I mean we do some full frontal shots of Donna Dixon, etc, and some dominatrix activities plus a flashback scene, featuring John (Hazzard) Schneider as a professor who re educates Delaney in the ways of love. Also another funny moment has Mercurio wiggling his tousche naughtily. Wants how he gets punished too. "},{"Title":"Very good show","Date":"31 January 2011","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Exit To Eden was a wonderful, fun movie to watch. Dana Delaney was a stunning, wonderfully beautiful actress to watch, capturing your heart easily in her role. She was a real sweetheart, although it may be hard to envision a career Dominatrix acting as she did. Eliot was great, everyone did a wonderful job entertaining us with A). A good story, and B). Mildly erotic entertainment. This movie was a fairly predictable cop-drama with some erotic entertainment and a love story kicked in for good measure. Remember, we are watching TV, that thing you do because you want to go away for a couple of hours and feel good. Dan Ackroyd was good (although his partner definitely got the better deal ) ) Rosie O' Donnell kept me going, 'Euuuuggghhhh' through most of the movie, although she was funny...Bottom line, if you want HOT erotica, go somewhere else. If you want mild erotica and want to have fun for a couple of hours, if you want to get away for a while, take the Exit To Eden. It's a fun trip. "},{"Title":"Tries to hard to be too much","Date":"28 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I enjoyed watching this movie, even though I know it's not a great movie.I thought the acting was good, and the island of Eden was gorgeous. The erotic scenes were a mixed bag...there were a couple that were extremely erotic (got some good ideas there!) but others were Luke-warm at best.I think what kept this movie from being a good movie is that it was trying to be all things to everyone. It was a crime story, a comedy, an erotic sexcapade (sort of) and a romance. It also had too many morals to it (it's OK to explore your wild side, it's OK to relinquish control in certain situations, and the ever-popular love conquers everything).I haven't read this book (written by Anne Rice under the pseudonym of Anne Rampling) but I have read other erotica by her and I'm sure the book HAS to be better! "},{"Title":"It's different, I'll give this movie that much","Date":"5 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  A movie like this has some very good points and some very bad points of quality. One thing you do not see too much of in mainstream film is such explicit sexuality. Therefore it is an odd movie. If not for the setting of a Sado-Masochistic Island this would be a routine crime drama, but this truly unique element makes this movie a little different from the rest.A photographer who is internationally renowned has serious problems with women, and therefore he thinks it best to attend a sadist colony to further enhance his sexual life. What he doesn't realize is that he accidentally saw a man who is an international diamond smuggler, and no one has seen this diamond smuggler out of disguise, so this man naturally has to be killed so cops can't identify him. He goes to a sadist colony where two cops, played by Rosie O'Donnell and Dan Aykroyd track him down to get the thief and save his life.  The lead of the movie is Dana Delany who plays the person in charge of this colony. I am not going to lie this is one strange movie which suffers from among other things a weak lead in Dana Delany, who has some high points but really can't hold this together.Some people blasted this movie.  I did not think it was that bad.  But above all else it was very very strange.  There is a huge amount of sexual content and to add to that a huge amount of unusual sexual content.  The high points of the movie are Dan Aykroyd and Rosie O'Donnell who do good in their parts.  To me the movie was a typical crime drama with a decidedly sexual twist to it.  It is interesting as nothing more than something very different and pretty decent.  Hector Elizondo has an interesting part as well in this movie.  If you want something a little different this is the movie to watch, but if you are not one for this amount of sexual content I would recommend you stay away.     "},{"Title":"Had potential, but the finished movie sucks.","Date":"24 November 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"   It seems that many of the users on here aren't aware that Exit To Eden didn't start out as a comedy. The *ONLY* reason the incredibly stupid scenes with Rosie O'Donnell & Dan Aykroyd are in this movie at all is because the studio and/or the director felt that a serious drama involving S&M would make some people uncomfortable. So they figured people would only watch it if they included a couple buffoons to make fun of all the 'sick' people and activities in the movie so that the audience could feel ok laughing at them. Maybe one day, the studio will take all the erotic footage they cut out prior to its release and replace all the idiotic scenes with O'Donnell & Aykroyd and release the drama they should have made in the first place. "},{"Title":"One of the most realistic movies I've seen","Date":"5 August 2001","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie was at first sort of strange and questionable. I thought that it was going to be just sexual fantasies and only that. I didn't rent it to see that. But it wasn't. I realized that the movie wasn't just about that but about self confidence and sexual abuse. It told a story that really caught your attention and allowed you to get close the the characters. Another thing I liked about it was that in the love scenes, they don't bring the blanket up to their necks, they show the real stuff. I'm impressed. A very good movie. "},{"Title":"Great light hearted comedy","Date":"30 December 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  It's 3 in the morning and I don't want to think much. Great time to watch this film. There's enough plot to keep you interested, without the need to catch every word on the way to avoid confusion. Too many movies take themselves too seriously - this adds a little slapstick which gives it just the bit of colour it needs.Dan Aykroyd is as usual good, the filming is good, and for once Rosie O'Donnell entertained me more that annoying me (get more roles like this Rosie!! - the betty rubble / mother in law things make you look bad!)I've read that some people think it's a 'silly' movie. They're right - it's supposed to be. Sit back and enjoy it! "},{"Title":"Whimsical and breezy adult fun","Date":"4 August 2000","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Taken on its own merits, absent of critical harangue and political implications, this is another breezy Garry Marshall serio-comedy which causes some self-examination along the way to many fine laughs.  Rosie's fantasy to have her house painted is among the funniest things i've ever seen on film.  I thought the contrast of the interplay between Mercurio and Delaney and between Ackroyd, O'Donnell and the crooks was expertly handled.  I think Americans aren't used to the S&M subject being so cavalierly and matter-of-factly handled and objected to having it trivialized -- a shame, because most couples I know have enjoyed this comedy on its own merits. "},{"Title":"Useless, senseless piece of cinematic non-existence.","Date":"14 September 1999","Score":"","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Policeman and his female assistant go to a resort where kink, partner swapping and S&M are part of the program. Everything expected is delivered. Unlikely and boring. A reciepe for attracting sexually repressed viewers who pretend to watch a boring comedy while watching unassumed, predictable & very soft porn. Future generations of viewers will be sorry for us. By maker of equally boring Pretty woman and Runaway bride. Great stocking stuffer for in-laws.  "}{"Title":"Enjoyable","Date":"25 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie was silly, but that sure didn't keep me from enjoying it! It was fun and entertaining, and Dana Delany is to die for. The fact that she doesn't get naked every 5 seconds allows this movie to have somewhat of a plot and some character development as well, and keeps this movie from ending up boring or as just a cheap thrill. She does shed her clothes a couple of times, however, and it's worth it. She's gorgeous. "},{"Title":"One of the WORST plots..., Horrible depiction of a good book","Date":"22 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  The book was good.  But I detest this movie so greatly.  What a shame. Whips may be erotic for some people, but a lot of people don't think so. So why put it in a movie?  This film describes nothing but says that our society is obsessed with sex.  Americans like sex, most humans do- but there are other things in life. "},{"Title":"One of the few movies to tackle s&m culture from a non-violent perspective","Date":"15 June 1999","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  While not the greatest nor funniest movie I have ever seen, Exit to Eden is unique in that it treats s&m in a non-threatening manner. Unlike most movies which use s&m and b&d as tools to orchestrate a character's psychotic behavior, or to show a ridiculous or funny fetish trait of someones, Exit to Eden shows s&m in a very flattering light--portraying it as sensual and serious, but also playful and fun. Since the subject of this lifestyle has rarely been explored in mainstream movies, this is very important and I would even dare to say groundbreaking, in terms of working to eliminate taboos and misconceptions about a subject through the cinematic medium. Like movies which have dared to display gay and interracial relationships in a realistic light, rather than pandering to cliched stereotypes, Exit to Eden shows that s&m culture can be a very normal, non-violent part of the average person's life. Yes, some of the lines are corny and the acting is less than convincing, but Delany and Mercurio make a dynamite couple with some great chemistry. All in all, I would say this was a decent movie which provides a great service--educating the public about s&m culture--and one which breaks new ground in its presentation of its subject matter. "},{"Title":"read the book","Date":"13 December 1998","Score":"1 out of 2 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Looks like the material was too racy and too plotless for the studio, and they overlaid the detective story on top. It didn't work. Someone might have made a nice slow-moving film as a study of how people fall in love in the midst of s/m fantasy fulfillment.  "},{"Title":"Poor Anne Rice...","Date":"29 January 2005","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" The book far surpasses the movie, especially since it was not intended to be a comedy. Why is it that every one of Anne Rice's books have been thoroughly screwed over in its movie form? Oh well. As a comedy, I'd say that the movie was okay, but still not quite up to par.Okay, now with that said... I think that the acting was good. The funny parts were funny, and the dramatic parts were dramatic. It was a bit weird for me to see some of the actors being sexual and erotic, because I had never seen them in rolls like that before. So, overall, I think this was a good comedic movie. But I really wish they had kept to the book, because the book really was (and still is) a piece of art. Then again, if they had kept ENTIRELY to the book, the movie would have to be rated X... "},{"Title":"Daring and unlikely Anne Rice adaptation makes good.","Date":"27 October 2003","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" As an adaptation of Anne Rice's novel, this is putrid! But as a comedy featuring Dan Aykroyd and Rosie O'Donnell, this movie is joy and laughter. Also, this is one of the best movies featuring Rosie O'Donnell. If you liked Another Stakeout, you will love this movie.As undercover cops, Rosie O'Donnell and Dan Aykroyd find themselves on a private island, living the BDSM/Ds lifestyle in the attempts to gather evidence inadvertently obtained by one of the island's submissives. Rosie poses as a Guest, and Dan ends up working as maintenance.I found this comedy to be fun, witty, and highly entertaining. The jokes were well-placed, well-delivered, and clever. The acting quality was what you would expect from seasoned professionals like Dana Delaney, Dan Aykroyd, and Rosie O'Donnell; and the sets and depiction of the Lifestyle was very realistic.Dana Delaney is wonderful as the Dominatrix in charge of the island, and Paul Mercurio was a fresh new face to American cinematic production. I found his acting quality to be quite good.This is a funny, fun, but kinky little comedy and is not for all tastes/ages, which is why it did not do so well at the box offices. It is not filmed epically and almost has a Made for TV feel to the film quality, cuts, and angles.However, if you are a fan of Anne Rice's novel, then you'll hate this movie. It changed so much, and added some serious comedic elements, thereby completely bastardizing the original literary work. If you like the novel, then watch this with an open mind.I loved it as a movie, hated it as an adaptation.I'm rating it at an 8/10.the Fiend . "},{"Title":"What a disappointment","Date":"17 May 1999","Score":"2 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Could have been a great movie, but film makers appear to have been too afraid to take the S&M thing head on. Instead we get non-funny Rosie O'Donnell saying the dumbest one-liners I have heard in film history.  Who thinks this woman is funny? I would rather stare at a blank wall than have to watch another Rosie O'Donnell flick. Please Rosie,  have mercy on us and make no more movies and stay on your talk show that no one watches. Anyway, Dana Delaney looks quite sexy, but only one half interesting domination scene. Wimpy film. "},{"Title":"Wretched","Date":"7 March 2000","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  You've read it all before Rosie & Aykroyd are awful.The jokes are as lame as they get.Garry Marshall is vying for the Ed Wood award for worst directors ever.Dana is good, and naked ~ which basically makes this a must~see for her male fans.Watch old China Beach reruns instead. "},{"Title":"What a Waste!","Date":"6 August 1999","Score":"3 out of 6 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  What could the producers of this film been thinking?  That if they took an Ann Rice s&m novel, overlaid a crime thriller plot on top of it, and then cast comedic performers in the role of the police that it would add up to a movie greater than the sum of its parts?  This smorgasbord of genres does end up being more than the sum of its parts, but going in the direction of greatly awful instead of greatly good.What makes matters worse is all the talent that's wasted here, including Dan Ackroyd and the two charismatic leads, Dana Delany and Paul Mercurio.  I sometimes think that for all their wealth, fame, and glamor, actors really do have the worst lives.  During the film-making process they must trust to the judgment of their director and hope that everything they do (no matter how uncomfortable or embarrassing) is for a good purpose.  Sadly here, Delaney and Mercurio's faith in their director, Garry Marshall, is badly misplaced.  The two have to bare a lot of flesh before this movie is through (poor Dana even goes full frontal in one scene) and all for what? Performances that are potential career killers?  Stars on the scale of Ackroyd can survive a flop even as bad as this and Marshall, after the success of Runaway Bride, is sure to be around for a while.  But Dana Delany has gone on to do nothing substantial since and Paul Mercurio (who recently starred in The First 9 1/2 Weeks) looks to be entering soft-core limbo.  What a waste. "},{"Title":"film making at it's most masochistic","Date":"5 January 2006","Score":"4 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" i saw this film many years ago and have since mostly tried to block it out the memories of it. Unfortunately during a marathon session of psychotherapy this pile molten rat dung came to light, and i now blame it for ALL my social behavioral problems. To complain about acting, plot, direction, screen writing, et cetera, would completely miss the point and the central tragedy surrounding this film. At some point in time somebody thought it was a decent and sell-able idea to cut a handsome check to dan akroyrd (god bless him for elwood) and rosie o'donnell to put on bondage gear and strut around nude with bad wisecracks for the better part of a ninety minute movie. I'm not terribly original in my reviews of movies (nor anything in this life) and i don't think i'm the first in IMDb to point it out but there is a level of true masochism in casting photogenically impaired stars to star in a motion picture about sado-masochism and bondage. The irony (intended or not) can't be lost on people. This is truly one of the most awful things committed to film since Pink Flamingoes, which could always fall back on the cynical train wreck view of film as a reason to watch. No, someone took this seriously and perpetrated it in cold blood.PS Dana Delaney is kinda hot.......2 out of ten only because there is no zero and i was too lazy to make it to one.... "}{"Title":"Neither erotic nor funny - call trade descriptions!","Date":"26 March 2013","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Irritating voiceovers, amateur acting, corny dialogue that a porn star would be embarrassed to deliver, racial stereotypes, gratuitous nudity, hazy dream-like flashbacks, a performance by Rosie O'Donnell and Dan Aykroyd with a moustache - all the ingredients for a Razzie award-winning film - and win it did! Coupled with an overly long plot that regularly goes MIA, and drags when it does show up for duty, 1994's Exit to Eden makes notable turkey Gigli seem as romantic as Brief Encounte! It's all so comically bad it feels like it should be in German - a la the old late night movies found in the higher channel numbers in the early days of satellite TV. In the right hands, or with a more daring director or provocative censor, this film set in a holiday resort run by a dominatrix could have been quite interesting, but unfortunately tiptoes around anything more controversial than an occasional tap with a hairbrush.The laughable, risible plot involves a pair of jewel thieves and a pair of cops going undercover at a BDSM resort to retrieve a film canister containing photos of a jewel robbery, while various couples visualise and act out their assorted TV-friendly fantasies. That's pretty much all that is needed.It's hard to know what aspect of the film drags it down the most, but perennially bad actress Rosie O'Donnell probably takes the...er....Oscar! Her awful dialogue delivery, grating voice-over, and even her harsh New York accent for an LA cop is grating. Meanwhile the plot is almost incidental to the film, serving seemingly only as a way to string a few soft bondage scenes and awkward interactions together, and the reason for why the cops and thieves are there is largely forgotten for large portions of the film. But the scenes aren't particularly arousing enough for the film to be much of an erotic thriller, and the story isn't even remotely gripping enough to fulfil the thriller aspect either. Meanwhile Dan Aykroyd's hammy delivery, while seemingly perfect for Ghostbusters, seems to merely add to the film's overall corniness. When the plot finally does make a return to the film, it drags the already-meandering pace of the film down to an absolute crawl, and by the time the film approaches its 'climax' (and never was a term so inaccurate on so many levels) after nearly 2 hours, a life of celibacy may suddenly have some appeal.Ask for a refund of both your time and money.Dire. "},{"Title":"Call me crazy but I like this!","Date":"17 April 2010","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Photographer Elliot Slater (Paul Mercurio) is going to Eden--an island devoted to people who like S&M and BDMS. He's going to live out his dream as being a submissive man who loves being spanked. He accidentally photographs a vicious criminal named Omar (Stuart Wilson) getting drugs. Omar and helper Nina (Iman) follow Elliot to the island to get the film--and kill him. Police officers Sheila (Rosie O'Donnell) and Fred (Dan Aykroyd) are in hot pursuit. On the island the head--Mistress Lisa (Dan Delany)--takes it upon herself to train Elliot--and starts falling in love which she has vowed never to do.This is an adaptation (a VERY loose one) of an Anne Rice book that is just about sex, bondage, S&M and the love between Elliot and Lisa. There's no stupid drug story. It's a very good and very adult book. The movie basically sanitizes the book a great deal (everyone's nude in the book--not here), throws the insights into sex out the window and adds nonstop wisecracks from O'Donnell. Now, I like O'Donnell and some of her lines ARE funny but the movie's tone keeps zigzagging between comedy, suspense, love and nudity. It's all over the place and never finds a comfortable footing. Also Iman is (to put it mildly) a terrible actress. Still I really like this! The island locale is just beautiful (it was shot in Hawaii) and the resort itself is incredible. There's plenty of casual female nudity--even Delany has a full frontal nude shot! There is some male nudity but mostly back views. Supposedly there were full frontal shots of Mercurio but they had to cut them or they would have gotten an X rating. That doesn't make a bit of sense...but the ratings board always is afraid of male nudity. Still, there are a lot of hunky guys wandering around wearing next to nothing. Also Paul Mercurio has a fantastic butt and you get plenty of views of it! In terms of acting this is pretty good. Mercurio struggles with his accent (it's half-Australian, half-American) but he's handsome, in good shape and has no problem in strutting around half-naked. His acting is good too) Delany looks incredible and gives an excellent performance as a dominatrix. O'Donnell is throwing off jokes left and right. Some are funny and she does it so casually it makes them even funnier. Aykroyd however is wasted. Also the movie is a little bit too long. Still this is worth seeing for the beautiful locations, the casual nudity, some truly funny bits and acting. If you're easily offended by frank talk of S&M and nudity stay FAR away. A huge bomb when it came out but this (hopefully) might be rediscovered some day. There's also a cute joke at the very end of the closing credits. I give this an 8. "},{"Title":"Funny movie and really sexy","Date":"22 July 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Though based on an Anne Rice erotica novel, the script was a little silly. But it works really well with the comedic flare that Rosie  brings to the movie.  I happen to think that Paul Mercurio is fabulous (if you haven't seen it, see Strictly Ballroom) though this movie showcases his skin more than his acting talent.  One of the things I like best about this movie is that it plays on a lot of the sexual stereotypes and sore subjects that exist in our society while still being fun, entertaining and fairly lighthearted. A great comedy with a very sexy side to it. "},{"Title":"Not Great, but Not Bad","Date":"9 May 2001","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I enjoyed this movie although it was slammed by many.  I enjoy Rosie O'Donnell and thought she did a great job in this movie, as did Dana Delaney whom I had only seen in China Beach aside from this film.  It's not Shakespeare, it's not Oscar material, but it's fun, lighthearted and worth catching if you happen to see it on cable or want a fun movie to rent for the weekend. "},{"Title":"Uh, look at the cover","Date":"9 March 2000","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Anyone that sees this movie should be well aware of what they're getting into before they rent it.  I mean, just look at the poster.  If you see the poster and think, Ugh, what a terrible looking movie, don't rent it.  Your instincts are probably correct.  However, if the thought of seeing Rosie O'Donnell and Dan Aykroyd in bondage outfits seems just dopey enough to see, then you might want to check into it.  It isn't that good of a movie, but you should have known that just by looking at the premise.  It's a true cult movie.  It's a movie you look at and think, How did this ever get made?  Then you watch it and laugh, both at the comedians and the goofy seriousness of the sex scenes.  And, no, O'Donnell and Aykroyd never take off that much clothing on, as dissappointing as that may seem...  My rating 7/10 "},{"Title":"a funny movie even though it tended to make men look like jack asses.","Date":"31 March 1999","Score":"0 out of 1 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  sort of a fantasy movie alright,and Delaney is beautiful but it was demeaning to men us guys don't get to say that stuff very often imagine the reverse here for a second,women being ridden like horses,women being hit on the rear even if it was with a phony cat o nine tails women tied up ,suspended from the ceiling,having to sleep at the foot of the man's bed and not say a word,that would no doubt be the worst part. watch the movie it's all there the underlying theme was there.It had its moment, Dan AKROYD,ROSIE ODONNELL THANKS.......don seems like somewhere along the way that some people got the idea that men can't get mistreated, only women...wrong!   "},{"Title":"Really funny film using nudity gracefully and frequently.","Date":"24 July 2006","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I have looked at this movie at least forty times. It is sheer pleasure. Lots of laughs. I enjoyed seeing Dana Delaaney in a very different role than I have usually seen her. Paul Mercurio too I had only seen before in his profession as a dancer. He is a superb dancer.At first I was surprised at the extent of nudity, but then realized, how else could they depict the island. Both Dana and Paul have great looking bodies and get to show them off throughout the movie. Paul's outstanding butt is highlighted in a scene between the two of them.Clever was the scene involving the buttered croissants. Really good flick!!! JFC "},{"Title":"Love this movie BUT read the book.","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" Anne Rice wrote this book it's WONDERFUL especially if you aren't afraid of BDSM. Anne Rice wrote this book under a pseudonym (as well as her beauty series about Sleeping Beauty and Prince Charming who isn't so charming if ya know what I mean *BUT* if you are into bdsm or erotica check out the beauty books).This movie is just a G rated version of the book the book is so much better BUT the movie does have it's charm, The book doesn't contain the two cops like int he movie so if that's what you are looking for in the book you won't find it. I do love Rosie's humor I think she's great. I do love Tommy Lucy's slave he's adorable. I think Dana could have been more forceful as the Lisa of the book, alas this is a Garry Marshall movie so it wasn't going to get as graphic as the book. I've read a couple postings saying this is soft core porn but it's NOT this actually has a good plot but unfortunately it didn't deliver like it could have. This is so not soft core porn, and if you think it is you really need to get out more. But then I guess erotica isn't for everyone OR some people need to be more open minded about things. I would suggest this movie to people who don't really get bdsm as kind of way to ease them into the idea. It's one of my fave movies, But then I dig the scene. Overall I think it's a fun movie so that's why I gave it as many stars as I did. And the actors had balls for taking on this kind of movie I totally give them credit for putting themselves out there like they did. It's not everyday you see a REAL woman in a leather outfit, take that you whiny lollypop head actresses in Hollywood, BRAVO Rosie!!! "},{"Title":"Anne and Dana","Date":"23 September 2004","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I went to see the film for one reason-- Dana Delany. She's a helluva an actress and omigod, what a beautiful body! Damn Hollywood for not having more opportunities for beautiful talented actresses to be nude on camera for extended times! Given the pre-release bashing Anne Rice gave INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE, one would think she would have been positively berserk at this film. But apparently she enjoyed the film! She admitted that her original text would probably have been difficult to film. Definitely should have had more nudity in it, though. This film strikes me as Garry Marshall's counterpart to Don Knott's THE LOVE GOD. He wants to be adult, he wants to be naughty, but in the end he retreats to the safety of burlesques and pratfalls.  "},{"Title":"great","Date":"15 October 2003","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  this was a great movie...i loved it any movie with dana delaney naked is worth the cost of of a movie ticket.....dana as a dominatrix....awesome.. i thought she was great...dan was funny as usaul...as for rosie........i'm not a huge rosie fan ,but she did okay ..5/5 for this, not that funny but sexy as hell!!!! "}{"Title":"such a bad movie...","Date":"2 August 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I am IN this movie, and it is still one of the worst movies ever made. What was Garry thinking?  Or Alex for that matter?  The original book was written by Anne Rice (written under Anne Rampling as a nom de plume.)  I liked working with Rosie O. though.  And...it's always good to work! "},{"Title":"Mind Numbing","Date":"30 January 1999","Score":"1 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Is it an S&M porn film or a comedy? Neither - it is a hybrid, mixing the acting and plot of a porn flick with the lameo comedy of Dan Aykroyd, who hasn't had a good role since the The Blues Brothers.The movie has us following two LAPD detectives trying to stop a crime boss and his entourage from rubbing out a tourist, Elliot Slater, on his way to S&M Island. He has inadvertently taken a picture of the robber baron, who wants to maintain his low profile and will do anything to prevent that film from getting out in the open.  Unfortunately we end up rooting for him to snuff Slater, as played by the untalented and unappealing Paul Mercurio. As if one terrible plot wasn't good enough, how about another involving Elliot falling in love with the island's head mistress (Delany)?  To make matters worse we have the usually funny and talented Rosie O'Donnell, squeezing into a leather body suit and delivering her lines as if she already knows this movie will be a flop. By the end of this snail paced mess you are either asleep or wishing you stayed home and watched COPS.   "},{"Title":"Eden Not!","Date":"2 May 2002","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie is quite bizarre, featuring cheesey S&M humor, a silly romance between a guy and a dominatrix, and an S&M utopian island that leaves you longing for civilization.If it weren't for Rosie O'Donnell, the movie would have been a total catastrophe!Bottom Line Exit from Eden! "},{"Title":"A nudist camp without nudists","Date":"30 December 2001","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  How can you produce a film about Eden = nudist camp and than no nudist in this camp ? Forget about female chasing man across the screen - no bush no nipple no nothing - what a disappointment . Its like a comedy without laughs , a drama without tears so voting awful is the only choice. "},{"Title":"A Silly Tale About A Tropical Sex Paradise Island","Date":"4 July 1999","Score":"2 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This movie isn't anything like the book, isn't it?  The only thing I liked about this movie was the tropical island (makes you want to go on vacation ^_^), but not the idea of what the island has and features.  I don't know why some people in this world find whips, chains, and leather erotic.  In my opinion, it's silly and fake!  This movie was horrible!  A LOT of very bad taste! "},{"Title":"Fun movie and beautiful as well.","Date":"16 April 2005","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" I gave it an excellent because after all I enjoyed it. The plot line at it's bases, cops look for bad guy that no one knows what he looks like in a strange place, but on the other hand, this was not your usual strange place. I think it did a safe job of showing the alternative life styles some people like or want to experiment with. Some B&D and a little S&M. Great fun.Dana alone would make the movie a ten. Her portrayal as a dom was pretty good, granted that some doms are downright vicious, she came across better and let's be honest, anyone here not want to have her in your pool?Rosie was fun, as was Dan.I am not sure they could have filmed the book as it was written. Would have had to be done by a porno house I think.Her cop persona should have been brought back. She and Dan I thought made a pretty good comedy pair.When Iman is in the red leather outfit, she looked hot. Good on ya David!I do agree the New Orleans bit could have been left out but it worked nonetheless. The island was the only real disappointment because I think they should have shot it in the Caribbean maybe at the real island where this sort of thing goes on. Would have liked to see a little more naked swimming. Heh heh heh.Overall the plot line was fun and THANK GOD it wasn't PRETTY WOMAN. That movie was tripe and paint by the numbers every step of the way. EXIT TO EDEN was fun and enjoyable. And different.But it definitely was an R rated movie. "},{"Title":"Not the best flick ever, but lots of fun to be had","Date":"19 June 2004","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  OK, as always, the book was better. That goes without saying.But Dan Akroyd does a good job as the uptight prig tossed into a BDSM subculture. Rosie shocked me by looking *hot* in her dominatrix outfit! Dana Delaney's delivery was kind of wooden, but IMHO (that's in my horny opinion) her physique, so prominently displayed both in her dom outfit and out of it, makes up for her lack of emoting. The pool scene... 'Nuff said. <sigh>This will never show up on a list of the top movies of the century (or even of the year) but for some brainless comedy, together with some serious eye candy to satisfy both men and women, it's a good way to waste a couple of hours.  "},{"Title":"Not Good.","Date":"19 July 2001","Score":"1 out of 4 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  This Movie Is Good Cause It Has Some Big Breasts In It,      BUT. I didn't appreciate all that male junk, like shaking their asses in the camera and all of that. which i don't like at all.            BUT. Dana whatever her last name was, was fine and good looking and had a sexy figure on her, Rosie O'Donnell was on the edge of funny and stupid  I rate this *** out of **** cause of the female erotic. I wish I was on that Island with Them Females Go Rent It.     But You're at your risk of getting bored. "},{"Title":"Pathetic","Date":"5 May 1999","Score":"3 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  It wouldn't take much of an effort to find a funnier comedy than this mess, so please, take my word for it and avoid this film.  It is simply a non-stop barrage of boring and/or stupid scenes, with laughs at a minimum and a great deal of talent horribly wasted.  And the worst part is that they dragged this out for almost two hours...there wasn't even enough material here to make an entertaining half-hour sitcom.  So once again, I strongly urge you not to waste your time with this misfire.  Trust me. "},{"Title":"The only THING (?) worth watching!","Date":"23 November 2001","Score":"0 out of 3 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  I quote, Rosie next co-starred as Betty Rubble in the popular live-action feature version of 'The Flintstones' and was the only thing worth watching in the misguided comedy 'Exit to Eden' (both 1994).  - Vinnie, at the `unofficial rosie o'donnell fan club page'. I agree 100% with this. The video is advertised by some as being 120 minute, which it is not. 113m at most. It does look longer, though, because the only good moments, and funny moments, are those in which O'Donnell is on screen.Rosie O'Donnell, then a 32 year-old chubby Irish woman, is a pleasure to hear and to watch as undercover cop Sheila, exiting to Eden, an Eden/Eros resort in Hawaii, where very dangerous criminals are hiding&#133; Mandatory viewing for her fans but even more, for all those who believe (despite of the media) that chubby women can be both beautiful and luscious. Rosie is a big (pun intended), seductive surprise for those who (like me) had not known her before. She plays well, with no creditable supporting actors; even Dan Ackroyd was at one of his lowest moments.  She is much more beautiful than she looks in the poor photographs of the video cover, and she did conquer me, early in the film, by her dramatic art. She did not need to dress that black leather metal studded, highly revealing dominatrix outfit, but, well, I did not mind seeing her in it, either. She has three exchanges with &#145;gangmoll' Iman, defeating her with quick speech, and bureaucratic talk twice, disarming the &#145;killer with no brains'. The third time, she fights her hand-to-hand (black vs red dominatrix outfits, too!) and ends the fight with a KO right cross to the jaw, that ends all arguments.  May be I'm being too critical on what is intended as a romantic, slightly spiced comedy; but in all truth, the only acting I liked came from funny, yet deep, thoughtful Rosie O'Donnell. Buy it cheap, or rent it for her.  "}{"Title":"Not good, but fun","Date":"13 June 2000","Score":"1 out of 5 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  No, this is not a good movie.  Not even mediocre.  It is bad.  But, hey, it's pretty entertaining despite that.What is bad about it?  The acting, the script (based on one of Anne Rice's more indulgent and stupid novels; hard to believe it was written by the author of IWTV.), the set design.  Most of the humor.What is worth seeing?  Well, Dana Delaney and Paul Mercurio are fairly attractive people.  Yes, the humor is bad, but Rosie O'Donnell's voice-overs are very funny.Not something you would be proud to list as a favorite movie, but entertaining if you see it in the right light.   "},{"Title":"This Flick is Gross","Date":"30 November 2007","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This pile of dung is one of the worst movies I've ever sat through. As others have pointed out, the only thing in it worth seeing is a momentary glimpse of Dana Delaney totally nude, including her luxuriant growth of pubic hair, obviously shot back in the days before Generation X began dominating the media with their peculiar aversion to anything natural, especially hair. Still, her brief nude scene is not enough for this piece of drek to find a permanent slot in your video library even if you got it for free. That Aussie jerk ruined it from the first moment he appeared on screen. Whoever gave him the idea that he could act, that he understood the first thing about photography, that his croc hunter accent was somehow cool, or that his big fat ass was sexy and ought to be shoved in our faces for an hour and a half? If you're not a woman or hopelessly gay, a movie where beefcake men run around in thongs is what we used to call a real gross-out. Admittedly, there were a handful of scenes containing cute, half-naked babes that deserved a second look, but otherwise, this horrible excuse for cinema was a groan from start to finish, actually worse than a bad Loveboat episode, if that is possible. Rosie O'Donnel wasn't exactly good in it but she was far from its worst feature, and that alone ought to tell you something. When she kissed her submissive at the end, she was far more convincing as a straight woman than he was as a straight man. Put another way, whoever had the idea to pair a dike with an obvious fairy and call it erotic ought to have their heads examined. I had to ask my old lady three or four separate times if anyone saw her take this piece of tripe from the library sale rack and am embarrassed we watched the whole thing. "},{"Title":"Awful Amoral Garbage (pronounced Gar-Baj)","Date":"2 May 2005","Score":"2 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" This is one of the 'what were they thinking' films that you just know all participants look back on like a bad drunken performance at a wedding. The jewel theft storyline is really only an excuse to showcase alternative lifestyle acceptance and Rosie ODonnell one liners. Even the nudity and sexual content, while mostly good, is not nearly strong enough to redeem in any way this movie. If you want to waste everyones time with an overview of the S/M lifestyle, who cares. But to have it then all narrated (execessively) by un-un-unfunny Rosie ODonnell with apparent ad-libs if you can believe it, is a migrainal experience that will have you personally blacklist any other movies by all parties involved. Another bicarbonate if you would, Jeeves. "},{"Title":"BEST Movie EVER","Date":"30 January 2000","Score":"5 out of 15 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  One of the best movies I have ever seen was Exit to Eden. Dana Delany looks like the sexiest women in the world in that movie.But there's more to it than that....Rosie O'Donnel is extremely comical in parodying the whole content of the movie throughout all her scenes. Dan Akroyd only adds to the comedy as an amazing supporting actor.Paul Mercurio is so under-rated it's not funny. He should be starring in HUGE motion pictures by now!All in all, Dana Delany did her best work in the best movie there ever was. Nobody will get tired of this movie thanks to be the critics not exploiting  "},{"Title":"Whipped","Date":"9 November 2003","Score":"1 out of 8 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":"  Spoilers herein.I am particularly attracted to odd genre-crossing experiments that fail. When they work,  the reasons why are too tied to the mysteries of perception to tease out. Like  explanations of the economy, they are all speculations bound to be bogus. But failures  are easier to understand and appreciate.Gerry Marshall has accumulated some heavy karma by leading the transformation of  TeeVee comedy from clever to attractively insipid. His formula was to find some niche of  ordinary humanity, turn it into an endearing morsel by poking gentle fun at it in the  context of general wackiness.As time goes on, the wackiness becomes more strained and the poking more frantic, but  still ever gentle. This cross between a sitcom and a sexually colored chic flick fails  because of that gentility. The rest of the humor world would have been more ruthless in  exploiting one side (usually the sex side) or the other.On the Club Med side, consider Peter O'Tooles comment in `Club Paradise` that he  doesn't want to sit in any of the chairs because of the abundant fluids therein. Or look at  the more recent sitcom bondage synthesis, the very good `Secretary.'Or even the bondage scenes in `Romance,' which are the only ones that have that Hal  Hartley-inspired distant humor to them.One story follows our purveyors of whack, Rosie and Dan, neither of whom know just  what the target is supposed to be. The other story - in the other genre - is a traditional  date movie wrapped in an abstract world. It has little to do with actual sex, and even less  with real master-submissive dynamics and perversions.It exists - along with all sorts of complicated baggage about guests and `citizens' -  only to support a few jokes, and a surprising few indeed. One is Iman's only reason for  being here a faux humping of her (as a thin Natasha) and Rosie (as a winking dumpling).How much sweeter this would have all been if we knew and exploited Rosie's own  alternative sexual identity.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3 Has some interesting elements.  "},{"Title":"Views about Exit to Eden","Date":"16 April 2006","Score":"0 out of 10 people found the following review useful","Genre":"Comedy, Crime, Romance","Review":" When Tom Snyder had his talk show on cable years ago,they did a segment on this movie a lot of couples approved of it.Some were saying it helped their romance,as well as their relationships.But the makers of this movie failed to overlook something here.God Himself,and The written facts in the bible Worship God only.Mistresses,have become a world wide network.Many of them proclaiming themselves goddesses and demand to be worshiped.Gods 1st Commandment,Thou Shalt Not Have No Other gods Before Me.Also pertains to false gods,false goddesses,and so many who expect to be worshiped.Even in history former figures like Zeus,Apollo,Venus Athena and the list goes on.All of these so called gods,goddesses,and all those who expect to be worshiped have one thing in common.They are all mortal human beings,as was Zeus and so many others.When revelation finally does come,we may not be here too witness it It can happen a hundred years from now,nobody knows the exact time but God Himself.God is slow to anger and quick to forgive,but even churches rarely mention that Our God is a Jealous God.I doubt it I will see revelation in my life time,but if it come to pass,I'd love too see God set His world straight on His Ten Commandments,most especially His 1st Commandent.Amen "}]